Corporate SoCIal reSponSIbIlIty SIG recognises its corporate social responsibilities to its Shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice in all its activities.
36 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe SIG continues to develop its approach to Corporate Social Responsibility CSR ENVIRONMENT and is pleased to be able to inform its stakeholders of the measures which As a leading international supplier of insulation and related materials our core it is taking to continue to monitor and improve its CSR performance.
business is focused on the reduction of energy consumption and the subsequent the Company is a constituent member of the FtSe4Good index of reduction in harmful environmental impacts.
this year, in addition to other relevant information, the Group is reporting for the first time on its Co emissions the Chief executive, Mr. D. Williams, is the Board Director responsible 2 and management of waste.
for the environmental performance of the Group.
each individual subsidiary Managing Director is responsible for the environmental performance of their SIG is able to confirm that the Board takes regular account of the significance own business.
SIG is committed to minimising the environmental impact of its of social, environmental and ethical matters to the business of the Group and activities through good environmental management practices.
the Groups that it has in place a comprehensive risk management and internal control environmental policy was reviewed in 2007. the policy is displayed in all trading process which identifies and assesses the significant risks to the Companys short sites and offices throughout the Group and on the SIG website.
environmental and long term value arising from such matters.
the Board receives a report on objectives and targets have been established at relevant functions and levels CSR issues at each of its Board Meetings.
CSR issues form part of the overall within the organisation.
internal control process and are covered in the training of Directors.
SIG believes that it is in the Groups best interests to be aware of, and seeks SIG recognises its corporate social responsibilities to its Shareholders, to minimise the risks arising from, the social and environmental impact of its employees, customers and suppliers and is committed to good practice activities and is committed to conducting its activities and operations in line in all its activities.
the Board believes that the progressive integration of CSR with current legislation and best environmental practice, seeking continual across the Group and the inclusion of broader social and environmental issues improvement and innovation within all Group businesses and activities.
into its decision making will help us to achieve our business goals and act as an essential building block for growth in Shareholder value.
our recently published All SIG plc UK companies actively seek to: Groupwide ethics policy sets out a number of fundamental principles, which minimise the use of all materials, supplies and energy and wherever all Group companies are required to follow.
the code underpins our CSR possible use renewable or recyclable materials: programme and supports our business integrity.
minimise the quantity of waste produced in all aspects of our business: SIG has certification under ISo 14001 and oHSAS 18001. this certification adopt an environmentally sound transport policy: currently covers 92% of the Groups UK sites with newly acquired sites being added to the certification as part of their integration process.
communicate our environmental policy to all staff and encourage them to participate in the achievement of our goals: BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND CODE OF ETHICS supply and promote, wherever possible, those products which contribute the Group will be issuing its ethics policy to all employees in April 2008, to energy conservation and do not damage the environment: and which sets out a number of fundamental principles, which all Group companies are required to follow.
the policy can be viewed on the ensure that the Company continues to meet present and future Companys website at www.
the ethics policy includes the environmental standards and legislation.
Companys prohibition on the giving or receiving of bribes or other payments.
to this end the Company has in place an environmental management system the key business principles contained in the ethics policy are set out below: in accordance with BS en ISo 14001:2004.
SIGs policy is to operate within applicable laws: ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT discrimination or harassment of any kind will not be tolerated: the Group has in place in the UK an Integrated Management System combining SIG aims to be a responsible partner within its local communities: BS en ISo 14001 environment and oHSAS 18001 Health and Safety in the UK.
Moody International are the appointed Assessors and the assessment process, the legal and moral rights of others will be taken into account in all SIGs leading to certification under these accreditation schemes, was completed in business transactions: April 2006, resulting in all the Groups Mainland UK sites receiving certification.
we will maintain a safe and healthy environment for people to work in: SIG had no prosecutions relating to environmental matters during the year.
we will be proactive in managing our responsibilities to the environment: As part of the management systems audit process each location will be we will not knowingly make misrepresentations: annually benchmarked, any corrective actions identified and a plan put in place to address deficiencies raised.
During 2007 this process was completed as a matter of policy, we do not make political donations: at over 400 of the Groups UK trading sites.
no bribes can be given or received: Considerable importance is placed on environmental matters as part of the conflicts of interest must be avoided and in all cases must be reported: and due diligence process for acquisitions.
external advisers review and assess any employees are encouraged to report any suspected wrongdoings.
environmental risks to which the Group could potentially become exposed and these are considered as part of the acquisition process.
Health and safety compliance and processes are also considered as part of the acquisition process.
the Group has identified the significant environmental impact of its operations, which are summarised on pages 38 and 39.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Corporate SoCIal reSponSIbIlIty ContInued ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED the transport Coordinators in each trading site throughout the Group are ENERGy AND TRANSPORT required to make the most efficient use of vehicles, consistent with meeting As a founder member of the Association for the Conservation of energy, SIG customer requirements.
techniques used include maximising vehicle loading is active in promoting and encouraging the raising of mandatory standards for within legal limits so reducing vehicle numbers, and route planning, thermal insulation.
to minimise distances travelled and thereby fuel usage: SIG has fitted vehicles with logistics tracking systems and navigation planning Reducing energy consumption is a priority for all of our operations.
this is aimed at using the most fuel efficient route for each journey: this is targeted both through reducing the amount of fuel used in delivery, by increasing the efficiency of heating and lighting and maximising the use in 2006 Komfort Workspace installed a wood burning incinerator at its of natural light in the Groups properties and by environmental awareness Crawley site which used the offcuts from its manufacturing processes to training at UK sites.
A programme is being put in place to record and monitor provide heat for four manufacturing units.
Komfort is now planning to install electricity and gas consumption at each location, with sophisticated reporting a further unit for its operations at the Andover site.
Similar operations are technology being installed at larger locations.
In the UK, energy Brokers have in place at Leaderflush & Shapland manufacturing sites at nottingham been instructed to, where practicable, purchase energy from renewable sources.
and Barnstaple: SIG has recently installed video conferencing equipment in nine key locations during the year SIG has worked with the energy Savings trust transport across the Group in order to reduce, in particular, overseas travel with Advice team as part of the process of achieving a green fleet operation.
the consequent reduction in the Companys carbon footprint.
SIG continues to actively investigate better methods of operation in order to achieve greater efficiencies from its vehicles and there fuel consumption: CARBON CO EMISSIONS 2 this is the first year that SIG has presented details of its Co emissions and 2 SIG has a policy of introducing the most energy efficient vehicles commercially plans are in place to improve both the quality and comprehensiveness of the available currently considered to be euro v category engines, which the information disclosed in future years.
SIG have reported emissions of Co 2 Company purchases, whenever possible: according to the Greenhouse Gas protocol, which was jointly developed SIG employs staff to train drivers in driving techniques aimed at reducing by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World accidents and damage safe driving and to drive vehicles using methods and Resources Institute.
the protocol differentiates between emissions caused practices which will reduce fuel consumption.
equipment is being fitted to in the generation of supplied electricity and all other indirect emissions both commercial vehicles to measure ongoing driver efficiency in particular fuel upstream and downstream.
As it is impossible to know or control the negligible and braking.
All vehicles are regularly serviced to ensure that vehicle downstream emissions generated when products sold by the Group are used, emissions are kept to a minimum: they have been excluded from this report.
Similarly, reporting on the upstream emissions of our business would currently rely heavily on estimates and, as a result, they have also been excluded from this analysis.
However, given the nature of our operations, the Group does believe that it is appropriate to report on the emissions from thirdparty provided transportation.
CO EMISSIONS DIRECT IMPACT 2 Source Definition Data source and calculation methods Metric tonnes 2007 Business operations Wood burning incineration emissions per hour x hours in use 7,690 Generation of heat vehicle fuel emission from vehicle use Fuel Cards and direct purchase 45,503 records in litres converted according to DeFRA guidelines total 53,193 the table above comprises Co emission data captured from the Business operations of Komfort Workspace at Crawley and the vehicle fuel data comprises 2 the Groups UK fleet operations.
CO EMISSIONS INDIRECT IMPACT 2 Source Definition Data source and calculation methods Metric tonnes 2007 electricity Directly purchased, which generates Yearly consumption from utility bills 15,202 greenhouse gases including Co emissions in KWh converted according to DeFRA guidelines 2 natural gas Directly purchased, which generates Yearly consumption from utility bills 2,741 greenhouse gases including Co emissions in KWh converted according to DeFRA guidelines 2 Gas oil Directly purchased, which generates Yearly purchase from invoices in litres greenhouse gases including Co emissions converted according to DeFRA guidelines 1,227 2 Kerosene Directly purchased, which generates Yearly purchase from invoices in litres greenhouse gases including Co emissions converted according to DeFRA guidelines 16 2 Business travel thirdparty provided transport air and rail Recorded miles converted according 213 to DeFRA guidelines total 19,399 the table above comprises Co emission data captured from 64% electricity and Gas of the Groups UK operations, representing 75% of UK Group turnover 2 for the year ending 31 December 2007. the data relating to Gas oil and Kerosene has been collected from the Groups UK operations.
the data relating to business travel has been collected from the Groups UK and overseas operations and covers travel booked through third party booking agents only.
38 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT CONTINUED SIG embraces electronic communication within its businesses, which has PACkAGING AND wASTE REDUCTION resulted in a significant reduction in internal and external paperwork SIG works with its suppliers to minimise primary and secondary packaging, throughout the Group: while maintaining necessary levels of packaging to ensure that the product SIG continues to implement initiatives to reduce, reuse and recycle its waste arrives with the customer in perfect condition.
All of the Groups businesses through the continued location waste auditing programme performed by comply with their applicable waste management regulations.
As a break bulk veolia environmental Services in the UK: supplier, SIG has recognised that the major impact of the organisation on environmental waste is through packaging and has taken a proactive the expansion of the Groups waste paper and ink cartridge recycling activities approach to minimise the amount of new packaging entering the market at principal administrative centres and where practicable at site level: and and the amount of waste generated at trading site level.
Komfort Workspace has this year launched a range of demountable partitioning with sustainability in mind.
each component being reusable this is achieved by: or recyclable.
environmental awareness training at all sites including the distribution of energy reduction awareness information and reminder aids to SIG actively seeks to reduce the number of printed copies of its Annual Report all employees: and Accounts and will be actively encouraging Shareholders to elect to receive their communications from the Company in electronic form.
purchasing recycled and recyclable packaging where practicable, including pallets and cartons: WaSte ManaGeMent returning reusable pallets to suppliers and similarly recovering used SIG recognises its responsibilities to measure and minimise the waste generated pallets from customers: by its business operations.
Waste is divided into hazardous and nonhazardous.
reusing packaging for internal transfers and deliveries: actively taking part in recycling and reclamation schemes through the Companys membership of valpak and working closely with suppliers to improve the accuracy of data.
SIG meets its responsibilities under the packaging waste regulations in the UK through valpaks compliance scheme.
As part of the Companys ongoing development in this area, it has entered into a national agreement with veolia for waste removal.
veolia operates its own waste recycling and reclamation compliance scheme: NON-HAzARDOUS wASTE Definition Data source and calculation methods Absolute tonnes 2007 Landfill nonhazardous waste sent to landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 10,630 Recycled nonhazardous diverted from landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 825 Incinerated nonhazardous waste incinerated volume per annum converted to tonnes 816 total 12,271 HAzARDOUS wASTE Definition Data source and calculation methods Absolute tonnes 2007 Landfill Hazardous waste sent to landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 35 Recycled Hazardous diverted from landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 153 Incinerated Hazardous waste incinerated volume per annum converted to tonnes 3 total 191 OTHER wASTE Definition Data source and calculation methods Absolute tonnes 2007 Weee Waste, electrical and electrical equipment Diverted from landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 91 Glass Diverted from landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 280 Wood Diverted from landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 985 Metal Diverted from landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 538 plasterboard Diverted from landfill volume per annum converted to tonnes 182 total 2,076 the table above comprises details of waste data captured from 65% of the Groups UK trading sites representing 76.7% of Group turnover for the year ended 31 December 2007. the recycled nonhazardous waste data stated above does not include baled polythene and cardboard generated at a number of the Groups UK Insulation trading sites.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Corporate SoCIal reSponSIbIlIty ContInued SUPPLIERS AND CUSTOMERS ACCIDENT AND INCIDENTS the Group has in place a supplier audit programme.
the programme Rate per 1,000 employees 2007 2006 is conducted by way of questionnaire and includes a request for details of the Major injury 1.8 3.2 environmental aspects of the suppliers operations.
environmental management Injury resulting in over 3 absence days from work 13.2 12.4 will be one of the criteria considered when examining a suppliers qualifications All RIDDoRS 15.5 16.2 for Group orders.
the Group has a policy, that when specified, timber Average UK headcount 7,341 6,281 purchased for use in its manufacturing activities must be from renewable resources.
this is a relatively small part of the UK operations but where DONATIONS accreditation and forest stewardship schemes are applicable and available, During the year the Group made charitable donations of 162k 2006: 100k.
SIG uses these in its sourcing procedures.
It is the Groups policy not to make political donations and no political donations were made in the year 2006: nil.
the Group has in place policies to ensure that its customers receive the level of service and the quality of product that they have come to expect from SIG.
the Group has a Charitable Donations policy.
the policy in addition to supporting local causes where SIG employees are involved is to provide HEALTH AND SAFETy support for three main charities for a period of three years.
For the three years the Group has in place in the UK an Integrated Management System combining to 31 December 2007, the three charities selected were in the fields of BS en ISo 14001 environment and oHSAS 18001 Health and Safety disadvantaged children, humanities and the environment and were: in the UK.
Moody International are the appointed Assessors and the assessment process, leading to certification under these accreditation schemes for all of the Henshaws College, which is a unique and pioneering education facility Groups UK sites, was completed in April 2006, resulting in all the Groups UK offering high quality independent living skills training to around 65 young sites receiving certification.
SIG had no prosecutions relating to health and safety people aged between 16 and 23, all of whom are visually impaired with matters during the year.
SIG supports five students from different parts of the UK: the Group is committed to high standards of health and safety for all of its employees and the Groups Health and Safety policy was reviewed in 2007.
Yorkshire Wildlife trust where SIG sponsors a number of Wildlife projects the policy is displayed throughout the Groups workplaces and is available and have encouraged volunteering days for interested staff: and on the Companys website.
Whilst Mr. D. Williams, the Chief executive, is the Board Director responsible for the health and safety performance of the Hope and Homes for Children, which is an international charity, engaged Group, the SIG systems ensure that responsibility exists throughout all of the in providing homes and support for children on a long term basis in third SIG businesses.
Health and safety objectives and targets have been established world and war torn countries.
within relevant functions and levels within the organisation.
SIG had no prosecutions relating to health and safety matters during the year.
For the three years commencing January 2008 the three main charities that the Group will be supporting are Henshaws College, Action For Kids a national Within the Group the continuing improvement of health and safety performance charity working with disabled children and young people, their parents and is a key priority.
A Health and Safety training Manager was appointed to lead carers and St Lazarus Hospice a charity providing assistance for terminally a training programme to ensure that all UK subsidiary company Directors and ill individuals and help and support for families in Krakow, poland.
managers receive appropriate training in health and safety in order to meet their responsibilities.
Staff are kept informed of charitable activities and are encouraged to attend events as appropriate, as a means of encouraging them to be personally Health and Safety Advisors who are either Company or regionally based associated with charitable work and in particular with the causes supported support the increased focus on health and safety education and awareness at by the Group.
this has included sponsorship for individuals entering specific workplace level.
As part of the management systems audit process each location events and support in kind for building projects.
By way of example SIG Roofing is annually benchmarked, any corrective actions are identified and a plan put in Supplies managers and suppliers recently competed in the Michelob Ultra place to address deficiencies raised.
During 2007 this process was completed Sprint triathlon raising over 18,000 for the nSpCC.
at over 400 of the Groups UK trading sites.
Forklift and commercial driver training form an important part of SIGs Workplace Safety policy, which impacts the Group has in place a payroll Giving Scheme, which is available to all UK on reduced insurance costs, enhanced pedestrian and site safety and improved employees.
employees are free to choose one of the current SIG sponsored working environment.
Daily inspections complement periodic training to keep charities listed above or any other charity of their choice.
During the year the vehicle and driver at peak performance.
donations of 9,510 were made through the scheme.
the Groups accident performance is monitored by the Board on a monthly basis.
the overall rate of workplace accidents within the Group continues to fall.
the number of injury accidents reportable to the HSe under the Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous occurrence Regulations RIDDoR was 15.5 per 1,000 employees in 2007, compared with 16.2 per 1,000 employees in 2006, a reduction of 4.4%.
40 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe COMMUNITy 2007 also saw the launch of the SIG Sales Academy, providing structured the Group endeavours to contribute to the communities in which it operates training, coaching and support for sales management and sales professionals.
particularly those neighbouring its sites.
SIG is a member of Business in the the Sales Academy will be made available right across the Group in 2008.
Community in the UK and has worked with that organisation to help to develop its approach and practices.
this is mainly achieved through charitable donations there is an active and extensive programme of additional training in place.
and other initiatives that help the community.
Fulltime dedicated professional trainers are employed and their work is supplemented as required by external courses and external agencies.
In order the HR Director has responsibility for community issues within the Group to meet ever increasing customer demand, particular emphasis is placed and reports to the Chief executive who is responsible for community issues on technical, customer service and interpersonal skills.
the Group has an at Board level.
objective of increasing the number of manhours of staff and management training each year.
EMPLOyEES the Group operates a culture of openness and has in place a confidential SIG recognises the importance of good communications with employees hotline service so that our employees can raise, on a confidential basis, any and acknowledges that there should be clear channels of communication and concerns about how we conduct our business.
the service is provided by opportunities for consultation and dialogue on issues, which affect both business an independent third party and a full investigation is carried out on all matters performance and employees work lives.
this is achieved through a variety of raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
the hotline media including the Groups intranet, noticeboards, newsletters and meetings.
was introduced in the UK in november 2007 and is currently in the process of being extended to the rest of the Groups employees.
All employees are regularly offered the opportunity to address any questions, particularly relating to the financial performance of SIG in relation to the Results the Groups policy is to provide equal opportunities to all existing and Announcements, directly to the Chief executive, either by email, by telephone, prospective employees.
SIG recognises that its reputation is dependent on or in writing.
the quality, effectiveness and skill base of its employees and is committed to the fair and equitable treatment of all its employees and specifically to prohibit the Group operates a childcare voucher system whereby UK employees can discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, age, elect to receive childcare vouchers in lieu of part of their salary in a tax efficient nationality or ethnic origin.
In January 2008 the Group introduced a Cycle to Work scheme whereby UK employees can obtain a voucher for the purchase of a bicycle employment opportunities are available to disabled persons in accordance free of tax and national insurance to a maximum value of 500. with their abilities and aptitudes on equal terms with other employees.
If an employee becomes disabled during employment the Group makes every effort employees are encouraged to become Shareholders in the Company.
to enable them to continue employment, with retraining for alternative work the Group introduced a new Share Incentive plan SIp in november 2005 where necessary.
in place of the Save As You earn Scheme.
the Company gives one matching share for each share purchased by the employee up to a maximum of four the Group has a commitment to ensure that all employees and management matching shares per month.
At 31 December 2007 there were are properly inducted into the Company and given the necessary training to 1,482 employees saving under the Companys SIp.
the Group operates a number of employee pension schemes across its In 2007 considerable effort has been put into the further identification of talent, businesses.
In the UK it operates a Defined Contribution Scheme, which is training and career management.
With a whole series of development centres open to all employees.
the Groups UK Defined Benefit Schemes have been and targeted intervention being used to fast track identified talent.
closed to new members since 1997.
In the UK and Ireland, a personal Development Award was introduced with the HR Director has responsibility for human resource issues within the Group 36 high potential employees attending an intensive ten day personal awareness and reports to the Chief executive who is responsible for human resource and management skills development programme.
the executive Development programme was launched in conjunction with Sheffield Hallam University aimed at operating company directors, the programme provides opportunity for delegates to develop their capability across the broad range of general management activities.
82 employees in the UK have enrolled on nvQ programmes in warehousing and distribution or administration which are being provided through third party providers.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
