insulation insulation materials are used across all areas of construction and industry.
 but are also becoming important in the management of sound transmission within buildings.
in addition, the goal of reducing carbon emissions is placing increasing importance on the use of appropriate insulation materials and systems.
high energy costs and environmental concerns drive the use of insulation products across a wide range of construction and industrial applications.
Ingeneral, , fireand soundmanagement,  Regulations in each country.
the most widespread application is that of heat management where insulation is most commonly used to retain heat within a building or industrial process.
however, there are also applications such as cold stores, where the requirement is to keep heat out.
fire protection is another important application forinsulation.
the third application of insulation is that of sound control.
cities and towns are becoming increasingly dense and the ability to minimise the transmission of noise between dwellings is now an integral part of building design.
the technical capabilities for this application are developing apace and the Group has positioned itself as a leader within this area as well as the wider insulation market.
in all these areas of application, siG works closely with leading manufacturers to bring a wide range of products to market and provide the technical expertise which only a specialist business is able to offer.
gRowth dRiveRs the Group has over 190 trading sites in europe that are focused on the Regulation requirements of the insulation market and are able to provide expert advice, wide stock holding and rapid service and delivery.
in the uK, the Group is also environmental awareness ,  residential properties through a number of Government supported schemes high energy costs and the provision of builtin insulation in new dwellings.
the Group has also developed its own fabrication facilities which have the capability to provide bespoke solutions and thereby offer a service that differentiates itself from mainstream competition.
the group has over 190 trading sites in europe that are focused on the requirements of the insulation market.
28 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 Review of the yeaR focus, sPecialisation and seRvice case study: fuRtheR develoPment of a sPecialist niche PRoduct line structural insulation is the primary insulation market sector which provides products that typically insulate temperatures o c up to 50. industrial insulation is another important insulation market sector and provides products that typically insulate from o o c c 180 to 1,100. in addition, there is a high temperature insulation market sector that insulates temperatures from o o c c 500 to 2,000. during 2007, siG strengthened its presence in the high temperature insulation market, by acquiring a leading specialist in this highly technical sector.
this business development initiative provides siG with a platform from which to build its european market share and expertise.
high temperature products are used in industrial applications  power plant, petrochemical and gas installations and metal processing industries.
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 29
