report of the dIreCtorS the Directors present their Annual Report and the audited Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEw the principal activity of the Group is the supply of specialist products to construction and related markets.
the main products supplied are insulation, roofing and external elements, commercial interiors and specialist construction and safety products.
the Chairmans Statement and Business Review on pages 6 to 27 contain a review of these activities and comments on the future outlook.
the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are set out in the Business Review on pages 25 to 27.
As at the date of this Report, there have been no important events affecting the business of the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, which have occurred since the end of the financial year.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to employees including disabled employees and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed on pages 40 to 41.
Details of the Groups policies in relation to corporate governance are disclosed on pages 48 to 51.
GROUP RESULTS the Consolidated Income Statement for the year ended 31 December 2007 is shown on page 64. the movement in the Group reserves during the year is shown in note 25 on page 103.
Segmental information is set out in note 1 on pages 74 to 76.
DIVIDENDS the Board is recommending a final dividend of 18.7p per share 2006: 14.3p which, together with the interim dividend of 8.0p 2006: 6.2p per share, makes a total for the year ended 31 December 2007 of 26.7p 2006: 20.5p per share.
payment of the final dividend, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 27 May 2008 to Shareholders registered at the close of business on 25 April 2008.
DIRECTORS the names of the Directors as at the date of this report together with biographical notes are set out on page 42. they comprised the Board for the whole of the year except that Mr. C. J. Davies was appointed a Director on 12 February 2007.
It was announced on 10 January 2008 that Mr. C. J. Davies had been appointed Deputy Chief executive with the intention that he should succeed Mr. D. Williams as Chief executive of the Company on 1 July 2008.
Mr. Williams has informed the Board of his intention to step down as a Director of the Company on 30 June 2008 to take early retirement.
there is no maximum number of Directors but there shall at no time be less than two.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board shall hold office only until the next following Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the Shareholders.
the Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors as Managing Director or to fulfil any other executive function within the Company for such term, remuneration and other conditions of appointment as they may determine and may revoke such appointment subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts.
All Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to reelection every three years.
the Company may, by ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Acts, remove any director before the expiration of his period of office.
the office of a Director shall be vacated if: i he ceases to be a Director by virtue of any provision of law or is removed pursuant to the Companys articles of association or he becomes prohibited by law from being a Director: ii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iii he becomes of unsound mind or a patient for any purpose of any statute relating to mental health and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: iv he resigns: v he fails to attend Board meetings for six consecutive months without leave of absence from the Board and the Board resolves that his office is vacated: vi his appointment terminates in accordance with the provisions of the Companys articles: vii he is dismissed from executive office: viii he is convicted of an indictable offence and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he remains a Director: or ix the conduct of the Director is the subject of an investigation and the Directors resolve that it is undesirable in the interests of the Company that he remains a Director.
the Directors standing for reelection at the Annual General Meeting are Mr. p. H. Blackburn and Mr. L. o. tench.
each Director, being eligible, offers himself for reelection.
It is the view of the Board that each of the nonexecutive Directors brings considerable management experience and independent perspective to the Boards discussions and they are considered to be independent of management and free from any relationship or circumstance that could affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their independent judgement.
Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their share options are set out on pages 52 to 60 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS LIABILITy INSURANCE AND INDEMNITIES the Company purchases liability insurance cover for Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries which gives appropriate cover for any legal action brought against them.
the Company has also provided an indemnity for its Directors to the extent permitted by the law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
the indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
ACqUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS Details of acquisitions during the year are covered in note 13 on page 89. there were no disposals of businesses during the year.
44 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe SHARE CAPITAL the Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10p each.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, options were exercised pursuant to the Companys share option schemes, resulting in the allotment of 533,536 new ordinary shares.
A further 1,287 new ordinary shares have been allotted under these schemes since the end of the financial year to the date of this Report.
In addition, a total of 11,363,637 new ordinary shares were issued and allotted on 30 May 2007 by a placement, further details of which can be found on page 22.
Details of outstanding options under the Groups employee and executive Schemes are set out in note 24 on page 102 which also contains details of options granted over unissued share capital.
RIGHTS ATTACHING TO SHARES the rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Companys Articles of Association.
the Articles of Association may be changed with the agreement of Shareholders.
A Shareholder whose name appears on the Companys Register of members can choose whether his shares are evidenced by share certificates i. e. in certificated form or held in electronic i. e. uncertificated form in CReSt the electronic settlement system in the UK.
Subject to any restrictions below, Shareholders may attend any general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every Shareholder or his representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every Shareholder or his representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the registered Shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by at least five Shareholders or their representatives present in person and having the right to vote, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all Shareholders, or by any Shareholders or their representatives present in person holding ordinary shares in which an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least onetenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
the Board can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
the Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the Shareholders, offer any Shareholder the right to elect to receive new ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company, unless the Directors decide otherwise.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed by the Shareholders, divide among the Shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
the liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
no Shareholders can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them a liability.
VOTING AT GENERAL MEETINGS Any Form of proxy sent by the Company to Shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
no Shareholder is, unless the Board decides otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a Shareholder if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
the Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
these restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
TRANSFER OF SHARES the Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
the Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless: i the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Board, accompanied by a certificate for the share which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares, and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
transfer of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CReSt and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CReSt.
the Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the Register of Shareholders.
the Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CReSt.
there are no other limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 report of the dIreCtorS ContInued VARIATION OF RIGHTS If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may be varied or revoked either: i with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issues shares of the class: or ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
the Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect of capital or more favourable voting rights.
CREST the Companys ordinary shares are in CReSt, the settlement system for stocks and shares.
AGREEMENTS wITH EMPLOyEES AND SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS there are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
the Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
2008 INTERIM REPORT In 2007 the Company changed its Articles of Association to permit the use of electronic communications for all notices, documents and information to be sent to Shareholders, in accordance with Shareholder preference.
this would enable the Company to use website communication with Shareholders as the default position.
the Company has, at this time, not made any decision as to whether to move to electronic communication as the default position.
Shareholders will therefore, for the time being, continue to receive paper copies of all Company communications.
Current regulations do however permit the Company not to have to send copies of its Half Yearly Reports to Shareholders and therefore future Interim Reports commencing with the 2008 Report due to be published on 21 August 2008 will no longer be sent to Shareholders.
the Half Yearly Report will be published on the Companys website at www.
ACqUISITION By THE COMPANy OF ITS OwN SHARES Shareholders authority for the purchase by the Company of 12,312,000 of its own shares existed at the end of the year.
the Company has made no purchases of its own shares pursuant to this authority.
the Company will seek to renew this authority at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS the Companies Act 1985 provisions in respect of substantial share interests were repealed on 20 January 2007 and with effect from that date, the Disclosure and transparency Rules of the UK Financial Services Authority came into force.
At 12 March 2008, the Company had received notification that holdings exceeding the 3% notification threshold were as follows: % of ordinary issued Shares of share 10p each capital F&C Asset Management 9,187,098 6.81 Schroder pLC 7,473,481 5.54 Black Rock Inc 7,030,334 5.21 Fidelity International Limited 6,334,032 4.69 prudential pLC 4,957,804 3.67 Barclays pLC 4,910,061 3.64 Legal & General Group pLC 4,423,743 3.28 PAyMENT TO SUPPLIERS the Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code and operates and abides by a clearly defined policy, which has been agreed with all major suppliers.
As at 31 December 2007 the Company had no trade payables, as it does not trade in its own right.
the Groups average number of days outstanding as at 31 December 2007 in respect of trade payables was 38 2006: 38.
STATEMENT OF THE DIRECTORS ON THE DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that: so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
this confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
46 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 CoRpoRAte GoveRnAnCe STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES the Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the accounts in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year.
the Directors are required by the International Accounting Standards IAS Regulation to prepare the Group Accounts under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the european Union.
the Group Accounts are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
IAS 1 requires that IFRS accounts present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
this requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
However, Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
the Directors have elected to prepare the parent Company accounts in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
the parent Company accounts are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: and prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
the Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent Company accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985. they are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
GOING CONCERN the Directors consider, after making appropriate enquiries at the time of approving the Accounts, that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, and accordingly, that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Accounts.
AUDITORS In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985 a resolution reappointing Deloitte & touche LLp as Auditors of the Company for the ensuing year will be proposed at the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at Aston Hall Hotel, Worksop Road, Sheffield S26 2ee at noon on Wednesday 14 May 2008, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed and full details of the deadlines for exercising voting rights, is contained in a circular to be sent to Shareholders with this Report.
By order of the Board RICHARD MONRO COMPANy SECRETARy 12 MARCH 2008 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
