Roofing and exteRnal eleMents the roof is the most critical part of any building.
it protects the integrity of the buildings structure and the buildings contents from the elements.
Repair and maintenance is often an urgent requirement and this requires suitable products to be readily available on demand.
, the Group is able to keep at the forefront of innovations and provide its customers with a level of technical knowhow unrivalled in the market.
as well ,  astoolsandfixings, ventilation, accessequipment,  materials.
many of these accessories are core product areas for other Group  technical knowledge of its sister businesses as well as taking advantage of Group procurement.
siG is also a leading supplier of reclaimed and preused roof tiles and slates which have two key advantages over newly manufactured products.
firstly, they remove the need for energy consuming manufacture and secondly, their aged and worn character provides an aesthetically pleasing appearance that matches that of the local environment, something that is increasingly important to local communities and planning agencies.
the ongoing need for repair or replacement of existing roofs, whether as the result of natural wear and tear or of storm damage, creates a resilient market for roofingmaterials.
 be readily available from local stock and these demands dictate the nature of the gRowth dRiveRs market which is, for a large number of depots, holding a broad range of stock.
for new build applications, where consumers or designers require certain styles essential Rmi requirement orfinishes,  .
, Growth of specialist  distribution as the main asrainwaterguttering, soffit,  established a network of over 120 trading sites focused on this particular niche supply route .
new products the acquisition of larivire in June 2007 makes sig the largest specialist supplier of roofing products in Europe.
30 sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 h Review of the yea eadinG R case study: focus, sPecialisation and seRvice fuRtheR Roll out of existinG GRouP activity into mainland euRoPe in June 2007, siG acquired larivire, the largest specialist  amounting to 83 trading sites.
the acquisition of larivire  in europe, provides exciting growth opportunities for the expansion of larivires product range and the expansion of the french trading site network to increase market share and expand the customer base.
sIG plc annual Report and accounts 2007 31
