Directors report for the year ended 15 September 2007 The directors submit to the members their The directors recommend a final dividend Other than as noted above, so far as is known, seventy-second annual report together with the of 13.0p per ordinary share, to be paid, no other person holds or is beneficially interested audited financial statements of the Company if approved, on 11 January 2008 which, in a disclosable interest in the Company.
for the 52 weeks ended 15 September 2007. together with the interim dividend of 6.5p per share paid in July, amounts to 19.5p for the Power to issue shares Business review year.
Dividends are detailed on page 63.
At the last annual general meeting, held on The information that fulfils the requirements of 8 December 2006, authority was given to the the Business review, as required by Section 234 Research and development directors to allot unissued relevant securities in ZZB of the Companies Act 1985, and which Innovative use of existing and emerging the Company up to a maximum of an amount should be treated as forming part of this report technologies will continue to be crucial to the equivalent to one third of the shares in issue by reference are included in the following successful development of new products and at any time up to 7 December 2011.
No such sections of the annual report: processes for the group.
The directors propose to renew this authority at the annual general Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5.
The Company has major technical centres in the meeting to be held on 7 December 2007 for UK at the Allied Technical Centre and the animal a further period of five years.
Group at a Glance on pages 2 and 3. feed Central Laboratories.
Facilities also exist at ACH Food Companies in the US, Weston A further special resolution passed at that Operating review on pages 6 to 20, which Technologies and AB Mauri in Australia and meeting granted authority to the directors to includes a review of the external environment, AB Enzymes in Germany.
These centres support allot equity securities in the Company for cash, key strategic aims and performance measures.
the technical resources of the trading divisions without regard to the pre-emption provisions of in the search for new technology and in the Companies Act 1985.
This authority expires Principal risks and uncertainties are described monitoring and maintaining high standards on the date of the annual general meeting to be on pages 36 to 39. of quality and food safety.
held on 7 December 2007 and the directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
Details of the principal operating subsidiaries Charitable and political donations are set out on page 91.
Contributions to charitable organisations by Appointment of directors the group during the year totalled 1.6m The Companys Articles of Association the Financial review on pages 22 to 23.
No political donations were Articles give the directors power to appoint and made during the year but Food Investments Pty replace directors.
Under the terms of reference Corporate citizenship on pages 24 to 27 in Australia made contributions to the Liberal of the Nomination committee, any appointment which includes the Companys policy on Party of Australia of 12,273 in 2006. must be recommended by the Nomination treatment of its employees.
committee for approval by the board of directors.
Financial instruments The Articles also require directors to retire and Principal activities Details of the groups use of financial submit themselves for election at the first annual The activities of the group principally concern instruments, together with information on our general meeting following appointment and all the processing and manufacture of food risk objectives and policies and our exposure directors who held office at the time of the two worldwide and textile retailing in the UK to price risks, credit risks, liquidity risks and preceding annual general meetings, to submit and continental Europe.
Comments on the interest rate risks, can be found on pages 38 themselves for re-election.
development of the business during the period and 39. under review and on the future outlook are Articles of Association contained within the Chairmans statement Payments to suppliers The Articles themselves may be amended on pages 4 and 5, and the Operating review The Company has no trade creditors but the by special resolution of the shareholders.
on pages 6 to 20. group policy on payment of suppliers is detailed on page 27.
Power of the directors Associated British Foods plc the Company The directors are responsible for managing the is the holding company for the Associated Property, plant & equipment business of the Company and may exercise all British Foods group the group.
Details of The groups property, plant & equipment the powers of the Company subject to the the principal operating subsidiaries are set are included in the financial statements provisions of relevant statutes, to any directions out on page 91. at depreciated historic cost.
The properties given by special resolution and to the Companys are employed in the business and many Memorandum and Articles.
The Articles, The audited financial statements of the group of them were acquired when market values for example, contain specific provisions and and Company appear on pages 48 to 99. were substantially lower than at present.
restrictions concerning the Companys power to The directors consider that a surplus over book borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing of Results and dividends shares are also included in the Articles and such value exists but have not quantified the excess, The consolidated income statement is on authorities are renewed by shareholders at the other than in relation to Primarks stores.
Profit for the financial year attributable annual general meeting each year.
Power to to equity shareholders amounted to 369m.
purchase the Companys own shares is also Substantial shareholding and provided in the Articles subject to statutory controlling interest provisions.
The directors have no existing Details of a controlling interest in the shares of authority to purchase the Companys own shares.
the Company are given in note 30 on page 91.
30 Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Significant agreements Directors The group has a number of borrowing facilities The names of the persons who were directors provided by various banking groups.
These of the Company during the financial year and facility agreements generally include change as at 6 November 2007 appear on pages 28 of control provisions which, in the event and 29, other than Jeff Harris who resigned of a change in ownership of the Company as a non-executive director on 18 April 2007. could result in renegotiation or withdrawal of these facilities.
Peter Smith was appointed as a non-executive director on 28 February 2007, and in The most significant such agreement is the accordance with the Articles, will be standing $1.2bn syndicated loan facility which was for election at the annual general meeting.
signed on 12 October 2006 and under which, Also in accordance with the Articles and the 412m was drawn down at the year end.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance, which was updated by the Financial Reporting There are a number of other agreements that Council in June 2006 the Combined Code, take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of Galen Weston and Lord MacGregor, who have control of the Company following a takeover bid, served for more than nine years, and Mike such as commercial contracts and joint venture Alexander and Tim Clarke retire from the board.
None is considered to be significant These directors are all eligible for re-election.
in terms of their potential impact on the business Galen Weston and Tim Clarke offer themselves of the group as a whole.
However, as indicated in the Chairmans statement on page 4, Lord MacGregor Further information and Mike Alexander will not be seeking Further information that fulfils the requirements re-election at the annual general meeting.
of Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006 and which should be treated as forming part of this Four directors of operating subsidiaries, one of report by reference are included in the following whom resigned on 13 October 2006, benefited sections of the annual report: from qualifying third party indemnity provisions provided by the Companys wholly owned Details of the structure of the Companys subsidiary, ABF Investments plc during the share capital and the rights attached to the financial year and at the date of this report.
Companys shares set out on page 82.
Non-beneficial interests Details of the employee share scheme set out The following two directors of the Company at on pages 87 and 88. the end of the year had non-beneficial interests: Disclosure of information to auditors Galen Weston and George Weston are trustees The directors who held office at the date of of a trust, in which they have no beneficial approval of this Directors report confirm that, interests, which at 15 September 2007 held so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant 683,073 ordinary shares of 50p 2006 audit information of which the Companys 683,073 in Wittington Investments Limited.
auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken Subsequent changes as a director to make himself aware of any The interests shown above remained the same relevant audit information and to establish at 6 November 2007. that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
For these purposes, relevant audit information means information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with By order of the board the preparation of their report on page 47.
Paul Lister Company Secretary Auditors 6 November 2007 In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31
