The Groups manufacturing cost base is situated principally in the US, the UK and Switzerland from where finished products are exported to the Groups selling operations worldwide.
Thus the Group is exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates between the US Dollar, Sterling and Swiss Franc and the currencies of the Groups selling operations, particularly the Euro and the Japanese Yen.
If the US Dollar, Sterling or Swiss Franc should strengthen against the Euroand the Japanese Yenthenthe Groups tradingmarginwouldbe adversely affected.
In 2007, the Group managed $800m of foreign currency purchase transactions by using forward foreign exchange contracts, of which the major transaction flows are from Euros into US Dollars and Sterling.
The Groups policy is for firm commitments to be fully covered and forecast transactions to be covered between 50% and 90% for up to one year.
If the Euro were to weaken against the US Dollar on average by 10% over the year, the fair value  $8m 2006 increaseby$9m.
Had the Group not transacted forward foreign exchange purchase contracts and if the Euro were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all other currencies, Smith & Nephews profit before taxation in 2007 would have decreased by $46m 2006 decreased by $29m on account of transactional and translational movements: if the US Dollar were to have weakened on average over the year by 10% against all othercurrencies, profit before taxation in2007 wouldhave increasedby $42m 2006 increasedby$53m.
Political and Economic Uncertainties Because the Group has operations in 32 countries, political and economic upheaval in those countries or in the regions surrounding those countries may impact the Groups results of operations.
Political changes in a country could prevent the Group from receiving remittances of profit from a member of the Group located in that country or from selling its investments in that country.
Furthermore, legislative measures in a country could result in changes in tariffs, import quotas or taxation that could adversely affect the Groups turnover and operating profit.
Terroristactivities and ongoingglobal  impactthe Group.
Other Risk Factors The Board considers that Smith & Nephew is subject to a number of other risks whichare commontomost global  whichare reviewed as part of its riskmanagement process.
In the financial area these include interest rate volatility, share price volatility, challenges by taxation authorities, failures inreportingand  uninsuredlosses.
Adverse events in the areas of corporate social responsibility could also adversely impact Group operating results.
EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATERISK AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Board of Directors of the Company has established a set of policies to manage funding, currencyand interest rate risks.
Derivative financial instruments are used only to manage the financial risks associated with underlying business activities and their financing.
See Note 22 of the Notes to the Group Accounts for further details of these risks.
The Groups financial instruments are subject to changes in fair values as a result of changes in market rates of exchange and forward interest rates.
Financial instruments entered into to hedge foreign currency purchase transactions and interest rate exposures are accounted for as hedges.
As a result, changesinfairvalues ofthese financial instruments do not affect the Groups income statement.
The movements in the fair value of financial instruments that are not accounted for as hedges offset movements in the values of assets and liabilities and are recognised through the income statement.
The net impact of these changes in fair value on the Groups income statement isnotsignificant.
