THE BOARD AND EXECUTIVEOFFICERS Board  Smith& Nephewas at 12 March2008 comprised: Termof appointment Initiallyelected or expires at Director Position appointed AGM in JohnBuchanan...........
Illingworth......... Executive Director, ChiefExecutive 8 February2006 2009 AdrianHennah........... Executive Director,  15June2006 2010 Dr. Pamela J. Kirby.........
Independent  1 January2001 2010 Dr. Rolf W. H. Stomberg.....
He was appointed independent non-executive Deputy Chairman in 2005 and became Chairman in April 2006.
He is Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
He is Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc and a non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC and BHP Billiton.
He joined the Group in May 2002 as President of Orthopaedics and was appointed a director and Chief Operating Officer in February 2006.
In July 2007 he was appointed Chief Executive.
Prior to joining the Group he held posts within GE Medical, as Chief Executive Officer of a publicly traded medical devices company, President of a respiratory critical care company and President of a technology incubatorcompany.
He joined the Group and was appointed a director in June 2006.
He was  of Invensys plcand held .
She was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
She is non-executive Chairman of Scynexis Inc and a non-executive directorofInformaplc, CuralogicA S and NovoNordiskA S. Warren D. Knowlton 61.
He was appointed a director in November 2000 and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Graham Packaging Inc. and a non-executive director of Ameriprise Financial Inc. Previouslyhewas GroupChiefExecutive Officer of MorganCrucibleplc.
He was appointed a director in March 2002 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is Chairman of Bramdean Alternatives Limited and a non-executive director ofF&C Asset Management plc.
He was appointed a director in January 2001 and is a member of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
He is non-executive Chairman of Incyte Corporationand a  VarianInc, Ecolab Inc, and NavicureInc.
Independent non-executive director and Senior Independent Director.
He was appointed a director in 1998 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman of Francotyp Postalia Holding AG and Lanxess AG and a non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc, Hoyer GmbH, TNT N. V. Deutsche BP AG, Biesterfeld AG and Serverstal.
52 ExecutiveOfficers The Chief Executive of Smith & Nephew and other senior executives are responsible for the day-to-day management of the Group.
In addition to the executive directors, the following are Executive Officers of Smith & Nephew: Mark Augusti 42.
President of Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies.
He joined the Group in 2003 as Vice President of Global Marketing for the Trauma Division and was promoted to Senior Vice President and General Manager Trauma Division in 2005 becoming President Orthopaedic Trauma and Clinical Therapies in February 2006.
 MedicalSystems inthe US and Asia.
She joined the Group in July 2004, as Senior Vice President Human Resources for the Orthopaedics global business unit.
In August 2007, she was appointed Group Human Resources Director.
Previously, she was Vice President Human Resources with Bristol-Myers Squibb, whereshe held a variety of humanresourcesroles duringher15 yeartenure.
He joined the Group in June 2007 as President of Orthopaedic Reconstruction.
Prior to joining the Group he held senior executive positions with RITA Medical Systems Inc, Computer Motion Inc and United States Surgical a division of Tyco Healthcare where he held a wide variety ofroles.
He joined the Group as President Endoscopy in July 2006.
Previously he was President and Chief Executive Officer of a US manufacturer of medical devices and spent 15 years at  of eachof Patient Care and HealthSystems divisions.
Senior Vice President Global Planning and Development.
He joined the Group in 1998, and served in planning and business development roles in the Orthopaedics division.
He was appointed to his current role in August 2007.
Prior to joining the Group, he held management positions with United Technology Corporation.
He joined the Group in 1999 as Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer for North America becoming Chief Legal Officer for the Group in February 2002.
Prior to joining the Grouphewas inprivate practiceand VPGeneral Counseland Secretary , Inc. Joe Woody 42.
President of Advanced Wound Management.
He joined the Group in 2003 as Vice President and General Manager of the Clinical Therapies Division.
He was appointed President Advanced Wound Management inFebruary2006.
Paul M. Williams retired and Sarah Byrne-Quinn and Peter W. Huntley resigned during 2007.
Group Company Secretary Paul R. Chambers 63.
He joined the Group in 1994 as Assistant Company Secretary and was appointed CompanySecretary inApril 2002.
