MANUFACTURE AND SUPPLY Where management considers that the Group possesses a core competence, its policy is to manufacture products internally whenever possible to ensure quality, regulatory and cost goals are met.
The Group invests in the expansion of its manufacturing facilities and equipment to meet these aims.
The Group may outsource other manufacturing for several reasons including requirements for specialised expertise, lower costs of production .
Where products and services are outsourced, suppliers are determined based on a number of factors which include the complexity of the product, manufacturing technology, manufacturing capabilities, cost competitiveness and intellectual property.
Suppliers are selected based on their capability to provide products and services, their ability to establish and maintain a quality system and their financial stability.
Suppliers are monitored by on-site assessments and ongoing monitoring of delivered products.
Ongoing product assurance is  qualityplans.
Each business unit purchases raw materials, components, finished products and packaging materials from certain key suppliers.
These principally include metal forgings and stampings for orthopaedics, optical and electronic sub-components and finished goods for endoscopy, active ingredients and finished goods for advanced wound management and packaging materials for all businesses.
Management believe that whilst prices of principal raw materials can be volatile the effect is not material to the Group.
Finished goods purchased for resale include SUPARTZ joint lubricant in the trauma and clinical therapies business, the BHR hip resurfacing product in the reconstruction business, screen displays, optical and electrical devices in the endoscopy business andenzymedebrider agents and ACTICOAT inthe advanced woundmanagement business.
PROPERTY, PLANTAND EQUIPMENT  as follows: Approximate area Square feet 000s Grouphead officeinLondon, England 15 , England 83  and reconstruction, trauma and clinicaltherapies manufacturing facilitiesinMemphis, Tennessee.. 686 Reconstruction, trauma and clinicaltherapies , Tennessee........ 102 , Switzerland 77  inRotkreuz, Switzerland 28  headquarters inMemphis, Tennessee 84  inAndover, Massachusetts..... 112 , Massachusetts. 98  , Oklahoma................ 150 Advanced woundmanagement headquarters and , England........ 546 Advanced woundmanagement , England.................. 41 Advanced woundmanagement , Florida 188 The reconstruction headquarters and reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies manufacturing facilities in Memphis and the advanced wound management facilities in Hull, Gilberdyke and Largo are freehold while all other principal locations are leasehold.
In 2007, the Aarau and Rotkreuz facilities were added as part of the Plus acquisition and are both leasehold properties.
The Group has freehold and leasehold interests in real estate in other countries throughout the world, but no other is significant individually to the Group.
Where required, the appropriate  approved the facilities.
As part of the EIP programme the Group has announced its intention to close the Largo manufacturing facility by 2009 and to outsource or relocate its manufacturing output.
The advanced wound management business has purchased land in Suzhou, China and intends to construct a new facility to supply certain advanced wound management products on a global basis.
The reconstruction business intends to purchase land near Beijing, China and plans to construct a new facility to supply implants to the local market and orthopaedic instruments for export.
