OPERATING ACTIVITIES SALES, MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION Smith & Nephews customers are the various providers of medical and surgical services worldwide.
In certain parts of the world, including the UK, much of Continental Europe, Canada and Japan, these are largely government organisations funded by tax revenues.
In the US, the Groups major customers are public and private hospitals, which receive revenue from private health insurance and government reimbursement programmes.
In the US, Medicare is the major source of reimbursement for knee and hip reconstruction procedures and for  regimes.
Competition exists among healthcare providers to gain patients on the basis of quality, service and price.
In many countries, providers are under pressure to reduce the total cost of healthcare delivery.
There has been some consolidation in the Groups customer base, as well as amongst the Groups competitors, and these trends are expected to continue in the long term.
Smith & Nephew competes against both specialised and multinational corporations, includingthose withgreater financial, marketingand otherresources.
The Groups customers reflect the wide range of distribution channels, purchasing agents and buying entities in over 90 countries worldwide.
The largest single customers worldwide are the National Health Service in the UK andHealthTrustinthe US whichrepresented 3% and 2% respectively of the .
In the US the Groups products are marketed directly to doctors, hospitals and other healthcare facilities.
Each business unit operates separate specialised sales forces.
In both reconstruction and endoscopy the US sales forces consist largely of independent commissioned sales agents who are managed by a mix of independent agents and the Groups own managers.
These agents are not permitted contractually to sell products that compete with Smith & Nephews.
In both businesses, products are shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer.
The trauma and clinical therapies and advanced wound management businesses in the US operate sales forces of their own employees who market directly to the ultimate customer.
In the US, trauma and clinical therapy products are shipped and invoiced directly to the ultimate customer whereas advanced wound management productsare shipped and invoicedto a numberof wholesale distributors.
Inmost otherdirectmarkets, the business unitstypicallymanage separate employee sales forcesdirectly.
The emerging markets unit comprises direct selling and marketing operations in India, China, Hong Kong, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand, the United Arab Emirates, South Africa, Mexico and Puerto Rico.
In these markets reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies and endoscopy frequently share sales resources.
The advanced wound management sales force is typically separate because it calls on different customers.
In other countries Smith& Nephewsells to thirdparty distributors whichmarket the Groups productslocally.
In Continental Europe, the Group operates three centralised distribution facilities.
The reconstruction, trauma and endoscopy businesses operate a facility in Paris, France which acts as the main central holdingand consolidation point for Continental European inventory and inventory returns.
Reconstruction and trauma also operate a distribution facility at Rotkreuz, Switzerland.
Product is shipped to Group companies who hold small amounts of inventory locally for immediate or urgent customer requirements.
Advanced wound management operates a distribution centre at Neunkirchen, Germany from where inventory is shipped directly to the ultimate customer in most Europeanmarkets.
SEASONALITY Smith & Nephews revenues are generally at their highest in the fourth quarter of any year.
This is caused by the relatively high number of accidents and sports injuries which occur in the North American and European autumn and winter seasons which increase revenues of trauma and endoscopy products.
Reconstruction revenues are lower in the third quarter due to fewer elective surgeries in the summer and higher in the fourth quarter as elective surgeries increase.
