BUSINESS OVERVIEW Smith & Nephews operations are organised into four business units that operate globally: reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced wound management.
Smith & Nephew believes that its businesses have the opportunities for strong growth due to its markets benefiting from an ageing population, an increaseinactive lifestyles and trends toward less invasive medicalprocedures.
Responsibility for the Groups spinal products was transferred from the endoscopy business to the trauma and clinical therapies business with effect from 1 January 2007.
Spinal products are now reported within the trauma and clinical therapies segment and all comparative periods have been amended to conform to the current year presentation.
This is done by adjusting for the impact both of sales of products acquired in business combinations in the current year and the prior year, and of movements in exchange rates.
The Groups management uses this non-GAAP measure in its internal financial reporting, budgeting and planning to assess performanceonbotha business segment and a .
Underlying growth in revenue reconciles to growth in revenue reported in accordance with IFRS by making two adjustments, the constant currency exchange effect and the acquisitionseffect, described below.
The material limitation of the underlying growth in revenue measure is that it excludes certain factors, described above, which do ultimately have a significant impact on total revenues.
The Group measures the performance of local managers using underlying growth in revenue whilst the Groups management additionally considers GAAP revenueeachquarter and furtherassesses the excluded items by monitoringagainst internalbudget amounts.
The constant currency exchange effect is a measure of the increase decrease in revenue resulting from currency movements on non-US Dollar sales.
This is measured as the difference between the increase in revenue translated into US Dollars on a GAAP basis i. e. current year revenue translated at the current year average rate, prior year revenue translated at the prior year average rate and the increase measured by translating currentyear revenueintoUS Dollarsusingthe prioryear average rate.
The acquisitions effect is the measure of the impact on revenue from newly acquired business combinations.
This is calculated by excluding the revenue from sales of products acquired as a result of a business combination consummated in the current year, with non-US Dollar sales translated at the prior year average rate.
Additionally, prior year revenue is adjusted to include a full year of revenue from the sales of products acquired in those business combinations consummated in the previous year, calculated by adding back revenue from sales of products in the period prior to the Groups ownership.
These sales are separately tracked in the Groups internal reportingsystems and are readilyidentifiable.
28 Reported growthinrevenueby business segment reconcilesto  follows: Constant currency Reported exchange Acquisitions Underlying growth effect effect growth % % % % Reconstruction 35 4 18 13 ................... 20 2 5 13 Endoscopy... 13 3 10 Advanced WoundManagement................. 12 6 1 5 Totalrevenue. 21 4 7 10 Reported growthinrevenueby business segment reconcilesto  follows: Constant currency Reported exchange Acquisitions Underlying growth effect effect growth % % % % Reconstruction 11 1 10 ................... 13 13 Endoscopy... 10 1 9 Advanced WoundManagement................. 3 2 1 Totalrevenue. 9 1 8 Trading Profit Trading profit is a trend measure which presents the long-term profitability of the Group excluding the impact of specific transactions that management considers as affect the Groups short-term profitability.
The Group presents this measure to assist investors in their understanding of trends.
The Group has identified the following items, where material, as those to be excluded from operating profit when arriving at trading profit: acquisition and disposal related items including amortisation of acquisition intangible assets: significant restructuring events: andgainsandlosses resultingfromlegal disputes and uninsuredlosses.
Operating profitreconcilesto tradingprofit in2007 as follows: Restructuring Acquisition and Amortisation Operating related rationalisation Legal ofacquisition Trading profit costs expenses settlement intangibles Profit $ million Reconstruction....... 131 101 9 30 24 295 TraumaandClinical Therapies......... 112 10 5 1 128 Endoscopy.......... 141 4 2 147 Advanced Wound Management...... 109 24 3 136 Total............... 493 111 42 30 30 706 Operating profitreconcilesto tradingprofit in2006 as follows: Acquisition Amortisation Operating related ofacquisition Trading profit costs intangibles Profit $ million Reconstruction 200 20 13 233 ................... 101 101 Endoscopy... 122 1 123 Advanced WoundManagement................. 114 114 Total........ 537 20 14 571 29 OFR, Liquidity & Prospects Tradingprofitby business segment as a percentage of total tradingprofit was as follows: 2007 2006 2005 % Reconstruction............ 42 41 40  18 18 18 Endoscopy............... 21 21 23 Advanced WoundManagement 19 20 19 Totaltradingprofit.......... 100 100 100 Operating profitby business segment as a percentage of total operatingprofit was as follows.
Smith & Nephews principal geographic markets are in the well-developed healthcare economiesofthe US, Europe, Japan and Australia.
These markets are characterised by an increase in the average age of the population caused by the immediate post-World War II baby boomer generation approaching retirement, increased longevity, more active lifestyles, obesity and increased affluence.
Together these factors have created significant demand for more effective healthcare products which deliver improved outcomes through technology advances.
Furthermore pressure to resist increases in overall healthcare spending has led healthcare providers to demand products which minimise the lengthofhospital stays and the use of surgeonand nursingresources.
A recent trend has been increasing consumer awareness of available healthcare treatments through the Internet and direct-to-customer advertising.
This has led to increased consumer influence over product purchasing decisions.
In reconstruction, improvements in technology have lengthened the effective life of implants and have facilitated the implantation of knees and hips in relatively young patients thereby improving the quality of life for a new generation.
The trauma and clinical therapies markets are expected to continue to grow due to a global population increasingly at risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes and also due to continuous advancements in the surgical treatment of fractures, and the need to manage pain in younger, more active patients.
The endoscopy business is benefiting from the continued trend worldwide towards less invasive surgery but with particular focus on arthroscopic repair of the knee and shoulder using a broad range of technology.
The Group also expects tobenefit fromthe demand forless invasive approaches to .
The advanced wound management business is focused on the treatment of chronic wounds of the older population and other hard-to-heal wounds such as burns and certain surgical wounds and is therefore also expected to benefit from demographic trends.
The market for advanced wound treatments is relatively unpenetrated and it is estimated that the potential market is significantly larger than the current market.
This increased penetration is expected to be driven by improved outcomes from new technology, health economic benefits, increasing nursing shortages, quality of life expectations and education of healthcare providers to  advanced treatments.
30 In order to take advantage of the expanding markets the Group must continually develop its existing and new technologies and bring new products to its customers.
Expenditure on research and development in 2007 represented 4% of Grouprevenue.
Currency Movements Smith & Nephews results of operations are affected by transactional exchange rate movements in that they are subject to exposures arising from revenue in a currency different from the related costs and expenses.
The Group manages the impact of exchange rate movements on cost of goods sold by a policy of purchasing forward foreign currency commitments when firm purchase orders are placed.
In addition, businesses are required to purchase forward a minimum of 50% of their forecast foreign currency requirements on a twelve-month rolling basis.
The Groups revenues, profits and earnings are also affected by exchange rate movements on the translation of results of operations in foreign subsidiaries for financial reporting purposes.
This exposure is offset partly because the Group incurs interest in currencies other than US Dollars on its indebtedness denominated in  Dollars.
See FinancialPosition, Liquidityand Capital Resources.
Other Other than national governments seeking to control or reduce healthcare expenditure, see Risk Factors Reimbursement management is not aware of any governmental economic, fiscal, monetary or political policies or factors that have materially affected, directly or indirectly, the Groups operations or investments by shareholders.
Critical Accounting Policies The Groups significant accounting policies and those elective exemptions taken by the Group on the adoption of IFRS in accordance with IFRS 1 are set out in Note 2 of the Notes to the Group Accounts.
Of those the policies whichrequirethe most use of managements judgment are as follows: Inventories A feature of the reconstruction and trauma businesses whose finished goods inventory makes up 77% of the Group total finished goods stock is the high level of product inventory required, some of which is located at customer premises and is available for customers immediate use.
Complete sets of product, including large and small sizes, have to be made available in this way.
These sizes are used less frequently than standard sizes and towards the end of the product life cycle are inevitably in excess of requirements.
Adjustments to carrying value are therefore required to be made to reconstruction and trauma inventory to anticipate this situation.
These adjustments are calculated in accordance with a formula based on levels of inventory compared with historical usage.
This formula is applied on an individual product line basis and is first applied when a product group has been on the market for two years.
This method of calculation is considered appropriate based on experience, but it does involve management judgements on effectiveness of inventory deployment, length of product lives,  efficiencyof .
Impairment In carrying out impairment reviews of goodwill and intangible and tangible assets a number of significant assumptions have to be made when preparing cash flow projections.
These include the future rate of market growth, the market demand for the products acquired, the future profitability of acquired businesses or products, levels of reimbursement and success in obtaining regulatory approvals.
If actual results should differ or changes inexpectations arise   .
Retirement Benefits A number of key judgements have to be made in calculating the fair value of the Groups defined benefit pension plans.
These assumptions impact the Balance Sheet liability, operating profit and finance income.
The most critical assumptions are the discount rate and mortality assumptions to be applied to future pension plan liabilities.
For example a 0.5% increase in discount rate would reduce the combined UK and US pension plan deficit by $96m whilst a 0.5% decrease would increase the combined deficit by $106m.
A 0.5% increase in discount rate would decrease profit before taxation by $2m whilst a 0.5% decrease would increase it by $1m.
A one year increase in the assumed life expectancy of the average 60 year old male pension plan member in both the UK and US would increase the combined deficit by $27m.
In making these judgements, management takes intoaccountthe advice of professional external actuaries and benchmarksits assumptions against external data.
