THE BUSINESS HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT Group Strategy Smith & Nephew is a global business engaged in the development, manufacture and marketing of medical devices in the sectors of orthopaedic reconstruction, orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced woundmanagement.
Group History The Group has a history dating back 152 years to the family enterprise of Thomas James Smith who opened a small pharmacy in Hull, England in 1856.
On his death in 1896, his nephew Horatio Nelson Smith took over the management of the business.
Smith & Nephew was incorporated and listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1937.
Today it is a public limited company incorporated in the UK registered in, and conducted under the laws of, England and Wales.
The corporate headquarters is in the UK.
Operations in countriesother than the UK are under the laws ofthose countries.
InNovember1999, the Groupwas listed onthe NewYorkStockExchange.
In 2001, Smith & Nephew became a constituent member of the FTSE-100 index in the UK.
This means that Smith & Nephew is included in the top 100 companies traded on the London Stock Exchange measured in terms .
Recent Developments On 27 September 2007, a settlement was reached in respect of the subpoena issued by the US Attorney for the District of New Jerseys office to the Groups orthopaedic business in 2005.
The Group and the other four competitors involved settled the criminal and civil matters with respect to any charges against the companies that could result from this investigation.
The Group paid a civil restitution payment of $29m and legal costs of $1m.
It also entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement which obligates it to improve its existing compliance system and a Corporate Integrity Agreement which also requires certain compliance efforts.
In July 2007, David J. Illingworth was appointed Chief Executive Officer, replacing Sir Christopher ODonnell who retired fromthe Board.
On 31 May 2007 the Group completed the purchase of Plus Orthopedics Holding AG Plus a private Swiss orthopaedic company for a total of CHF 1,091m $889m in cash, including assumed debt.
The acquisition was financed by bank borrowings and is being integrated into the Groups reconstruction and trauma and clinical therapies businesses.
The acquisition of Plus increases the Groups share of the global orthopaedics market, makingitthe fourthlargest global .
On 10 May 2007 the Group purchased BlueSky Medical Group, Inc. BlueSky, a private US company for an initialpayment of $15m with further milestone payments of up to $95m related to revenues and other events.
The company developed products for treating chronic wounds using negative pressure wound therapy and markets a range of negative pressure pumps and wound dressing kits.
BlueSky has been integrated into the Groups advanced woundmanagement business.
Following a group-wide in-depth review the Group launched an Earnings Improvement Programme EIP during the first quarter of 2007.
The objectives of the programme are to enhance short and medium term performance, to liberate resources for investment and to establish a culture of continuous improvement.
Workstreams have been created to address improvedperformance, mainlyinthe followingareas ofthe Groupsbusiness: in cost of goods by increased use of lower-cost locations, mainly in Asia, and savings in procurement by takingadvantage of opportunitiesona Groupwidebasis: in a number of administration functions by centralising, where appropriate, functions formerly run separately byeachbusiness, forexample, InformationSystems and HumanResources: inmarketingby  rationalisethe :and insales functionsby optimisingthe structure, deployment and efficiencyofsales forcesandsales channels.
