OUTLOOK AND TREND INFORMATION The discussion below contains statements that express managements expectations about future events or results rather than historical facts.
These forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause the Groups actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from those projected in forward-looking statements.
Smith & Nephew cannot give assurance that such statements will prove correct.
These risks and uncertainties include factors related to: the medical devices industry in general, product liability claims and related insurance coverage, the geographical markets in which the Group operates, the nature and efficiency of the Groups products, the Groups ability to research, develop, manufacture and distribute its products, the translation of currencies and the values of international securities markets.
For additional information on factors that could cause the Groups actual results to differ from estimates reflected in these , youshouldread Risk Factors of this document.
The markets in which the Group concentrates continueto demonstrate robust growth and are expected to benefit in 2008 and for the foreseeable future from an ageing population, obesity, more active lifestyles and technological developments including less invasive techniques in orthopaedic and endoscopic surgery.
In advanced wound management continuing innovation and the potential for further penetration of moist wound healing and wound bed preparation techniques should continue to stimulate expansion of this market.
Management continuesto seek acquisitionsthat add to shareholdervalue.
In reconstruction management expects 2008 revenue growth, including revenues of Plus, to exceed market growthwhichwas estimated at 9% in2007.
Within trauma and clinical therapies, market growth in fixation products was estimated at 10% in 2007 and management expects that revenuegrowthin2008 willbe closeto the market rate.
In endoscopy, market growth in arthroscopy was estimated at 12% in 2007 and management expects that revenue growth will be slightly below the market growth rate in 2008 due to the businesss orientation to the slower growth resection segment.
Revenue growth in the Visualisation and Digital Operating room segments are expected tobe volatile fromquarter to quarter.
In advanced wound management the growth rate for the market in 2007 was estimated to be 6%, excluding the negative pressure wound therapy segment.
Management expects revenue growth to slightly exceed market growth in 2008.
In addition, revenues from negative pressure wound therapy products are expected to grow materially followingthe full launchof the  first quarter of2008.
Management expects that revenue growth in the first quarter of 2008 will be somewhat reduced and the second quarter enhanced by the incidence of the Easter holidays which fall into the first quarter in 2008 having fallen into the secondquarter in2007.
Management expects to achieve its earnings improvement target of an increase in profit margins at the trading profit level of an average of at least 1% per annum to the end of 2010, before the impact of acquisitions and assuming a neutral pricing environment.
In addition the Group expects to achieve its target cost savings from the acquisition of Plus of 15% of the acquired cost base in the third full year, equivalent to $40m per annum in the same timeperiod.
In 2008, trading margins in the first and second quarters will be diluted in comparison with the previous year by the impact of the Plus and BlueSky acquisitions which were completed during the second quarter of 2007.
In the second half of the year the Plus acquisition is expected to be accretive to trading margins compared with the previousyear.
The Group expects to continueits share buy back programme in 2008 and to complete itoverthe next twoyears.
The Groups interest cost will increase and the weighted average number of shares in issue will decrease depending on the actual number of shares purchased.
Overall this is expected to be broadly neutral to earnings per share andEPSA.
