The financialobjectives of the EIP are to contribute to an increase in trading profit marginby an average of 1% per annum to the end of 2010 net of a planned increase in research and development expenditure.
Cash restructuringcosts are estimated to be $125m spread overthree years.
In February 2007 the Group commenced a share buy back programme of up to $1.5 billion over an initial two years.
This followed an assessment of the medium term capital needs of the Group both internally and for acquisitions whereby management determined that shareholder value and balance sheet efficiency would be enhanced by returning capital to shareholders.
In February 2008 the Board reviewed the programme in the light of current market conditions and opportunities, and in order to preserve flexibility the Board currently expects to complete the programme over a total of three years.
During 2007, 52 million shares were purchased at a total costof$640m.
In July 2006, the Group acquired OsteoBiologics, Inc OBI for $73m in cash.
OBI markets bioabsorbable bone graft substitutes in Europe to repair cartilage defects in the knee and offers the TRUFIT BGS Plug in the US as a bonevoidfiller.
OBI has been integrated withthe endoscopybusiness.
In June 2006, the United States Attorneys Office in Indianapolis, Indiana issued a federal grand jury subpoena to Smith & Nephews orthopaedic business at the request of the Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, asking for copies of documents regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violations of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices.
Four of the business major competitors received similar subpoenas.
Smith & Nephew is cooperating fully with the United States Attorney.
In May 2006, the Group exited the tissue engineering operations of its advanced wound management business.
On 23 February 2006, Smith & Nephew, together with its partner Beiersdorf AG, sold its joint venture, BSN Medical, to Montagu Private Equity for an enterprise value of 1,030m the Groups share was cash proceeds of $562m resulting in a net profit to the Group of $351m.
The Groups share of the results of BSN Medical and the gainondisposal was classified as  inaccordancewithIFRS.
BUSINESS DESCRIPTION Organisation Smith & Nephew operates on a worldwide basis.
This has been achieved through a series of acquisitions, in the US and in Europe, and through continued emphasis on the development and introduction of new products in the .
Smith & Nephew is currently organised into four global business units of reconstruction, trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced wound management.
The Group also has a separate emerging markets unit.
In 21 of the 32 countries in which the Group operates, the global business units take responsibility for strategy, research and development R&D, manufacturing, marketing, sales and financial performance.
These countries are referred to as direct markets.
The remaining markets in which the Group has operations are managed by country managers, who are responsible only for sales and distribution of the Groups product range, andcomprisethe emergingmarkets unit.
A head office team in London, England directs the overall business and supports the business units, primarily in the areas of business development, company secretarial, finance, humanresources and investor relations, with a legal department headquartered in Memphis, Tennessee.
A central research facility in York, England is charged withthe development of  scienceand biology, .
Reconstruction Overview Reconstruction implants include hip, knee and shoulder joints as well as ancillary products such as bone cement andmixingsystems used incemented .
The reconstruction business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Implants are also manufactured at smaller facilities in Aarau, Switzerland, in Tuttlingen, GermanyandinWarwick, UK.
5 Group Description InMay2007, the acquisitionof Plus was completed.
 acquisitionwas: to increase Smith & Nephews share of the global orthopaedic reconstruction market to around 12%, taking Smith& Nephewto  of global market share: todoubleSmith& Nephews share of the : toenhancethe productportfolioby addinga :and to generate a range of synergy opportunities including the leverage of the combined sales force in Europe and Asia, cost saving opportunities from increased manufacturing leverage and capacity utilisation and better use of the combinedmarketingand sales infrastructure.
Following the acquisition of Plus, the reconstruction business has consolidated its European head office operationsinRotkreuz, Switzerland.
To compete effectively in the growing global reconstruction market, management believes that as well as having a leading edge product range it is important to have a skilled sales force that can build strong relationships with surgeons and to provide high levels of customer service.
At the end of 2007 the global sales force numbers 1,170ofwhom601 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews reconstruction strategy is to become the leading innovator of solutions for the active, informed patient.
Management believes that by focusing innovation on the needs of the growing demographic segment of younger, more active patients, that Smith & Nephew can become a leader in providing hip and knee implants to these segments.
For example, in the US patients aged 64 and under represent 41% of the primary hip and knee replacement market and management believes this sector is growing at twice the overall market rate.
Recent product launches such as JOURNEY, LEGION and the BIRMINGHAM HIP Resurfacing System BHR in the US, support thisstrategy.
The reconstruction strategy also calls for investment in major orthopaedic markets around the world.
Smith & Nephew intends to further penetrate these markets by expanding its sales and marketing presence and by introducing new implants.
The reconstruction business is also investing in strategies to encourage patient demand through integrated information programs including direct-to-consumer, public relations and internet based initiatives.
2007 represented the first full year of sales in the US for BHR.
BHR maintained its market leading position despite the introduction of the first competitive hip resurfacing product.
In the fourth quarter, the Group announced the release of the Australian Orthopaedic Association National Joint Replacement Registry.
Management believes this information is extremely useful to compare un-biased clinical results of various hip resurfacing prostheses andhighlightsthe  BHR.
With the acquisition of Plus, the business decided to enhance the Groups activities in the field of shoulder replacement.
A strategy was developed duringthe year and is inthe process ofbeingfinalised.
It is the strategy of the Group to develop Computer Assisted Solutions CAS that provide value to the surgeon by:  accuracyand reproducibility: increasing operating room efficiencies by decreasing operative time, cost, instruments, and surgical outcomes:and providing the surgeon with tools to market their practice to the patient to maximise sales of the current implantportfolio.
Theacquisitionof Plus gives the Groupaccess to the Gallileo Navigation CASsystem.
New Products In 2007, the reconstruction business launched the JOURNEY DEUCE Bi-compartmental, bi-cruciate retaining knee system.
The launch covered the US, Canada, Australia and Europe.
The JOURNEY DEUCE is part of a family of next generation products that aim to restore natural  that preserve boneandligaments or replace them with more anatomic components.
Through an active medical education program, over 300 surgeonshave been trained onthis newtechnologyin2007.
6 Recent Regulatory Approvals During the third quarter of 2007, the FDA approved the GENESIS II, JOURNEY BCS, and the LEGION Revision Systems for gender specific applications.
This approval has enabled Smith & Nephew to position the Companys corekneesystems as  female segment of the .
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide reconstructionmarket served by the Group grew by approximately 9% in 2007 and is currently worth more than $10.5 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew holdsa 12.5%share of this market by value.
Principal global competitors in the orthopaedic reconstructionmarket and their estimated 2007 global shares, are Zimmer 27%, Stryker 20%, DePuy Johnson& Johnson 21% and Biomet 11%.
Trauma and Clinical Therapies Overview Trauma and clinical therapies products comprise both trauma fixation products and associated clinical therapies.
Trauma fixation products consist of internal and external devices and orthobiological materials used in the stabilisation of severe fractures and deformity correction procedures.
Clinical therapies products are those that are applied in an orthopaedic office or clinic setting and also include bone growth stimulation, joint fluid therapies andoutpatient spine products.
The trauma and clinical therapies business is managed worldwide from Memphis, Tennessee, which is also the site of its main manufacturing facility.
Fixation products are also manufactured at a facility in Tuttlingen, Germany .
Within the trauma fixation business, internal fixation products, such as the TRIGEN INTERTAN Intertrochanteric Nail, the PERI-LOC upper and lower locked plating systems and external fixation systems such as JET-X and TAYLOR SPATIAL FRAME provide orthopaedic surgeons a comprehensive offering of products to address trauma .
The EXOGEN line of ultrasonic bone healing stimulators, DUROLANE and SUPARTZ hyaluronic acid joint fluid therapies, and outpatient spine products, are the main products in the clinical therapies sector.
EXOGEN captured the number one market share position for long bone stimulation in August 2007.
EXOGEN is an ultrasound technology approved to treat fractures that have failed to heal known as non-unions and in some cases prescribed to help specific fresh fractures heal faster.
DUROLANE is a single injection therapy used to treat osteoarthritis of the knee and hip currently only approved in Europe and Canada, and is manufactured by Q-MED AB of Sweden.
SUPARTZ is an injection therapy used to treat osteoarthritis of the knee, and is manufacturedby  Japan.
Smith & Nephew began to integrate Plus into its overall worldwide business during 2007.
The Plus Gliding Nail and IP-XS trauma products were added to the Groups European business.
The Plus biologics business was also integrated.
This consists of Lifetek LLC, a subsidiary, and a supply agreement with Regeneration Technologies Inc. both of which supply human tissue for orthopaedic bone and ligament surgery procedures for tissue deficiencies.
The Plus spine business consists of internal spinal fixation products sold in certain European countries.
A majority of the products are sourced through a distribution agreement with a third party.
Smith & Nephew plans to continue to maintain this spinal fixation business and will evaluate opportunities for future growthinthismarket segment.
To compete effectively in the growing global orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies market, management believes in a strategy encompassing an innovative world class product range and a skilled sales force that builds strong relationships with surgeons and physicians to provide exceptional customer service.
At the end of 2007, the global trauma fixation sales force numbers 456 of whom 211 serve the US market.
The clinical therapies sales forcenumbers347 of whom313 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews trauma and clinical therapies strategy is to deliver growth through innovative product development in its existing core business and expansion into fast-growing market areas including alternative therapies for pain management and fracture healing.
Management believes that the trauma and clinicaltherapies 7 Group Description markets will continue to grow for the foreseeable future.
This is largely attributable to a global population increasingly at risk from fractures due to age, osteoporosis, obesity and diabetes and also continuous advancements in the surgical treatment of fractures and the need to manage pain in younger, more active patients.
Smith & Nephew intends to further penetrate these markets by expanding its sales force and by introducing less invasive and alternative therapies.
The Group is also contributingto patient education and empowerment through its websites and .
In January 2007, trauma and clinical therapies took over the outpatient spine business and its product line from the Endoscopy business unit.
Management believes that a focused sales force coupled with existing physician contacts and reimbursement knowledge should allow this product line to flourish under clinical therapies.
Additionally, the business transfer allows the trauma business to develop a strong platform for future minimallyinvasive spine therapies.
In May 2007, trauma and clinical therapies expanded their non-invasive spine business by entering into an agreement with Teknimed SA to distribute market and sell Teknimeds SPINE FIX product in North America, Europe and Australia.
SPINE FIX is a ready to use, self-hardening bone cement that is injected into the vertebra through a minimally invasive procedure that treats painful compression fractures in the spine often caused by osteoporosis.
New Products Several significant product innovations were launched in 2007.
The polyaxial locking mechanism of the PERI-LOC Variable-Angle Locked Plating System VLP allows the angles at which locking screws can be inserted and locked into any of the low profile plates to be adjusted for optimal intraoperative versatility.
PERI-LOC VLP specifically targets partial articular fractures in areas of the body where implant prominence and soft-tissue irritation are major concerns.
Additionally, the PERI-LOC Periarticular Reduction Forceps Set provides a variety of soft-tissue  fractures priorto definitivefixation.
The Large Cannulated Screw System 6.5mm, 7.0mm, and 8.0mm offers new implants and enhanced instrumentation for percutaneous and or open fracture fixation using cannulated screws.
The TRIGEN META-NAIL Blocking Screw Instruments allow precision placement of blocking screws during intramedullary nail procedures to assist with fracture reduction, nail insertion, and postoperative implant stability.
The TRIGEN Percutaneous Intertrochanteric Femoral Antegrade Nail Instruments facilitate minimally invasive antegrade femoral nailing procedures and optimise intraoperative efficiency by combining all proximal locking options into a single intuitive .
In 2007, the CAPTION Platelet Rich Concentrate PRC System was also launched.
This is a biologic product that is a fully disposable, easy-to-use process for concentrating platelets from a patients own blood.
Platelets naturally release growth factors that stimulate the healing cascade.
The PRC Systems kit includes all components needed tocollectand process the blood, and thentransfer the PRC to the sterile field.
Recent Regulatory Approvals In 2007, US approvals were obtained for three supplements related to the EXOGEN Bone Healing System: new Main Operating Unit, housing vendor: miscellaneous circuitry changes: and Lean Manufacturing processing.
Additionally, three 510 k clearances were obtained: CAPTION Applicator: PERI-LOC VLP Plating System: and ProximalFemoral Plating System & Cable Accessories.
Competition Management estimates that the worldwide orthopaedic fixation market increasedby10% in2007andiscurrently worth more than $3.2 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew holds approximately 12% share ofthismarket by value.
Management estimates that the worldwide market for clinical therapies increased by 7% in 2007 and is currently worth more than $1.5 billion per annum.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew holds approximately 14% share ofthismarket by value.
Principal global competitors in the orthopaedic fixation market and their estimated 2007 global shares, are Synthes 47%, Stryker 17%, DePuy Johnson& Johnson 8%, Zimmer 6% andBiomet 2%.
8 Endoscopy Overview Smith & Nephews endoscopy business, headquartered in Andover, Massachusetts, develops and commercialises endoscopic minimally invasive surgery techniques, educational programmes and value-added services for surgeons to treat and repair soft tissue and articulating joints.
The business focuses on the arthroscopy sector of the endoscopy market.
Arthroscopy is the minimally invasive surgery of joints, in particular the knee, shoulderand hip.
The endoscopy business offers surgeons endoscopic technologies for surgery, including: specialised devices, fixation systems and bioabsorbable materials to repair damaged tissue: fluid management and insufflation equipment for surgical access: digital cameras, digital image capture, central control, multimedia broadcasting, scopes, light sources and monitorsto assist with visualisation: and radiofrequencywands, electromechanicaland mechanical blades, and hand instruments for resecting damaged tissue.
The business also designs, markets and provides service to its Digital Operating Room suites, which use computer and internet technology to put  infull controlof the .
Manufacturing facilities are located currently in Mansfield, Massachusetts, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma and San Antonio, Texas.
A manufacturing facility in Andover, Massachusetts was closed in the first half of 2007.
Major servicecentres are located inthe US, the UK, Germany, Japan and Australia.
Theglobalsales forceat the end of 2007 was 703 of which363 serve the US market.
Strategy Smith & Nephews strategic intent is to establish the business as the leading provider of endoscopic techniques and technologiesfor joint and ligament repair.
Management believes that the business capitalises onthe growing  a preferred , patients andcustomers.
To sustain growth and enhance its market position, the endoscopy business supports its strategy with surgeon education programmes, financing solutions, global fellowship support initiatives, partnerships with professional associationsand .
New Products In 2007, Smith & Nephew expanded its portfolio of shoulder repair products with the launch of the KINSA RC Suture Anchor, designed to repair tears to the rotator cuff.
This is the second product in the Groups family of KINSA anchors.
The original, for treatment of instability, was released in 2006.
Both anchors encase a sliding, self-lockingknotthat permits the surgeonto securethe .
Smith & Nephews 560 Series High Definition Camera System, launched in 2007, is capable of capturing and displaying broadcast-quality HD images in arthroscopic and other minimally invasive surgeries, and is one of the first end-to-end HD surgical visualisation systems available globally.
The 560 Series isdesigned  resolution through the entire image chain, from the video arthroscope or laparoscope, through the camerahead and controlunit, to the monitor, resultinginclearer, moredetailed surgicalimages.
Smith & Nephew further enhanced its position in the arthroscopic hip repair market with the launch of the Lateral Hip Positioning System, which enables a surgeon to easily access and treat the hip joint with the patient .
The business also redesigned and expanded its family of CLEAR-TRAC disposable cannulas, which provide a sterile pathway through which surgeons insert instruments during minimally invasive procedures.
The new CLEAR-TRAC cannulas are designed with a new triple seal system that reduces fluid leakage and helps surgeons manage sutures during arthroscopic surgery.
The flexible device features a flexible plastic shaft which provides surgeonswitha better feel forchangesintissue density as it is inserted intothe body.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2007, the endoscopy business obtained regulatory clearances for the following products in most major markets, except Japan where the approval process is more lengthy: KINSA anchorfor shoulder rotator cuff repair: Ultra FAST-FIX, adding high strength ULTRABRAID suture to the FAST-FIX meniscal repair device: TRUFIT BGS, biphasic bone void filler plug: 560 High Definition camera system: and various other arthroscopy instruments and devices.
9 Group Description Competition Management estimates that the global arthroscopy market in which the business principally participates is worth more than $2 billion a year and is growing at 12% annually, driven by increasing numbers of sports injuries, longer and more active lifestyles, patient desire for minimally invasive procedures, innovative technological developments and a need for cost effective procedures.
Management believes that Smith & Nephew has a 23% share ofthe global arthroscopymarket.
Smith & Nephews main competitors and their estimated shares of the global arthroscopy market in 2007 were Arthrex 19%, Mitek Johnson& Johnson 18%, Stryker 11%, Arthrocare 8% andLinvatec Conmed 7%.
Advanced Wound Management Overview Smith & Nephews advanced wound management business has its global headquarters in Hull, England and its North American headquarters in Largo, Florida.
The business offers a range of products from initial wound bed preparation through to full wound closure.
These products are targeted at chronic wounds connected with the older population, such as pressure sores and venous leg ulcers, and the alleviation of woundssuchas burnsand invasivesurgerythat impactthe widerpopulation.
Advanced wound management products are manufactured in facilities in Hull and Gilberdyke, England: Largo,   world.
Strategy The strategy for the advanced wound management business is to focus on the higher added value segments of exudate and infection management through improved wound bed preparation and moist and active healing.
During 2007 this strategy has taken the business into the negative pressure woundtherapy NPWT market with the acquisition of BlueSky, which management believes will allow the business to build further presence in the  areas of advanced woundmanagement.
The advanced wound management business has built its sales and marketing infrastructure in the worlds major markets, largely through investment in additional sales teams particularly in the key markets of the US and Europe.
At the end of 2007 the global sales force was 937 of whom 181 were based in the US, the fastest growingmarket.
During 2007, management took part in the Groups EIP and reviewed cost and efficiency in the advanced wound management business.
Savings have been delivered during 2007 in areas ranging from cost savings in support functions to the outsourcing of some manufacturing to low cost countries.
During 2007 the business announced the planned closure of the Largo, Florida manufacturing facility and the intention to build and manage a , China.
New Products Management believes that the market will continue the trend towards advanced products with their ability to accelerate healing rates, reduce hospital stay times and cut the cost of nursing and cliniciantime and aftercare in the home.
The move into the NPWT market, particularly in the US, provides access to a market place that management estimates is worth $1.4 billion in annual revenue and to a range of products that management believes can deliver a sophisticated mediumusingnegative pressure and thus enhancewoundhealing.
The ALLEVYN hydrocellular dressings range has been considerably enhanced by new versions introduced in 2006 and 2007 that management believes deliver efficient fluid management and an optimal moist wound environment that can lead to promotion of faster healing of the wound, reduced risk of maceration and protection from infection.
During 2007, the ALLEVYN range was extended further with the development of variants that includethe additionof silver.
Sales of ACTICOAT continue to grow during 2007 with the introduction of new dressings designed for the prevention of infection in post-operative wounds and around skin punctures relating to external fixation of bones.
The ACTICOAT range incorporates the smallest crystallised silver nanocrystalline silver used in the treatment of wounds or burns.
The silver reduces the risk of bacterial colonisation and acts to kill micro-organisms that can causeinfectionand prevent orretard healing.
10 Smith & Nephew entered into an agreement with Covalon Technologies, Inc. in 2007 to distribute a range of denatured collagen dressings.
Two of these products, COLACTIVE and BIOSTEP, are designed to stimulate tissue granulation.
The agreement grants the business access and distribution rights to a differentiated new product development portfolio.
Recent Regulatory Approvals During 2007, the advanced wound management business secured approvals for new variants of ALLEVYN that include the addition of silver and adhesives that minimise pain at dressing change.
In addition, the IODOSORB range of cadexomer iodinedressings was transferred  to being a medical device, providing the potential opportunity for sale in all 27 member states.
In Japan, two new productswereapproved includingthe thinversionof the ALLEVYNrange.
Competition Management estimates that the sales value of the advanced wound management market worldwide was $4.7 billion in 2007, an increase of 11% from 2006 which includes the impact of the continuing expansion of the NPWT segment.
Management estimates that Smith & Nephew has a 17% market share of the wider market.
Growth is driven by an ageing population and by a steady advance in technology and products that are more clinically efficient and cost effective than their conventional counterparts.
Management believes that there is strong growth potential for advanced technology products with approximately half of chronic wounds globally still treated .
Worldwide competitors in advanced wound management and their estimated market shares in 2007 include Kinetic Concepts 27%, who are wholly in the NPWT segment, the Convatec division of Bristol-Myers Squibb 10%, Molnlycke 8% and Johnson& Johnson 7%.
Joint Ventures and Discontinued Operations Joint ventures are those in which the Group holds an interest on a long-term basis and which are controlled by the  undera contractualagreement.
Discontinued operations in 2006 represent the share of results and gain on disposal of the Groups joint venture, BSN Medical.
Smith & Nephew owned 50% of the BSN Medical joint venture, which was jointly owned with Beiersdorf AG and was independently managed.
BSN Medical comprised traditional woundcare, fracture casting and bandaging and compression hosiery businesses.
Results were accounted for using the equity method up to 1 October 2005, whereby 50% of the profit after taxation was incorporated into Smith & Nephews income statement as a single line item.
Following the Groups announcement in August 2005 of its intentionto dispose of BSN Medical, Smith & Nephew and Beiersdorf AG announced in December 2005 that they had signed an agreement to sell BSN Medical to Montagu Private Equity for an enterprise value of 1,030m.
This transaction was completed on23 February 2006.
