RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The business units each manage a portfolio of short and long-term product development projects designed to meet the future needs of their customers and to continue to provide growth opportunities for their businesses.
The Groups research and development is directed towards all four business segments.
Expenditure on research and development amounted to $142m in 2007 2006 $120m, 2005 $122m, representing approximately 4% ofGrouprevenue 2006 4%, 2005 5%.
The Groups principal research facility is located in York, England.
The Groups research programme seeks to underpin the longer-term technology requirements for its businesses and to provide a flow of innovative products.
The Group continues to invest in future technology opportunities, particularly bio-resorbable materials, cell biology and non-invasive healing devices across the Group.
In-house research is supplemented by work performed  otherexternal  UK andthe US.
Product development is carried out at the Groups principal locations, notably in Memphis, Tennessee and Aarau, Switzerland reconstruction and trauma and clinical therapies, Mansfield, Massachusetts endoscopy and Hull, England advanced woundmanagement.
INTELLECTUALPROPERTY Management believes that the Groups policy concerning intellectual property rights promotes innovation in its businesses.
Smith & Nephew has a policy of protecting, with patents, the results of the research and development carried out by the Group.
Patents have been obtained for a wide range of products, including those in the fields of orthopaedic reconstruction, orthopaedic trauma and clinical therapies, endoscopy and advanced wound management.
Patent protection for Group products is sought routinely in the Groups principal markets.
Currently, the Groups patent portfoliostands at over3,200 existing patents andpatent applications.
Smith & Nephew also has a policy of protecting the Groups products in the markets in which they are sold by registering trademarks as soon as possible under local laws.
The Group vigorously protects its trademarks against infringement and currently is not aware of any significant infringement of its trademark registrations.
The present trademark portfolioof the Groupconsists of over3,100 trademarks anddesignrights.
Smith & Nephews principal products are protected by intellectual property comprising patents, licences and know how, and it strives to provide a collection of intellectual property for each major product that reduces the risk associated with failure of any individual piece of intellectual property.
In addition, most pieces of intellectual property protect a relatively small proportion of the Groups annual revenue.
As a result, the Group tries to ensure that its overallbusiness is notsensitive to the loss howevercaused of .
In addition to maintaining a policy of protecting its market position by the filing and enforcement of patents and trademarks, Smith & Nephew has a policy of opposing third party patents and trademark filings in those areas that mightconflictwiththe Groups business interests.
In the ordinary course of its business, the Group enters into a number of licensing arrangements with respect to its products.
None of these arrangements individually is considered material to the current operations and the financialresults of the Group.
REGULATION The international medical device industry is highly regulated.
Regulatory requirements are a major factor in determining whether substances and materials can be developed into marketable products and the amount of timeandexpense that shouldbe allotted to suchdevelopment.
National regulatory authorities administer and enforce a complex series of laws and regulations that govern the testing, approval, manufacturing, labelling, marketing and sale of healthcare and pharmaceutical products.
They also review data supporting the safety and efficacy of such products.
Of particular importance is the requirement in many countries that products be authorised or registered prior to manufacture, marketing or sale and that such authorisation or registration be subsequently maintained.
The major regulatory agencies for Smith & Nephews products are the FDA in the US, the Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency in the UK and the Ministry for Health Labour and Welfare in Japan.
Payment for many medical device products is governed by reimbursementtariff .
14 The trend in recent years has been towards greater regulation and higher standards of technical appraisal, which generally entail lengthy inspections for compliance with appropriate standards, including regulations such as good manufacturing practices.
Smith & Nephew believes that these recent changes will not have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition and the results of operations.
All significant facilities within the Group are subject to regular internal audit for medical device regulatory compliance with national and Group standards andpolicies.
Management believes that the Groups operations currently comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and regulations.
Although the Group continuesto make capital expenditure for environmental compliance, it is not currentlyaware of any significant expenditure that would be required as a result ofsuchlaws andregulationsthat wouldhave a material adverse impactuponthe Groups financialcondition.
