LEGALPROCEEDINGS The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to product liability and various legal proceedings, some of which include claims for substantial damages, which are considered to constitute ordinary and routine litigation incidental to the businesses conducted by the Group.
The outcome of such proceedings cannot readily be foreseen, but other than as detailed below management believes that they will not result in any material adverse effect onthe  of operationsof the Group.
Product LiabilityClaims In August 2003 the Group withdrew voluntarily from all markets the macrotextured versions of its OXINIUM femoral knee components.
As at that date 2,971 components had been implanted of which approximately 2,471 were in the USA, 450 in Australia and 50 in Europe, the first component having been implanted in December 2001.
The product was withdrawn when management became aware of a higher than usual percentage of reports of early revisions revisions are implants whichneed to be replaced.
It appears that some patients did not achieve adequate initial fixation and other patients, who were able to achieve adequate initial fixation are not able to maintain it.
Smith & Nephew has extensively tested and investigated the cause of these early revisions.
An investigation by a group of medical and scientific experts retained and managed by the Groups defence lawyers concluded that the cause of the limited number of early revisions that have been reported is the textured surface ofthe implantthat apposes bone.
In December 2004 the Group was notified that two insurance carriers who comprised 35% of the first and 80% of the second excess layers of the Groups global product liability programme had declined coverage for macrotextured claims due to differences in the interpretation of the policy wording.
In 2005 the remaining insurance carrier with a 20% participation in the second excess layer declined coverage.
In 2006 two other insurance carriers declined coverage.
Management is taking steps in order to enforce insurance coverage: the Group is preparing its breach of contract suit against certain of its product liability insurers for trial.
The judge originally assigned to hear the case has transferred to a different court and the case will most likely be assigned to another judge in the court where it was originally filed.
It is expected that this will result in the trial being scheduled for 2009 and it will not be heard in 2008 as previously reported.
A charge of $154m representing the amount outstanding from insurers and an estimate of the costs associated with claims likely to arise in the future assuming that insurance cover continues to be unavailable from these and subsequent excess layer insurers was recordedin2004.
The charge was calculated based on: 1 the amount outstanding at 31 December 2004 from the insurers who declined coverage: 2 an estimate of the average cost in respect of revisions where claims were unresolved at that date: and 3 an estimate of the number of settlements of future revisions based on the current trend and decaying to zero after five years and an estimation of the average future cost per settlement.
The amount of provision remaining at 31 December 2007 to cover pending claims and claims in respect of future revisions,  available, was $41m, whichmanagement believes isadequate.
As at 31 December 2007 1,029 implants required revision surgery as a result of some patients not achieving adequate fixation and settlements had been agreed with patients in respect of 977 of these revisions.
The total amount paid out to 31 December 2007 in settlements, legal costs and associated expenses has been $195m of which $60m was recovered from the insurer who provided the primary layer and 65% of the first excess layer in the Groups global product liability programme.
A further $22m was received during 2007 from a successful legal settlement.
The balance of $113m is due from five other insurers who have declined coverage.
At the end of February 2008, 1,033 implants had been revised and settlements agreed with patients in respect of 983 of these revisions.
The Groups assessment of the impact of these revisions and related matters constitute forward-looking statements that are subject to uncertainties, including uncertainties relating to the outcome of settlements as compared to the assumptions made in estimating claim amounts.
Smith & Nephew cannot provide assurance that these estimates will prove correct.
Depending on the number and average cost of future settlements, costs maybe greater orless thanthe amountprovided see Risk Factors.
Equal Employment Opportunity CommissionCharges EEOC Charges In 2006, six EEOC charges were filed in Memphis, Tennessee against the Group alleging that the Groups employee promotion practices are discriminatory.
A seventh EEOC charge filed that same year alleges that the 47 OFR, Liquidity & Prospects Group did not provide the employee with necessary training.
In 2007, two persons filed EEOC charges alleging that the Group failed to hire them for .
Right to sue letters have been issued by the EEOC in all but one of these charges and a law suit has been filed in the federal court in Memphis that will consider the failure to promote, failure to train, and failure to hire allegations.
The charges and suit all allege discrimination based on the African American race and were filed by the same lawyers whose offices are in Washington, D. C. All request that the charges and suit be conducted as class actions.
Smith & Nephew believes that it has meritoriousdefences to all of the allegations and it intends to defend these matters vigorously.
US Department of Justice Investigations In March 2005 the US Attorneys Office in Newark, New Jersey issued a subpoena to the Groups orthopaedic business asking for copies of its consulting, professional service and remuneration agreements with orthopaedic reconstructive surgeons.
Four of the divisions major competitors received similar subpoenas.
In September 2007 the Group and the other four competitors involved settled the criminal and civil matters with respect to any charges against the companies that could result from this investigation.
It also entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement which obligated it to improve its existing compliance system under the scrutiny of a monitor appointed to oversee ifs efforts.
This agreement is for 18 months and if the Group meets its terms, the criminal charges that are asserted in the agreement will be null and void and of no effect.
TheGroupalso entered intoa CorporateIntegrity Agreement withthe Office ofthe Inspector General OIG of the Department of Health and Human Services which also requires certain compliance efforts.
This agreement is in effect for five years.
If the Group meets its terms the OIG will not attempt to exclude it from receiving Medicare payments for its products.
The Group believes that it is in substantial compliance with both agreements.
In June 2006, the United States District Court for the Southern District of Indiana in Indianapolis, Indiana issued a federal grand jury subpoena to Smith & Nephews orthopaedic reconstruction business at the request of the US Department of Justice, Antitrust Division, asking for copies of documents regarding possible violations of federal criminal law, including possible violations of the antitrust laws, relating to the manufacture and sale of orthopaedic implant devices.
Four of the business major competitors received similar subpoenas.
Smith & Nephew is cooperating fully with the United States Attorney.
The results of this investigation may not be known for several years.
However, the scope of the investigation has currently been narrowed by the United States Attorney to a specific geographic region and specific product lines.
It is the Groups belief that the investigations of the other orthopaedic companies that received similar subpoenas have been similarly narrowed.
It is also the Groups belief that the investigation was prompted by an e-mail sent by an independent sales representative of Smith & Nephew that proposed a common pricing strategy in connection with a particular hospital.
This email was not authorised by the Group.
No action was taken by any competitor in response to the e-mail, and Smith & Nephew believes that no anticompetitive activity took place as a result of it.
Following the disclosure of the antitrust investigations six complaints in class action law suits were filed against the Groupandthe otherorthopaedic companies alleging violations of the Sherman Antitrust Act that received similar subpoenas seeking compensationfor price fixing alleging to have occurredas a result of the matters underinvestigation.
All six ofthe class action complaints have been dismissed without prejudice and without compensation or other payment.
The Groupisunawareof  to this matter.
In September 2007, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission SEC wrote a letter to the Group advising that it was conducting an informal investigation into certain marketing practices in the Groups orthopaedic reconstruction business in Germany, Poland and Greece with reference to the United States statute known as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
The Group believes that several of its major US competitors have received a similar letter.
The SEC asked the Group to voluntarily disclose to it any problems or issues.
The Group has retained independent counsel and other advisors and is investigating these matters.
In order to co-operate fully with the SEC the Group is investigating the three markets requested and other European markets with respect toits practices and those of Plus whichit recentlyacquiredand is integratingintoits Group.
In November 2007 the Group received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Office of the Attorney General of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.
The request was with respect to consultancy payments made to healthcare professionals in that state and it asked that the Group provide certain documents.
The Group is cooperating with the Attorney General.
The Group has provided certain documents in respect of its orthopaedic reconstruction business and is continuing its search for others responsive to the request.
The Group does not believe that any of the documents that it has provided indicate any improper conduct with respect to the Groups healthcare consultantsinthat state.
