Board of directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 1 Donald Brydon, CBE 5 Peter Jackson Chairman # Non-executive director # Aged 62, British.
Donald Brydon was appointed to the Board Aged 60, British.
Peter Jackson was appointed to the Board as a in April 2004, becoming Chairman in September 2004.
He was non-executive director in December 2003 and as senior independent previously Chief Executive of AXA Investment Managers SA and prior director in September 2004.
He was formerly Chief Executive of to that had been Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Associated British Foods plc.
He is Chairman of Kingfisher plc.
He is Chairman of the London Metal Exchange, Senior independent director.
Chairman of Taylor Nelson Sofres plc and a Member of the Board of AXA Investment Managers SA.
He is Chairman of the ifs School 6 John Langston of Finance and the international development charity, EveryChild.
Finance Director He was formerly Chairman of Amersham plc.
John Langston was appointed to the Board, as head of Sealing Solutions, in December 2000, was subsequently Group Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Managing Director, Detection and became Group Managing Director, 2 Keith Butler-Wheelhouse Specialty Engineering in August 2004.
A Chartered Accountant, he Chief Executive was appointed Finance Director in September 2006.
Keith Butler-Wheelhouse was appointed to the a director of TI Group plc since October 1998.
He joined TI Group in Board in August 1996 and became Chief Executive in November 1996.
1993, becoming Chief Executive of Bundy Automotive in 1996 and He was previously President and Chief Executive Officer of Saab Chief Executive of TI Specialty Polymer Products in 1998.
He formerly Automobile in Sweden and prior to that had been Chairman and worked for Lucas Industries.
Chief Executive of Delta Motor Corporation in South Africa.
7 David Lillycrop 3 David Challen, CBE General Counsel Non-executive director Aged 51, British.
David Lillycrop was appointed to the Board in Aged 64, British.
David Challen was appointed to the Board in December 2000, having been an executive director of TI Group plc September 2004.
He is Vice-Chairman of Citigroup European since June 1998.
He joined TI Group in 1989, becoming Group Investment Bank and former Chairman of J Henry Schroder & Co Ltd. Company Secretary in 1991 and, additionally, General Counsel in 1997.
He is a non-executive director of Anglo American plc.
He is also A barrister, he was previously Director of Legal Affairs at Quaker Oats Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel.
Ltd. Chairman of TI Pension Trustee Ltd 1997 to 2005.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
8 Peter Loescher Non-executive director 4 Stuart Chambers Aged 50, Austrian.
Peter Loescher was appointed to the Board Non-executive director as a non-executive director in June 2007.
He is currently President Aged 51, British.
Stuart Chambers was appointed to the Board in and Chief Executive Officer of Siemens AG and is based in Germany.
He is currently Chief Executive, Pilkington Group Ltd He is a veteran of the healthcare industry having been President, and a main Board member of its parent company, Nippon Sheet Global Human Health, Merck & Company Inc. President and CEO Glass.
Prior to joining Pilkington plc in 1996, he spent ten years at of GE Healthcare Bio-Sciences and a member of the GE Corporate Mars Corporation, latterly as Vice President, Sales & Marketing Executive Council, and Chief Operating Officer of Amersham plc.
A chemical engineer by training, he previously spent ten years at Shell in a variety of European roles.
9 Sir Kevin Tebbit, KCB, CMG He is also Chairman of the North West Business Leadership Team.
Sir Kevin Tebbit was appointed to the Board in Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He served widely in policy, management and finance posts in the Foreign & Commonwealth Office, NATO and finally the Ministry of Defence, where he was Permanent Under-Secretary of State from July 1998 to his retirement in November 2005.
He is Chairman of Finmeccanica UK.
He is also Visiting Professor at Queen Mary, Committees Audit Committee University of London.
Remuneration Committee # Nomination Committee Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 21
