Business review continued Smiths has adopted hedge accounting for the majority of the Groups Legal issues business at its larger sites, thereby mitigating the impact of Smiths is committed to operating within the law in all applicable transactional exposures in the income statement.
jurisdictions, and seeks to benefit from the rights and protections Smiths protects its reserves from foreign currency fluctuations afforded by relevant laws.
The Company aims to anticipate and meet by ensuring that at least 75% of the total net overseas operational the changing requirements of the markets it serves, as legal and assets are offset either by borrowings in the respective currency or regulatory reforms impact those markets.
This excludes goodwill which is only partly hedged.
Smiths faces different types of legal issues in different jurisdictions.
Overseas earnings are translated at average currency rates for the The high level of activity in the US, for example, exposes the Company year, which smoothes the effect of currency volatility.
to the likelihood of various types of litigation commonplace in that country, such as mass tort and class action litigation, proceedings The Groups strategy is to continue to take a risk-averse approach threatened and sometimes begun as an aid to negotiated settlement to managing and controlling financial risks, be it hedging currency of disputes, and legal challenges to the scope and validity of patents.
and interest rate risk, liquidity or management of refinancing risk.
In addition, contracting with the US Government subjects a company Financial controls to numerous stringent regulatory obligations, calling for an active While the Groups decentralised organisation delegates day-to-day programme of compliance, reporting and communication.
By control to local management, Smiths has comprehensive control contrast, the Companys activities in some countries with less systems in place with regular reporting to the Board.
The Group developed legal systems pose challenges for the protection of has continuous formalised business risk management processes corporate assets such as real estate and intellectual property rights.
operating at each business unit.
In order to address the challenges and exploit the opportunities The internal audit department reviews all units over a rolling arising from these and other legal issues, Smiths employs suitably three-year cycle, and its findings are reported to the Audit Committee.
experienced lawyers in head office and certain operations, and retains All acquisitions are reviewed within 12 months of acquisition, to verify the services of law firms around the world.
John Crane, Inc. litigation Further information regarding the Groups procedures to maintain John Crane, Inc. John Crane a subsidiary of the Company, is one strict controls over all aspects of risk, including financial risk, are set of many co-defendants in numerous lawsuits pending in the USA out in the Corporate governance report on pages 28 to 32. in which plaintiffs are claiming damages arising from exposure to, or use of, products containing asbestos.
The John Crane products generally referred to in these cases are ones in which the asbestos fibres were encapsulated in such a manner that, according to tests conducted on behalf of John Crane, the products were safe.
John Crane ceased manufacturing products containing asbestos in 1985.
John Crane has resisted every case in which it has been named and will continue its robust defence of all asbestos-related claims based upon this safe product defence.
As a result of its defence policy, John Crane has been dismissed before trial from cases involving approximately 148,000 claims over the last 28 years.
John Crane is currently a defendant in cases involving approximately 144,000 claims.
Despite these large numbers of claims, John Crane has had final judgments against it, after appeals, in only 64 cases, amounting to awards of some US$55.5m over the 28-year period.
Whilst this represents a very low proportion of claims that has historically resulted in final judgment against John Crane, the incidence of such judgments in the future cannot be meaningfully estimated and, accordingly no provision is made for such awards.
In previous years, the awards, the related interest and all material defence costs were met directly by insurers.
During the period, John Crane has secured the commutation of certain insurance policies in respect of product liability, resulting in proceeds of 43m.
While substantial insurance remains in place, John Crane has begun to meet defence costs directly, seeking appropriate contribution from insurers thereafter.
No account has been taken of recoveries from insurers as their nature and timing are not yet sufficiently certain to permit recognition.
The 2007 interim report noted that John Crane had established a provision for 44m for defence costs and that this was part of an ongoing assessment of John Cranes asbestos exposures.
Having completed a detailed review of these exposures, the Board has decided to make a further provision of 57m.
This is based upon an assessment of the probable costs of defending known and expected future claims.
16 Smiths Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
