BOARD OF DIRECTORS rui fide Sousa 52 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since July 1999 Non-Executive and Chairman of the Nominations Committee.
Chairman 4 Currently, a director of Quantic Limited, a director of New Falcon Oil Limited and Chairman of Carbon Resource Management Ltd. ed Story 64 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 President and Chief and a member of the Nominations Committee.
Executive Officer 4 Formerly, President of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary, Vice Chairman of Conquest Exploration Company, Vice President and CFO of Superior Oil Company and holder of various positions with Exxon Corporation, including seven years resident in the Far East.
4 Currently, a non-executive director of Cairn Energy PLC.
peter kingston 65 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 Non-Executive Deputy and Chairman of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Chairman and Senior 4 A petroleum engineer who has worked in the oil and gas Independent Director industry since 1965 in various roles.
4 Formerly, a founding director of Enterprise Oil plc, then Managing Director Technical and a director of Elf Enterprise Petroleum Ltd. 4 Currently, Executive Chairman of Tower Resources plc and a director of Plexus Energy Limited, a social and environmental advisory network.
ettore Contini 34 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since Non-Executive December 2001.
Director 4 Currently, a director of Eurowatt-Commerce.
roger Cagle 60 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997.
Executive Vice President, 4 Over 30 years of experience in the oil and gas industry including Deputy CEO and Chief succeeding positions of responsibility with Exxon Corporation Financial Officer and senior management roles with Superior Oil Company.
4 Formerly, Chief Financial Officer of Snyder Oil Corporations international subsidiary and of Conquest Exploration Company.
4 Currently, non-executive Chairman of Dominion Petroleum Ltd and a non-executive director of Vostok Energy Limited.
30 30 GOvernanCe Martin roberts 64 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since Non-Executive September 2004 and a member of the Audit and Director Remuneration Committees.
4 A Solicitor by profession and a partner of Slaughter and May, specialising in oil and gas projects, until his retirement in 2002.
John norton 70 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 Non-Executive and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
Director 4 A Chartered Accountant by profession and a partner at Arthur Andersen, heading the oil and gas practice in Europe, the Middle East and Africa, until his retirement in 1995.
4 A former member of the Oil Industry Accounting Committee.
4 Currently, a director of the Arab-British Chamber of Commerce.
robert Cathery 63 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since June 2001.
Non-Executive 4 Over 40 years of City experience.
Director 4 Formerly, Managing Director and Head of Oil and Gas at Canaccord Capital Europe Limited, Head of Corporate Sales at SG Securities London Ltd. Director of Vickers da Costa and Director of Schroders Securities.
4 Currently, a non-executive director of Vostok Energy Limited, Salamander Energy PLC, Indigovision plc and Central Asia Metals Limited.
Olivier Barbaroux 52 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since Non-Executive July 1999 and a member of the Remuneration and Director Nominations Committees.
4 Formerly, Managing Director of Compagnie Gnrale des Eaux, President and Chief Operating Officer of Vivendi Water S. A.
Head of the Energy Sector of Paribas and Chairman and CEO of Coparex International.
4 Currently, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Dalkia and a member of the Executive Committee of Veolia Environment.
John Snyder 66 4 A member of the Board of SOCO International since April 1997 Non-Executive and a member of the Nominations Committee.
Director 4 Formerly, Chairman of the Board of Santa Fe Snyder Corporation and founder of its predecessor company, Snyder Oil Corporation.
4 Currently, an advisory director for 4D Global Energy Advisors and a director of Texas Capital Bancshares.
SOCO International plc 30 30 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 THE ANNUAL REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The Directors present their annual report, along with the directors audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended The Directors, all of whom held office throughout the year, and the 31 December 2007. dates of their current service contracts or letters of appointment, which are available for inspection, are listed in the table below.
PrinciPal activity and enhanced business review Relevant details of the Directors, which include their Committee The Groups principal activity is oil and gas exploration and memberships, are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The Group has its headquarters in London and has interests and Directors transactions are included in the Directors oil and gas interests in Vietnam, Yemen, Thailand, the Republic of Remuneration Report on pages 42 to 49.
Congo Brazzaville, the Democratic Republic of Congo Kinshasa and Angola.
The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting directors holdinG office in 2007 Date of the profits or net assets of the Group are listed in Note 16 to the Director contract financial statements.
Rui C fide Sousa Chairman 12.07.99 Peter E Kingston In compliance with requirements of the Companies Act, a fair review Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 14.05.97 of the performance and development of the Groups business during Olivier M G Barbaroux 12.07.99 the year, its position at the end of the year and its future prospects Roger D Cagle 14.05.97 is contained in the Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement, Robert M Cathery 19.06.01 the Review of Operations and the Financial Review on pages 6 to Ettore P M Contini 11.12.01 23.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set John C Norton 14.05.97 out in the Financial Review on pages 20 to 23 and, in respect of the Martin J D Roberts 06.09.04 principal financial risks, in Note 3 to the financial statements.
The John C Snyder 14.05.97 key performance indicators KPIs used by management are set Edward T Story 14.05.97 out on pages 17 and 21, and are summarised along with pertinent definitions in the Five Year Summary on page 71.
As set out in the D enotes those determined by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors Corporate Responsibility Report on page 24, SOCO is committed as described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 36. to high standards of corporate responsibility.
However, the size and scope of those projects which the Company directly operates is Mr Olivier Barbaroux, Mr Ettore Contini, Mr Robert Cathery and Mr small with a commensurately small organisation.
While we closely Martin Roberts will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr monitor the health, safety and environmental matters of the full Peter Kingston, Mr John Norton and Mr John Snyder, having served portfolio, the primary measures are relevant to the performance on the Board for more than nine years, are subject to annual reof third party operators.
Additionally, at the current staff size, key election and will also retire at the AGM.
Each of the retiring Directors personnel matters are measured through qualitative rather than offers themselves for reappointment, being eligible and having been statistical measures.
KPIs will be developed in these areas at an recommended for reappointment by the Nominations Committee.
appropriate time in the evolution of SOCOs operations.
The Nominations Committee carefully considered its results and dividends recommendations regarding the reappointment of retiring Directors The audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December with regard to the policies and processes set out in more detail 2007 are set out on pages 51 to 70.
The Directors intend to devote in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 36 to 41, and in the Groups cash resources to its exploration and development particular in respect of each Directors continued independence activities and, accordingly, are not recommending the payment of a and the relevance of tenure.
The Board has given full consideration dividend 2006 nil.
to the balance of skills, knowledge and unique breadth of experience on the Board and the manner in which each of the annual General MeetinG retiring Directors contributes to that balance.
In particular, the The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at the offices of Board has considered the value of continuity of leadership through Ashurst, Broadwalk House, 5 Appold Street, London EC2A 2HA the significant development project underway in Vietnam, which on 24 June 2008 at 10am.
The Notice of AGM is on pages 73 to 75 is targeted to go onstream in mid-2008.
These factors have been of this document and sets out the proposed resolutions.
Details of weighed in consideration of succession planning and the need to the proposed resolutions are set out within this report.
refresh Board and Committee membership.
The Chairman, having 32 32 Governance THE ANNUAL REPORT cynthia cagle Vice President - Finance OF THE DIRECTORS and Company Secretary given consideration to the results of the Boards formal evaluation apply, for example, if a Director becomes a director of another process and other relevant factors, is satisfied that the retiring Noncompany or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows Executive Directors continue to demonstrate a commitment level directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential appropriate to the effective fulfilment of the responsibilities conflicts, where appropriate, where the Articles of Association of the role.
contain a provision to this effect.
The 2006 Act also allows the Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing The Non-Executive Directors fees, and SOCOs process for setting with Directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The those fees, are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on proposed amendment, which will take effect from 1 October 2008, page 45 to 46.
In consideration of increasing demands and fee will give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to levels in recent years generally, SOCO has given particular attention include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with to benchmarking data.
To ensure SOCO retains the ability to set its in a similar way to the current position.
Non-Executive fees at levels that remain competitive in the evolving market, a resolution will be placed before the AGM to increase the There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide maximum aggregate annual amount of Directors fees to be paid whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, out for their services as Directors from 450,000 to 650,000. only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking SOCO has provided liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good The annual cost of the cover is not material to the Group.
The faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Companys Articles of Association allow it to provide an indemnity for Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving the benefit of its Directors which is a qualifying indemnity provision for authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
the purpose of the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
It is also proposed that the amended article should contain Directors of the Company are appointed either by the Board or by provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board shareholders under terms of the Companys Articles of Association.
meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a Director The business of the Company is managed by its directors who being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of may exercise all powers of the Company subject to the Articles of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position Association and law.
giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors.
It is the Boards intention to report annually on articles of association the Companys procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers Save for the amendment concerning conflicts of interest referred to of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the below, the Directors are not proposing any specific amendments at procedures have been followed.
the 2008 AGM to the Companys Articles of Association to reflect actual or potential changes in English company law brought about suPPlier PayMent Policy by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
It is the Companys SOCOs policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers intention to present a composite set of proposals reflecting all when agreeing the terms of each transaction to ensure that such changes as are appropriate at a future general meeting of suppliers are made aware of and abide by the terms of payment.
shareholders when the provisions of the 2006 Act have been As the Company is a holding company, it has no trade creditors implemented.
and accordingly no disclosure can be made of the year end creditor days.
At the 2008 AGM, it is proposed to make a change to the Companys Articles of Association, with effect from 1 October charitable contributions 2008, to cover changes being introduced by the 2006 Act relating During the year the Company made contributions of 10,000 to to Directors conflicts of interest.
The 2006 Act sets out Directors charities registered in the United Kingdom.
Information regarding general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some the Companys global charitable programmes, which are principally changes.
Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008, a Director carried out in the countries where the Group has operations, is must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or contained in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 24 to 29. indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could soco international plc 32 32 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 The Annual Report of the Directors continued substantial shareholdinGs Issued shares Warrants Name of Holder Number % Held Number Pontoil Intertrade Limited 15,424,465 21.17 487,823 Chemsa Ltd 5,921,435 8.13 325,215 Lansdowne Partners Limited Partnership 4,901,549 6.73 Legal & General Group Plc 2,926,370 4.02 Banca Akros 2,918,077 4.00 share caPital to existing shareholders on a pro rata basis, either in connection with Details of changes to share capital in the period are set out in Note a rights issue or, for other purposes, up to a maximum aggregate 24 to the financial statements.
The Company has one class of share nominal value of 728,729 representing 5% of the Companys in issue, ordinary shares of 20 pence each, all of which issued share capital, excluding treasury shares.
These authorities are fully paid.
Each ordinary share in issue carries equal rights are intended to provide flexibility and would only be exercised if including one vote per share on a poll at general meetings of considered to be in the best interests of the Company generally the Company, subject to the terms of the Companys Articles of and, for purchases of the Companys share capital, if expected to Association and law.
Shares held in treasury carry no such rights result in an increase in earnings per share upon cancellation or while for so long as they are held in treasury.
Votes may be exercised by held in treasury.
shareholders attending or otherwise duly represented at general meetings.
Deadlines for the exercise of voting rights by proxy on a substantial shareholdinGs poll at a general meeting are detailed in the notice of meeting and As at 25 March 2008, the Company had been notified, in proxy cards issued in connection with the relevant meeting.
Voting accordance with the Transparency and Disclosure Rules, of the rights relating to the shares held in the Employee Benefit Trust are interests in the issued share capital of the Company and warrants to not exercised.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be subscribe for ordinary shares of the Company Warrants as set out amended by a resolution of the shareholders.
A special resolution will be placed before the forthcoming AGM to auditors renew the Directors existing authority to make market purchases A resolution to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte as the of the Companys ordinary share capital, and to limit such authority Companys auditors will be proposed by the Directors at the to purchases of up to 7,287,000 shares representing up to 10% of forthcoming AGM.
Deloitte also provide non-audit services to the the Companys issued share capital, excluding treasury shares.
Group which are set out in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The Shares purchased under this authority may either be cancelled or Directors are currently satisfied, and will continue to ensure, that held as treasury shares.
Two resolutions will be placed before the this range of services is delivered in compliance with the relevant AGM to replace the Directors existing authorities to allot securities.
ethical guidance of the accountancy profession and does not One resolution will seek authority under Section 80 of the Act to impair the judgement or independence of the auditor.
allot relevant securities up to a maximum aggregate nominal value of 4,858,191 representing one third of the Companys issued share Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms capital, excluding treasury shares.
If approved, an additional resolution that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information, will seek authority under Section 95 of the Act to allot equity securities being information needed by the auditors in connection with for cash and to sell treasury shares for cash without first offering them preparing their report, of which the auditors are unaware.
Each 34 34 Governance Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken, having made such enquiries of his fellow Directors and the auditors and taken such other steps as are required under his duty as a Director, to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Act.
By order of the Board 25 March 2008 Cynthia Cagle Company Secretary soco international plc 34 34 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35
