Directors and Officers William Colvin, Non-Executive Director and Chairman Graham Sizer, Group Finance Director William Colvin was appointed Non-Executive Chairman of the Graham Sizer joined the Company as Group Finance Director Company in March 2005, when the Group acquired the Highfield in December 2002.
Having previously worked at Grant Thornton, Group.
He joined NHP PLC in 2000 and became chief executive Mr Sizer has ten years experience within the care homes sector, later that year.
Prior to 2000 he was group finance director of as group financial controller for Tamaris PLC as well as group British Borneo Oil & Gas PLC for seven years.
Mr Colvin currently financial director for Idun Health Care Limited.
Mr Sizer graduated holds non-executive directorship positions at, Scottish Care Limited, from Southampton University with a degree in accounting and Energy XXI PLC and BSN Medical.
Mr Colvin is a business and statistics and qualified as a chartered accountant in 1995 at economics graduate from Edinburgh University and he qualified Morgan, Brown & Spofforth before joining Grant Thornton.
as a Scottish Chartered Accountant in 1982 at Ernst and Young.
John Murphy, Group Operations Director Philip Scott, Chief Executive John Murphy joined the Company as Group Operations Director Philip Scott was appointed Chief Executive Officer in February 2002. in March 2005.
Mr Murphy has more than 19 years experience Mr Scott has more than 15 years experience in the healthcare in operational management in the care sector and his experience industry having previously worked in senior management roles includes working as the group operations director for Tamaris PLC, for a number of corporate healthcare providers, including Crestacare managing director of Caledonian Nursing Homes, chief executive PLC and Tamaris PLC, before joining the Group.
He is a trained nurse of Idun Health Care Limited, chief executive of Highfield Care and holding both RGN and RMN qualifications and holds a Diploma in a member of the board of NHP PLC.
Professional Nursing Development from the University of Ulster.
Committees Company Secretary Audit Committee William McLeish was appointed as Company Secretary on 25 May Christopher Fisher Chairman 2006 and is a chartered accountant.
Before joining the Group, Ray Miles William was the company secretary of Rozelle Healthcare Limited, Baroness Morgan of Huyton an operator of care homes which was acquired by the Group in November 2005.
On 1 August 2007 he was elected an associate Nomination Committee of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
William Colvin Chairman Ray Miles Baroness Morgan of Huyton Remuneration Committee Ray Miles Chairman Christopher Fisher Baroness Morgan of Huyton 22 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 From left: William Colvin Philip Scott Graham Sizer John Murphy Ray Miles Baroness Morgan of Huyton Christopher Fisher Ray Miles, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Christopher Fisher, Non-Executive Director Ray Miles became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in Christopher Fisher joined the Board in June 2006.
He is a partner June 2006 and is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Miles has in Penfida, a new firm providing independent financial advice spent most of his career in the shipping and transport industry.
to pension fund trustees, and is also a non-executive director of From 1988 until December 2005, Mr Miles was chief executive Kelda Group, a trustee of the Imperial War Museum and Treasurer officer of CP Ships Limited and was also the senior independent of Reading University.
He spent most of his career at Lazard, the director of Stelmar Shipping Limited from 2004 to 2005.
Mr Miles investment bank, where he was a managing director and has also is Deputy Chairman of International Personal Finance PLC which, served as vice chairman, corporate finance, at KPMG.
on 16 July 2007, demerged from Provident Financial PLC.
He is chairman of the Devon Community Foundation and joined the advisory board of Stena AB in 2006.
Baroness Morgan of Huyton, Non-Executive Director Baroness Morgan of Huyton became a Non-Executive Director of the Company in June 2006.
A former teacher, Baroness Morgan worked as a senior aide to the British Prime Minister from 1997 to 2005.
In 2001, she was made a peer and served as Minister in the Cabinet Office.
From 2001 to 2005, she was Director of Government Relations, Downing Street, working closely with the Prime Minister.
Baroness Morgan is now working as an adviser to a childrens charity, serving on the board of the Olympic Delivery Authority, a member of the advisory board of Lloydspharmacy Limited and is a non-executive director of Carphone Warehouse PLC.
Note The Company has announced that with effect from 1 January 2008, William Colvin, On 10 December 2007, the Company also announced the appointment of Nancy Jane Non-Executive Chairman, will be appointed Chief Executive of the Company, replacing Hollendoner as a Non-Executive Director.
This appointment is to be confirmed at the Philip Scott.
Her biographical details are contained in the notice calling the meeting.
At that time, Ray Miles, currently the Senior Independent Director of Southern Cross, will be appointed as its new Non-Executive Chairman Joseph Baratta resigned as a Non-Executive Director on 4 April 2007.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
