Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the 52-week period ended 30 September 2007.
Activities of the Group The Groups principal activities are the development and operation of care homes for the elderly and the provision of specialist services for people with physical and or learning disabilities.
A detailed review of the Groups activities, development of its business and future developments are provided in the Business Review.
Results and dividends The consolidated income statement, showing the results for the period, is set out on page 38.
A detailed review of the Groups results is provided in the financial review.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5p totalling 9.4m 2006 1.1p totalling 2.1m per ordinary share be paid on 11 February 2008 to those Shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 11 January 2008.
On 22 June 2007 the Company paid an interim dividend of 2.5p totalling 4.7m per share 2006 nil.
Directors The names and biographical details of the Directors who currently hold office are given on pages 22 and 23.
The beneficial interests of Directors in the shares of the Company, details of service contracts and remuneration are shown in the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 31 to 35.
Acquisitions Details of acquisitions in the period are given in note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
Employment The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, with regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities.
Efforts are made to continue the employment of those who become disabled during their employment.
The Group seeks to recruit, develop and employ throughout the organisation, suitably qualified, capable and experienced people, irrespective of age, race, religion or sexual orientation.
Supplier Payment Policy It is Group policy to pay suppliers in accordance with agreed terms and conditions, provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
At 30 September 2007 the Groups supplier payment period was 50 days 2006 45 days.
The Company is a holding company and does not have trade suppliers.
Financial instruments Information on the Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and on the exposure of the Group to relevant risks in respect of financial instruments is set out in note 23 to the consolidated financial statements.
Key Performance Indicators The key performance indicators KPIs that are regularly used by the Company to monitor progress against its strategy are shown below and discussed in the Group at a glance section on page 2 of the report.
KPI Description Average occupancy The average occupancy of available beds expressed as a percentage.
Average weekly fee The average weekly fee achieved per occupied bed.
Adjusted EBITDA EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxation, depreciation, amortisation and profit on disposal of property, plant and equipment and subsidiary undertakings after adding back exceptional central costs and the charge for future minimum rental increases.
EBITDAR margin Home EBITDAR before central costs expressed as a percentage of revenue.
Rent cover Home EBITDAR before central costs divided by the cash rent cost.
24 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Southern Cross, like all businesses, faces a number of operating risks and uncertainties.
There are a number of risks that could impact the Groups long-term performance and steps are taken to understand and evaluate these in order to achieve our objective of creating longterm, sustainable returns for shareholders.
We have a risk management process in place, which is designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risk.
Regular reporting of these risks and the monitoring of actions and controls is conducted by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
This process is described in the corporate governance section.
The most fundamental risks faced by the Company are: if the Group fails to comply with regulation, regulatory action could include, among other penalties, the revocation of a care homes licence to operate: the Group could suffer severe negative publicity if a serious incident were to occur at one of the Groups care homes: if the average weekly fee increases do not at least rise in line with costs: the Groups ability to grow its business could be adversely affected if suitable acquisition opportunities cannot be found or successfully and profitably integrated: the current growth strategy is dependent on its sale and leaseback strategy: and if the Group fails to attract and retain nursing and other qualified staff, it may be unable to provide residents with quality nursing care and may have to reduce the number of beds in its care homes.
Takeovers Directive The Company has one class of share capital, ordinary shares.
All the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has power to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for Directors or employees on change of control.
Events After the Balance Sheet Date Events which happened after the balance sheet date are set out in note 38 to the financial statements.
Substantial Shareholdings At 16 November 2007 the Company had been notified of the following interests, which exceed 3% of the Companys issued share capital: % Legal and General Group plc 9.13 Lansdowne Partners 5.03 Standard Life Investments Limited 4.79 NewSmith Capital Partners LLP 4.10 Aegon Group PLC 3.43 Charitable and Political Donations During the period the Group made donations to charities totalling 50,000 2006 50,000.
No political donations were made.
Annual General Meeting The notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company together with explanatory resolutions is included in a separate document sent to shareholders.
The meeting will be held at 11am on 5 February 2008 at the offices of our advisers, UBS, 1 Finsbury Avenue, London EC2M 2PP.
Independent Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company, and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration, will made at the Annual General Meeting.
Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Directors Report Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors remuneration report and the Group and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and the parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In preparing the Group financial statements, the Directors have also elected to comply with IFRS, issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the European Union and IFRS issued by the IASB, and with regard to the parent company financial statements that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the parent company financial statements and the Directors remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
By order of the Board William McLeish Company Secretary 10 December 2007 26 Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
