Directors report The directors present their report and accounts for the year the company had 125,005,123 ordinary shares in issue, of ended 31 December 2007. which 9,633,384 were held in Treasury.
During the year 593,642 shares were transferred out of Treasury to meet the companys Principal activities obligations under its share plans and no shares were cancelled Spectris designs, develops and markets  out of Treasury.
It is proposed that an authority to make instrumentation and controls.
For 2007 reporting purposes, the further market purchases of the companys ordinary shares, businesses were grouped into four segments: Materials Analysis, if believed appropriate, will be sought at the forthcoming Test and Measurement, In-line Instrumentation and Industrial Annual General Meeting, although the Board has no present Controls.
Further details of the trading companies can be found intention of so doing.
in the Business review page 4.
Developments in the groups Also included in the special business of the 2008 Annual business activities are discussed in the Chairmans statement General Meeting are proposals to renew the directors authority page 2 and the Business review.
to allot shares up to prescribed limits.
Further details are given in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Acquisitions At 21 February 2008 interests notified to the company in During the year two of the groups businesses, Particle accordance with Chapter 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Measuring Systems and Servomex, made acquisitions.
The Rules comprised: total consideration, including acquisition expenses and net debt acquired, as well as deferred and contingent consideration Standard Life Investments expected to be paid in future years, was 6.6 million.
Deferred 8,412,921 shares 7.02% material interest consideration paid and working capital adjustments made during the year in respect of prior year acquisitions amounted AXA SA to 0.8 million.
6,463,755 shares 5.57% material interest Disposals Barclays Global Investors In February 2007, the company completed the sale of its 5,811,524 shares 5.02% material interest Spectrum Inspection Systems business to Illinois Toolworks Inc. After taking account of transaction costs, net proceeds were Legal & General Group Plc 14.3 million.
4,932,445 shares 4.18% material interest In June 2007, the company completed the sale of its Ircon business to Fluke Electronics Corporation.
After taking account Deutsche Bank AG of transaction costs, net proceeds were 15.5 million.
4,536,286 shares 3.89% material interest Share capital Takeovers directive The share capital of the company comprises ordinary shares Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which of 5p each: each share carries the right to one vote at general implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is meetings of the company.
The authorised and issued share required to disclose certain additional information.
Such capital of the company, together with movements in the disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual companys issued share capital during the year, are shown in Report, include the following: Note 25 on page 71.
The Articles of Association of the company, The companys Articles of Association Articles give power available on the companys website, contain provisions governing to the Board to appoint directors, but require directors to submit the ownership and transfer of shares.
themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting At the 2007 Annual General Meeting shareholders authorised following their appointment and for re-election where they the directors to make market purchases of the companys have been a director at each of the preceding two Annual ordinary shares up to a maximum number of 12,495,000 shares, General Meetings and were not appointed or re-appointed by representing approximately 10% of the issued share capital of the company at, or since, either such meeting.
The Articles may the company, and to either cancel the shares or hold them as be amended by special resolution of the shareholders and are Treasury shares which may then be cancelled, sold for cash or available to view on the companys website.
transferred for the purposes of the companys share plans, The Board of directors is responsible for the management depending on the best interests of the companys shareholders of the business of the company and may exercise all the powers at the time.
This authority has been used to make market of the company subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes, purchases of the companys shares during the 2007 financial year the companys Memorandum of Association and the Articles.
At the close of business on 21 February 2008, The Articles contain specific provisions and restrictions 30 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 regarding the companys power to borrow money.
Powers Directors relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also The directors of the company are named on pages 28 and 29. included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by John Hughes was appointed to the Board on 1 June 2007. shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
Andrew Given retired from the Board following the 2007 There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter Annual General Meeting.
John Poulter, Chairman, will retire or terminate upon a change of control of the group following from the Board following the 2008 AGM and be succeeded a takeover, such as bank loan agreements and company share in that position by John Hughes.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of from the Board on 31 January 2008. their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
John Hughes, having been appointed since the 2007 In addition, there is a service contract between the company Annual General Meeting, retires from the Board under the and one of its directors which provides for compensation for terms of the Articles of Association and, being eligible, offers loss of office or employment following a change of control of himself for election.
All other directors of the company were the group please refer to the Directors remuneration report either appointed or re-appointed at the 2006 or 2007 Annual on page 38 for further explanation.
It is also possible that General Meetings.
Therefore, in accordance with Article 106 funding arrangements for the groups defined benefit pension of the Companys Articles of Association, no director is arrangements would need to be enhanced following a change required to submit themselves for re-election at the 2008 of control if that resulted in a weakening of the relevant Annual General Meeting.
The directors total remuneration for the year and their interests in the shares of the company and its subsidiaries at Dividend 31 December 2007 are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Results for the group are set out in the consolidated income Report on pages 35 to 41. statement on page 43 and in the supporting notes.
A final In accordance with Section 309C of the Companies Act dividend of 15.25p per ordinary share is proposed for the year 1985 the directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity to 31 December 2007 2006: 12.5p.
With the interim dividend, provision entered into between the company and its directors this makes a total for the year of 21.0p 2006: 17.5p.
The final and officers which was in force at the date of approval of this dividend will be paid on 20 June 2008 to shareholders on the report.
This indemnity gives contractual force to the Indemnity register on 30 May 2008. of Officers provision contained in the companys Articles which The terms of the Spectris plc Employee Benefit Trust were approved by shareholders in May 2005. provide that dividends payable on shares held within the Trust are waived to 0.01p.
No dividends are payable on shares Auditors held in Treasury.
Separate resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will Research and development be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Expenditure committed to research and development is focused on new product development, applications engineering and Annual General Meeting process integration.
Costs are expensed as incurred, except The Notice of Annual General Meeting to be held at the where the expenditure meets certain strict criteria for companys offices on Friday 16 May 2008 at 11.30 a. m. is capitalisation.
In the year to 31 December 2007, amounts contained in a separate letter from the Chairman accompanying expensed totalled 45.2 million 2006: 44.7 million, and no this report.
expenditure met the criteria for capitalisation 2006: nil.
Corporate governance Fixed assets Combined Code statement of compliance Whilst the market values of some properties differ from book Spectris plc is subject to the Combined Code on Corporate values, the directors believe that the differences are not material.
Governance the Combined Code that is appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Combined Code Payment of suppliers sets out principles and provisions relating to the good The groups policy on payment of suppliers is to ensure governance of companies.
that terms of payment accord with contractual and legal Corporate governance has been and remains the obligations.
The company had no trade creditors at the year responsibility of the whole Board.
This statement describes end 2006: 0.5 million.
how the company applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Combined Code during 2007.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 31 Directors report continued The Board considers that it was throughout the year and specific expertise is required in the course of exercising their continues to be in full compliance with the provisions set out duties.
All directors have access to the company secretary, who in Section 1 of the Combined Code, save that: is responsible for ensuring compliance with appropriate statutes and regulations.
between 16 May and 1 June 2007 comprising the period All directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at between the retirement of Andrew Given and the appointment the first Annual General Meeting after their appointment and of John Hughes at least half the Board, excluding the thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
Chairman, did not comprise independent non-executive The Board delegates specific responsibilities to Board directors, as required by provision A3.2.
committees, notably the nomination, remuneration and audit committees.
The terms of reference of these committees are a majority of the members of the nomination committee are published on the companys website and the following additional not independent non-executive directors, as required by documents are available to shareholders on application to the provision A4.1.
The committee consists of the Chairman, the company secretary: senior independent director and the Chief Executive and the Board considers this to be the most appropriate composition schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: for the sensitive issues addressed by the committee.
responsibilities of the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the non-executive directors: Board composition and procedures relations with shareholders: The Board meets formally at regular intervals throughout the performance evaluation: year to consider developments in relation to the companys procedure for taking independent professional advice.
strategy and long-term objectives and to review trading results and operational and business issues.
In particular, it deals with Board and committee meeting attendance 2007 those matters reserved to it for decision, including the acquisition and disposal of businesses, major capital Remuneration Audit Nomination Board committee committee committee expenditure, the appointment and, where necessary, removal Total meetings during year 16531 of directors and Board and senior management succession J W Poulter Chairman 16 N A N A 1 planning.
Additional meetings are convened as required to A J Reading 16 5 3 N A consider specific topics requiring immediate decision.
Usually, senior independent director two meetings each year are held at operating locations and P A Chambr 15 5 3 N A encompass a detailed review of the relevant business.
J L M Hughes 8 3 1 N A Operational decisions are delegated by the Board to senior J A Warren 16 5 3 N A management at trading company level over which the Business J E OHiggins Chief Executive 16 N A N A 1 Group Directors exercise supervision.
All directors receive C G Watson 16 N A N A N A detailed progress reports one week prior to each Board meeting.
J C Webster 16 N A N A N A The Board currently comprises the Chairman, three executive directors and four non-executive directors.
The Board S C Harris 16 N A N A N A considers all its non-executive directors Peter Chambr, John A Given 6221 Hughes, Anthony Reading and John Warren to be independent.
The positions of Chairman, Chief Executive and senior A Given and J L M Hughes held office for part of the year only.
A Given independent director are held by separate individuals and, in attended six of the seven Board meetings, and all of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committee meetings, which he was eligible to accordance with the Combined Code, the Board has adopted attend.
J L M Hughes attended eight of the nine Board meetings, and all written profiles for the first two of these.
The non-executive of the Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings, which he was eligible directors have all had senior experience in other organisations to attend.
and offer independent judgement on Board matters.
The Chairmans other significant interests are as chairman of Board appointments and performance evaluation Filtronic plc and as a non-executive director of Smaller The nomination committee consists of the Chairman, the senior Companies Value Trust plc and certain unlisted companies.
independent director and the Chief Executive and is chaired by The Board believes that the Chairmans obligations to the the Chairman, save in the event of discussions relating to his company are unaffected by these directorships.
succession when the senior independent director takes the chair.
There are procedures for individual Board members to Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a receive induction and training as appropriate and to solicit new director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to independent professional advice at the groups expense where present for Board consideration suitably qualified candidate s. 32 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the Audit committee balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and The audit committee comprises the non-executive directors develops a description of the role and required capabilities.
and is chaired by John Warren who has recent and relevant Candidates are then identified for interview, external search financial experience as the former group finance director of consultants being engaged as part of this process.
The committee WH Smith PLC.
The committee meets at least twice each year also makes recommendations to the Board regarding the to consider the effectiveness of the groups internal controls, re-election and or re-appointment of any director.
Similar policies and procedures, the process of internal audit and the selection processes apply for the appointment of a chairman.
outcome of the external audit.
Its meetings are normally The nomination committee meets as the need arises.
Its attended by the Chairman, the Chief Executive, the group terms of reference can be found on the companys website.
finance director, the company secretary and the external auditor.
The operation of the Board and its committees is reviewed All executive directors attend the year end final audit review by the Board as a whole annually.
The executive directors and meeting.
The committee regularly confers with the auditor company secretarys performances are appraised annually without the attendance of executive directors.
Its terms of against objectives established for the prior year.
The reference can be found on the companys website.
contributions of the Chairman and non-executive directors are The committee is responsible for making recommendations reviewed in advance of the conclusion of their initial three-year to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external term, by the senior independent director and the Chairman auditor and then for approving the external auditors respectively, prior to their being proposed to shareholders for remuneration, terms of engagement and scope of work.
Additionally, the Chairman holds periodic meetings The committee has also adopted procedures governing and with the non-executive directors only and, led by the senior restricting the appointment of the external auditor for non-audit independent director, the non-executives have the opportunity services.
The following services are precluded: to meet at least annually without the Chairman present.
An evaluation of the operation and performance of the book-keeping or other services related to the accounting Board was conducted in 2007 by the senior independent director records or financial statements of Spectris plc: and then reviewed by the Board as a whole.
financial information systems design and implementation: appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or Shareholder relations contribution in kind reports: Spectris conducts regular dialogue with institutional actuarial services: shareholders and divulges such information as is permitted internal audit outsourcing services: within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
The content of management functions or human resources: presentations made after results announcements may be accessed broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking by individual investors on the group website, www.
services: All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit.
General Meeting, where the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination A cumulative annual cap of 200,000 is established for all committees are available to answer questions.
The results of other non-audit services save for acquisition due diligence and proxy votes are declared at the Annual General Meeting after taxation services above which all engagements are subject to each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
These prior approval by the audit committee.
are then published on the group website.
The Head of Internal Audit is employed by the group to The Board is kept informed of the views of major perform internal control reviews across the group according to shareholders through periodic reports from the Chief Executive, a work programme agreed by the committee.
The Head of the companys joint brokers Merrill Lynch and Hoare Govett and Internal Audit is assisted in this by an internal auditor and by the companys shareholder relations adviser, Makinson Cowell.
The nature and scope of the The Chairman and non-executive directors have the opportunity groups internal control review resources is reviewed by the to attend the bi-annual analyst presentations.
The audit committee receives reports Shareholders representing in excess of 3% of the companys twice a year on the results of internal control reviews.
The issued share capital receive a standing invitation to meet the Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the chairman of Chairman, the senior independent director or new nonthe audit committee and may meet with him in the absence executive directors.
Such meetings would supplement if of executive management.
necessary, but not replace, the regular meetings with the Chief Executive and group finance director.
Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 33 Directors report continued Internal controls In preparing each of the group and parent company financial The groups system of internal controls is described on page 21 statements, the directors are required to: of the Business review.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them Going concern consistently: Having reviewed the groups plans and available financial make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and facilities, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the group prudent: has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for for the group financial statements, state whether they have the foreseeable future.
For this reason it continues to adopt the been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: going concern basis in preparing the groups accounts.
for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, Business review subject to any material departures disclosed and explained The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business in the parent company financial statements: and review, as required by Section 234 ZZB of the Companies prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis Act 1985, and which should be treated as forming part of unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the this report by reference, is included in the following sections parent company will continue in business.
of the annual report: The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Chairmans statement on page 2. records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the Group at a Glance on pages 8 and 9. financial position of the parent company and enable them to Operating review on pages 8 to 17, which includes a ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies review of the external environment Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps Key strategic aims and performance measures are described as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the on pages 5 to 7. group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Principal risks and uncertainties are described on The directors are responsible for the maintenance and pages 21 to 23. integrity of the corporate and financial information included Details of the principal operating subsidiaries are set out on the companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the on pages 8 and 9. preparation and dissemination of financial statements may Financial review on pages 18 to 20. differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Corporate citizenship on pages 24 to 27 which includes the Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are companys policy on treatment of its employees.
also responsible for preparing a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the comply with that law and those regulations.
Directors report and the financial statements The directors who held office at the date of approval of this The directors are responsible for preparing the Directors report Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, and the group and parent company financial statements, in there is no relevant audit information of which the companys accordance with applicable law and regulations.
auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps Company law requires the directors to prepare group and that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware parent company financial statements for each financial year.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Under that law they have elected to prepare the group financial companys auditors are aware of that information.
statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable law and By order of the Board.
have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in R J Stephens relation to such financial statements that references in the Secretary relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and 22 February 2008 fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
34 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007
