Board of directors John Poulter Clive Watson Chairman Group finance director John Poulter joined Spectris in 1988 and Clive Watson joined Spectris in 2006. was Chief Executive from 1992 until he became He was previously at Borealis, a leading provider non-executive Chairman in 2001.
He is chairman of plastics solutions, where he was chief financial of the Nomination Committee.
His earlier career officer and executive vice president for business was with BTR plc and Cambridge Instruments.
Prior to this, he was group finance He has been a non-executive director of a director at Thorn Lighting Ltd and before number of public companies including RAC plc that group finance director Europe with and Kidde plc.
He is non-executive chairman of Black & Decker.
Clive holds a Bachelors degree Filtronic plc and a non-executive director of in Commerce & Accounting from the University Smaller Companies Value Trust plc and several of Birmingham.
John OHiggins Jim Webster Chief Executive Business group director John OHiggins joined Spectris in 2006.
Jim Webster, a metallurgy graduate, joined He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
He is responsible for the John was previously with Honeywell, most operational supervision of a number of the recently as President of Automation and Control groups trading companies.
He was previously Solutions, Asia Pacific.
Prior to this he was based general manager of the European Wire and Cable in Brussels and Germany in a series of Division of Raychem Corporation.
He is management roles in the automation and a non-executive director of Raymarine plc.
controls division of the company.
Before joining Honeywell, he worked with Daimler Benz in Stuttgart.
John has engineering degrees from University College Dublin and Purdue University and an MBA from INSEAD.
John Poulter John OHiggins Clive Watson Jim Webster 28 Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 Peter Chambr Anthony Reading MBE Roger Stephens Non-executive director Non-executive director Head of commercial & company secretary Peter Chambr was appointed to the Board Anthony Reading was appointed to Roger Stephens is an economics graduate in 2006.
He is a member of the Audit Committee the Board in 2004.
He is chairman of the and chartered company secretary.
Prior to and the Remuneration Committee.
He is Remuneration Committee and a member of joining Spectris in 1997, he held commercial chairman of 7TM Pharma, a private Danish the Audit Committee and the Nomination roles in the power and construction sectors, biopharmaceutical company, a non-executive Committee, and is the Senior Independent specialising in contract negotiation, claims director of BTG plc, and an advisor to private Director.
Anthony was previously a director resolution, IP exploitation and property equity and venture capital company 3i.
of Tomkins plc and chairman of Tomkins development.
Peter was formerly chief executive officer of Corporation, USA, and a non-executive director Cambridge Antibody Technology Group plc of George Wimpey plc.
He is a non-executive and prior to that was chief operating officer director of The Laird Group PLC, Taylor of Celera Genomics Group and chief executive Wimpey plc and e2v technologies plc.
John Hughes John Warren Non-executive director Non-executive director John Hughes was appointed to the Board in John Warren was appointed to the Board in June 2007.
He is a member of the Audit 2006.
He is chairman of the Audit Committee Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
and a member of the Remuneration Committee.
John was previously executive vice-president and From 2000 to 2005 John was group finance chief operating officer of defence, aerospace and director at WH Smith PLC.
Prior to that he electronic systems company Thales Group and was with United Biscuits Plc for 19 years, latterly is currently non-executive chairman of Intec as group finance director.
He has been a Telecom Systems plc and Telecity Group plc, non-executive director of Rexam Plc and RAC non-executive deputy chairman of Parity Group plc and is currently a non-executive director of plc, a non-executive director of Barco NV, a The Rank Group Plc, Bovis Homes Group PLC, company quoted on the Brussels stock exchange, BPP Holdings plc and Uniq plc.
and a non-executive director of Nice Systems Limited, an  business listed on NASDAQ.
Peter Chambr John Hughes Anthony Reading MBE John Warren Roger Stephens Spectris plc annual report and accounts 2007 29
