qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 20 Audit Committee: Directors David Galloway Chairman, Frank Dee, Peter Atkinson Nomination Committee: David Wallis Chairman, David Galloway, Frank Dee, Peter Atkinson, Steve Corcoran Remuneration Committee: Frank Dee Chairman, David Galloway, Peter Atkinson David Wallis, BSc Econ Steven James Corcoran Neil Christopher OBrien, Michael Andrew McGrath Non-Executive Chairman Chief Executive MA, ACA Commercial Director Group Finance Director The Board has enjoyed a year of further progress and improvement.
However, it must continue to evolve if it is to continue in this vein.
The We have built on our existing format, while taking action on the areas size, skills and composition of the Board must reflect the growth and identified for improvement in the external Board evaluation which was complexity to which I have referred.
Plans are well advanced for the carried out in 2006. succession, over the next couple of years, of Non-Executive Directors who have reached the end of their agreed terms.
David Galloway, It has been a settled period, with no changes to the composition or who chairs the Audit Committee, will be standing for re-election at members of the Board during the course of the year.
This will take Davids tenure as a Non-Executive Director coming year will see a number of changes, outlined below.
into a seventh year but given the forthcoming changes to the Board, I strongly recommend that shareholders support his re-election in My assessment of our progress comes from our annual evaluation order to provide an element of continuity.
of the effectiveness of the Board, carried out internally this year.
A selection of the areas which we addressed is: David Galloway brings a tremendous breadth of experience to his role, enabling him to evaluate and comment on a wide range of Does the Board have the right structure, skills and composition?
He has a solid grasp of business Is strategy tested rigorously and has management delivered processes and models.
In board meetings, David will robustly against it?
challenge the views of the executive directors but strikes the correct Are governance and the process surrounding it effective?
This balance between challenge and micro management.
His preparation includes our evaluation of the Board committees, financial and for our Board meetings is meticulous, and his contribution at these operational reporting, risk management, resource and succession meetings is confident, clear, concise and constructive.
and enthusiasm for Speedy and its business is as strong as ever.
The Does the Board safeguard and develop the core values of the Board has formally reviewed Davids performance and concluded business?
that he remains an effective contributor who demonstrates great commitment to his role.
I am pleased to report that the Board delivered against many of these objectives, but on others, has a way to go.
I am afraid that this In addition, I would like to broaden the skill base of the Board.
I am always seems to be the case, but is brought about for the very best currently seeking a further Non-Executive Director with significant possible reason growth of the business.
I feel we have made great experience in corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions, strategic moves forward during the year but the business is growing just as planning and financing, etc.
Sustained growth is a good problem to have.
will bring an added dimension to our meetings as the business grows.
I am also giving consideration to the appointment of a further The quality of the papers presented by the executive management is Executive Director to the Board.
So after a settled year with no excellent, enabling maximum time to be devoted to major strategic changes, we will have two years ahead with a number of changes issues.
Our annual two-day strategy session continues to go from which will need carefully managing to ensure your Board retains strength to strength, backed up by very high quality work and its effectiveness.
The Non-Executive Directors continue to demonstrate a high degree of commitment and engagement with the business, This cannot be achieved without the contribution and support of the including spending time with its senior managers.
individuals around the table and I would like to thank each of them.
Their input is what makes your Board a success, and I consider it an Plans brought to the Board by the executive management are honour to lead it.
However, once the debate is summarised and a way forward agreed, the executive team are never left in any doubt that they have total support with a strong sense of David Wallis consensus and collective ownership.
In summary, your Board is Chairman effective and working well.
20 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:01 Page 21 Frank Rigby Dee David Allistair Galloway, FCA Peter Duncan Atkinson Patrick James Rawnsley Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Company Secretary David Wallis, BSc Econ Frank Rigby Dee Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive Director David Wallis joined the Board in June 2000, and was appointed as Frank Dee, aged 56, joined the Board in April 2001.
Frank has spent Chairman in February 2001.
He is currently Chairman of Denby over 30 years in retailing.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of Factory Holdings Ltd, Chairman of Directorbank Ltd and a Non-Executive Shop Group Limited and a Non-Executive Director of Cattles plc and Director of Grampian Holdings Ltd and has previously held the Leeds Building Society.
Frank is Chairman of the Companys position of Chairman or Non-Executive Director in a number of public Remuneration Committee and is also the Companys Senior and private companies.
His Executive career included nine years as Independent Director.
Group Managing Director of Merchant Retail Group plc.
David Allistair Galloway, FCA Steven James Corcoran Non-Executive Director Chief Executive David Galloway, aged 61, joined the Board in April 2001.
He has Steve Corcoran, aged 46, has over 20 years experience in the hire extensive experience of support services and hire and leasing industry.
He joined the Group in 1990 and has been promoted businesses and was a Director of RAC Plc.
He is currently Nonthrough the ranks to the Board.
He joined the Board in March 2001 Executive Chairman of Accident Exchange plc, and a Non-Executive as Chief Operating Officer and succeeded John Brown as Chief Director of May Gurney Integrated Services plc and Carter & Carter Executive in April 2005. plc.
He chairs the Audit Committee.
Neil Christopher OBrien, MA, ACA Peter Duncan Atkinson Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Neil OBrien, aged 44, joined the Company in June 1999 as Finance Peter Atkinson, aged 50, joined the Board in June 2005.
Previously, he was Finance Director at Avonside Group PLC.
currently Chief Executive of Macfarlane Group plc, a position which Prior to that, he held senior financial posts in Aggregate Industries he has held since October 2003.
From 2000 to 2003, Peter was and in Blue Circles French manufacturing operations.
responsible for the US automotive and materials handling business of Brambles Industries PLC.
Prior to that he held a number of senior Michael Andrew McGrath positions within GKN PLC and its joint venture partners, where he Commercial Director worked from 1988 to 2000.
Mike McGrath, aged 40, became Commercial Director in March 2006, having served as Group Company Secretary on a part-time Patrick James Rawnsley basis since 2001.
Mike was formerly a partner at Pinsent Masons, Company Secretary the Groups solicitors, and has advised the Company in relation to the Patrick Rawnsley, aged 42, joined the Company in January 2007. majority of its acquisitions over the last 15 years.
Patrick was formerly the company secretary of Reg Vardy plc and prior to that was a partner at Eversheds LLP.
Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8
