qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 2 Speedy Hire market report 2007: Sustained momentum Catherine Stratton, Independent Analyst Nearly six years ago Speedy emerged from restricted sites often brownfield, and the risks subsidiary status to become a fully listed associated with manual handling.
This year the company on the London Stock Exchange.
In Executive Hire News: Top Ten tool hirers are forecast the years immediately preceding its listing to generate revenues of over 850 million: it is Speedy had expanded to become the main estimated that these ten hirers account for some challenger to HSS in the tool hire market and 53% of their market, giving an overall value of some soon wrested the number one position from the 1.6 billion.
See diagrams 1 and 2. company whose name had become synonymous with its trade.
Aggregate turnover of the top 10 tool and equipment hirers m rankings from the Executive Hire News Top Ten 1,000 survey January 2007 indicate, Speedy has 900 continued to move ahead of the competition.
All the indications are 700 that Speedy is not only the market leader in 600 tool hire but it can now claim to be the largest player in the overall UK plant tool equipment 500 market as its annual revenue has now 400 overtaken that of Hewden, the long time leader.
200 100 Top ten plant tool equipment hire companies UK revenues 0 Company UK revenues m Year ended 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 estimate 1.
Speedy Hire 335.5 31.03.07 Source: Executive Hire News 2.
Share of UK tool hire market 2007 2002 4.
Hydrex 64.3 31.12.06 A major key to Speedys success is that it has not been content to hire tools to the sectors established customer base, which was originally largely centred on the DIY market and the small tradesmen: the Speedy Jewson Hire Point GAP Company has looked to expand and develop the HSS Hire Station JG Martin Plant Hire Brandon A Plant Tool Hire Others potential for the sector within the wider construction Hewden Tools T P Hire market.
This has been a perceptive move as the DIY market in particular has declined in importance in A natural consequence of Speedys successful recent years.
These changes in the marketplace exploitation of general construction as a customer have led to a blurring of the traditional distinction base has been the development of specialist product between plant hire and tool hire as non-operated areas.
This has also been encouraged by the plant specialists have moved into tool hire and tool Companys series of acquisitions of plant subsidiaries hirers have widened their offerings in particular with from construction groups.
The supply agreements compact plant and non-mechanical access and invariably accompanying such transactions have lifting equipment.
Demand for miniand micro-plant often involved Speedy providing a wider range of has grown in response to the trend to develop 02 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
Earlier this year the Company years have seen the Company establishing a announced the renewal of an agreement with the portfolio of specialist hire products which began and privately owned Osborne Group by which it will were nurtured within the tool hire business, viz.
supply tools and equipment across its whole range: survey, power, and lifting.
Speedys latest strategic the relationship with Osborne originated with the sale growth move is to split its power operation into three of their Chichester plant subsidiary to Speedy.
separate product businesses: compressors, pumps and generators.
Each of these is now to get its own 3.
Construction output by type of work constant prices m, 20022011 management team and sales force and to build separate depot networks.
The Company is looking 100,000 to expand its larger equipment range.
Speedy 90,000 already claims to have the biggest generator and 80,000 compressor fleet in the UK and this fleet expansion 70,000 will take it into new markets and into closer 60,000 competition with international players such as 50,000 Aggreko and Atlas Copco.
40,000 Another example of the Companys specialist activity 30,000 is the recent establishment of a Speedy Safety depot 20,000 in East London, well situated to meet the needs of 10,000 the Olympic sites and perhaps, the next specialist 0 product area for the Company to expand.
Safety 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 continues to be an outstandingly important F F F F F F consideration for hirer and contractor alike: it is fast Public housing Infrastructure becoming one of the most crucial factors in winning Industrial Private housing building contracts.
HSE statistics indicated a Other public Commercial significant reduction in the number of deaths on non-housing RMI construction sites in 2005 2006 59 fatalities Over the past decade national regional supply compared with 69 the year before : nevertheless agreements between contractors and hirers have 28% of all worker deaths last year were in the become an increasing feature of the sector and this construction industry.
Of the 59 deaths, 24 were due is set to remain as contractors demand a high to falls from height, in spite of the Work at Heights standard of service to meet health and safety regulations.
This legislation has promoted a requirements and face growing concern about the significant upturn in demand for both the nonenvironmental implications of their industry.
In line mechanical access and the ancillary equipment 100000 with management trends, contractors continue to harnesses etc.
supplied by Speedy and other hirers, str80000 eamline their supply lines so that they can be and for the powered access sector.
The importance assured a high level of service and cut costs for of Health & Safety issues for Speedy is exemplified 60000 example, it has been estimated that it costs up to by its recent undertaking of a survey examining how 15 to process each invoice.
Inevitably the focus is contractors were responding to the new respirable 40000 on the small number of tool and equipment hirers crystalline silica regulations.
This resulted in a 20000 who can provide a national regional service and marketing campaign which aims to help Speedys supply a wide range of machines, maintained to a customers understand and tackle the dangers of 0 high standard and able to present all the necessary Dust at Work.
health and safety, quality and supply chain credentials.
The past year has seen Speedys first venture outside the UK mainland with the opening of depots in both Speedy has built on its initial secondary activity of Belfast and Dublin.
These offer the wider range of portable accommodation so that today it is number Speedy equipment and should prove springboards for three in that segment of the market.
More recent expansion across Ireland, where construction Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 03 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 4 Speedy Hire market report 2007: Sustained momentum Catherine Stratton, Independent Analyst Continued developments are expected to be a major beneficiary confidence of customers or staff: it seems likely that of the peace dividend.
The Republic of Ireland is, of its share of the market will have declined but until we course, already booming, mainly in Dublin but also in know who, if anyone, will buy it, it is difficult to regional centres such as Galway and Waterford: this comment on its prospects or the effect its sale might January saw the launch of Irelands National have, although any sale will almost certainly mark a Development Plan 20072013.
Called Transforming further significant rationalisation move in the sector.
Ireland A Better Quality of Life for All, this sets out a Meanwhile, as we pointed out in our opening 54 billion investment in the Irish economic paragraph Hewden has now lost its overall infrastructure and follows the NDP 20002006 which leadership of the UK hire market to Speedy: invested 57 billion in the infrastructure.
With all the Finnings first quarter report for 2007 also indicates indications that the future for Northern Ireland is much that Hewden saw a slight fall in rental revenues in more stable, increasing investment is also expected the period.
Developers will be eager to take advantage of the peace dividend and there are already highly The sale of Hewdens tool hire operations, if it occurs, ambitious projects in the pipeline like the 3 billion plan would come only a year after the Brandon Wolseley to develop the Titanic quarter of some 185 acres on Hire Centers merger.
So far there is little evidence of the River Lagan.
what impact that has had on the overall market.
Two other important players Vp Hire Station and A-Plant Competitive landscape have recovered well from difficulties of recent years.
Can Speedy sustain its success?
Its seemingly Overall it is fair to assess the health of most of inexorable rise to the top of the tool hire market was Speedys major competitors as improving against a aided, to some extent, by the misfortunes of several of favourable economic background.
So, perhaps, times its competitors in particular the difficulties of HSS.
could be a little more challenging for Speedy on the Just a month before Speedys stock market debut, tool hire front.
On the other hand all the major players HSS acquired US hirer RentX: two months later it was can expect benefit from the continuing buoyancy of faced with the downturn resulting from 9 11.
because of the problems on the other side of the Atlantic, HSS did not fully recognise and respond to Economic outlook the changes in the UK tool hire market.
Some of those Forecasters are expecting construction output to rise changes were fuelled by Speedys strategy of some 2.7% and the growth rate to accelerate further widening that market to embrace contracting in 2008 and 2009.
The quarter percentage increase in companies of all sizes, while HSS continued down its interest rates in May, which puts rates at their highest DIY small tradesmen path.
HSS was constrained by level for six years, has not given rise to concern: in its property portfolio, which was largely based on a April Mervyn King, the Governor of the Bank of high street presence, where increasingly congested England, indicated that he thought inflation was on the access, limited non-existent parking availability and turn and would soon begin to fall.
He anticipated that not infrequently high rents, all added to the problems.
there could be a sharp decline in the rate of inflation Since the Management Buy-In at HSS at the end of over the next four to six months.
In April the consumer 2003, these problems have been gradually addressed price inflation figure fell to 2.8% from 3.1% in March, with the company making radical changes and while the Retail Price Index fell to 4.5% from 4.8% in reorganising its property portfolio into a hub and the previous month.
Despite these encouraging spoke structure.
2006 saw the reversal of the losses declines and the prospect of falls in energy prices of recent years and the number two player in the tool continuing to reduce inflation, it is thought that the hire market now looks to have established a more Bank of England may wish to raise rates a further robust platform from which it can mount a recovery.
quarter of one per cent this summer in order to ensure The future for Hewden as the third largest player in that inflation is under control.
The Banks report for the UK tool hire remains uncertain: the protracted period first quarter of 2007 warned that inflation was still a during which the companys tool hire operations medium term risk but affirmed that higher borrowing have been for sale will not have improved the costs would not hurt growth.
04 Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8 1348 13481SPEEDYHI.
qxd:13481SPEEDYHI 5 6 07 14:00 Page 5 Catherine Stratton Her interest in the hire sector began when The Plant Hire Investment Report Catherine Stratton has researched and she joined the research department of City 2006 2007 will be published in the summer analysed the Plant and Tool Hire Sector for stockbrokers Greene & Co. in 1969.
In 1975 of 2007. many years and is the author of the annual she became a member of the Stock survey The Plant Hire Investment Report.
Exchange and was a research partner at www.
co. uk She writes regularly for Executive Hire News Greenes until the company merged with and 'Plant Hire Executive'.
She was a director of Greig Middleton until 1992.
Since then she has worked as an independent researcher and consultant in the hire industry.
Nevertheless as we move ever nearer 2012 and the worldwide, the sector is estimated to be responsible Olympics, construction activity levels should remain for over half CO emissions.
This year has seen the 2 healthy.
The Ernst & Young Construction Products launch of the UK Green Building Council: its founding Association Activity Barometer was at its highest members are 36 companies with wide-ranging level ever in the first quarter of 2007 the survey interests in construction.
They include British Land, c began in 2005.
The main contributory factors were Hanson, Sir Robert M Alpine and Willmott Dixon.
stated to be a stronger private sector and a The Council aims to achieve a sustainable built modest pick up in government funded work.
environment by uniting the fragmented industry Similarly the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors through a set of core goals.
found the growth in the same period had accelerated at the fastest pace for three years and singled out Hire companies are taking on board environmental private commercial construction together with concerns.
Hewden has begun its Green Boots schools and hospitals as the main engines for campaign to raise awareness within the construction expansion.
The Purchasing Managers Index from industry through a series of initiatives at national and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing also revealed a regional level.
Speedys latest green initiative is the sharp growth in UK construction in the quarter and addition of electric vehicles to its delivery fleet these again found it was at the highest level for three years.
are totally silent and emit no CO : Speedy is the first 2 tool and equipment hirer to make use of electric The spending plans of the Government, utility vehicles for its deliveries.
It is indicative of Speedys companies and the private sector suggest that, ability to innovate that the Company was involved in unless there is a significant downturn in the the design process for the vehicles developed by economy, construction is set for a sustained period Modec.
Initially the Company has ordered four of growth up until the Olympics in 2012.
The vehicles for use in London but more will be ordered if Construction Products Association is predicting that they prove a success.
Before this latest purchase, construction growth will outpace that of the UK Speedy had achieved a 14% reduction in vehicle economy over the next three years.
It expects public CO emissions over the past five years.
2 sector work to pick up but the private sector to be the main driver.
Overall prospects for the UK hire sector appear well set in the short and medium term.
Speedy is It is anticipated that the Government will soon be showing that it is not content to merely follow a fair publishing a Planning Reform White Paper based on wind: it continues to open up new channels with its some of the recommendations of the Barker Report.
move into Ireland, the reorganisation and expansion This advocated the streamlining of the planning of its power operations and initiatives like the process and the introduction of a new system to deal development of the electric delivery vehicles and the with major infrastructure projects.
The enactment of silica dust campaign.
With its strategy of not merely such legislation would undoubtedly be a further spur reacting to market conditions but helping to shape to the construction sector.
It is reported that the the market itself, Speedy looks set to continue to be government is anxious to implement changes to a pace-setter in the hire industry.
planning regulations in order to facilitate, in particular, the building of nuclear power stations as concern Catherine Stratton mounts over supply in the next decade.
Last November a report from Logica CMG concluded that the electricity supply might only be able to meet three-quarters of peak demand by 2015 unless more was done to encourage the building of new power stations and to extend the life of existing ones.
Environmental issues are likely to increasingly set the agenda for the whole construction industry Speedy Hire Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05 13481 05 06 2007 Proof 8
