Report of the directors The directors present their Report, the audited consolidated financial statements and the parent Company financial statements for the year to 31 December 2007.
Principal activities, business review and results The principal activities of the Group are set out on page 5 of this Annual Report.
The Executive Chairmans statement and Business review, the latter of which forms a part of this Report of the directors, contain a fair review of the development, performance and position of the Group, as well as of the principal risks and uncertainties, including policies on financial risk, and likely future developments.
The Corporate social responsibility statement summarises the Groups approach to employees, ethics, health and safety, environmental and community matters.
Principal divisions and subsidiaries are listed on page 119.
Dividends No interim dividend was paid during the year 2006 nil and the directors do not recommend the payment of a final dividend 2006 nil.
Share capital 1 The Company has a single class of share which is divided into Ordinary shares of 3 pence each.
Each Ordinary share carries 3 one vote and all of the Ordinary shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights relating to the Ordinary shares.
1 At the date of this Report, 777.6 million Ordinary shares of 3 pence each had been issued and are fully paid up and are 3 traded on the London Stock Exchange which excludes 63.2 million Ordinary shares held in treasury.
The Company also operates a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt ADR programme with each ADR representing four Ordinary shares.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market and The Bank of New York Mellon is the authorised depositary bank for the Companys ADR programme.
Further details on share capital are set out in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
The rights including those relating to voting, obligations and any restrictions on transfer relating to the Companys Ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be found on our website at www.
com or can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the Companys 2008 Annual General Meeting 2008 AGM to be held on 8 May 2008, two resolutions will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the existing Articles of Association, in accordance with the provisions of the new Companies Act 2006.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
During the year to 31 December 2007, options and rights exercised pursuant to the Companys share incentive plans resulted in the allotment of 10.2 million new Ordinary shares.
A further 27,169 new Ordinary shares have been allotted under the share incentive plans between the end of the financial year and the date of this Report.
The Company has established two employee benefit trusts in connection with the operation of the Companys share incentive plans: the Spirent Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT and the Spirent Sharesave Trust SST.
The trustees of both trusts have waived their right to receive dividends on any Ordinary shares held by them except for a nominal amount of 0.01 pence, save for those shares held in the ESOT which are the beneficial property of an employee for further details on the employee benefit trusts see Investment in own shares in note 16 to the parent Company financial statements on page 114.
The Company has not placed any additional Ordinary shares in either trust since August 2002.
Trustees of both trusts do not vote their shares, save for those shares held in the ESOT which are the beneficial property of an employee shareholder which they will vote in accordance with the instructions received.
Employee share incentive plans The Company operates a number of share incentive plans, details of which can be found in note 28 to the consolidated financial statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
24 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 25 The following table outlines any impact of a change of control prescribed in the rules of each share incentive plan: Change of control provisions contained within the share Share incentive plan incentive plan rules Effect on vesting Performance condition 2005 Employee Incentive Plan Yes Pro-rated Still applies Spirent Stock Incentive Plan No None N A 1995 Executive Share Option Scheme Yes Fully accelerates Falls away Share repurchase programme The Company was authorised at the 2006 AGM to repurchase up to 14.99 per cent of its own issued Ordinary shares, within certain limits and as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association.
This authority was renewed at the 2007 1 AGM.
During 2007 a total of 103.4 million Ordinary shares, each with a nominal value of 3 3 pence were repurchased for an aggregate consideration of 66.8 million and placed in treasury.
This represents almost 12 per cent of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital at the beginning of 2007 see also note 28 to the consolidated financial statements and note 16 to the parent Company financial statements.
The Company repurchased a further 14.8 million Ordinary shares between 1 January 2008 and the date of this Report.
In order to remain within the limits permitted by company law, the Company cancelled three tranches of treasury shares during the year.
On 6 March 2007, 5 October 2007 and 3 December 2007, the Company cancelled 20.3 million Ordinary shares, 75.0 million Ordinary shares and 50.0 million Ordinary shares respectively.
Since the share repurchase programme commenced in May 2006, a total of 108.7 million has been returned to shareholders, representing 193.7 million Ordinary shares.
The Company will seek renewal of this authority at the 2008 AGM to facilitate any further return of capital if it is concluded that it is in the best interests of shareholders.
Substantial shareholdings Until 19 January 2007 the Company was required to keep a register of substantial shareholdings in accordance with the provisions of section 211 of the Companies Act 1985.
On 20 January 2007 the Companies Act 1985 provisions in respect of substantial shareholdings were repealed and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority DTR came into force.
At the date of this Report, the following information had been disclosed to the Company under DTR Rule 5: Number of % of 1 voting rights voting rights Sherborne Investors GP, LLC 130,270,000 16.75 Prudential plc 85,384,504 10.98 Credit Suisse Asset Management Ltd 54,801,091 7.05 Aviva plc 48,648,876 6.26 Legal & General Group plc 39,688,950 5.10 Ameriprise Financial, Inc 39,437,558 5.07 Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada UK Ltd 39,218,088 5.04 BlackRock Inc 37,539,447 4.83 1 Total voting rights attaching to the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares.
24 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 25 Report of the directors continued Board of directors The names and brief biographical details of the directors who served during the year under review are shown on page 20.
Election and re-election of directors The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating to the appointment and replacement of directors.
Pursuant to the Companys Articles of Association and the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, Eric Hutchinson will retire at the 2008 AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Having been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell will also retire at the 2008 AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
On appointment to the Board of directors on 22 December 2006, Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman stated that they would retire and offer themselves for re-election as directors on an annual basis and therefore, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Eric Hutchinson is the only director subject to election or re-election who has a service contract with the Company.
Directors interests Edward Bramson and Gerard Eastman have a connected notifiable interest in the Companys Ordinary shares held by Sherborne Investors GP, LLC see Substantial shareholdings above.
This connected notifiable interest, is also deemed, for statutory purposes, to be an interest of each director as they are members of Sherborne Investors GP, LLC, which is the general partner of Sherborne Investors, LP.
Sherborne Investors, LP is the managing member of each of the following funds, which are the beneficial owners of the Companys Ordinary shares: Sherborne Strategic Fund A, LLC: Sherborne Strategic Fund B, LLC: Hayden Investor Partners, LLC and Hayden Investor Partners II, LLC.
The directors interests including any connected persons in the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company are set out in the Report on directors remuneration.
Directors indemnity arrangements Save as disclosed, at no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than a third party indemnity provision between each director and the Company and service contracts between executive directors and the Company.
The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its directors.
In addition to the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has executed a deed of indemnity for the benefit of the directors of the Company and persons who were directors of the Company during 2007 in respect of costs of defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
These provisions are currently in force.
Employees The Groups employment policies regarding disabled persons and further information on employee training, development and involvement is explained in the Corporate social responsibility statement.
Research and development Product development and innovation are considered key strategies to maintain and improve the Groups competitive position and therefore continue to receive high priority.
This commitment is highlighted by the 44.5 million research and development spend during the year for continuing business, equivalent to 19 per cent of sales 2006 53.7 million and 21 per cent.
The Group will continue to commit resources as appropriate to research and development.
Major transactions On 5 July 2007, the Company announced the sale of SwissQual Holding AG to private investors for a cash consideration of $3.0 million 1.5 million.
Further details of this transaction are set out in note 33 to the consolidated financial statements.
26 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 27 Social responsibility and donations The Groups Corporate social responsibility statement appears on pages 21 to 23.
Charitable donations of 40,000 were made in the year 2006 32,000.
This amount excludes operating units support and participation in local community activities.
No political donations were made in the year 2006 nil.
Policy on payment of suppliers Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are conducted and it is Group policy to comply with those terms and to make suppliers aware of them.
At 31 December 2007, the Company had an average of 43 days purchases outstanding in trade creditors 2006 37 days.
Corporate governance The Directors statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 29 to 32.
The Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements appears on page 28.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors confirm that they have a reasonable expectation that the Group and Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The 2008 AGM will be held at 10.30am on Thursday 8 May 2008 at the offices of the Companys PR advisers, Financial Dynamics, Holborn Gate, 26 Southampton Buildings, London WC2A 1PB, United Kingdom.
Auditors Resolutions to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as auditors and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the directors of the Company at the time when this Report was approved confirms that: so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Additional Takeover Directive disclosures Where not provided previously in this Report of the directors, the following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeover Directive into UK law.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that would occur because of a takeover bid.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
By Order of the Board Michael Anscombe Company Secretary 28 February 2008 26 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 Spirent Communications plc Annual Report 2007 27
