Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Directors Report 36 Principal Activities Nick Baldwin was appointed as a nonResults and Dividends Scottish and Southern Energy plc is a Executive Director on 1 September 2006, The Group profit attributable to shareholders holding company.
Its subsidiaries are and Richard Gillingwater was appointed as for the financial year amounted to 830.5m.
organised into the main businesses of: a non-Executive Director on 25 May 2007.
The Directors recommend a final dividend generation, transmission, distribution and of 39.9p per ordinary share which, subject supply of electricity: storage, distribution Alistair Phillips-Davies, Sir Kevin Smith and to approval at the Annual General Meeting, and supply of gas: electrical and utility David Payne retire by rotation at the Annual will be payable on 21 September 2007 to contracting: domestic appliance retailing General Meeting and, being eligible and in shareholders on the register at close of and telecoms.
A review of the years accordance with the Articles of Association, business on 24 August 2007.
With the operations and future developments is Alistair Phillips-Davies and Sir Kevin Smith interim dividend of 15.1p per ordinary contained in the Chief Executives Statement offer themselves for re-election.
David Payne share paid on 23 March 2007, this makes on pages 10 to 34 and the Corporate will retire as a non-Executive Director on a total dividend of 55p per ordinary share.
Governance Report on pages 38 to 41 26 July 2007 and is not seeking re-election.
which form part of this report.
Share Capital Biographical details for all Directors are Details of the companys authorised and Business Review set out on pages 42 and 43.
Details of the issued share capital at 31 March 2007, The Business Review has been divided service contract for Alistair Phillips-Davies which includes options granted under the into three areas and dealt with in the and the letters of appointment for Nick Groups employee share option schemes, Annual Report as follows: Baldwin, Richard Gillingwater and Sir Kevin are detailed in notes 24 and 27 to the Smith are set out in the Remuneration Financial Statements.
k Principal risks and uncertainties Report on pages 46 and 47 respectively.
pages 40 and 41 of the Corporate The interests of the Directors in the ordinary Annual General Meeting Governance Report: shares of the company are set out in the The 18th Annual General Meeting of the k Review of the development and Remuneration Report on page 48. company will be held on 26 July 2007 at performance of the business included 12 noon at the Perth Concert Hall, Mill Street, in the Chief Executives Statement on Resolution 2 to be proposed at the Annual Perth PH1 5HZ.
The Notice of Meeting pages 10 to 34: and General Meeting seeks shareholders together with full explanations of special k Key performance indicators on pages approval of the Remuneration Report.
business is set out on pages 101 to 103.
Directors Indemnity Substantial Shareholdings Directors The Directors have the benefit of the As at the date of this report the company The Directors at the date of this report are: indemnity provision contained in the had received the following notifications of companys Articles of Association.
This beneficial interests of three per cent or Executive provision, which is a qualifying third party more in the companys issued share capital: Gregor Alexander indemnity provision as defined by section Number Colin Hood 309B of the Companies Act 1985, was in force of shares Percentage Ian Marchant throughout the financial year and is currently Alistair Phillips-Davies in force.
The company also purchased and Capital Group maintained throughout the financial year International.
Inc. 40,589,213 4.71 Non-Executive directors and officers liability insurance Legal & General Sir Robert Smith Chairman in respect of itself and its Directors.
Group Plc 32,183,700 3.73 Nick Baldwin Richard Gillingwater Barclays 29,750,083 3.45 Ren Mdori David Payne Susan Rice Sir Kevin Smith Did you know?
We have SSEs Board comprises four Our AGM is on SSEs Annual General Meeting Executive Directors and six nonwill take place at 12 noon on Executive Directors, plus the Thursday 26 July 2007, in the Chairman.
One of the nonPerth Concert Hall.
The 2008 Executive Directors, David Meeting is currently scheduled Payne, intends to retire at the for Thursday 24 July and will Annual General Meeting in July take place in Bournemouth.
Directors on our board July 2007, in Perth Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 37 Research and Development The company places a strong emphasis on Donations During the year the company invested employee communication and involvement.
Charitable donations amounted to 685,000 6.3m in research, development and An employee newspaper ssenews 2006 507,000.
There were no payments demonstration initiatives, which are is published in-house and distributed to for political purposes.
generally environmentally driven and which employees.
Participation is also encouraged are designed to secure changes in the way through team meetings, briefings and Financing Policy and Derivatives electricity is produced, distributed and used.
During the year, the senior The Groups policies together with details Many of the principal initiatives are set out management held a series of roadshows of financial instruments and derivatives are in the Generation and Supply section of the around the Group to present and discuss set out in notes 1 and 28 to the Financial Chief Executives Statement and include, the Groups vision, values and strategy.
for example, the companys involvement in the deep water offshore wind research, The company has in place an extensive Auditors development and demonstration project range of policies to safeguard the interests Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc in the Moray Firth and in the Sigma of employees and potential employees.
In as auditors, and to authorise the Directors Sustainable Energy Fund.
There are particular, its equal opportunities policy to fix their remuneration, will be proposed initiatives in other parts of the Group.
For aims to ensure that all employees and job at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
example, the Power Systems business is applicants are no less fairly treated due to actively engaged in responding to Ofgems age, sex, marital status, race, disability or Each of the Directors who held office at the Innovation Funding Incentive, which other reasons not justified in law or relevant date of approval of this Directors Report encourages electricity network companies to performing their job.
The company also confirms that, so far as the Director is to innovate in ways which deliver benefits aims to ensure that employees have the aware, there is no relevant audit information to customers in areas such as quality of right skills to deliver the high standards of which the companys auditors are electricity supply, safety, the environment or of performance that are necessary to unaware: and the Director has taken all cost savings.
During 2006 07, the company achieve its objectives.
Detailed information the steps that ought to have been taken agreed to become a partner in the new about the companys approach to these as a Director to be aware of any relevant Energy Technologies Institute, providing and related matters is set out in its audit information and to establish that it with up to 2.5m a year for five years.
Corporate Responsibility Report 2007 the companys auditors are aware of that see www.
Employees The number of staff directly employed by Creditor Payment Policy By Order of the Board the Group at 31 March 2007 was 13,427.
The company complies with the CBI Prompt Payment Code.
The main features of the Vincent Donnelly Employees are encouraged to participate in Code are that payment terms are agreed Company Secretary the business of the company in a variety of at the outset of a transaction and are 30 May 2007 ways.
In support of the Boards commitment adhered to: that there is a clear and to providing opportunities for employees to consistent policy that bills are paid in become shareholders, the company offers accordance with the contract: and that a Share Incentive Plan and a Sharesave there are no alterations to payment terms Scheme which is open to all eligible without prior agreement.
Employee participation in of suppliers days represented by trade these schemes is around 44% and 37% creditors was 36 days at 31 March 2007. respectively.
We invested During 2006 07, SSE invested We employ more than The number of people directly around 6.3m in research, employed by SSE at the end development and demonstration of March 2007 was 13,427 initiatives.
These initiatives are an increase of 9.3% on the generally  year.
They work from driven and are designed to over 150 sites throughout secure changes in the way Great Britain.
6.3 13.4 electricity is produced, distributed and used.
million pounds in research, thousand people development and demonstration projects
