Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Directors Biographies and Responsibilities 42 Ian Marchant David Payne Sir Robert Smith Sir Kevin Smith Colin Hood Susan Rice Richard Gillingwater Ian Marchant 46 Sir Robert Smith 62 Colin Hood 52 Chief Executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer Ian was appointed Chief Executive in October Sir Robert joined the Board as a nonColin joined the Board of Scottish and 2002 having been Finance Director since Executive Director in June 2003, was Southern Energy as Power Systems Director 1998.
He joined Southern Electric in 1992 appointed Deputy Chairman in November in January 2001, becoming Chief Operating and joined the Board on becoming Finance 2003 and became Chairman in January Officer in October 2002.
Previously he was Director in 1996.
He is Chairman of The Weir Group plc Director of Distribution for Southern Electric, Coopers & Lybrand now PwC, including a and a non-Executive Director of 3i Group plc, having joined the industry with the North of two-year secondment to the Department of Standard Bank Group Limited, and Aegon Scotland Hydro Electric Board in 1977.
He is Energy working on electricity privatisation.
Sir Robert was formerly Chief Chairman of Scotia Gas Networks plc and a Ian is Chairman of the United Kingdom Executive of Morgan Grenfell Asset member of the Forum for Renewable Energy Business Council for Sustainable Energy and Management Limited, a member of the Developments in Scotland.
Colin is the lead of the Climate Change Business Delivery Financial Services Authority and the Director for Health and Safety matters and Group, a member of Ofgems Environmental Financial Reporting Council, a Governor has Board level responsibility for Generation, Advisory Group, the Coal Forum and of of the BBC, a Board Trustee of the British Power Systems, Customer Service, Human the Energy Research Partnership.
Ian Council, Chairman of Stakis plc and a Resources, I. T. and Contracting.
is a non-Executive Director of Maggies Past President of the Institute of Chartered Cancer Centres and was appointed as a Accountants of Scotland.
He is Chairman of Susan Rice CBE 61 non-Executive Director of John Wood Group the Nomination Committee and a member Non-Executive Director PLC on 18 May 2006.
He is a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Susan joined the Board as a non-Executive of the Nomination Committee and is Director in July 2003.
She is Chief Executive lead Director for the Environment and Sir Kevin Smith CBE 52 of Lloyds TSB Scotland plc, having previously Corporate Responsibility.
Non-Executive Director been Managing Director, Personal Banking, Sir Kevin joined the Board as a nonfor the Bank of Scotland.
She chairs the David Payne 64 Executive Director in June 2004.
He is Chief Board of the Edinburgh International Book Deputy Chairman Executive of GKN having previously been Festival, is a non-executive director of Charity David joined the Board as a non-Executive Managing Director, Aerospace.
Prior to GKN, Bank and several other organisations.
Susan Director of Scottish Hydro Electric in June he held various positions in BAE Systems chairs the Remuneration Committee and is 1998 and became Deputy Chairman in over a 20-year period, latterly as Group a member of the Nomination Committee.
He held a number of senior Managing Director New Business.
Sir positions with the BP Group and was Deputy Kevin is Deputy President of The Society Richard Gillingwater 50 Chief Executive of BP Oil.
He is the Senior of British Aerospace Companies Ltd and Non-Executive Director Independent Director and a member of the Co-Chairman of the governments Richard joined the Board as a non-Executive Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Manufacturing Forum.
He is a member Director in May 2007.
He is Dean of Cass Committees.
of the Nomination and Remuneration Business School and is a non-Executive Committees.
Director of Debenhams and Tomkins.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 43 Statement of Directors Responsibilities in Respect of the Annual Report and the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and parent company financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Group and the parent company and the performance for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the directors are required to: k select suitable accounting policies Alistair Phillips-Davies Nick Baldwin Ren Mdori Gregor Alexander and then apply them consistently: k make judgements and estimates He has held senior appointments in the City, Capital and Towerbrook Capital Partners that are reasonable and prudent: including at Kleinwort Benson, BZW and and is Chairman of Worcester Community k state whether they have been prepared CSFB.
He has advised HM Government Housing.
He is a member of the Audit in accordance with IFRS as adopted and most recently was Chief Executive Committee.
by the EU: and then Chairman of the governments k prepare the financial statements on Shareholder Executive.
He is a member Ren Mdori 49 the going concern basis unless it is of the Audit Committee.
Audit Committee Chairman inappropriate to presume that the Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Group and the parent company will Alistair Phillips-Davies 39 Director in June 2003.
He is Finance Director continue in business.
Energy Supply Director of Anglo American plc and is a nonThe directors are responsible for keeping Alistair joined the Board in January 2002, Executive Director of AngloGold Ashanti and proper accounting records which disclose having previously held various positions DB fide Beers Investments.
He is a former with reasonable accuracy at any time the in the finance and commercial operations Finance Director of the BOC Group plc, financial position of the parent company areas of the company.
He joined Southern and previously worked for Accenture and and enable them to ensure that its Electric in February 1997 having previously Schlumberger Limited.
He is Chairman financial statements comply with the worked for HSBC and the National of the Audit Committee and a member Companies Act 1985.
They have a general Westminster Bank in corporate finance of the Nomination Committee.
responsibility for taking such steps as are and business development roles.
He is reasonably open to them to safeguard the a Chartered Accountant and a Director Gregor Alexander 44 assets of the Group and to prevent and of the Energy Retail Association.
Alistair is Finance Director detect fraud and other irregularities.
Chairman of the Risk Committee and has Gregor joined the Board of Scottish and Board level responsibility for Energy Trading, Southern Energy as Finance Director in Under applicable law and regulation, Electricity and Gas Supply, Sales, Marketing October 2002.
He was appointed Group the directors are also responsible for and Energy Services.
Treasurer and Tax Manager in 1998 having preparing a Directors Report, Directors held a number of senior positions within Remuneration Report and the Corporate Nick Baldwin 54 the Finance team.
He worked with Arthur Governance Statement that comply with Non-Executive Director Andersen for five years before joining that law and those regulations.
Nick joined the Board of Scottish and Scottish Hydro Electric in 1990, six months Southern Energy as a non-Executive before privatisation.
Gregor is a Director The directors are responsible for Director in September 2006.
Previously he of Scotia Gas Networks plc.
the maintenance and integrity of the worked in electricity, gas and water utilities, corporate and financial information culminating in being the Chief Executive of included on the companys website.
He is a non-Executive Legislation in the UK governing the Director of the Nuclear Decommissioning preparation and dissemination of Authority and a non-Executive Director of financial statements may differ from the Forensic Science Service.
He also serves legislation in other jurisdictions.
on the Advisory Boards of Climate Change
