Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 Providing Energy 4 6 1 2 3 4 5 1.
Telecoms SSE owns and operates over 10,000MW of electricity SSE is responsible for 128,000km of overhead lines and SSE Telecom provides radio sites for local authorities, generation capacity, including its share of joint ventures.
underground cables, distributing electricity to 3.5 million mobile operators and emergency services and its This capacity includes coal-fired with biomass co-firing homes, offices and businesses in the north of Scotland subsidiary, Neos Networks, operates a 7,500km UK-wide capability and gas-fired power stations, as well as wind and central, southern England.
telecoms network, providing services for other telecoms farms and hydro electric schemes.
providers, companies and public sector organisations.
Wind SSEs investment in its electricity networks, and its 8.
Gas networks SSE owns and operates and has consent to build six response to incidents such as storms, means its SSE has a 50% stake in Scotia Gas Networks, which owns onshore wind farms in the UK, including the first to electricity network is more than 99.99% reliable.
the medium and low pressure gas distribution networks generate over 100MW of electricity, and is seeking in Scotland and the South of England, delivering gas to consent to develop others.
Contracting 5.7 million homes, offices and businesses via 74,000 kms SSEs Southern Electric Contracting is one of the UKs of gas mains and services.
Hydro largest mechanical and electrical contractors.
Its street SSE owns and operates over 50 hydro electric power lighting division is responsible for maintaining around stations in Scotland and is now building what will be one million street lights in the UK and has contracts its second largest, at Glendoe near Loch Ness.
to replace and maintain street lights for four local authorities under the Private Finance Initiative.
Scottish and Southern Energy Annual Report 2007 5 PROVIDING ENERGY 7 8 10 9 11 12 13 14 9.
Energy supply SSE owns and operates 325 million cubic metres mcm SSE supplies electricity and gas to over of gas storage capacity at Hornsea, currently the UKs 7.75 million domestic and business customers largest onshore gas storage facility and, with Statoil UK, through its Southern Electric, Scottish Hydro Electric, is developing significant new capacity at neighbouring SWALEC and Atlantic brands.
Offshore wind SSE supplies a wide range of electrical and gas appliances SSE and Talisman UK have placed one of the worlds through its network of high street shops in the north largest wind turbines installed anywhere in the world, of Scotland and through its websites including in 45 metres of water 25 kilometres off the coast of the www.
It also provides home Moray Firth to test the technical and economic feasibility telecoms, security and boiler maintenance services.
Solar energy SSE promotes technologies such as ground source heat SSE is an investor in Solarcentury, the UKs leading pumps which replace a boiler in a conventional heating independent solar photovoltaics company, and its system by using the refrigeration cycle to extract heat at subsidiary, Southern Electric Contracting, is now the a low temperature and convert it to a higher temperature.
