32 33 Board of Directors Corporate governance Board of Directors 12 3 4 5 67 8 9 Executive Directors Non-Executive Director of Vernalis plc and an independent 1.
Garry Watts, Chief Executive 50 Director of Innogenetics NV.
Previously, Peter was a senior Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 April 2004 after joining as executive with Hoechst and President of ABPI, a NonGroup Finance Director in February 2001.
He was previously Executive Director of Celltech Group plc and a member an Executive Director of Celltech Group plc and Finance of the Board of the South East Development Agency.
Garry is a Non-Executive Director of the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency 6.
Richard Adam 49 MHRA and also of Protherics plc.
Appointed as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee in November 2003, Richard is 2.
Mark Moran, Group Finance Director 47 currently Group Finance Director of Carillion plc.
Prior to Appointed as Group Finance Director in June 2004, Mark this, he was Group Finance Director of Associated British was previously Finance Director of Porvair plc.
Richard is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
Ian Adamson, Managing DirectorEurope 48 Appointed as Executive Director in April 2004, Ian also has 7.
Susan Murray 50 responsibility for Group Marketing and Innovation and for the Appointed in January 2005, Susan is currently Chairman Americas.
He joined Seton Healthcare plc in 1991 as Director of FB Raphael 1 Limited the holding company of the Farrow of Marketing and has subsequently held a number of senior and Ball paint and wallpaper business and a Non-Executive sales, marketing and general management positions within Director of Enterprise Inns PLC, Imperial Tobacco PLC, WM the Group.
He previously held sales and marketing positions Morrisons Supermarkets plc and The Advertising Standards at Johnson & Johnson and W. L. Gore.
Previously, Susan was Chief Executive of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Anna Catalano 47 Chairman since August 2005, Gerald is also Chairman of Appointed in November 2004, Anna has held senior global Britvic plc and a Non-Executive Director of Greencore Group marketing and sales positions in Amoco including President, PLC.
He will be stepping down from the Board of Woolworths Amoco Orient Oil Company and was Group Vice President, Group plc on 6 June 2007, having served as a Director and Marketing at BP plc.
She is a Non-Executive Director of Willis Chairman since March 2001.
Previous executive positions Group Limited and the US company, Hercules Incorporated.
include Chief Executive of Railtrack PLC and Group Finance Director of both Grand Metropolitan plc and Redland plc, 9.
Antony Mannion, Company Secretary 46 whilst past Non-Executive Directorships include MEPC PLC Appointed in September 2004, Antony qualified as a and Burmah Castrol PLC.
solicitor with Freshfields in 1986 and has also worked as an investment banker with Citicorp Investment Bank 5.
Peter Read, Senior Independent Director 68 and Standard Chartered Bank.
Appointed in March 2002, Peter is Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
