08 09 Our brands Durex Consumer insight Durex Consumer insight is essential and has always been an important way of adding to the brands body of knowledge about consumers sexual needs, and supporting new Durex has been making condoms of the highest quality product development NPD.
This year Durex has invested for nearly eighty years and has further strengthened heavily in an on-line global sexual wellbeing study, obtaining its position as the global market leader over the past responses from 26,000 people in 26 countries about all 12 months.
aspects of their sex lives.
Expanding the range We must tap into this major marketing opportunity by Going from strength to strength, the condom range has been making Durex relevant to everyone.
Consumers who want extended to include the increasingly high profile Durex Play to practise safer sex can access the highest quality condoms productslubricants, vibrators and a vibrating ring.
to give them confidence to have happier and healthier sex lives: and people who want to add fun and excitement to This broader product portfolio is at the heart of Durexs lovemaking can buy a vibrator, vibrating ring or one of our repositioning, from a condom brand offering safer sex to range of lubricants.
a sexual wellbeing brand offering consumers the promise of better sex.
The challenge now is to ensure there are The aim has been to understand sexual wellbeing in a holistic products in the portfolio for people of all ages, lifestyles way, supporting Durexs overall strategic development and and lifestagesan estimated 3 billion people are sexually helping it to achieve its stated objective of becoming the active worldwide.
worlds number one sexual wellbeing brand.
Quivering pleasure Durex Play Vibrations Sales of the innovative new vibrating ring, Durex Play Vibrations, have really taken off in the last year.
Now available in 35 countries across the globe, Play Vibrations has been a success story for SSL and has helped to pioneer the acceptance of sexual wellbeing products in mainstream outlets.
Last autumn saw highly successful TV advertising support for Play Vibrations in a number of European countries including Poland, Hungary and the UK.
Sales have been further boosted by extremely positive coverage in magazines.
SSL is continuing to invest in this product and an improved, next generation ring recently became available in all markets.
Something for everyone: from condoms to lubricants to play devices, the Durex range has it all.
10 11 Our brands Scholl footcare innovative product launches across a number of the Scholl core footcare categories, starting with the unveiling of the new, non-slip Scholl Party Feet Gel Cushions which provide Footcare invisible and secure cushioned comfort for high heel wearers.
While Scholl footcare continues to take strides towards On the pampering front Scholl has launched two new products: an intensive moisturising mousse and Scholl its strategic vision of becoming the worlds leading foot health and wellbeing brand, its foot science Foot & Nail Creampositioned as the ultimate everyday moisturiser for hardworking feet.
made relevant philosophy lies at the heart of everything Scholl does.
Scholl Freeze Verruca & Wart Remover has been launched Scholl offers a unique combination which ensures it still successfully in many SSL markets.
This innovative product, which uses freezing technology to eliminate warts and leads the way in effective NPD and brand building: an unmatched knowledge of the anatomy, physiology and verrucas, is clinically proven to be as effective as the freezing treatment used by healthcare professionals.
Freeze has pathology of the foot together with an in-depth understanding of consumers needs.
also benefited from a strong investment in TV and print advertising in many marketsas has another exciting new New products and new markets product, Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream.
The reasons behind the brands recent success include: innovation across all the main product categories: expansion Moves into new distribution channels, most notably a sales drive into pharmacies across key European markets, are into new channels in key markets: and strong above-the-line support for hero product launches.
This year has seen also proving crucial for Scholls continued sales success.
Love your feet Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream Now available in many SSL markets, Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream was launched in spring 2006 following robust clinical trials.
Fast results Clinically proven to repair dry, rough and cracked heels in just seven days, this innovative new formulation has been a major sales success in many countries.
And it certainly lives up to its product claims with a significant number of consumers calling the Scholl Consumer Careline to confirm how well, and how quickly, it works.
Already the market leader in Italy and with significant sales in the UK, Scholl Cracked Heel Repair Cream has also helped boost Scholl sales and market shares elsewhere in Europe.
As the product has been rolled out into other SSL markets, significant investments have been made in promotional campaigns ranging from TV advertising in the UK and France to print advertising, window displays and intensive point-ofsale activities in key pharmacy, grocery and supermarket outlets in other countries.
Whether you want to repair tired or damaged feet, or dance in comfort all night longlook no further than Scholl footcare.
12 13 Our brands Scholl footwear understand the needs of this unique consumer base, Scholl ensure the footwear range provides solutions and brief the pharmacists so they can communicate the shoes Footwear key features and benefits.
This strategy will particularly help support new sales drives into the pharmacy sectors Footwear has a key role to play in supporting the Scholl in countries like Spain and Germany.
brand vision of becoming the worlds number one foot health and wellbeing brand, enabling people across the Expanding distribution And while pharmacy remains the brands most important globe to enjoy healthier, more comfortable and better looking feet.
retail sector, offering Scholl products which provide support and comfort, expansion into shoe shops and fashion outlets Optimising retail distribution is a key contributor to sales continues apace.
Here the focus is on style and comfort including a premium priced high fashion footwear range success for Scholl footwear and clear strategies have been identified and implemented for each channel.
Pharmacies backed by the designer credentials of Diego Dolcini.
have long since been the heartland for this brand, and with outlets across Europe accounting for the majority of sales, This new Scholl footwear range has been designed to gain entry into trendsetting shoe retailers around the globe, paving the marketing focus continues to be on protecting and growing this channel.
the way for more mainstream Scholl designs to follow next season.
For the pharmacy trade its the Gelactiv range that Understanding consumers spearheads the spring summer 2007 collection.
Featuring the innovative Scholl Gelactiv technology, these products Consumers in this sector often have specific foot health and comfort needs.
One of the challenges for Scholl is to are the epitome of comfort: pliable, soothing and supportive.
Shock absorbing Scholl Gelactiv range The Scholl Gelactiv range was re-launched for the spring summer 2007.
The range provides unique comfort benefits with fresh styles appealing to women across all ages with different lifestyles.
Comfortably stylish Based on gel technology, the Gelactiv range of shoes has a special gel cushion placed in the heel area of the shoes.
The gel cushion absorbs the shock generated from the impact of walking and provides cushioning to the heel.
In addition, thanks to the temperature control properties of the gel, Gelactiv footwear helps keep feet fresh.
The range is sold in pharmacies in most European countries and has also helped to re-establish the Scholl footwear brand in high street stores in the UK and Scandinavia.
The best selling Gelactiv styles in spring summer 2007 were Jingle and Groovy.
Scholl shoes are designed to our own foot health principles without losing anything in style, design or quality.
14 15 Our brands Local brands recognised by other markets: in particular the Asia Pacific Local brands management team is focusing on how the business can be grown outside of the core Durex and Scholl brands.
With presentations and discussions concentrating on Our diverse portfolio of local brands is country-specific SSLs smaller brands, including Eulactol, Woodwards and ranges from Woodwards Gripewater which is and Coppertone, they agreed how to maximise overall popular in Hong Kong to Sauber hosiery and beauty sales and profit potential.
A clear message was sent out: products which are available in Italy to a range of adult achieving success with these brands can make the and childrens analgesics sold in the UK.
difference between good and outstanding growth.
Developing the portfolio Local market leaders In the UK, OTC products account for 40 per cent of SSLs Back in the heart of Europe, Italy is adding to its portfolio sales and continue to be an integral and vital part of SSLs of local brands with the new Realcheck home diagnostics portfolio.
Paramol painkillers and Medised pain and fever relief range.
In addition, their well established local brands for children are the fastest growing brands in their respective continue to go from strength to strength with the focus markets, while sales of Syndola fast acting painkiller and here very much on the success of Mister Baby.
The muscle relaxanthave grown by 38 per cent in the last four extensive portfolio of Mister Baby products, designed to years on the back of a highly effective advertising strategy.
satisfy the needs of new mums, babies and toddlers, has historically been available exclusively in pharmacies but And the role which local brands can play in making significant is now increasingly expanding into specialist stores and contributions to overall growth is increasingly being mass market channels.
Childs play Mister Baby After many years of success in Italian pharmacies, Mister Baby has added still further to its image, profile and sales in recent months by consolidating its presence in new distribution channels.
While pharmacy sales continue to grow, the brand has also moved into a range of specialist and mass market outlets across the country.
And the next distribution challenge will be e-commerce.
This multi-channel strategy has been designed to maximise opportunities and minimise risks, making the products more widely and easily available to Italian mothers.
And while differentiation is the key, with products and ranges being tailored to each sector, positive brand values and perceptions remain consistent across the board: Mister Babywell known: expert: reliable.
Successful and effective NPD is also vital for the wellbeing of the brand and selected hero products continue to be backed by TV and print advertising, highly targeted sampling, website activity, exhibition work and activities in partnership with supportive paediatricians and obstetricians.
A unique range of OTC products: from painkillers to cough remedies to mother and baby products.
