02 What we do Products and their uses Tate & Lyles major products, together with information about the ways they are broadly used, are detailed below.
The table on pages 34 and 35 shows the regions where these products are manufactured and distributed.
Cereal sweeteners and starches We are one of the leading producers of cereal sweeteners and starches in the world.
This aspect of our business involves the production and marketing of ingredients produced from corn and wheat for the food and industrial sectors.
Cereal sweeteners Our corn sweeteners, such as high fructose corn syrup, glucose syrup, fructose, dextrose and maltodextrins, are widely employed in the production of soft drinks and as feedstocks in the brewing and fermentation industry.
Starches Our functional value added food starches add texture and body to food and are also used to bind together ingredients, offering stability and moisture retention.
Our starches can improve the shelf-life of processed foods and snacks and are used to produce the texture and other quality features of consumer products such as chewing gum, cosmetics, toothpaste and pharmaceutical applications.
We are also a key player in the production of non-food starches for industrial markets.
We Food starches Our highly functional starches help supply textile, paper, corrugated board and plasterboard manufacturers and the foods retain moisture, and improve building industry with industrial starches.
In the paper industry, native and speciality texture and stability.
starches are used to increase dry paper strength and improve surface conditions.
Speciality starches are used to bond the different layers of paper in the manufacture of corrugated board.
Starches are used in adhesive and building product applications, and in the textile industry to increase weaving efficiencies.
Sugar and related products We are a leading producer of sugar for industrial customers and for retail sale.
We also produce value added and consumer-branded products such as Tate & Lyle Sugar, Lyles Golden Syrup and Sidul one of Portugals leading sugar brands.
Cane sugar Refined sugar, syrups and treacles are used to provide natural sweetness, texture, colour and flavour across a full range of food and drink applications.
We are the largest cane sugar refiner in the EU, producing over 1.3 million tonnes of cane sugar per annum from our refineries in London, England, and Lisbon, Portugal.
We are a leading retail brand in the UK where we supply a full range of retail and domestic sugars as well as more specialised products including Lyles Golden Syrup.
We operate a cane sugar refinery in Vietnam and a joint venture in Mexico, which supply customers in those regions.
As well as refining sugar, our global trading operation purchases and trades sugar in markets across the world.
Lyles Golden Syrup The design that adorns tins of Lyles Golden Syrup has been named the Molasses worlds oldest branding by Guinness Molasses is a versatile by-product of sugar production.
It offers various benefits World Records.
The distinctive as an animal feed and as a raw material for fermentation.
It is also used in a diverse packaging has hardly changed since 1885. range of other industrial processes.
We have been able to leverage our position as 26 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 a leading sugar manufacturer to become a market leader in the international trading, distribution and storage of molasses.
We have developed the expertise we gained from storing molasses to establish an ancillary business of storing other commodities for our customers in bulk liquid storage facilities around the world.
SPLENDA Sucralose SPLENDA Sucralose is a no-calorie, high-intensity sweetener that is made from sugar.
SPLENDA Sucralose offers the taste of sugar without the calories.
As a food ingredient, its unique stability means that products using SPLENDA Sucralose will retain their sweetness over time, helping to preserve the optimal balance of sweetness and flavour.
SPLENDA Sucralose can be used successfully in high-temperature processing, such as sterilisation, pasteurisation, canning and extrusion.
It is used today to sweeten more than 4,000 foods and beverages worldwide.
Acidulants, alcohol, Acidulants polyols and proteins From a base of sugar, dextrose or molasses, we produce acidulants such as citric acid, fumaric acid, malic acid, potassium citrate and sodium citrate.
Citric acid is used to enhance flavour and preserve a wide range of foods, beverages and pharmaceuticals.
It is also widely used as a natural cleaning agent in detergents.
Alcohol We have expanded our product offering by using the raw ingredients of corn, wheat and sugar to become a producer and distributor of a range of alcohol products.
These are used in the manufacture of beverages and vinegar, as well as in industrial products such as paint.
We also produce ethanol, which can be blended with gasoline and used as a fuel.
Polyols Polyols such as sorbitol are used by both food and pharmaceutical companies to sweeten and retain moisture and can be found in chewing gum and toothpaste.
Proteins Acidulants Citric acid is used as a natural In addition to starches and sweeteners, the processing of corn and wheat produces cleaning agent in detergents proteins.
Wheat proteins such as vital wheat gluten and soluble wheat proteins can be and household products.
employed in a variety of food and animal feed products to provide valuable functional and nutritional benefits.
Biogums We produce biogums, such as xanthan gum, used by the food industry to provide texture and viscosity to sauces and dressings and as low-calorie fat replacers and stabilisers.
Our STANZAN X industrial-grade xanthan gum is used in the oil-well drilling industry as a lubricant and coolant.
Our gum range was expanded through the acquisition of Cesalpinia Food in December 2005 to include locust bean and guar gums.
Advanced bio-materials Bio-PDO, an innovative monomer made from corn by DuPont Tate & Lyle BioProducts, became commercially available in 2006.
It is used by DuPont to produce Sorona which has a wide range of textile applications from swimwear to carpets.
Bio-PDO can also be used in a variety of direct applications such as cosmetics and fide-icing fluids.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 27 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
