Directors report Principal activities of the Group Substantial shareholdings The principal activities of Tate & Lyle PLC and its subsidiary Until 19 January 2007, persons with notifiable interests in and associated undertakings the Group are developing, the Companys shares were required to notify the Company manufacturing and marketing food and industrial ingredients of such interests under sections 198 to 208 of the Companies that have been made from renewable resources.
As at 19 January 2007, the Company had been notified of the following notifiable interests in its shares: Financial year No.
of shares % held The accounting period under review is for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Comparative figures used in this report are Barclays PLC 53,566,122 10.96% for the year ended 31 March 2006.
40,674,410 8.33% Business review A review of the Groups business, its activities and performance during the year, post balance sheet events On 20 January 2007, the Companies Act 1985 provisions and likely future developments is given on pages 4 to 59. in respect of substantial shareholdings were repealed and the The information on these pages that is required to fulfil Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services the requirements of the business review is incorporated Authority FSA came into force.
As at 22 May 2007, the in this directors report by reference.
Company had been notified under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the following holdings Dividend of voting rights in its shares: A final dividend of 15.3p per share is recommended for the year to 31 March 2007.
If approved, it will be due and payable No.
of shares % held on 26 July 2007 to shareholders on the register on 29 June AMVESCAP PLC 74,049,410 15.11% 2007.
This dividend amounts to 74 million and makes a total AXA S. A.
Barclays Global Investors 17,597,467 3.59% Annual General Meeting Silchester International Investors Ltd 14,924,253 3.05% The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London Directors SW1P 3EE on Wednesday 18 July 2007 at 11.15 am.
The current members of the Board, together with biographical Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to details of each director, are set out on page 61. shareholders.
Attached as an appendix to the letter is the notice convening the meeting, which includes five items John Nicholas was appointed as Group Finance Director and of special business.
The letter includes an explanation as an executive director from 19 July 2006.
Elisabeth Airey of all the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
was appointed as a non-executive director from 1 January 2007.
Carole Piwnica retired as a non-executive director and Corporate governance Simon Gifford retired as Group Finance Director and as an The report on corporate governance is on pages 63 to 69. executive director, both on 19 July 2006.
The directors remuneration report is on pages 73 to 82.
Retirement and re-election of directors Financial risk policies In accordance with its Articles of Association, one-third or the A summary of the Companys treasury policies and objectives nearest whole number below one-third of the directors of relating to financial risk management, including exposure to Tate & Lyle PLC are required to retire at each AGM, together associated risks, is on pages 44 to 48. with directors appointed by the Board since the previous AGM.
In addition, under the Combined Code on Corporate Share capital Governance, directors are required to submit themselves The Company issued 1,084,282 ordinary shares during the for re-election by shareholders every three years.
year, all on the exercise of employee share options.
The total The directors retiring by rotation at the 2007 AGM and value of ordinary shares issued at the issue price for cash was offering themselves for re-election are Sir David Lees having 3,446,760.
Information about the Companys share capital is attained the age of 70, Richard Delbridge and Evert Henkes.
Information about options granted under In addition, Elisabeth Airey and John Nicholas, who were both the Companys employee share schemes is given on pages appointed as directors since the last AGM, will be retiring and 116 and 117. offering themselves for re-election.
Details of shares purchased by the Tate & Lyle Employee Benefit Trust to satisfy options granted under the Groups Sir David Lees, Richard Delbridge, Evert Henkes and Elisabeth long-term incentive plans are given in the directors Airey do not have service contracts.
At no time during the year remuneration report on page 82. has any director had any material interest in a contract with the Group, being a contract of significance in relation to the The Company was given authority at the 2006 AGM to make Groups business.
A statement of directors interests in shares market purchases of up to 48,879,539 of its own ordinary of the Company is given on page 82. shares.
This authority will expire at the 2007 AGM and approval will be sought from shareholders at that meeting for Research and development a similar authority to be given for a further year.
The Company The Group spent 22 million 2006 21 million on research has not acquired any of its own shares during the year.
and development during the year.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 71 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR Directors report Employment Directors responsibilities for the financial statements The average number of employees in the Group during the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, year is given in note 9 on page 101. the directors remuneration report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable law and International Group companies operate within a framework of human Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU, resources policies, practices and regulations appropriate to and for preparing the parent company financial statements their own market sector and country of operation.
Policies and and the directors remuneration report in accordance with procedures for recruitment, training and career development applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards promote equality of opportunity regardless of gender, sexual United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
orientation, age, marital status, disability, race, religion or other beliefs and ethnic or national origin.
The aim is to encourage a The directors are responsible for preparing financial culture in which all employees have the opportunity to develop statements for each financial year which give a true and fair as fully as possible in accordance with their individual abilities view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, of the and the needs of the Group.
state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group and a true and fair view, in accordance with United The Group is committed to effective communication with Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the employees, including information on its performance and state of affairs of the Company for that period.
It follows appropriate consultation those financial statements, the directors are required to: procedures and has an established European Forum.
Training is concentrated on multi-skilling to encourage flexibility in select suitable accounting policies and then apply working practices.
The Group runs a series of international them consistently: management programmes to develop management skills make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and create valuable opportunities for the cross-fertilisation and prudent: and of management ideas across the Group.
state whether the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as adopted by the EU, and with regard to the Donations parent company financial statements whether applicable Worldwide charitable donations during the year totalled accounting standards have been followed, subject to 687,000 2006 766,000, of which 440,000 2006 any material departures disclosed and explained in the 386,000 was donated in the UK.
More details of the Groups financial statements.
involvement in the community can be found in the corporate social responsibility report on pages 57 to 59.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Again this year, in line with the Groups policy, no political donations were made in the European Union EU.
Outside the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting EU, the Groups US business made contributions during the records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time year totalling US$34,000 18,000 2006 US$28,000: the financial position of the Company and the Group and 15,000 to state and national political party committees to enable them to ensure that the Group financial statements and to the campaign committees of state candidates affiliated comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the to the major parties.
Contributions were only made where IAS Regulation and that the parent company financial allowed by state and federal law.
The total includes statements and the directors remuneration report comply US$10,000 5,000 2006 US$10,000: 5,000 contributed with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for by the Tate & Lyle Political Action Committee PAC.
The PAC safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group is funded entirely by US employees.
Employee contributions and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention are entirely voluntary and no pressure is placed on US and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
No funds are provided to the PAC So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit by Tate & Lyle but under US law, an employee-funded PAC information that is, information needed by the Companys must bear the name of the employing company.
auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken Payment to suppliers all the steps that he she ought to have taken in his her duty It is the Groups policy that UK operating companies should as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any follow the CBI Prompt Payers Code.
The Code requires the relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Company to agree the terms of payment with its suppliers, auditors are aware of that information.
to ensure its suppliers are aware of those terms and to abide by them.
It is the Groups policy also to apply the requirements Auditors of the Code to wholly-owned companies around the world, The auditors,  LLP, have signified wherever possible.
their willingness to continue in office and a resolution Tate & Lyle PLC is a holding company and had no amounts re-appointing them as auditors will be proposed at the owing to trade creditors at 31 March 2007.
The Groups creditor days outstanding at 31 March 2007 On behalf of the Board were 41 days 2006 36 days.
Robert Gibber Company Secretary 22 May 2007 72 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007
