02 What we do Resources The Group has a number of key resources that help it achieve its strategic objectives.
People At 31 March 2007, Tate & Lyle employed 6,900 people in its subsidiaries with a further 2,300 employed in joint ventures.
Our workforce encompasses a broad range of skills and experience in areas such as food science, sales and marketing, engineering and business support services.
It is a key objective for the Group to attract and retain top-quality recruits, and to ensure that our employees develop and grow in their roles and meet new challenges as their careers progress.
To help achieve these objectives, we have developed and are implementing The Tate & Lyle People Strategy.
This consists of four main components: Behaviours for Success these encourage our people to display strong leadership at all stages of seniority by exhibiting identified key characteristics and behaviours we need for success, such as a focus on excellent customer service.
Talent Management a system which addresses key business issues such as succession planning and filling development gaps to ensure we have the right Investing for the future In 2006 we re-launched our global skills to grow the Group at all levels.
Graduate Development Programme to ensure we have the right people Leadership Curriculum this provides opportunities for all managers across the with the right skills to lead our Group to improve their skills and expand their knowledge through a number of business in the future.
tailored programmes, seminars and courses.
Graduate Development a Group-wide graduate recruitment and development programme to attract and develop top talent and prepare them for key roles across the Group.
Tate & Lyles remuneration policies are designed to attract, retain and reward employees of the highest calibre and experience to help execute the Groups strategy.
Patents We maintain a significant number of patents to support our businesses and protect our competitive advantage.
Much of the product innovation and development work carried out by our research and development teams results in patentable or proprietary new technology.
We monitor market developments closely to identify any potential violations of our patents and intellectual property and take appropriate legal action where considered necessary.
During the year, the Groups US subsidiary, Tate & Lyle Sucralose, Inc. twice took action to protect its intellectual property.
On 22 May 2006 it filed suit in the US District Federal Court for Central Illinois against a Chinese manufacturing group based in Hebei province as well as six importers of sucralose into the US.
On 6 April 2007 it filed a United States International Trade Commission ITC Case in Washington alleging patent infringement against three Chinese manufacturing groups as well as 18 importers and distributors.
Both proceedings allege infringement of patented sucralose manufacturing technology in respect of sucralose manufactured in China and imported to the US by the defendants named in the two cases.
On 7 May 2007 the ITC announced it had formally instituted its investigation of the infringements alleged in our claim.
28 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 Research and development Our investment in research and development underpins our strategy to grow the contribution from our value added products.
We believe this is a key differentiator for Tate & Lyle.
In the year ended 31 March 2007 we spent US$42 million 22 million on research and development this does not include our expenditure on protection of our intellectual property.
Our target R&D spend Our target is to spend 4% to 5% of value added turnover on research and development.
The chart opposite shows the breakdown of our target research and development spend.
Fundamental Tate & Lyle Ventures research in-house The vast majority of our spend is on our internal capabilities on fundamental research, 3% 18% product development and process improvement.
The remainder is spent on developing Process relationships with the external research community, through our venture fund and alliances improvement with key academic institutions.
Some examples of how we are complementing our 9% in-house capabilities by finding new areas of innovation, and establishing new partnerships and facilities, are set out below.
Tate & Lyle Ventures External Our new venture capital fund, Tate & Lyle Ventures, was formally launched in July 2006. alliances 21% The limited partnership fund will invest in start-ups and expansion stage companies that Application product development are closely aligned with Tate & Lyles strategic objectives.
49% Research Advisory Group We have established a Research Advisory Group comprising a panel of six international industry and academic experts, which reviews our research and development portfolio and provides insight into how leading-edge technologies could apply to future developments.
Partnership with Kings College London In September 2006 we announced that we will be making a 4.5 million contribution over a five-year period to Kings College London to set up a new centre for research into the link between nutrition and health.
The new Tate & Lyle Health Research Centre will focus on gastrointestinal health, carbohydrate metabolism, and medical conditions such as obesity, diabetes and cardiovascular disorders.
This partnership will allow us to share knowledge and ultimately bring new products and technologies to market.
Partnership with Microbia Precision Engineering In October 2006 we formed a multi-year partnership to develop fermentation-derived renewable ingredients with Microbia Precision Engineering, Inc. a subsidiary of US-based pharmaceutical company Microbia, specialising in the development of highly efficient microbial manufacturing technology.
Tate & Lyle and Microbia Precision Engineering will work exclusively together within defined renewable ingredient markets and will share the profits from products commercialised through their collaboration.
New European Wellness and Nutrition Centre In March 2007 we announced a 3 million 4 million investment to establish a Wellness Focus on innovation We have over 260 people in our R&D and Nutrition Centre in Lille, France.
The centre, due to open in September 2007, will team worldwide working to develop include laboratories and pilot plant facilities for customers.
It will focus on developing new innovative ingredients from ingredients in the field of wellness and nutrition, catering for beverage, dairy, bakery and renewable resources.
The centre will lead the development of our European fibre platform, which supports the ENRICH service launched in early 2007.
ENRICH enables food and beverage manufacturers to create products that contain additional nutrients but taste as good as regular brands.
The centre will also specialise in application and development work for SPLENDA Sucralose, hydrocolloids, carbohydrates, proteins and for our range of ingredient solutions see page 24.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 29 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
