Strategy and objectives Tate & Lyles strategy is to grow our business and create long-term value for our shareholders.
To deliver this growth, we focus on five key business objectives.
Serve our customers Delivering excellent customer service is at the core of everything we do.
Our aim is to be the partner of choice in our customers innovation processes and to help them develop more successful consumer products.
To develop our customer relationships further throughout our business, we have set up cross-functional teams to work with our customers to provide consumer and customer insights and to support them in looking for new product innovation opportunities.
Operate efficiently and safely We aim to be the lowest-cost and most efficient producer in all our markets.
Building our value added business on a sustainable low-cost commodity base is key to delivering our strategy.
Through our expertise in high-volume process management, our focus on technical and manufacturing excellence and the efficient use of services such as logistics and utilities, we are continually working to improve the efficiency of our operations.
We also strive to ensure that there are safe and healthy conditions for everyone at our sites.
Invest in acquisitions and partnerships We continually evaluate acquisition opportunities that would add strategic value by enabling us to enter new markets or add products, technologies and knowledge more efficiently than we could organically.
We also aim to grow our business by forming joint ventures and partnerships to develop and distribute new products, and to enhance the capabilities of our existing ingredient portfolio.
Using alliances and joint ventures can be an efficient way to lower our cost of investing in new areas and markets, and help secure access to new and complementary technology and expertise.
Invest in technology and people 1 Contribution to Group operating profit We have increased our investment in our research and development capabilities to help from value added products us develop innovative solutions that meet our customers product challenges.
We are Year ended 31 March 2007 also complementing our own capabilities through business and technology partnerships, Other products 53% university collaborations and investments in start-up companies.
To help develop talent, improve leadership and help our employees succeed, we operate various programmes 2 Value added designed to ensure we have the right skills at all levels to grow our business.
47% Grow the contribution from value added products We are committed to continuing to grow the contribution from our value added products.
Value added ingredients utilise technology or intellectual property enabling our customers to produce distinctive products and Tate & Lyle to obtain a price premium and or substainable higher margins.
1 Before exceptional items and amortisation from total operations.
2 Of total value added profit, 19% relates to SPLENDA Sucralose and 28% to core value added products.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2007 21 STATUTORY INFORMATION HOW WE RUN THE BUSINESS HOW WE PERFORMED WHAT WE DO OVERVIEW OF THE YEAR
