02 What we do Business overview Tate & Lyle is a world-leading manufacturer of renewable food and industrial ingredients.
All our ingredients are produced from renewable crops, predominantly corn maize, wheat and sugar cane.
We take these renewable crops and transform them through the use of innovative technology into value added ingredients for our food, beverage and industrial customers.
Backed by a strong and growing research organisation, Tate & Lyles ingredients help add taste, texture, nutrition and increased functionality to everyday products used by millions of people around the world.
All our ingredients are produced from renewable crops.
Tate & Lyle was founded in the UK in 1921 but its roots can be traced back to a number of companies established in the middle of the 19th century focused on sugars in Europe, wheat and corn milling in Europe and corn milling in the US.
2006 marked the 100th anniversary of the founding of our US corn milling business.
Operations Tate & Lyle is headquartered in the UK and is a global company currently operating more than 60 production facilities in 24 countries mainly throughout Europe, the Americas and South East Asia.
At 31 March 2007, we employed 6,900 people in our subsidiaries with a further 2,300 employed in joint ventures.
During the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group operated through five business divisions: Food & Industrial Ingredients, Americas: Food & Industrial Ingredients, Europe: Sucralose: Sugars, Americas & Asia: and Sugars, Europe.
These divisions are supported by the corporate Head Office in London, by our Global Food Ingredients Group see page 25, and by a number of global business groups with expertise in areas such as sales and marketing, procurement, information technology and research and development.
A description of the performance of the Group and each of its five divisions for the year ended 31 March 2007 can be found on pages 36 to 43.
More information about each of the divisions, their products, services and plants can be found on pages 34 and 35.
Vision Tate & Lyles vision is that we will grow by uniting our businesses and developing partnerships to create the worlds leading renewable ingredients business.
We will build a consistent portfolio of distinctive, profitable, high-value solutions in products and services for our customers.
