Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Board of directors Name Donald Brydon CBE Title and age Chairman 62 Date joined board January 2006.
and committee membership Other Chairman of Smiths Group plc, The London Metal Exchange appointments and the ifs School of Finance.
Experience 20 year career with Barclays Group, during which time he was Chairman and Chief Executive of BZW Investment Management, followed by 10 years as President of AXA Investment Managers.
Most recently was also Chairman of Amersham plc and a director of Allied Domecq plc and Scottish Power plc.
Name David Lowden Title and age Chief Executive 50 Career summary Appointed TNS Chief Executive in January 2006.
Joined group and appointed to board in 1999 as Finance Director and became Chief Operating Officer in 2003.
Previously worked for a number of international companies including ACNielsen and Federal Express Corporation.
Achievements As Chief Executive, he has restructured the business to meet clients demands for globalisation of services, cost effectiveness and quality of data collection, increased insight and analysis, and innovation.
Name Andy Boland Title and age Finance Director 38 Career summary Joined TNS and appointed to board in January 2004.
Previously held a number of senior finance positions at WPP Group plc and Cordiant Communications Group plc.
Achievements Has established a strong finance function that supports management of business performance across the group.
Focused on implementing group strategy through business process improvements, internal investments and merger and acquisition activity.
Name Pedro Ros Title and age Managing Director Global Clients and Sectors 46 Acting Head of North America custom Career summary Joined TNS board in January 2006, when appointed to current position.
Since joining TNS in 1985, roles included Global Head of TNS Worldpanel and Regional Manager for Southern Europe, Latin America, Middle East and Africa.
Achievements Has built a strong team to deliver on groups increasingly global approach to servicing major clients.
Has established a Global Account Programme for 50 clients, reinforced strength of groups custom sectors and improved international project management.
com Name Paul Murray Title and age Senior Independent Director 46 Date joined board May 2005.
Appointed Senior Independent Director in and committee August 2005.
membership Other Non-executive director of Thomson SA and Tangent appointments Communications PLC.
Experience Finance Director of Carlton Communications plc from 2001 to 2004.
Prior to that, Finance Director of LASMO plc.
Name Drummond Hall Title and age Non-executive director 58 Date joined board 12 April 2007.
and committee membership Other Deputy Chairman of Mitchells & Butler plc.
appointments Experience Chief Executive of Dairy Crest plc from 2002 to 2006, having joined as a main board director in 1991.
Prior to that, Managing Director of the Cider and Beer Division of HP Bulmer.
Before then he was Marketing Director for Pepsi-Cola Northern Europe and held marketing positions in Mars and Procter & Gamble.
Name Alice Perkins CB Title and age Non-executive director 58 Date joined board March 2005.
Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Chair.
and committee membership Other External member of the Oxford University Council and on appointments the Business Advisory Forum at the Said Business School.
Experience Left the civil service and her role in the Cabinet Office as the civil services HR Director in 2005.
Previously also a non-executive director of BAA plc and The Littlewoods Organisation plc.
Name Rmy Sautter Title and age Non-executive director 62 Date joined board November 2002.
and committee membership Other Chairman of RTL Radio and Chairman of the board of Five.
appointments Non-executive director of PartnerRe Ltd. a NYSE-listed global reinsurance company and two media companies listed in France: M6-Mtropole Tlvision SA and Pages Jaune SA.
22 year career with RTL Group, including six years as head of radio Experience division and four as CEO.
Formerly CFO of Havas and held various positions at French institutional investor Caisse des Dpts.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
