Client orientation TNS has a strategy and operational structure in place that capitalises on one of the most extensive international networks in the market information industry.
Dedicated framework TNS Global Clients and Sectors focuses on three areas: the organisation of dedicated global sector teams: driving revenue from our Global Account Programme: and having effective protocols to support large and multi-country projects.
Each area is supported by dedicated resources, with the objective of being the industry leader.
Sector focus and Global Partnership Accounts A key differentiator is that TNS Global Sectors act as revenue drivers, responsible for developing new products and services.
Sector heads are actively involved in major account relationships.
Account teams are co-ordinated by the sectors, to cut across geographies and be tailored to client needs.
In 2007, TNS extended its Global Account Programme to include 50 clients.
13 of these have been nominated Global Partnership Accounts.
They are clients that have indicated a desire to partner with their supplier and invest their own resources in global relationships.
They have the potential to spend at a higher rate and consolidate more business with TNS.
Each has a dedicated Global Account Director, who provides a single point of contact, builds the relationship and ensures the successful delivery of projects.
Four regional hubs manage multi-country projects, so that account teams can price and pitch for business most effectively.
Matthew Froggatt MD, Global Technology Sector Arjen Kuijten Regional Director, TNS Europe Shari Morwood EVP Technology, Media and Trevor Richards Regional Managing Director, Telecom Sector, North America UK and Ireland James Fergusson Strategic Head Sectors, ALM Technology a global growth sector Developing more effective client relationships TNS Global Technology Sector is managed by Move!
is a programme of organisational a cross-regional steering committee of senior change in TNS European custom business, managers.
They develop and implement a which frees up more time for employees in sector strategy based on four big trends account facing roles to focus on building consumerisation, innovation, mobility and more effective client relationships.
The committee is responsible It is about streamlining and automating for devising new revenue streams and procedural and project management functions.
co-ordinating sector activity for 700 This is complemented by a more formalised client-facing people across the world.
pitch process for high-value projects.
The sector has an integrated approach The programme emphasises development to communication and knowledge sharing, of client service teams, with skills and working as a community to develop bestmanagement training.
This is supported by practice pitch protocols for large pieces increased focus on marketing TNS unique of international business, case studies positioning: the combination of sector and and account planning.
research expertise to provide added-value.
TNS has identied Technology as a key growth Move!
is based on successful change sector.
Its success is an important factor in programmes already applied in France and the delivery against the Global Clients and Sector Netherlands.
It is driven by TNS Europes senior strategy.
There are 11 global accounts in the management team and being implemented by Technology sector, representing around 40% country managing directors.
In 2007, these accounts grew by almost 10%, validating the sector strategy and the investment that has been made in building those relationships.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5 Use of technology in operations Benets of data One of the strengths of market information is that analysis is based on fact and data, not supposition.
Recent developments, including online access panels, deliver several benets to clients in the data gathering and production process, such as speed, sample size and continuity.
These developments also mean that the price of data gathering is reducing, allowing clients to increase the volume of surveys commissioned or allocate a greater proportion of budget to advice and recommendations.
The question of quality The compelling advantages of online research have not always been accompanied by acceptable data quality.
As well as competitive pricing, clients need confidence that standards are sufciently high to act as a base for key marketing decisions.
Trusted service As online research has grown, clients have recently become more aware that the way it is managed has an important impact on the quality of the overall service.
When judging quality, clients now look more closely at factors other than just cost or speed.
These include how the panel is built, whether the sample is representative, if the correct checks and controls are in place to lter out professional respondents, and what procedures exist to validate responses.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7
