Our focus Group key performance indicators profit before tax Return on average capital employed Staff attrition We strive to achieve the highest level of profit before We aim to deliver a return on capital employed above We endeavour to attract and retain the highest calibre tax in the housebuilding sector.
the level of our cost of funding.
of employees and strive to be a company that people want to work for.
profit on ordinary activities, excluding exceptional profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, items and before charging tax.
exceptional items and amortisation of brands divided Following the merger, new systems and processes by the average of opening and closing capital are being introduced and the staff attrition key Earnings per share employed excluding goodwill and brands.
performance indicator will be introduced in the 2008 We seek to provide continuous growth in earnings Annual Report.
Dividend per share We aim to deliver an attractive progressive dividend.
The basic earnings per share based upon the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders, before The sum of the interim dividend per share and the exceptional items, divided by the average number final proposed dividend per share for the year.
of shares in issue during the year.
UK Housing North America Housing Spain and Gibraltar Housing key performance indicators Operating margin Average outlet numbers Health and safety We aim to deliver industry leading operating margins We aim to increase the average number of outlets We want to send our employees and sub-contractors in each of our businesses.
over time in order to grow our business.
home safely and uninjured day after day.
profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, Weighted average number of outlets open over the The basis used for this score across our business exceptional items and amortisation of brands divided course of a year.
Please see the corporate by revenue.
responsibility section on our website for detailed Customer satisfaction information.
Order b ook as a percentage of revenue We strive to maintain and improve our customer We aim to hold an appropriate level of order book to satisfaction scores.
Sales rates give us visibility of profits for the forthcoming year.
We aim to achieve an appropriate sales rate per week The basis used for this score across our business to prioritise operating margin over completion volumes.
Year end order book divided by revenue for that year.
Please see the corporate responsibility section on our website for detailed Annual gross reservations divided by the average information.
number of sites, divided by 52.
Construction key performance indicators profit on ordinary activities before finance costs, Order book Health and safety exceptional items and amortisation of brands divided We aim to hold an appropriate level of order book to We strive to maintain and improve our customer by revenue.
give us visibility of profits for the forthcoming year.
Customer satisfaction Value of the year end order book excluding any The basis used for this score across our business We strive to maintain and improve our customer orders from other Group companies.
Please see the corporate satisfaction scores.
responsibility section on our website for detailed Operating margin information.
The basis used for this score across our business We aim to deliver industry leading operating margins varies by geography.
Please see the corporate in each of our businesses.
responsibility section on our website for detailed information.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Business Review Group Chief Executives Review continued Florida and Texas.
Combining these We subsequently increased our synergy combined business and I have been very operations has enabled us to increase our estimates at the Interim Results in July.
This impressed by the positive attitude of scale in these key States, bringing with it was a result of the additional work that we the people that I have met and by their overhead efficiencies, increased buying were able to do as the merger progressed.
determination to make the merger work.
power, greater market presence and We have actions in place to deliver these marketing efficiencies.
increased exit rate targets of 70 million by Corporate responsibility the end of 2008 and 100 million in Corporate responsibility is an integral part The combination of the two businesses aggregate by the end of 2009, with further of corporate governance and one of the has brought us a broader product offering, progress expected.
The one-off costs hallmarks of a well managed company.
We are appealing to a wider range of consumer associated with the merger were in line with committed to being a responsible company preferences.
Whilst the legacy Morrison the expected 60 million and have been and to playing our part in building increasingly Homes business was focused on the recognised in the 2007 accounts.
mid-market, the Taylor Woodrow business also had experience of building luxury homes.
These synergies are in excess of the previously We also believe that corporate responsibility We go forward with a product range catering announced cost savings of 25 million in makes sound commercial sense.
It helps to buyers from entry level apartments to George Wimpeys UK business and combined us to: luxury country club homes.
We also have a savings in excess of US$20 million in the Demonstrate high standards of governance land development business which sells lots to legacy businesses in North America.
I am very to stakeholders whose opinions and actions other homebuilders, as well as supplying our pleased to be able to confirm that both of can have an impact on our business own operations.
these targets were also achieved during 2007.
Meet our customers current and future We are also better placed to take advantage People needs and wants of future market recovery in the US as a result We were able to take advantage of the fact of the merger.
Attract and retain high calibre employees that the transaction was an agreed merger The increased strength of our business, both to make significant progress on integration Save money, reduce business risk and in North America and at a Group level, leaves planning before the deal completed.
When protect our reputation by managing our us well positioned to take advantage of land we announced the merger we were also able business effectively, rather than engaging acquisition opportunities as the market starts to announce the proposed structure of the in expensive or damaging remedial action to recover.
However, it remains too early to combined Board.
Win competitive tenders that are make significant land purchases in the US.
We set up integration teams, comprising increasingly based on sustainability criteria employees from both legacy businesses, Material annual synergies Respond to the growing sustainability which were tasked with putting together At the time of the announcement of the requirements of governments in the regions detailed plans that could be put into effect as merger, we indicated that we expected to in which we operate soon as the merger completed.
These teams deliver an exit rate of at least 70 million of worked together exceptionally well, enabling Identify opportunities for business pre-tax synergies by the end of 2008.
We us to hit the ground running on 3 July 2007. development and innovation anticipated one-off costs associated with the merger of around 60 million to be incurred Since the merger, I have spent a lot of Anticipate and comply promptly with primarily during 2007. my time visiting the different parts of our new legislation 18 www.
