Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Senior management team Management of TNS The group strategy is agreed by Chaired by Chief Executive David Lowden, the Global Executive comprises the groups the board.
The Global Executive executive directors and the heads of each operational unit, together with the heads of is responsible for overseeing the the main corporate areas.
effective implementation of that The Global Executive meets formally four times a year.
Its members work together strategy and the day-to-day closely, on a regular basis, enabling their teams to interact as required to ensure management of the business.
that the group operates as a global team to meet its strategic goals.
Global Executive Chief Executive David Lowden Syndicated services Custom business TNS Worldpanel Global Clients Finance and Sectors Josep Montserrat Andy Boland Pedro Ros TNS Media Europe Strategic Development and Marketing Jean-Michel Portier Judith Passingham John Abraham North America Global Operations Pedro Ros Renaud Collery Acting Head Asia Pacic, Latin Human Resources America, Middle East To be appointed & Africa James Hall www.
com Name Josep Montserrat Name John Abraham Title Managing Director, Title Strategic Development and TNS Worldpanel Marketing Director Key Since appointment to role in Key Active in the development of achievements 2007, has strengthened the achievements the groups strategy and building added-value offering and TNS capabilities in Digital Media, increased focus on learning Retail & Shopper and Customer and development.
Increasing focus on TNS Worldpanel presence in Areas of Expertise.
Name Renaud Collery Name Judith Passingham Title Head of Global Operations Title Managing Director, TNS Europe Key Joined TNS in mid 2007 in this Key Since appointment to role in achievements newly-created position.
Has achievements 2007, reorganised the European focused his efforts on aligning management structure and the global operational structure launched a number of initiatives and targeting priority with this team.
These include a standardisation opportunities, major process efficiency initiative, in order to drive productivity optimisation of the 6th dimension improvements.
online access panel and enhancement of the multicountry project unit.
Name James Hall Name Jean-Michel Portier Title Managing Director, Title Chief Executive, TNS Media TNS Asia Pacific, Latin Key Appointed to lead TNS Media, America, Middle East & Africa achievements the combined media intelligence Key Placed special emphasis on and audience measurement achievements emerging markets, as driver business, in October 2007. for growth in region, and further During year, extended TNS MI expansion of regional capabilities.
services into social media with Successful integration of acquisition of Cymfony and acquisitions and mergers in reinforced leading ad and news Japan, South Africa, Chile, monitoring position in Europe Australia and New Zealand.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
