Our strategy Vision and goal Taylor Wimpey plc is a focused homebuilding company with operations in the UK, North America, Spain and Gibraltar.
We aim to be the homebuilder of choice for customers, employees, shareholders and communities.
Looking at our largest businesses in more detail: Focused strategy UK North America Goal to be the leading Goal to be the homebuilder of homebuilder in the UK choice in each of our markets Current priority is relative margin Current focus on managing improvement, followed by: tough conditions cash and costs, followed by: Volume growth from increased outlets Reinvestment at lower cost as market turns Merger benets Both businesses are strengthened by the merger Strengthened landbank Increased build cost efficiency Improved sales and customer care strategy significant synergy benets Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Business Review Group Chief Executives Review continued Economies of scale in the UK We have structured our UK Housing business Bringing together two businesses brings in such a way as to optimise overhead costs.
with it opportunities to benefit from the The UK Housing head ofce, based in High increased size of the combined operations.
Wycombe, is a lean team providing support For our UK Housing business, these and specialist guidance to our 34 regional opportunities lie in three main areas: businesses.
Each of these regional businesses procurement and supply chain: overhead is staffed in accordance with the expected efficiency: and land management.
The optimal size of a region is around 650 completions and, once Whilst both legacy businesses had already a region approaches this scale, we will create put in place a number of initiatives to ensure a new satellite operation to facilitate ongoing the efficiency of their purchasing and supply growth.
To maintain overhead efficiency, chain processes, the increased scale of these satellites will receive support from their the combined business provides further originating region until such time as the level of opportunities for improvement.
For example, completions merits an increase in the size of following the merger, we have undertaken the team.
an exercise to compare the prices paid for materials by each of the legacy businesses.
Our increased scale also enables us to adapt As a result, we have been able to ensure our approach to land buying in the UK.
The that we take advantage of the best deals strength of our balance sheet and the skills for future completions.
of our land and planning teams will enable us to participate in projects that our legacy However, our size enables us to go beyond businesses might not have been able to this approach.
We are currently working consider.
We are also able to invest with our major suppliers to establish how proportionately more money into strategic we can take costs out of the process of land, which brings with it the potential for supplying our raw materials to the benefit of higher profits on sites that are successfully both ourselves and our suppliers.
Examples promoted through the planning process.
might include sharing more detailed forecast information with our suppliers to enable them A stronger business in North America to anticipate key periods of demand for their Market conditions remain exceptionally products and analysing the location of our challenging in North America, but the merger sites to minimise transport costs.
brings benets which leave us better placed than the legacy businesses would have been on their own.
There was an excellent geographical t between the two legacy businesses in the US.
Both Taylor Woodrow and Morrison Homes had operations in Arizona, California, 16 www.
