Governance Directors Report Introduction Company law requires the Directors to prepare a Substantial Interests: beneficial and non-beneficial interests report to shareholders on various matters affecting the Company and the Group during the reporting year, in the Companys shares together with the general outlook for the Group in the Number of Percentage of context of the markets and business environment in shares held issued voting which it operates.
Name millions share capital Certain matters required to be included in this report Beneficial interests appear elsewhere in the Report and Accounts as JP Morgan Chase & Co. 53.62 4.68 detailed below: Legal & General Group Plc 48.94 4.64 A detailed review of the Groups principal activities, Toscafund Asset Management LLP 47.52 4.15 the development of its businesses, a review of financial Legal & General Assurance Pensions and non-financial key performance indicators and a Management Limited and description of the principal risks and uncertainties Legal & General Investment Management Holdings Limited 43.18 4.09 facing the Group, are contained in the reports and reviews on pages 2 to 37.
Barclays PLC 21.78 3.78 Prudential plc and The Prudential Assurance Company Limited 38.68 3.37 A detailed review of the progress achieved to date following the merger of Taylor Woodrow plc and Aviva plc 32.25 3.06 George Wimpey Plc on 3 July 2007 the Merger Britannic Asset Management Limited 16.95 3.06 appears in the reports and reviews on pages 2 to 37.
Non-beneficial interest A list of the subsidiary and associated undertakings, AXA SA 166.65 15.79 including branches outside the UK, principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year appears on page 102.
Changes in asset values are set out in the consolidated Andrew Dougal retires in accordance with the Combined balance sheet on page 58 and in notes 11 to 33 on John Landrum was appointed a Director upon completion of the Merger, in the capacity of President Code which requires each Director to seek re-election pages 71 to 89. every three years.
Being eligible, Andrew Dougal will and CEO North America.
He stood down from the The Groups profit before taxation and the profit Board on 31 July 2007 but remained an employee seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
after taxation and minority interests appear in the until 31 October 2007.
Each of the Directors proposed for election or re-election consolidated income statement on page 56 and in Vernon Sankey resigned from the Board as a Non at the Annual General Meeting is being unanimously notes 3 to 10 on pages 64 to 71.
Executive Director upon completion of the Merger.
recommended by all of the other members of the Detailed statements of the Companys corporate Board.
This recommendation follows the completion Graeme McCallum, an Executive Director, resigned governance principles, the Groups systems of internal of the evaluation process which included a detailed from the Board on 16 January 2007. control and the going concern conrmation are set outin performance appraisal of the Board, its Committees the Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 to 45. and in respect of each Director.
Further information The Directors together with their biographical information relating to the evaluation is set out in the Corporate are shown on pages 38 and 39.
With regard to those A detailed statement of the Groups treasury Governance Report.
Directors who are the subject of election or re-election management and funding is set out in note 22 at the Annual General Meeting as set out below on page 78.
In line with the Combined Code, Katherine Innes Ker, biographical information is also set out on page 106. having been appointed as an independent Non Directors Executive Director in July 2001, has been subject to a With regard to the retirements and re-election of the The following five Directors held ofce throughout rigorous evaluation as she has held this position for a Directors, the Company is governed by its Articles the year: period of in excess of six years.
Following the evaluation of Association Articles, the Combined Code on both the Nomination Committee and the Board were Norman Askew, Chairman Corporate Governance the Combined Code, the entirely satisfied with Katherine Innes Kers performance Peter Johnson, Group Finance Director Companies Act and related legislation.
The Articles may and contribution as a Non Executive Director and her Mike Davies, Non Executive Director be amended by special resolution of the shareholders ongoing independence of character and judgement.
Andrew Dougal, Non Executive Director and certain changes are being proposed at the Annual As part of this review the Board took into account the Katherine Innes Ker, Non Executive Director General Meeting on 17 April 2008, details of which are requirement of the Combined Code to refresh the Board set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 105 to 111.
Pete Redfern and Ian Sutcliffe, formerly Executive from time to time: as a result of the changes to the The powers of the Directors are described in the Directors of George Wimpey Plc, were appointed as Board made at the time of the Merger as set out earlier Corporate Governance Report.
Directors upon completion of the Merger and hold the in this Report, it was concluded that this requirement roles of Group Chief Executive and Chief Executive, had been met.
Retirement and re-election of Directors Taylor Wimpey UK respectively.
In accordance with the Articles, at the Annual General Audit and auditors Meeting, Pete Redfern, Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading, Brenda Dean, Anthony Reading and David Williams, Each Director at the date of approval of this Report Ian Sutcliffe and David Williams, who were all appointed formerly Non Executive Directors of George Wimpey Plc, confirms that: as Directors during the year by the Board upon were appointed as Non Executive Directors upon completion of the Merger, will retire and, being eligible, completion of the Merger.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant seek election by shareholders.
audit information of which the Companys auditors are Ian Smith was appointed a Director Group Chief unaware.
In addition, each Director has taken all the Peter Johnson retires by rotation and will, being eligible, Executive on 2 January 2007 and resigned from the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director in offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Board upon completion of the Merger.
order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit Meeting in accordance with the Articles.
information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
com This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in No person has any special rights of control over the We already have a number of housing sites which are Companys share capital and all issued shares are accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the exploring the options available to enable us to deliver Companies Act 1985. fully paid.
solutions which we could utilise in our development portfolio for 2016, including build methodologies, Following a competitive tender conducted after Substantial interests structural solutions, design approaches and renewable completion of the Merger, and in respect of which further The persons set out in the table on page 40 have notied energy components.
Recently we have introduced details are set out in the Corporate Governance Report, the Company pursuant to Rule 5 of the Disclosure and various technologies with good environmental benets Deloitte & Touche LLP were confirmed as external Transparency Rules of their interests in the ordinary share including the use of biomass boilers, solar hot water auditors of the Company.
Deloitte & Touche have capital of the Company.
systems and photovoltaic panels together with ground confirmed their willingness to continue in ofce as and air source heat pumps.
Following technical and cost At 5 March 2008, no change in these holdings had been auditors of the Company and a resolution to re-appoint evaluation of these we will further develop our housing notied nor, according to the register of members, did them will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
portfolio in order to bring the very latest technology to any other shareholder at that date have a disclosable our home owners.
Deloitte & Touche LLP also provide non-audit services to holding of the issued share capital.
the Group within a policy framework which is described Employee involvement and communication Directors interests, including interests in the Companys in the Corporate Governance Report.
The Company is committed to ensuring open and regular shares, are shown in the Remuneration Report.
communication throughout the Group on both business Annual General Meeting related issues and issues of general interest.
Intranet Dividend The Annual General Meeting will be held at 11.00 am systems are continually updated which provides a Information relating to the recommended 2007 final on 17 April 2008 at The Royal College of Physicians, valuable communication tool across the Group and an dividend is set out in the Chairmans Statement on page 11 St. Andrews Place, Regents Park, London NW1 4LE.
important facility for providing employees with access to 12 and in the notes to resolution 2 on page 106 in the Formal notice of the meeting including details of special a wide range of information.
Information is regularly Notice of Annual General Meeting.
business is set out in the Notice of Annual General cascaded throughout the group via electronic Meeting on page 105 and on the Companys website The Company operates a Dividend Re-Investment Plan, communication and by management presentations.
details of which are available from Capita Registrars and There are also internal magazines which are widely are also available on the Companys website circulated across the Group.
The Companys registrar is Capita Registrars.
Their The Company continues to promote all employee share details, together with information on facilities available to The right to receive any dividend has been waived in plans and save as you earn share scheme as widely as shareholders, are set out in the Shareholder Information part by the trustee of the Companys two Employee possible across the Group.
Share Ownership Trusts over those Trusts combined holding of 4,469,331 shares and in full on the Equal Opportunities Treasury shares Companys holding of 102,732,927 treasury shares.
The Company remains committed to equality of The Company was authorised at the Annual General An appropriate amount of shares held in the Trusts are opportunity in all of its employment practices, policies Meeting on 2 May 2007 to purchase a maximum of set aside to meet commitments under the Companys and procedures across the Group.
To this end, within the 59,415,008 of its own shares, and at the Extraordinary employee share plans.
Shares held in treasury resulting framework of applicable law, we are committed, wherever General Meeting on 29 May 2007 to purchase up to a from the acquisition of the Companys own shares in practicable, to achieving and maintaining a workforce further 55,276,873 of its own shares.
The latter authority 2004 and 2007 provide the Company with additional which broadly reects that of the local catchment area remains valid at 31 December 2007.
All purchases exibility in the management of its capital base.
No employee or potential pursuant to that authority, and the earlier authority given employee will receive less favourable treatment due to at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, were made on Corporate Responsibility their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, the market.
Corporate responsibility is a high priority throughout political or other opinion, afliation, gender, sexual the Taylor Wimpey Group.
We draw our corporate orientation, marital status, family connections, age, During the year the Company purchased 94.8 million of responsibility practices, policies and case studies membership, or non membership of a trade union, or its shares on the market which are held in treasury.
The together in our first Taylor Wimpey Corporate disability, unless justifiable in exceptional circumstances, Company sold 4 million treasury shares to its employee Responsibility Report which is being published and will for example due to health and safety considerations.
share ownership trusts for issuance to participants on be circulated to all shareholders and other designated the exercise of rights in certain of the Companys stakeholders.
The Report can also be found on the Employment of disabled persons employee share plans.
It is our policy that people with disabilities should have fair consideration for all vacancies within the Group.
Capital structure The Groups commitment to advancing corporate The Company is therefore committed, where possible, Details of the authorised and issued share capital, responsibility within Taylor Wimpey is demonstrated to ensuring that people with disabilities are supported together with details of the movements in the by the formation upon completion of the Merger of and encouraged to apply for employment and to achieve Companys issued share capital during the year are the Corporate Responsibility Committee, a formal progress once employed.
They will be treated so that shown in note 25 on page 87.
The Company has one Committee of the Board.
The Committee is chaired they have an equal opportunity, so far as it is justifiable, class of ordinary shares which carry no right to xed by Katherine Innes Ker and it is also comprised of the to be selected, trained and promoted.
Each share carries the right to one vote at Chairman of the Board, two further independent Non reasonable effort is made for disabled persons to be general meetings of the Company.
Executive Directors and two Executive Directors as retained in the employment of the Group by investigating detailed in the Corporate Governance Report.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a holding the possibility of making reasonable adjustments to the nor on the transfer of shares, which are both governed job, workplace or equipment.
Research and development by the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Company remains committed to investing in The Directors are not aware of any agreements Charitable donations research and development projects where there are between holders of the Companys shares that may During the year, Group companies donated 371,000 clearly-dened business benets.
result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or 2006: 198,000 to various charities, 193,000 2006: on voting rights.
63,000 in the UK and Europe and 178,000 2006: In the UK a main component of our research and 135,000 in North America.
Further information on the development relates to the improvement of knowledge, Details of employee share schemes are set out in note Groups donations, activities and initiatives can be found practice and testing of materials and technology for 25 on page 87.
The Employee Share Ownership Trusts in the 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report.
use in our approach to zero carbon homes in 2016. abstain from voting in respect of shares held by them.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 Governance Directors Report continued Provide additional disclosures when compliance with Political donations Directors Responsibilities the specic requirements in International Financial The Company did not make any donations to political The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to parties during 2007 2006: nil.
Business subscriptions Report and Accounts and the financial statements.
The understand the impact of particular transactions, other were paid in the ordinary course of business to the Directors are required to prepare accounts for the Group events and conditions on the entitys financial position following trade organisations: Home Builders Federation in accordance with International Financial Reporting and financial performance: and of 311,000 2006: 192,000 and Homes for Scotland Standards IFRS and have elected to prepare Company of 20,000 2006: 20,000.
Both organisations are active financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, in supporting the interests of the housebuilding sector.
Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
having assessed the ability of the Company to continue Although a matter of interpretation, these payments could as a going concern, management either intends to In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are fall within the meaning of EU Political Expenditure as liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or has no required to prepare financial statements for each financial dened by section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 in realistic alternative but to do so.
year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs the case of payments made before 1 October 2007 or, of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company the meaning of political expenditure in section 365 of The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Companies Act 2006 in the case of payments made integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the the Directors are required to: on or after 1 October 2007.
United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differ from Select suitable accounting policies and then apply Policy on payment of suppliers legislation in other jurisdictions.
them consistently: The nature of the Groups operations means that there is no single Group standard in respect of payment terms This Report of the Directors was approved by the Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable Board of Directors on 5 March 2008. to suppliers.
Generally, subsidiaries are responsible for and prudent: establishing payment terms with suppliers when entering State whether applicable accounting standards have into each transaction or series of linked transactions.
In been followed, subject to any material departures the absence of dispute, valid payment requests are met disclosed and explained in the financial statements: as expeditiously as possible within such terms.
This policy continues to apply in 2008.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Trade creditor days for the Group for the year ended Company will continue in business.
This James Jordan is based on the ratio of year-end Group trade creditors The Directors are responsible for keeping proper excluding sub-contract retentions and unagreed claims Group Company Secretary and General Counsel accounting records which disclose with reasonable of 23.8 million 2006: 13.2 million and land creditors, Taylor Wimpey plc accuracy at any time the financial position of the see note 21 to the consolidated financial statements Company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking to amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of The Company had no significant trade creditors at fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation 31 December 2007. of a Directors Report and Directors Remuneration Report which comply with the requirements of the Agreements Companies Acts.
Pursuant to the Takeovers Directive Interim Implementation Regulations 2006, the Company is In the case of IFRS accounts International Accounting required to disclose whether there are any significant Standard 1 requires that financial statements present agreements to which the Company is a party that take fairly for each financial year the Companys financial effect after, or terminate upon, a change of control of position, financial performance and cash ows.
the Company following a takeover bid, and the effects This requires the faithful representation of the effects of any such agreements.
of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria Apart from a small number of borrowing agreements for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in pursuant to which the Company borrows or is able to the International Accounting Standards Boards borrow money and which could potentially be terminated Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of by the other party upon a change of control of the Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a Company, there are no significant contracts or fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with agreements which take effect, alter or terminate all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: upon a change of control of the Company.
Properly select and apply accounting policies: Important events since the year end Present information, including accounting policies, in There have been no important events affecting the a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings since and understandable information: 31 December 2007.
