Expertise and innovation More information and analysis is needed to understand the impact of the digital revolution.
TNS is investing in capabilities to provide clients with insight into changing consumer behaviour in this new world.
Insight Many market information companies claim they want to provide clients with insight.
For TNS, insight means providing clients with a view that will have a practical impact on their business.
It means making recommendations with a new or different perspective.
It means being industry thought leaders.
This is achieved through a strategic focus on Expertise and Innovation by having the best products and services in the industry, by continually seeking to improve them and by developing new services that give clients a better understanding of their consumers.
Capitalising on the revolution TNS is combining its expertise to provide clients with services that answer tomorrows marketing issues.
In Media, our advertising intelligence and audience measurement businesses have been integrated.
Each was already a leader in its eld: together they provide a powerful platform in the digital age.
In Consumer, we have pulled together the knowledge we hold across the group to provide clients with new insights into the area of shopper behaviour.
These changes make TNS a leading provider of understanding into consumer behaviour, whether that is in-store, on TV or online.
Barry Lemmon Global Head, Retail & Shopper Insights Richard Marks Global Sector Head, TNS Media Research Pat McCann European Head, Retail & Shopper Insights Andrew Bernstein President, TNS Media Intelligence Cymfony Retail & Shopper Developments in TNS Media Up to 70% of purchasing decisions are now In 2007, TNS continued to build on the strength made in-store.
Through the combination of of its digital media offering, both organically and our market-leading consumer panels, heritage through acquisition, with services in two areas in consumer custom research and newlythat are undergoing major transformation.
acquired specialist retail and shopper These services are being extended to clients consultancies, TNS provides clients with across the TNS network.
vital insight into that moment of truth.
A structural shift is taking place in measurement This combination of expertise gives TNS a of television audiences, due to the emergence unique position in the industry.
We help clients of digital broadcasting.
Using digital information with their key retail issues, including effective from the set-top boxes of huge household store design, optimal category placement, samples, TNS provides clients with granular, inimpact of merchandising, alignment of in-store depth understanding of their audiences viewing communication with brand equity, and brand behaviour.
This assists with media negotiations communication with in-store delivery.
and promotion planning, as well as realising the potential of addressable advertising.
In 2007, Retail & Shopper became an Area of Expertise within the TNS portfolio.
Online, there has been a surge in social networks and user-generated content: there are now over TNS is experiencing strong demand for these 70 million blogs.
Recently acquired Cymfony services from retailers and manufacturers allows clients to understand and act on what across the world.
bloggers, consumers and journalists are saying about brands across all media.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 13
