Delivering merger benets One Group uniquely positioned Welcome to the first Annual Report of Taylor Wimpey plc.
Following our successful merger and rapid integration to create the new Taylor Wimpey Group, we are well placed to Norman Askew Pete Redfern deliver business improvement.
This Chairman Group Chief Executive improvement will be made through our land and planning strategy, build cost efficiency, improved sales and customer care and the delivery of significant synergy benets.
Over the next nine pages we will give you a clear overview of how we plan to move forward in these key areas and demonstrate that the combined strengths of the new business put Taylor Wimpey in an excellent position for the future.
com The merger delivered a better balance to our landbanks in both the UK and North America.
Land and This provides the opportunity to add value through planning and development and a more stable base for the future.
planning As the UKs largest homebuilder and with increased scale in North America, Taylor Wimpey has Build cost significant opportunities for both procurement efficiencies and design and engineering savings.
efficiency Our enlarged business gives a greater ability to manage sales rates in order to maximise margin Sales and performance.
We continue to strive to deliver high quality homes and excellent levels of customer service.
customer care We are committed to delivering synergy exit rates of 70m by the end of 2008 and 100m Synergy by the end of 2009.
One-off merger related restructuring costs of 60m have been charged in 2007. benets Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3 Land is the lifeblood of our business.
Combining Taylor Woodrows strong strategic landbank and George Wimpeys well sourced short term land has delivered a well balanced landbank that puts Taylor Wimpey in an excellent position for the future.
com Land and planning 1 2 3 4 1 Strategic land In the UK, land with an implementable planning consent remains a scarce resource.
Competition for such land is intense resulting in relatively high purchase prices.
Our strategic land team is dedicated to identifying sites which do not currently have planning consent, but have good potential for future development.
We would typically agree a purchase option arrangement with the landowner and then work together to promote the site through the planning process.
Purchase options generally provide us with the ability to purchase the land at a discount to open market value when suitable planning consents are obtained.
We aim to increase the proportion of our UK home completions that are built on strategically sourced land over time.
2 Browneld land During 2007, 68% of our homes in the UK were built on browneld or previously developed land.
This classication incorporates a wide variety of former uses.
For example, our Axis development in Coventry is on the site of the former Peugeot works: our Grand Union Village development in West London is on the site of the former Taylor Woodrow head ofce: and our Modern Ice development in San Jos, California, is on the site of a former refrigeration and cold storage unit.
We regularly turn disused, neglected or contaminated land into thriving new communities.
Many of our developments integrate green spaces or wildlife areas and involve conservation work.
3 Developing communities Planning skills are a key element of our success.
The ability to develop sustainable communities is a key factor in winning land bids and also ensures that the nished developments are attractive and vibrant communities where people want and can afford to live.
More detail on this aspect of our business is provided in our separate Corporate Responsibility Report.
4 Taylor Woodrow Communities Our land development business in North America, Taylor Woodrow Communities, identies and acquires land suitable for housing.
We then masterplan the community and put in place the required infrastructure to support the building of homes.
Having identied the plots that best suit our product range, we sell on the remaining plots to other homebuilders.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5 Our merger provides us with tremendous opportunities to learn from the best practices of each of the legacy businesses and to benefit from the increased scale of our combined operations.
com Build cost efficiency 1 2 3 4 1 Specication We have reviewed the housetype ranges of the two legacy businesses in the UK in order to identify opportunities to reduce build costs.
A review of similar housetypes from the two ranges has identied significant opportunities for cost saving arising from differences in the underlying specications.
For example, changes to the design of the plumbing in some of our housetypes will result in reduced materials and installation costs.
2 Subcontractors Our increased scale means that we are able to offer subcontractors greater volumes of work and more certainty of future work.
This has enabled us to work collaboratively with many of our subcontractors to nd ways to reduce costs.
3 Build process We have undertaken a thorough review of the build processes used by the legacy businesses in both the UK and North America to identify the optimal approach for the combined business moving forward.
As an example, we have identied an opportunity to deliver significant potential savings on scaffolding costs by amending the build process to reduce the length of time that it is required on each plot.
4 Materials Our increased scale brings with it opportunities for cost savings on our material purchases.
In the first instance, we have undertaken an exercise to compare the prices paid for materials by each of the legacy businesses in order to take advantage of the best deals for future completions.
Beyond this, our scale enables us to work with our suppliers to establish how we can take costs out of the process of supplying our raw materials, to the benefit of both parties.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 In more challenging market conditions sales and marketing becomes an increasingly important element of our business.
The quality of our product and the standard of our customer care are essential to the success of our business.
com Sales and customer care 1 2 3 4 1 Outlets In the UK we reached our challenging target of having 500 active sales outlets by the end of 2007.
Having a larger number of outlets gives us greater exibility in the way in which we manage our business.
In more subdued market conditions, having a larger number of outlets means that we can accept a lower sales rate at each outlet and therefore prioritise margin over volume.
Having more outlets also gives us a greater degree of protection against the risk of planning delays on new outlets.
2 Dual branding Operating with two core brands in the UK Bryant Homes and George Wimpey enables us to offer a wider choice to customers at our larger sites.
It also enables us to use our land more efficiently, as we can build and sell homes more quickly on these sites once planning is obtained.
3 Quality Quality is fundamental to everything we do and is essential for our reputation and our profitability.
Moving home can be a stressful experience and the last thing that a customer wants is to move into a new home and discover a problem.
It is also much cheaper to get something right first time than to go back and rectify a fault.
4 Customer care We aim to provide the highest levels of customer care.
Following the merger we have reviewed the systems and processes in place in each of the legacy businesses to identify best practices for implementation during 2008.
In 2007, Monarch Homes was named the number one builder in terms of customer satisfaction in Ottawa, Canada, by the inuential JD Power and Associates survey.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 We remain on course to deliver our synergy target exit rates of 70 million by the end of 2008 and 100 million by the end of 2009.
These incorporate some of the build cost efficiencies outlined on pages 6 and 7, along with a number of other initiatives.
com Synergy benets 1 2 1 1 1 Procurement In addition to savings on site costs, we are reviewing the agreements in place for business services such as company cars and van eets, media and ofce supplies.
2 Sales efficiencies There are a number of areas where the merger will enable us to deliver savings on our combined selling costs.
A key component of this will be our advertising costs, where our enlarged scale gives us better bargaining power and enables us to make more efficient use of the advertising space that we buy.
3 Headcount In the UK we now expect a total of 593 roles to be removed from the business as a result of duplication.
We retained 37% of employees from ofce closures and found them jobs elsewhere.
We did our best to make relocation as straightforward, exible and nancially viable as possible.
In North America, the overall headcount reduction is of a similar scale, but this also includes actions taken as a result of the ongoing weakness in the US market.
4 Property costs The merger will deliver reductions in property costs in both the UK and North America as we optimise our business structure.
In the UK, we are closing the former Taylor Woodrow head ofce in Solihull and have closed four regional ofces.
In North America, we now have nine fewer divisions than the two legacy businesses combined.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11
