Service excellence and cost efficiency TNS believes that competitive pricing and high-quality service are complementary, not conicting objectives.
We use technology and economies of scale across all operations, coupled with driving up standards in online research, to provide greater benets for clients.
Not just the internet Although it has seen significant growth, the internet remains just one methodology for th data collection.
As well as expanding 6 dimension access panel coverage in Europe, Asia and Latin America and rapidly transitioning surveys online, TNS is actively involved in reducing overall data collection costs.
This includes the use of smart software to optimise call centre utilisation.
Looking across all operations At the same time as reducing costs of data collection, whatever the methodology, TNS is active in looking across its global operational structure to provide clients with a more efficient service.
Key initiatives include standardising systems, automation of the production process, off-shoring and the rationalisation of delivery systems.
Maintaining quality standards As well as improving operational effectiveness, TNS remains committed to maintaining standards of quality that clients can trust.
The integrity of data is especially important in online research and TNS has continued to take a leadership role in the industry, th based on its heritage, expertise and 6 dimension access panels.
Stephen Jenke Regional Director, ALM Mark Walton Regional Director, 6th dimension Dayalan P Senior Vice President, ORSC Interactive Research, ALM Jenny Abraham Global Off-shoring Director Robert Tomei Global Head, Access Panels A model of operational efficiency in Asia Leading the campaign on data quality TNS International Research Centre IRC in TNS is the worlds leading provider of online Hong Kong was established in 2004, as part research one of our industrys fastest-growing of a strategy to capture more of the growing areas.
It is not simply a means of cost-effective number of pan-regional and international data gathering but also has advantages that opportunities in Asia Pacic.
It advises on the stimulate client demand, such as increased most effective way to design, plan and manage rates of co-operation, continuous tracking projects across Asia Pacic and co-ordinates and more accurate completion of surveys.
It acts as an operational hub for the We think such benets can only be achieved region, including a sophisticated multi-lingual if panels are well managed.
Quality has always call centre and is the home of the regions been a key differentiator for TNS: we believe th 6 dimension online access panels.
we have the highest quality standards and In Hyderabad, TNS operates its own off-shoring response rates in the industry.
We also have centre, where more than 600 full-time employees the most extensive panellist proles, so we provide analysis, data processing, software can sample against complex criteria.
development, questionnaire scripting, charting In 2008, TNS is at the forefront of industry and online coding services to the group.
initiatives to improve quality in online research, TNS has extended these models to create communicating our 6 degrees of online quality operational centres in Belgium, North America to clients and chairing the Online Research and Argentina, as well as new locations for Quality Council for the US Advertising off-shoring in Tunisia and Bratislava.
centres are resourced with the people, systems and tools to ensure consistency across the globe.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9
