Impact of media fragmentation Online injection The internet has had a significant impact on the media landscape.
Internet advertising and eCommerce are now substantial markets in their own right.
Online content, whether generated by organisations or by users themselves, is displacing traditional media.
Lower cost and increased availability of broadband and new devices mean that internet usage is growing rapidly.
The move to digital television adds a further dimension.
Making sense of the new media world This new landscape and the associated changes in media consumption mean that the marketing model has become far more complex.
Mass advertising has become less effective but, at the same time, more expensive.
One of the consequences of these changes is that purchasing decisions are increasingly influenced by the retail environment.
Understanding consumer behaviour Companies need to understand how their consumers behave in this new world, especially as new technologies and the internet enable more effective, targeted marketing.
To take advantage of this, businesses must devise quite different marketing strategies, to achieve the correct mix between online and ofine.
Then there is the need to evaluate the effectiveness of their activities.
1.2bn internet users growing at 20% per annum Online advertising Growing consumption growing % of total of media content ad spend TV, video, music, games $20bn, growing 15% 16% internet users watch TV online a year 91% users will watch $575m behaviourally video online by 2011 targeted ad spend 2007 Growth in eCommerce Consumer connection: and influence on ofine social media purchases More than 75m blogs, 75,000 new blogs daily $211bn, growing 17%: 6% total retail 55% young people online use social Internet inuences networking sites 40% ofine sales New devices and technologies Access content and communicate in new interactive ways Source: TNS, IWS, eMarketer, IAB, Jupiter Research, Forrester, Technorati, Lenhart & Madden, IDC, Canalys All gures refer to US www.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 11
