Governance Board of Directors Norman Askew David Williams Baroness Dean of Thornton-le-Fylde Chairman Senior Independent Director Independent Non Executive Director Appointed a Director and Chairman in July 2003.
He Appointed a Director in July 2007.
He is the Senior Appointed a Director in July 2007.
She is a member chairs the Nomination Committee and is a member Independent Director.
He is a member of the Audit, of the Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
His current Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
She is a member of the appointments include the Chairmanships of IMI plc, Finance Director of Bunzl plc until January 2006 and a House of Lords, a member of the House of Lords Derby Cityscape and of the Board of Governors of the non executive director of George Wimpey Plc.
He is the Appointments Commission and is active in a number University of Manchester.
Senior Independent Director at Mondi PLC and a non of public areas.
She is Chairman of the New Covent executive director of Meggitt PLC, DP World Ltd, a Garden Market Authority, a Partnership Director of Pete Redfern Dubai quoted company, and Tullow Oil plc.
National Air Trafc Services and a non executive director Group Chief Executive of Dawson Holdings PLC.
She was previously a non Mike Davies Appointed a Director and Group Chief Executive in July executive director of George Wimpey Plc.
He is a member of the Nomination and Corporate Independent Non Executive Director Andrew Dougal Responsibility Committees.
Previously Chief Executive of Appointed a Director in October 2003.
He was the George Wimpey Plc, he was appointed Group Chief Senior Independent Director until 3 July 2007.
He is a Independent Non Executive Director Executive of the Company following the merger.
He was member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Appointed a Director in November 2002.
A Chartered previously Finance Director of Rugby Cement and Committees.
In March 2007 Mike was appointed as Accountant, he is Chairman of the Audit Committee successively Finance Director, Managing Director and Chairman of The Royal Mint.
He is also Chairman and a member of the Nomination and Corporate Chief Executive of George Wimpeys UK housing of Marshalls plc and a non executive director of Responsibility Committees.
He is a director of Premier business.
He was formerly a director of Farnell plc and Creston plc.
He was formerly Group Williams Holdings plc.
Finance Director of Hanson, the conglomerate, until its demerger and subsequently Group Chief Executive of Hanson Plc, the international building materials company, and a non executive director of BPB plc.
com Katherine Innes Ker Anthony Reading MBE James Jordan Independent Non Executive Director Independent Non Executive Director Group Company Secretary and Appointed a Director in July 2001.
She is Chairman of Appointed a Director in July 2007.
He is Chairman of General Counsel the Corporate Responsibility Committee and a member the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Appointed in July 2007.
James a solicitor, is the Taylor of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Tony was previously Wimpey plc Group Company Secretary and General Katherine has considerable experience as a financial a director of Tomkins Plc and Chairman and Chief Counsel.
He was the Group Company Secretary and analyst in the media sector.
She is Chairman of Executive of Tomkins Corp. USA, and a non executive General Counsel of George Wimpey Plc and had held Shed Productions plc and a non executive director director of George Wimpey Plc.
He is a non executive that position since appointment in February 2002. of Ordnance Survey and recently stood down as a director of The Laird Group Plc, Spectris Plc and e2v Age 46. non executive director of Gyrus Group plc.
Peter Johnson Ian Sutcliffe Audit Committee Current members: Andrew Dougal Committee Chairman, Group Finance Director Chief Executive, Taylor Wimpey UK Mike Davies, Anthony Reading and David Williams.
Peter is Appointed a Director in July 2007.
He is a member Corporate Responsibility Committee an experienced financial executive with a strong of the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
Ian was Current members: Katherine Innes Ker Committee background in financial services and property appointed Chief Executive, Taylor Wimpey UK following Chairman, Norman Askew, Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal, investment, in the UK and North America.
He was previously Managing Director of Pete Redfern and Ian Sutcliffe.
a non executive director of Shanks Group plc and George Wimpeys UK Housing business and prior to Nomination Committee Oriel Securities Limited.
Age 53. that held a number of senior positions within Royal Current members: Norman Askew Committee Dutch Shell plc.
Chairman, Mike Davies, Brenda Dean, Andrew Dougal, Katherine Innes Ker, Anthony Reading, Pete Redfern and David Williams.
Remuneration Committee Current members: Anthony Reading Committee Chairman, Mike Davies, Brenda Dean, Katherine Innes Ker and David Williams.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39
