Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Delivering responsibly The group has an active Equal TNS takes a global view of its Opportunities Policy from recruitment and selection, through training and responsibilities as an employer development, to appraisal and promotion.
Wherever possible vacancies are advertised internally and its role in the community.
and due consideration is given to all applications for positions of employment, regardless of gender, race, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, sexual orientation, religious or political beliefs.
Four areas of focus The group is supportive of continuing TNS has a commitment to being Applying global standards of behaviour the employment and advancement of a responsible business, which employees who become disabled Being a responsible employer is sponsored at board level by during their employment and, wherever Behaving with consideration for Chief Executive, David Lowden.
This necessary, provides appropriate training.
the environment commitment covers four main areas: The group aims to comply with all health Supporting the community.
and safety and related legislation in the various countries and legal jurisdictions in which it operates, particularly in seeking to provide a safe and positive working environment for all employees.
Applying global standards Over recent years, TNS has increased of behaviour its emphasis on keeping employees TNS strives to operate as a truly well informed regarding the strategy global company and has in place global and performance of the business and standards of behaviour.
These standards of issues relevant to their locality.
An are described in the TNS code of overview of our internal communications conduct, which provides comprehensive initiatives can be found on page 29. guidance and assistance on how we Additional communication takes place should conduct business throughout with employee representatives in the TNS and on how we should manage Works Councils that exist in several relationships with our stakeholders: European countries.
customers, employees, shareholders, The group actively encourages employee financial institutions and other business partners.
participation in its future through share ownership.
A total of 4,907,336 shares In addition, the group adheres to the were allocated to the groups share plans professional standards and codes of in 2007.
Further detail regarding these conduct of market research associations allocations and employee participation in the countries in which it operates.
is included in the directors remuneration report on pages 50 to 54.
The TNS code of conduct forms the basis of the standards TNS expects Behaving with consideration its employees to meet.
There is also an for the environment expectation that all joint venture partners and third parties with whom the group Taking a group perspective does business will be made aware of As a market information and insight and adhere to this code.
provider, TNS has a relatively low impact on the environment.
This has been Being a responsible recognised by our low impact weighting employer in the FTSE4Good Index, of which we are a member.
However, we recognise that TNS is committed to attracting, training and developing high calibre individuals we have a responsibility to lessen our environmental impact as far as possible.
This commitment is described in more We have in place a group-level environmental policy, which states that detail on pages 28 to 29.
TNS is committed to achieving its business and organisation goals while www.
com ALM UK energy performance The ALM regional board has agreed a co-ordinated regional approach.
Drilling 2006 performance 2007-2009 target 2007 performance down to the country level, many ALM Consumption reduced by: Reduce energy Consumption reduced by: ofces have advanced initiatives in place.
consumption and Electricity 12% Electricity 3% Our Hong Kong ofce is a good example.
CO emissions by 2 Gas 22% Gas 3% Its Green Age team has measured the a further 5%.
business carbon footprint and is CO 24% CO 3% 2 2 establishing a policy to reduce it.
The team is organising an educational programme to increase awareness within TNS and minimising the negative effect its activities available for the first time in 2008.
Best externally, together with activities that have on the environment.
The overarching practice will be shared and encouraged directly benefit the environment.
policy states that TNS will: throughout TNS, using examples of Initiatives in 2008 include: a half-day the initiatives various group businesses Comply with the requirements of tree planting programme involving staff have taken to reduce their and families, with the aim of planting at environmental legislation and approved environmental impact.
codes of practice least 2,000 trees: cleaning litter from... and acting locally a Hong Kong beach: monitoring staff Assess the environmental impact of While TNS has only recently issued a household energy usage with a prize current and likely future operations detailed group-wide environmental policy, for the family that most reduces its we are aware that there is already a usage: challenging other ALM ofces Continuously seek to improve to match or better electricity and environmental performance significant amount of activity locally.
Europe Reduce pollution, emissions and waste Across the region, energy conservation Reduce the use of all raw materials, is encouraged, waste materials are energy and supplies recycled as far as practical and there is professional disposal of electrical and Raise awareness, encourage computer goods.
participation and train employees in environmental matters Taking the UK as an example, TNS UK reports annually on energy performance Expect similar environmental standards as shown in the table above and waste from suppliers and contractors management performance.
In waste Assist customers to use products management, levels of recycling were and services in an environmentally increased from 31 per cent in 2006 to sensitive way.
47 per cent in 2007 and the amount of waste going to landll was reduced by In practical terms, the policy document a further 25 per cent, following a 15 per offers guidance on how its businesses cent reduction in the previous year.
can understand, reduce and monitor their environmental impact.
The group North America Planting seeds as part of TNS Hong Kong has identied three areas that are Good environmental practices are Green Age initiative.
particularly relevant to TNS and actively encouraged.
Most sites have published detailed best practice comprehensive recycling programmes guidance for each.
These areas are: and systems for safe disposal of electrical and computer goods.
The Energy utilisation company uses document destruction Recycling vendors that recycle their output for building insulation.
energy consumption: The group environmental policy and best In major locations, lighting is changed practice guidance can be found in full on every three years to assure efficiency the TNS website.
Timed dimmer switches are in use TNS is also beginning to calculate its estimated carbon footprint, using New capital expenditure focuses information collected by a sample of on energy efficient technology.
businesses and based on the three key impact areas listed above.
This information will start to become TNS Hong Kong staff support World Environment Day 2007.
TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Directors Report Directors Report Financial Shareholder Business Review Governance Statements Information Delivering responsibly Imagine in Cambodia Supporting the community In Cambodia, the majority of young Partnering with UNICEF children, especially in rural areas, The global partnership approach that is miss out on early learning opportunities.
such a key driver of our service to clients To help tackle the problem, TNS is also extends into our community funding a UNICEF project that enables involvement.
In 2005, TNS entered into communities to set up and run their own its first three-year commitment with community pre-schools an important UNICEF, which for 60 years has been element in UNICEFs efforts to rebuild the worlds leader for children, working communities in rural Cambodia.
on the ground in 156 territories to help In October 2007, we reached our threechildren survive and thrive, from early year fund raising target of US$388,000.
TNS people have raised this money The response from TNS people has been through a range of diverse and innovative outstanding and is a clear illustration of fund raising activities, as well as direct our organisation working as one team Pre-schoolers receive first paper plane donation.
The energy and enthusiasm across the world.
The UNICEF Imagine making lesson from Tim Kidd.
they have put into this task is a clear project is given a high prole in group illustration of the passion that they also communications and at senior show in their work.
Funds have also management conferences, underlining the come from respondents to our research, groups commitment to this relationship.
who have generously donated their incentives to Imagine.
The money will allow UNICEF to build 120 pre-school shelters.
47 have already been completed using TNS funds and they are proving to be more than just an educational facility: they are now acting as a centre for village activities and are attended by 1,175 children.
UNICEF actively works with each communitys commune council, to identify how the shelters are built, taking on board local construction concerns and costs.
TNS has provided $1,000 to each of 24 commune councils, to help them plan and manage the projects.
The programme has also provided 899 community pre-school teachers with training and technical assistance.
An important element of TNS Imagine is giving our employees an opportunity to see the project in action.
In November, three TNS people selected for their contribution to local fund raising, witnessed rsthand the real difference that TNS is making, in equipping the next generation for the future.
They met Peu Nom, the deputy village chief in Ang Kanh.
She now has a dedicated site where she can teach the communitys children, which provides a symbol to the community of the importance of education.
They saw that basic childrens rights, hygiene and sanitation are taught Stephanie Bennett sees rsthand how children have the opportunity as part of the curriculum developed by to play in a safe environment funded by TNS employees.
com Extending the partnership UNICEF.
This better understanding of annual survey for the Fundacin hygiene and sanitation has reduced TNS also uses its business expertise Empresa y Sociedad, of which we are to support UNICEF as a client.
Over the sickness and directly improved prea member, looking at peoples views school and primary school attendance past five years, TNS Opinion in Brussels on the social policies of companies and has conducted three multi-country levels, as well as health in the village banks.
We also provide market information community as a whole.
projects, the results of which have helped services to La Fageda, a foundation UNICEF raise awareness and define that employs people with disabilities.
Imagine in Malawi action plans to increase income through The next three years of the Imagine North America donations and fund raising activities.
programme will involve funding Our ofces in the region actively Childrens Corners in Malawi.
These The UNICEF partnership began when support over 40 national and local are dedicated community buildings set the group made a donation in response charities, through fund raising, donation up by UNICEF to support the thousands to the tsunami disaster.
One example mirrors of orphaned children in Malawi, who have TNS has worked closely with UNICEF the group partnership approach to client lost their parents to AIDS.
Childrens to review and monitor the tsunami relief relationships.
In collaboration with one Corners are a safe place for children to effort in Aceh and has played a key role of its clients, Luxottica Group, a leading learn, play and come to terms with their in prioritising future activities.
UNICEF designer, manufacturer and distributor loss.
We are challenging TNS people also sought advice from TNS to evaluate of prescription frames and sunglasses, from around the group to raise $600,000 the social development effort behind the TNS participates in the Gift of Sight that will fund more than 40 Childrens national avian inuenza initiative in which programme, which provides free vision Corners and train over 180 communityUNICEF, the Indonesian Government and care and eyewear to people in need in based care workers.
In this way, TNS will many other organisations work together North America and around the world.
be acting as a global team to provide a to educate people about avian inuenza ALM better future for more than 12,000 prevention.
Based on this experience, Staff at TNS Worldpanel Philippines children in one of the poorest countries TNS is now conducting similar work reacted immediately when they learned in the world.
for The Academy of Educational that some of their panellists lived in the Development in the Mekong region.
areas hit by Typhoon Durian and within This work is being conducted from our five days had launched a campaign to Vietnam ofce, which is building a strong help.
Donations of all kinds clothes, body of work with UNICEF, particularly blankets, groceries were packed and in Cambodia.
The cash donated was used to buy sacks of rice Working with our local for each of the affected panel households.
communities Employee volunteering TNS is aware of its position in the local The group recognises the positive impact communities in which it operates and the that volunteering can have on individual group encourages local management to employee development and team play an active part in those communities.
building and encourages companies to This activity takes many forms and the facilitate this.
During 2007, for example, following are a few examples to illustrate 50 people from TNS UK split into small our local community involvement.
teams and spent a day gardening, Europe creating a vegetable plot and painting In Poland, TNS Obop is a member of the nursery at a primary school local the Foundation for Corporate Social to the groups corporate ofce.
Responsibility, a group of sociallyPanel incentives responsible companies that takes a Spain, the Netherlands and the US proactive stance against social injustices are just a few examples of countries in the communities in which those where panel members are offered the $388,000 companies operate.
TNS has supported opportunity to donate their incentives the Foundation in the supply of school raised by TNS employees across to a number of charitable causes, world to support pre-school meals to deprived children living in including UNICEF Imagine.
education in Cambodia Northwest Poland.
The business has also conducted pro-bono work related to In 2007, the group made charitable a social programme against corruption.
Examples of predominantly pro-bono work children in Malawi will be helped by new TNS Imagine project can be found in Spain.
We conduct an TNS Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33
