28 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate governance report continued Board Committees The Board has established three committees to deal with specific aspects of the Groups affairs: Audit, Remuneration and Nominations.
The terms of reference of these Committees are available on the Groups website.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each of the Committees and the minutes are generally circulated to all Directors.
Audit Committee The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board with the discharge of its responsibilities in relation to internal and external audits and controls, including reviewing and monitoring: I annual and half year financial information including consideration of the appropriateness of accounting policies and material assumptions and estimates adopted by management: I management reports to the Board on risk and internal contro ls and the Groups public statements on these matters: I internal audit reports: I the Groups whistleblowing policy, which was adopted during the year: I dev elopments in accounting and reporting requirements: I the Committees effectiveness: I t he performance and independence of the external auditors concluding in a recommendation to the Board on the reappointment of the auditors by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The auditors provide annually a letter to the Committee confirming their independence and stating the methods they employ to safeguard their independence: I the audit and nonaudit fees charged by the external auditors: and I the formal engagement terms entered into with the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has also implemented procedures relating to the provision of nonaudit services by the Companys auditors, which require nonaudit work and the fees involved to be approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee above a fide minimis level of 25,000.
The Audit Committee will normally meet at least three times a year.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Simon Batey and its other members are John OReilly and Robert Morse.
The Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee recommends what policy the Company should adopt on executive remuneration, determines the levels of remuneration for each of the executive Directors and recommends and monitors the structure of the remuneration of other members of senior management.
This committee also considers and approves the Directors Remuneration Report to be submitted for approval by the members of the Company at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee will normally meet at least twice a year.
The Directors Remuneration Report is contained on pages 31 to 34.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by John OReilly and its other members are Simon Batey, John Hughes and Ian Nolan.
It is envisaged that Michael Tobin, as Chief Executive Officer, may from time to time be invited to attend meetings of the Committee, save where the Committee is dealing with matters relating to him.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee assists the Board in determining the composition and makeup of the Board.
It is also responsible for periodically reviewing the Boards structure and identifying potential candidates to be appointed as Directors, as the need may arise.
The Nominations Committee also determines succession plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
Before recommending the appointment of a nonexecutive Director the Committee establishes that the prospective Director can give the time and commitment necessary to fulfil their duties, in terms of availability both to prepare for and attend meetings and to discuss matters at other times.
This Committee will meet when appropriate.
It is chaired by John Hughes and its other members are Simon Batey and Sergei Riabtsov.
It is envisaged that Michael Tobin, as Chief Executive Officer, will normally be invited to attend meetings of this Committee, save where it is dealing with matters relating to him or with the appointment of his successor.
29 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings convened in the Period, along with the number of meetings that they were invited to attend is set out below: Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Number of meetings in period 2 1 1 Attended Attended Attended Executive Directors Michael Tobin 2 2 1 1 1 1 Brian McArthur Muscroft 2 2 1 1 Nonexecutive Directors John Hughes 2 2 1 1 Simon Batey 2 2 1 1 1 1 John OReilly 2 2 1 1 1 1 Robert Morse 2 2 1 1 Ian Nolan 2 2 1 1 Sergei Riabstov 2 2 In addition, during the preceeding period from 1 January 2007 to 28 October 2007 the previous Board met 15 times.
Board performance The Board will carry out a review of its performance and effectiveness during 2008.
Relations with shareholders The Group encourages dialogue with all shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and during the year.
The Chairman and Committee Chairmen will be present at the Annual General Meeting to deal with any matters raised by shareholders and all other Directors are encouraged to attend.
The Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director meet or speak with investor representatives regularly during the year to discuss strategic and other issues within the constraints imposed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
On the announcement of the Groups annual and half year results, the Chief Executive Officer and Group Finance Director will give presentations to institutional investors and analysts and hold a series of onetoone briefings with key shareholders.
Copies of the presentations will be made available on the Groups website.
The Board receives regular reports on meetings with shareholders from the Chief Executive Officer in order to ensure that members of the Board, and in particular the nonexecutive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as an alternative channel of communication with the Board.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for the Groups systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risks faced by the business and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Executive Directors and staff meet to review both the risks facing the business and the controls established to minimise those risks and their effectiveness in operation on an ongoing basis.
The aim of these reviews is to provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems are identified and appropriate action taken at an early stage.
Reports on this review process have been submitted to the Audit Committee and the Board to enable them to assess the effectiveness of the process and ensure that the Group complies with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The Board has not identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions is not considered appropriate.
The key risks identified in these review processes are summarised in the Business Review on page 19.
The Board confirms that procedures to identify, evaluate and manage the significant risks faced by the Group have been in place throughout the period and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal financial control framework, which are reviewed annually, are: I the close involvement of the executive Directors, including regular meetings with the Senior Management Team to review all operational aspects of the business: I clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The Board has responsibility for strategy and has adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision: I a comprehensive Groupwide system of financial reporting, budgeting and cash forecasting and control.
Financial accounts are prepared monthly and submitted to the Board.
Profit and cash flow forecasts are prepared at least annually, and revised when necessary, to monitor actual performance: and I regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee at which financial information is reviewed and business risks are identified and monitored.
