30 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 corporate governance report continued Internal control continued During December 2007 the Group introduced internal audit arrangements.
The internal audit arrangements are coordinated by the Head of Financial Reporting and operate through a system of peer reviews performed by the regional Finance Managers.
Due to the short length of time from the establishment of the internal audit arrangements to the year end, the Board has not received any formal reports in relation to such arrangements.
The main aims of the internal audit arrangements are to ensure that: I an effective system of internal control is being maintained at a divisional and Group level: I the financial information produced by the divisions is accurate, relevant and is produced on a timely basis: I the Groups assets are safeguarded: I statutory and legal requirements are being met: I controls are in place to mitigate known risks: and I the divisions are consistently applying the Groups policies and procedures.
Going concern Comprehensive financial forecasts have been prepared and submitted to the Board for review.
Based on the information contained in these forecasts, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Areas of noncompliance Three nonexecutive Directors are considered nonindependent due to personal interest in the shares of the Company either directly, or as a partner, shareholder, Director or senior employee of a body that has such a relationship with the Company.
As such the Company does not currently comply fully with the Combined Code provisions in respect of the composition of the Board and its Committees.
Two of these Directors are nominated under the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into at the time of the Companys IPO, the terms of which are explained in note 28 of the financial statements.
The Board considers that the appointment of a sufficient number of independent nonexecutive Directors to achieve full compliance with the Combined Code at this time would make the Board unwieldy, and that there is adequate independent representation on the Board for the time being.
The Company intends to move to full compliance with the Combined Code in due course as the requirements under the Relationship Agreement change.
Although no senior independent nonexecutive Director had been appointed during the period, Simon Batey has been appointed to this role since the year end.
Due to the short length of time since admission to the London Stock Exchange to the year end, the nonexecutive Directors did not meet without executive Directors present nor separately also without the Chairman present.
For the same reason, the Board did not conduct a review of its performance and effectiveness during the Period nor a review of the performance and effectiveness for individual Directors for the period.
It is intended that the Company will comply with these provisions during 2008.
On behalf of the Board Simon Batey Chairman of the Audit Committee 7 March 2008 31 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 directors remuneration report This report, which has been prepared in accordance with Schedule 7A to the Companies Act 1985 the Act as supported by the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002 and the Listings Rules of the Financial Services Authority, outlines the membership and workings of the Remuneration Committee the Committee and provides an explanation of the components of the Groups remuneration policy together with details of Directors remuneration in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007.
As required by the Act, a resolution to approve this Report will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Auditors are required to report to shareholders regarding Directors remuneration, descriptions of the Groups LongTerm Incentive Arrangements and Sharesave Scheme and the information contained in Tables 1 and 2 in this Report the auditable parts and to state whether, in their opinion, these parts of the Report have been properly prepared in accordance with the Act.
In preparation for the Companys admission to the London Stock Exchange Admission, the Company changed the membership of its Board and its Remuneration Committee.
The following commentary relates to the period from Admission on 29 October 2007 to the year end the Period.
Membership of the Remuneration Committee The Committee is comprised solely of nonexecutive Directors and has been chaired since Admission of the Company to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange by John OReilly.
Other members of the Committee who served during this period are John Hughes, Ian Nolan and Simon Batey.
John Hughes was appointed as a member of the Committee in accordance with Combined Code which permits the Chairman of a company, where he is deemed independent on appointment as Chairman, to be a member of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee met once during the Period to consider the employment terms and remuneration of executive Directors and remuneration policy matters generally.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the fee level of the Groups Chairman.
The fees of nonexecutive Directors are determined by the Board itself.
Whilst the Chief Executive Officer may at the invitation of the Chairman attend Committee meetings, the other executive Directors do not normally attend.
No Director has any involvement in decisions regarding his own remuneration.
Ernst & Young LLP provided independent external advice during the period to assist the Committee in formulating its recommendations to implement the remuneration policy.
Ernst & Young LLP was appointed by the Committee and only provides advice to the Group in respect of Directors remuneration.
Remuneration policy The key policy objective of the Committee is to secure and retain highcalibre executive Directors with the skills, experience and motivation necessary to direct and manage the affairs of the Group so as to maximise shareholder value on a sustainable basis.
The Committee aims to align its remuneration policies with the Groups medium and longterm strategy.
This is achieved by a combination of: I a basic salary package, including benefits in kind, which recognises the responsibilities of individual Directors: I the Annual Bonus Scheme, which provides rewards which reflect the performance of the Group and the contribution of individual Directors in a particular year: I longterm incentives which incentivise executives to deliver sustained improvement in financial performance and shareholder returns over a period of years: and I a pension contribution, which funds retirement benefits.
In determining the components of total remuneration, the Committee at the time of the Companys IPO put in place a remuneration policy for executive Directors that is strongly linked to performance.
In doing so, it set salary levels and annual bonus potentials for these individuals that are below the median level for a business of this size and complexity.
However, it set relatively high caps on salary multiples for grants under the Telecity Group Performance Share Plan.
The intention is that, in absolute terms, executive Directors are entitled to a median level total remuneration package comprising a below median salary and an above median longterm incentive package.
Should the Remuneration Committee change its policy on the level of salaries paid to executive Directors, then it would review both salary levels and the salary multiple for grants under the Telecity Group Performance Share Plan.
A review of the Groups policy on executive remuneration is planned for 2008, which will include consideration of independent advice.
Terms of employment Each executive Directors employment is terminable on six months notice by the executive Director and twelve months notice by the Company.
The Company may elect to terminate the employment of an executive Director by making a payment equal to basic salary, Company pension contributions, contractual benefits and, in respect of annual bonus, an amount equal to 40% of annual basic salary for the twelve months notice period or any unexpired portion thereof.
Details of the executive Directors service contracts are set out below: Date of contract Effective date Michael Tobin 5 October 2007 5 October 2007 Brian McArthur Muscroft 5 October 2007 5 October 2007 Executive Directors are permitted to accept external appointments with the prior approval of the Board and where there is no impact on their role with the Group.
Any fees arising from such appointments may be retained by the executive Director where the appointment is unrelated to the Groups business.
Fees from external appointments are disclosed in this report.
32 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 directors remuneration report continued Salaries, benefits and pension arrangements The annual salaries for the executive Directors were set at Admission at 300,000 and 200,000 for Michael Tobin and Brian McArthur Muscroft respectively.
The first review of these salaries is scheduled to be effective from 1 January 2009 at which point it is intended that market information provided by the Committees independent advisor will be considered along with the individuals performance and experience in their role.
The benefits provided to each executive Director are life assurance, medical insurance for themselves and family and permanent health insurance.
The Group makes a pension contribution of between 5% and 7% of basic salary in respect of each executive Director.
Beyond this, the Group has no further obligation in respect of funding Directors pensions.
Annual Bonus Scheme Each executive Director is entitled to an annual bonus.
From 1 November 2007, each of the executive Directors will be entitled to an annual bonus of 40% of annual base salary for ontarget performance and, where performance exceeds this level, a bonus up to a total of 50% of annual basic salary may be paid.
Bonus payments will be based on the extent that the corporate or individual performance targets set by the Remuneration Committee are achieved or exceeded in the relevant year.
The targets for 2008 are based on a number of challenging financial measures.
The bonus is not pensionable.
LongTerm Incentive Arrangements The Telecity Group Performance Share Plan the PSP The PSP permits the grant of two different types of incentive, performancerelated awards of Ordinary shares and performancerelated grants of options to acquire Ordinary shares at fair market value at the date of grant.
The Remuneration Committee will not both award Ordinary shares and grant options under the PSP in the same year to any one individual.
The first award of Ordinary shares or options are expected to be made following the preliminary announcement of the Companys results for the year ended 31 December 2007.
It is anticipated that awards will generally be made on an annual basis thereafter.
Executive Directors and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries who are required to devote substantially the whole of their working time to the business of the Group are eligible to participate in the PSP.
Participation is at the discretion of the Remuneration Committee.
The Committee will decide whether to grant options or awards, and the level of options and awards to be granted.
It will also set the policy for the operation of the PSP, for example by agreeing performance targets and individual grant levels.
Under the PSP, eligible employees may be granted performance related awards entitling them, at the end of a threeyear period the Vesting Date, to a number of Ordinary shares determined by reference to performance over that period.
The maximum number of Ordinary shares which may be awarded to an eligible executive Director in any financial year calculated by reference to the market value of those Ordinary shares at the date of the award shall not exceed 250% of annual basic salary save in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee determines in its discretion that it is necessary and appropriate to exceed this limit.
In relation to awards of options, each executive Directors participation will be limited so that the aggregate price payable on the exercise of all options granted to him or her in any year under the PSP will not exceed 450% of the participants annual basic salary at the date of grant, save in exceptional circumstances where the Remuneration Committee determines in its discretion that it is necessary and appropriate to exceed this limit.
Prior to the granting of awards on any occasion, the Remuneration Committee will determine a performance target for awards which it considers to be appropriately demanding and which will be described to shareholders in the Directors Remuneration Report for the relevant year.
For 2008, it is intended that the performance targets will be based around Total Shareholder Return as compared with other FTSE 250 companies, excluding investment trusts.
Vesting is expected to be based on a sliding scale ranging from median to upper quartile performance.
To the extent that new Ordinary shares are to be issued to satisfy share awards under the PSP, or sharesave scheme described below, no awards may be granted if it would cause the aggregate number of Ordinary shares capable of being awarded under those schemes together with any new schemes in the future during the preceding ten years to exceed 10% of the Companys share capital at the proposed date of grant.
The Telecity Group IPO Share Option Plan the SOP The SOP enabled the Company to grant options to acquire Ordinary shares at the offer price at the time of the IPO to eligible key employees.
The purpose of the SOP is to provide an incentive to key employees which will vest at appropriate dates in the period prior to the vesting of the first awards under the Performance Share Plan, expected to be in or around March 2011.
The Remuneration Committee considered that the most appropriate way to incentivise and retain key employees during this period was to grant options which vest in tranches in 2009 and 2010.
Each option will vest in two equal tranches: the first half in September 2009, and the remaining half in September 2010.
In view of their retention objective, the vesting of these options will be dependent on continued service, but not subject to any corporate performance target.
Options will remain exercisable until ten years after the date of grant.
This is the only grant of options to be made under the SOP and no further grants will be made under it in the future.
The market value of Ordinary shares over which options could be granted to an executive Director under the SOP was 450% of the executive Directors annual basic salary at the date of grant.
Options granted under the SOP will be satisfied using Ordinary shares issued for this purpose to the Groups Employee Benefit Trust at Admission to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange.
