20 Tesco PLC Annual report and financial statements 2007 Find out more at www.
com corporate Directors report The Directors present their annual report to shareholders Share capital on the affairs of the Group and Company, together with the The authorised and called up share capital of the Company, audited financial statements of the Group and the audited together with details of the shares allotted and bought back financial statements of the Company for the year ended during the year, are shown in note 24 of the financial 24 February 2007. statements.
Details of treasury shares held by Tesco PLC are shown in note 25 of the financial statements.
Principal activity, business review and future developments Companys shareholders The principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated The Company has been notified that as at the date of this activities in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, Hungary, Poland, report, the following shareholders own more than 3% of the the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Turkey, Thailand, South Korea, issued share capital of the Company: Malaysia, Japan and China.
Fidelity International FMR Corporation 5.85% For a review of the business of the Group including: a Legal & General Assurance description of the key activities, future developments including Pensions Management Limited 3.96% our plans to open stores in the United States and an analysis Barclays PLC 4.81% of the key risks and uncertainties including financial risk Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any ordinary management strategy, see the Operating and Financial shareholders with interests of 3% or more in the issued share Review on pages 3 to 19 of this document.
Group results Directors and their interests Group revenue rose by 3.2bn to 42.6bn, representing The Directors who served during the year were: an increase of 8.1%.
Mr D E Reid: Mr D T Potts: Group profit before tax increased by 418m, to 2,653m.
Profit Mr R F Chase: Mr C L Allen: for the year was 1,899m, of which 1,892m was attributable to equity holders of the parent.
SirTerryLeahy: Mrs KRCook: Mr R Brasher: Mr E M Davies: Dividends Mr P A Clarke: Dr H Einsmann: The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of Mr A T Higginson: Mr K J Hydon: and 6.83 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 6 July 2007 to Mr T J R Mason: Ms C McCall.
members on the Register at the close of business on 27 April 2007.
Together with the interim dividend of 2.81 pence per Miss L Neville-Rolfe: ordinary share paid in December 2006, the total dividend for The biographical details of the present Directors are set out the year will be 9.64 pence compared with 8.63 pence for the in the separately published Annual Review and Summary previous year, an increase of 11.7%.
Mr E M Davies, Dr H Einsmann, Mr K J Hydon, Mr D T Potts Fixed assets and Mr D E Reid retire from the Board by rotation and, being Capital expenditure excluding business combinations eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Miss L Neville-Rolfe amounted to 3.0bn compared with 2.8bn the previous year.
joined the Board in December 2006 and as required by the In the Directors opinion, the properties of the Group have Articles of Association, will offer herself for election.
a market value in excess of the carrying value of 14,598m The interests of Directors and their immediate families in the included in these financial statements.
In the year we received shares of Tesco PLC, along with details of Directors share net proceeds of 454m from our new property joint venture options, are contained in the Directors remuneration report with the British Airways Pension Fund.
At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
A qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in Section 309B 1 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended is in force for the benefit of each of the Directors and the Company Secretary who is also a Director of certain subsidiaries of the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
In respect of those liabilities for which Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout the financial year.
THE BOARD AND THEIR RESPONSIBILITIES 21 Employment policies Going concern The Group depends on the skills and commitment of its The Directors consider that the Group and the Company have employees in order to achieve its objectives.
Staff at every level adequate resources to remain in operation for the foreseeable are encouraged to make their fullest possible contribution to future and have therefore continued to adopt the going the success of Tesco.
concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
As with all business forecasts, the Directors statement cannot guarantee A key business priority is to deliver an Every little helps that the going concern basis will remain appropriate given the shopping experience for customers.
Ongoing training inherent uncertainty about future events.
programmes seek to ensure that employees understand the Groups customer service objectives and strive to achieve them.
Events after the balance sheet date The Groups selection, training, development and promotion On 20 March 2007, the Group formed a property joint venture policies ensure equal opportunities for all employees regardless with The British Land Company PLC.
The limited partnership of factors such as gender, marital status, race, age, sexual contains 21 superstores which have been sold from and leased preference and orientation, colour, creed, ethnic origin, religion back to Tesco.
The Group sold assets with a fair value of or belief, or disability.
All decisions are based on merit.
approximately 650m to the joint venture which had a net book Internal communications are designed to ensure that value of approximately 350m: 50% of the resulting profit will employees are well informed about the business of the Group.
be recognised within profit arising on property-related items These include a UK staff magazine called One Team and the with the remaining percentage deferred on the balance sheet equivalents in our overseas businesses, videos and staff in accordance with IAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures.
In March 2007, the Group issued two bonds: 500m paying Staff opinions are frequently researched through surveys and interest at 5.2%, maturing in 2057 and 600m paying interest store visits.
We work to deliver Every little helps for all our at 5.125%, maturing in 2047. people across the Group.
Employees are encouraged to become involved in the financial Auditors performance of the Group through a variety of schemes, A resolution to re-appoint  LLP principally the Tesco employee profit-sharing scheme Shares as auditors of the Company and the Group will be proposed in Success, the savings-related share option scheme Save As at the Annual General Meeting.
You Earn and the partnership share plan Buy As You Earn.
Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information Political and charitable donations as defined by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 Cash donations to charities amounted to 17,698,393 of which the Groups auditors are unaware, and each of the 2006 15,047,768.
Contributions to community projects Directors has taken all the steps he should have taken as a including gifts-in-kind, staff time and management costs, Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit amounted to 43,412,965 2006 41,768,741. information and to establish that the Groups auditors are There were no political donations 2006 nil.
During the year, aware of that information.
the Group made contributions of 41,608 2006 54,219 in the form of sponsorship for political events: Labour Party Annual General Meeting 11,000: Liberal Democrat Party 5,350: Conservative Party A separate circular accompanying the Annual Review and 4,218: Progressive Democrat Party 2,213: Fine Gael 1,476: Summary Financial Statement 2007 explains the special Fianna Fail 1,408: the Republic of Ireland Labour Party 234: business to be considered at the Annual General Meeting Trade Unions 15,709.
Supplier payment policy By Order of the Board Tesco PLC is a signatory to the CBI Code of Prompt Payment.
Mr Jonathan Lloyd Copies of the Code may be obtained from the CBI, Centre Company Secretary Point, 103 New Oxford Street, London WC1A 1DU.
Payment 16 April 2007 terms and conditions are agreed with suppliers in advance.
Tesco PLC Tesco PLC has no trade creditors on its Balance Sheet.
The Registered Number: 445790 Group pays its creditors on a pay on time basis which varies Registered in England and Wales according to the type of product and territory in which the Registered Office: Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, suppliers operate.
Hertfordshire EN8 9SL VAT Registration Number: GB 220 4302 3
