1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MANAGEMENT 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Dr Thomas Middelhoff Non Executive Chairman Dr Thomas Middelhoff is Chairman of the management board of Arcandor AG.
He is also Chairman of Senator Entertainment AG, The Polestar Group Limited and moneybookers.
com Limited and is on the board of the New York Times Company.
Dr Middelhoff was previously Head of Europe for Corporate Investment at Investcorp International and Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer of Bertelsmann AG.
Committees: Member of the Audit and Risk Management, Nominations and Management Development and Remuneration committees.
Michael Beckett Non Executive Deputy Chairman.
Senior Independent Non Executive Director Mr Beckett is a non executive director of Northam Platinum and Orica Limited Australia.
Mr Beckett was previously chairman of London Clubs International plc, Ashanti Gold elds Company Limited, Clarkson plc and WBB Minerals Limited: formerly managing director of Consolidated Gold Fields plc.
Committees: Chairman of the Nominations and Management Development and Remuneration committees, member of the Audit and Risk Management and Health, Safety and Environmental committees.
Manny Fontenla-Novoa Group Chief Executive Of cer Mr Fontenla-Novoa is also a director of Worldchoice Marketing Limited a dormant company, Hispano Alemana fide Management Hotelero S. A. and Mediterranean Touristic Management S. L. Mr Fontenla-Novoa was previously group chief executive of cer of Thomas Cook UK and Ireland for three years.
Committees: Member of the Health, Safety and Environmental committee.
Ludger Heuberg Group Chief Financial Of cer Mr Heuberg is also a director of Hispano Alemana fide Management Hotelero S. A. Mediterranean Touristic Management S. L. and Viajes Iberoservice S. A. Mr Heuberg was previously head of the supervisory board of Delvag Rck and the CFO of Lufthansa Cargo AG.
Prior to this he was CFO of  AG and a director of Mauser Waldeck AG.
David Allvey Independent Non Executive Director Previously a non executive director of MyTravel Group plc, Mr Allvey is also non executive Chairman of Arena Coventry Limited and non executive Chairman of Costain Group plc.
He also holds non executive roles at Intertek Group plc, Resolution plc and William Hill plc.
Mr Allvey was previously group finance director of Barclays Bank plc, BAT Industries plc and Allied Zurich plc and was chief operating of cer of Zurich Financial Services AG.
Committees: Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Member of the Health, Safety and Environmental committee.
36 | THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Roger Burnell Independent Non Executive Director Formerly a non executive director of MyTravel Group plc.
Mr Burnell was previously chairman of Home Form Group Limited, chief operating of cer and a director of Thomson Travel Group plc, chairman of The First Resort Limited and chairman of International Life Leisure Group Limited.
Committees: Chairman of the Health, Safety and Environmental committee, member of the Audit and Risk Management, Nominations and Management Development and Remuneration committees.
Dr Peter Diesch Non Executive Director Dr Diesch is currently CFO of Arcandor AG.
He is also a supervisory board member of Delton AG.
Dr Diesch was previously CFO and HR Director of Linde AG, CFO and HR director of Tchibo Holding AG and CFO of Airbus GmbH.
Hemj Klein Independent Non Executive Director Mr Klein is currently Chairman and CEO of Live Holding AG and was formerly a member of the executive board of Lufthansa AG and was a member of the executive board of Deutsche Bundesbahn and Deutsche Reichsbahn.
He has also held the position as chairman of the supervisory board of each of Sixt AG, DER Deutsches Reiseburo GmbH and Condor Flugdienst GmbH.
He was previously chairman of the board of directors of Amadeus SA and is a former member of the supervisory board of TUI AG.
He is a past chairman and president of the German National Tourist Board.
Committees: Member of the Management Development and Remuneration and Health, Safety and Environmental Committees.
Bo Lerenius Independent Non Executive Director Since April 2004, Mr Lerenius has been a non executive director of G4S plc and since June 2004 has been a non executive director of Land Securities Group PLC.
He is a non executive director of a Swedish company, Ittur Construction, which has announced its intention to list on the Swedish Stock Exchange in 2009.
Group chief executive of ABP Holdings PLC until March 2007 and a non executive director until 31 December 2007.
Prior to joining ABP, between 1992 and 1998 he was chief executive of listed ferry company Stena Line.
Between 1998 and 1999 he was vice chairman of Stena Line and director of new business at Stena AB.
From 1985 to 1992 he was group president and chief executive of Swedish listed building materials group, Ernstomgruppen.
Mr Lerenius became chairman of the Swedish Chamber of Commerce for the UK on 15 June 2007.
Committees: Member of the Audit and Risk Management committee.
Dr Angus Porter Independent Non Executive Director Formerly a non executive director of MyTravel Group plc.
Dr Porter is Global Chief Executive Of cer of Added Value Group.
Dr Porter was previously an executive director, and chairman of the customer board, of Abbey National plc, and managing director of British Telecoms consumer division.
Committees: Member of the Nominations and Management Development and Remuneration committees.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 | 37
