1 2 3 4 5 6 7 MANAGEMENT CONTINUED 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 SENIOR MANAGEMENT Dr Peter Fankhauser Chief Executive Of cer Continental Europe Thomas Cook Group plc Member of the management board at Thomas Cook AG.
Peter Fankhauser is responsible for the German sales market as well as the Western and Eastern European markets.
Having joined Reisebro Kuoni AG in 1989, within six years he was appointed director general and member of group management of Kuoni Reisen Holding AG in Zurich.
In that capacity, he was in charge of managing the Companys European division, with responsibility for six subsidiaries as well as market expansion.
Soon, his remit extended to all group subsidiaries outside Switzerland and the UK.
In 1999 he moved to LTU Group in Dusseldorf as Chief Executive Of cer.
Two years later, he was appointed a member of the Board of Thomas Cook AG and in 2003 became chief product of cer of Thomas Cook Group and Group Chief Executive Of cer of Thomas Cook Germany.
Michael Friisdahl Chief Executive Of cer North America Thomas Cook Group plc Before the merger, Michael Friisdahl was Chief Executive Of cer of MyTravel Group North America.
Previously, he had served as president, MyTravel Group North America and before that was president of MyTravel Group Canada.
Michael Friisdahl began his career in Canada with Nordic Tours, a company that had been founded by his family and subsequently acquired by Abercrombie & Kent.
In 1987, he re-purchased Nordic Tours and expanded it to become Canadas first national wholesaler consolidator.
In 1999 the Nordic Travel Group and Holiday House merged to create a national full-service FIT wholesale organisation called The Holiday Network.
Michael Friisdahl was President and Chief Executive Of cer of The Holiday Network when it was acquired by MyTravel plc in May 2000.
Ralf Teckentrup Chief Executive Of cer Airlines Germany Thomas Cook Group plc Member of the Management Board of Thomas Cook AG.
In addition to his role as Group Chief Executive Of cer of the Groups German airline, Condor, Ralf Teckentrup is in charge of purchasing and IT for Thomas Cook Germany.
He has served on the Board of Thomas Cook AG since 2004.
He began his career at Lufthansa AG, where he was closely involved in reorganisation projects and cost-cutting programmes.
He joined the airlines executive board in 1992, going on to become Senior Vice President controlling and Executive Vice President for network management and marketing for Lufthansas passenger business.
Following a reorganisation in 2003, he became responsible for the passenger airlines network management, IT, airport infrastructure and purchasing.
Sam Weihagen Chief Executive Of cer Northern Europe Thomas Cook Group plc Sam Weihagen has been in travel for the past 32 years and has run the Northern Europe division as Group Chief Executive Of cer since 2001.
Sam was the former MyTravel Northern Europe Chief Executive and was a MyTravel plc Board member from 2004 until the merger.
During his long service with the Company Sam has served the Company in several capacities, including commercial director, with responsibility for purchasing and ight planning.
Sam also serves as chairman of the Tour Operating Federation in his native Sweden.
38 | THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Dr Jrgen Bser Chief Financial Of cer Thomas Cook UK & Ireland Jrgen Bser is responsible for strategic development, finance, tax, information technology and procurement for Thomas Cook UK Ltd.
Prior to this, Jrgen worked for Thomas Cook AG in Germany for three years as Group head of controlling and M&A.
Before joining Thomas Cook, Jrgen occupied senior positions within Siemens Financial Services international consulting rm, Booz Allen & Hamilton and Westdeutsche Landesbank, Germanys largest public sector bank.
Pete Constanti Executive Director Holidays Division Thomas Cook UK & Ireland An executive Director since 2005, Pete Constanti has 24 years travel industry experience, working for ILG and then Sunworld where he was HR Director.
In his current role, Pete is responsible for the operational and service elements of the enlarged tour operating business for Thomas Cook UK.
This includes call centre operations, preand post-departure customer services, overseas purchasing and overseas operations, as well as the Companys hotel interests.
Ian Derbyshire Executive Director Holidays Division Thomas Cook UK & Ireland Ian Derbyshire is Thomas Cooks executive Board Director for the Holidays Division, responsible for the yield, product and publishing functions of Thomas Cook, JMC, Sunset, Thomas Cook Signature and Thomas Cook Sports Ian Derbyshire joined the business in 2000.
Prior to joining Thomas Cook, Ian held senior positions within the leisure and travel sector with companies such as Holiday Autos, The Rank Group and Co-op Travel and has 22 years of travel experience.
Mark Nancarrow Managing Director Financial Services Thomas Cook Mark Nancarrow came to Thomas Cook from Egg, where he had risen to become Chief Executive Of cer.
Previously, he had served as Eggs Chief Information Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer and Chief Operating Of cer.
Before that, he had ten years experience at HSBC, where his responsibilities included credit cards, central operation and business re-engineering.
Trained as an accountant, he has also worked for Unilever and Shell.
Frank Pullman Executive Director Airline Thomas Cook UK & Ireland Following the merger, Frank was appointed executive Director for the combined airline and is now responsible for Thomas Cook Airlines.
Frank has 37 years travel experience.
He joined BEA as an engineer and remained with what later became British Airways for the next 21 years, holding various senior positions including management of four terminals at Heathrow.
After running the airlines worldwide cargo operation, he left to become managing director of Luton Airport in 1991.
Frank Pullman joined MyTravel in 2000 as managing director of Sun Cruises.
Three years later, he returned to his roots in aviation to become managing director of MyTravel Airways.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 | 39
