1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT 11 12 13 14 15 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors present their Annual Report, together with the financial P T McHugh appointed 8 February 2007 and resigned 31 December 2007 statements and independent auditors report for the period from Dr T Middelhoff appointed 28 March 2007 incorporation on 8 February 2007 to 31 October 2007.
Dr A J Porter appointed 28 March 2007 On 19 June 2007, Thomas Cook AG TC AG merged with MyTravel Further details regarding the continuing Directors are set out on pages Group plc to become Thomas Cook Group plc TCG plc.
Details of the interests of the Directors required to be noti ed purposes the transaction is treated as a business combination effected under Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2R at the end of the period by a new parent company, TCG plc.
Whilst for accounting purposes this and changes during the period are set out in the Remuneration Report is a reverse acquisition of TCG plc by TC AG, the overall effect is that at pages 56 to 64.
TC AG is treated as the acquirer of both TCG plc and MyTravel Group plc.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES The statutory results for TCG plc for the year to 31 October 2007, The following factors may affect the Groups operating results, therefore, include the full year of trading for TC AG and the trading of financial condition and or the trading price of the Companys shares.
MyTravel Group plc for the period from 19 June 2007 to 31 October 2007.
The risk factors described below are those which the Directors believe The comparative information includes the full year of trading of TC AG are potentially signi cant but this should not be regarded as a complete for the year ended 31 October 2006 and none of the MyTravel Group plc and comprehensive statement of all potential risks and uncertainties results.
All the TC AG results have been prepared based on the accounting related to an investment in the Company.
policies referred to in note 2.
Trading risks ENHANCED BUSINESS REVIEW The trading performance of the Group may be affected by a number Thomas Cook Group plc continues the combined businesses of Thomas of factors outside its control, including: Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc following their merger on 19 June 2007.
The principal business of the combined group is the supply of packaged wars, international unrest, political uncertainty or additional security requirements affecting air travel: holidays in the major European leisure travel markets and Canada.
Thomas Cook Group plc was incorporated on 8 February 2007 as acts of terrorism, particularly in key tourist destinations, or epidemics Shakespeareco plc.
It changed its name to Thomas Cook Group plc on such as avian u, or the threat of either, which may materially disrupt 12 February 2007.
On 19 June 2007 the Company completed the merger or adversely affect international travel: of Thomas Cook AG and MyTravel Group plc by the acquisition of the earthquakes or other natural disasters in key tourist destinations: entire issued share capital of Thomas Cook AG and by way of a scheme of arrangement approved by the High Court on 18 June 2007, the weather conditions, both in places where its customers live and in key tourist destinations: acquisition of the entire issued share capital of MyTravel Group plc.
In each case the acquisition was made in exchange for the issue of changes in customer preferences or behaviour: shares in the Company to the former shareholders of those companies.
As a consequence, the Company became the holding company of the increased operating costs: combined group.
increases in government taxes or levies: A comprehensive review of the development and performance of labour shortages or other adverse labour market conditions, increased the Group during the period from the incorporation of the Company labour activity or additional health and safety regulation: and to 31 October 2007 is included in the Business Review on pages 25 to 27 and Financial Review on pages 28 to 35. general economic conditions in its key markets of the UK and Ireland, Germany, Austria, Northern Europe, Belgium, the Netherlands, France, RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS Poland, Czech Republic, Hungary and Canada.
The pro t after taxation for the period ended 31 October 2007 These factors may affect the Group by, among other things, reducing amounted to 225.5 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend demand as its potential customers choose not to, or become unable of 5p per ordinary share.
No interim dividend was paid during the period.
Reductions in demand in an industry with capacity that in DIRECTORS the short term is xed, for example, in terms of pre-arranged aircraft The Directors who served during the period were: seats or accommodation, can lead to overcapacity with associated pressure on margins.
These factors may also affect booking patterns, J S Allkins appointed 11 February 2007 and resigned 28 March 2007 D P Allvey appointed 28 March 2007 for example, increased political and economic uncertainty may lead to an increased propensity for customers to book closer to departure, which M E Beckett appointed 28 March 2007 J M Bloodworth appointed 28 March 2007 and resigned 31 December 2007 as a result of relative in exibility in capacity could increase the risk that holidays which remain unsold late in the season will have to be sold at R D Burnell appointed 28 March 2007 Dr P Diesch appointed 28 March 2007 prices that are signi cantly less than the costs of providing them, or will remain unsold.
Adverse impacts arising as a result of trading could M Fontenla-Novoa 8-11 February 2007 and re-appointed 28 March 2007 L Heuberg appointed 28 March 2007 necessitate or cause a write-down or impairment of the Groups goodwill or intangible assets.
H Klein appointed 1 July 2007 B Lerenius appointed 1 July 2007 THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|43 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 11 12 13 14 15 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Risk of a decrease in the use of cash Foreign currency services could be targeted by money launderers.
A primary part of the Groups foreign currency services business depends The Groups foreign currency services business is required to comply on cash exchanges.
As the use of credit, debit and smart cards becomes with applicable anti-money laundering, antiterrorism and other laws more widespread the use of cash may decrease.
The Groups foreign and regulations in the UK, Germany and other jurisdictions in which it currency services business would be adversely affected if cash were operates.
While the Group has policies and procedures aimed at detecting to become obsolete or signi cantly less utilised.
As many banks allow and preventing the use of its foreign currency services business for customers to withdraw cash from automated teller machines ATMs money laundering activities, such policies and procedures may not in local currencies, people may convert currencies in this manner rather completely eliminate instances where such business is used by other than by exchanging cash at a bureau fide change.
The Groups foreign parties to engage in money laundering and other illegal and improper currency services business would be adversely affected to the extent activities.
To the extent the Group may fail to fully comply with applicable that travellers obtain more of their local currency by withdrawing anti-money laundering laws and regulations, the relevant government it from ATMs.
agencies who supervise such business have the power and authority to impose fines and other penalties on the Group.
In addition, the reputation Competition and or goodwill of the Group could potentially be adversely affected In its principal markets, the Group will face competition from a range if third parties use its foreign currency services business for money of tour operators, some of which are large and well-established.
It will laundering or other illegal or improper purposes.
also face competition from internet-based distributors and low fare airlines.
Competitive pressures could affect the ability of the Group Changes in law otherwise affecting tour operators, travel agencies to secure bookings at satisfactory levels and acceptable margins.
and or their businesses could result in the Group having to assume additional or increased liability and or having increased exposure Regulatory and legal risks to litigation by customers and other third parties.
Throughout its operations, the Group requires regulatory licences and approvals.
These regulatory requirements vary depending on the area Interest rate, exchange rate and commodity risks of operation and the speci c activity.
Failure to satisfy any necessary Interest rate risk arises from the extent to which the Group holds interest regulatory criteria or requirements whether financial or operational, rate-sensitive assets or is exposed to interest rate-sensitive liabilities.
or changes which may be in force from time to time, could result in the Exchange rate risk arises principally where the Groups revenue and suspension, revocation or non-renewal of one or more of the necessary expenditure are transacted in different currencies or assets and liabilities licences which, in certain cases, depending on the particular licence are denominated in currencies other than the Euro.
The Groups exposure or approval concerned, could result in the cessation of an operation.
to uctuations in exchange rates can be categorised as follows: In particular, in the European countries in which the Groups airlines Transactional exposure relates primarily to the cost of acquiring operate, an air carrier is permitted to operate airline services only if it accommodation and aircraft capacity.
These costs are in many cases is majority-owned, and effectively controlled, by EEA member states or denominated in US dollars or in local currencies of the places where their nationals.
The carrier must be able to demonstrate this at any time.
holidays are provided, which may differ from the currencies in which Failure to do so may result in the revocation of, or a refusal to issue, the holidays are priced to customers.
In addition, the Group prices its carriers operating licence or route licences.
Accordingly, the Company holidays in brochures published a number of months in advance of the must be and remain majority-owned and effectively controlled by EEA time that people travel and the exchange rates used by the Group to member states or their nationals in order for its airlines to maintain their determine those prices may therefore differ signi cantly from those operating and route licences.
In addition, there may be national ownership applicable at the time costs are incurred in providing those holidays restrictions applicable to the grant of route licences to the Groups airlines.
and or receipts are received.
Based on the Companys share register as at 28 January 2008 the Translation exposure arises because investments in foreign subsidiaries latest practicable date prior to the publication of this document, less or other net assets are held in currencies other than Euro.
than 16 per cent of the Companys Shares are held by persons other than nationals of EEA member states.
The Articles give the Directors powers The Groups principal exposure to exchange rate uctuations is in relation to limit the ownership of the Companys shares by non-EEA nationals to the Euro sterling, Euro US dollar and sterling US dollar exchange rates.
and a number of additional powers to enforce this limitation, including Commodity risk, which arises from the Groups aviation operations, the right to require a shareholder to sell its shares if appropriate evidence relates to the risk of variations in the cost of jet fuel, which over recent of nationality is not produced.
years has experienced very large movements.
In addition, the airline industry is heavily regulated and changes to Operational risks regulations frequently occur.
For example, new regulations have recently Operational risks include those which could result from a potential been proposed which could impose stricter requirements in relation to breakdown in individual business units or the Groups control of its nightying and environmental emissions.
It may not be possible to pass human, physical and operating resources.
The potential financial loss on to customers increased costs which may result from new regulations, or loss of reputation arising from failures in internal controls, aws or or otherwise mitigate their impact, and the Groups financial performance malfunctions in computer systems, and poor product design or delivery, could therefore be adversely affected.
all fall within this category.
44|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Aircraft and hotel properties used in the operations of the Group been a party to an act, or a deliberate failure to act, which had as its main are exposed to the risk of losses from, among other things, accidents, purpose or one of its main purposes the avoidance of pension liabilities.
terrorist attacks, acts of sabotage and natural catastrophes.
The Pensions Regulator can only issue a contribution notice where it believes it is reasonable to do so.
A person holding, alone or together The Group may not be insured against all such losses, including liability with its associates, directly or indirectly, one-third or more of the voting and expenses arising as a consequence of any resulting civil law claims.
power of the Company could be the subject of a contribution notice.
Furthermore, the occurrence of such events, whether affecting the Groups own aircraft or properties or those of third parties, or other The terms associate and connected person, which are taken from factors giving rise to adverse publicity whether justi ed or not, the Insolvency Act 1986, are widely fide ned and could catch signi cant may result in a reduction in demand for the Groups products, harm shareholders of the Company.
its reputation or otherwise affect adversely the public perception If the Pensions Regulator considers that any of the employers participating of the Group or of the businesses which it operates.
in the DB Schemes are insuf ciently resourced or a service company, The Groups ability to receive, process and manage reservations, and it may impose a financial support direction requiring any member of the other critical business and operational functions, including its financial Group, including the Company, or any person associated or connected and aviation systems, depends on the ef cient and uninterrupted with such an employer, to put in place financial support in relation to one operation of its IT systems.
These systems are vulnerable to damage, or more of the DB Schemes.
power loss, computer viruses, third party disruptions, re and similar Such a financial support direction might involve, among other things, events.
Any signi cant disruption to the Groups IT systems would putting in place a parent company guarantee for the liabilities of the adversely affect its ability to carry on its businesses ef ciently.
In addition, as with all companies for which the internet is an important Liabilities imposed under a contribution notice or financial support sales channel, the Group is reliant on the availability to customers direction may be up to the difference between the value of the assets of its websites.
Disruption to the Groups websites, however caused, of the DB Scheme concerned and the cost of buying out the bene ts could adversely affect the Groups businesses.
of members and other bene ciaries of the relevant DB Scheme.
The Group is dependent on third parties for certain aspects of its In addition, the Pensions Regulator is required to be noti ed of certain businesses and operations.
For example, the Group has outsourced events.
Events may occur in the future which need to be noti ed to the substantial IT and infrastructure to third parties.
It is also supplied Pensions Regulator.
A noti able event could result in the Pensions with various services, including aircraft maintenance and catering, Regulator exercising his power to impose a contribution notice by Lufthansa.
Failure by those third parties to maintain critical services or financial support direction.
or supplies could lead to disruption of those businesses and operations, In practice, the risk of a contribution notice being imposed may restrict which could affect adversely the Groups results.
the freedom of the Group to restructure itself or undertake certain Pension obligations corporate activities without first seeking agreement of the trustees of The Group operates a number of fide ned bene t pension schemes the DB Schemes and, possibly, the approval of the Pensions Regulator.
The Groups obligations in respect of the DB Additional security may need to be provided to the trustees of the DB Schemes are partly covered through pension funds and are partly Schemes before certain corporate activities can be undertaken, and any accrued for on the balance sheet.
There are various risks which could additional funding of the DB Schemes may have an adverse effect on the affect adversely the funding and or liabilities of the DB Schemes and, Groups financial condition and the results of its operations.
consequently, the Groups funding obligations, liabilities and or pro ts, TRANSACTION AND INTEGRATION RISKS such as a signi cant adverse change in the market value of the pension The Board believes that the annualised pre-tax cost bene ts arising from assets of the DB Schemes, an increase in pension liabilities, longer life a combination of the MyTravel and Thomas Cook businesses will be expectancy of pension plan members, later retirement ages or the at least 200 million per annum once the full bene ts of the Merger are trustees of the DB Schemes altering investment strategy.
This is an increase of 60 million from the synergies expected at 2007, the Groups DB Schemes, were in a combined net fide cit position the date of the Merger.
It is expected that the full bene ts will be realised of 251.4 million.
Any increase in the fide cit in the DB Schemes may result within 24 to 30 months following completion of that merger in June 2007. in a need to increase the Groups pension contributions.
Any increase in However, there is a risk that these cost bene ts may fail to materialise such contributions could have an adverse impact on the Groups financial or that they may be lower than have been estimated, which may have condition and the results of its operations.
an impact on the pro tability of the Group going forward.
While a number The Pensions Regulator in the UK has power in certain circumstances of key decisions have already been taken and are in the process of being to issue contribution notices or financial support directions which, if executed, if the remaining integration process proves more dif cult than issued, could result in the Company or members of the Group becoming anticipated, or if the focus on this process impacts on the performance subject to signi cant liabilities.
The Pensions Regulator may issue of its business, there is also a risk to the results or operations of the a contribution notice to any employer in the DB Schemes or any person Group.
This integration may take longer than expected, or dif culties who is connected with or is an associate of any such employer where relating to the integration may arise.
It is estimated that the integration the Pensions Regulator is of the opinion that the relevant person has and reorganisation costs associated with achieving these cost bene ts THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|45 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 11 12 13 14 15 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED will be no more than the annualised pre-tax cost bene ts arising from carry the right to attend, speak and vote at general meetings of the the combination including capital expenditure, and will be incurred over company and are admitted to trading on the Of cial List of the London the period of 12 to 18 months following Completion, although it is expected Stock Exchange.
The deferred shares carry no right to the pro ts of the that these will be substantially front-ended.
These costs have resulted in Company.
On a winding up the holders of the deferred shares would an exceptional charge in the accounts of the Group in the current financial be entitled to receive an amount equal to the capital paid up on each year and are likely to do so in the next financial year.
There is a risk that deferred share.
The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to the integration and reorganisation costs associated with achieving these receive notice of or to attend and or speak or vote whether on a show cost bene ts will exceed the estimated cost.
of hands or on a poll at general meetings of the Company.
RISKS RELATING TO INVESTMENT IN THE COMPANYS SHARES The Board intends to proceed with a programme of repurchasing Share price uctuations and market conditions around 375 million worth of the Groups shares, subject to obtaining Investors should be aware that the value of an investment in the the necessary shareholder approvals.
Companys Shares may go down as well as up.
SHARE TRANSFER RESTRICTIONS The market value of shares can uctuate and may not always re ect The Articles are designed to ensure that the number of the Companys the underlying asset value.
A number of factors outside the control of shares held by non-EEA nationals does not reach a level which could the Company may impact on its performance and the price or liquidity jeopardise the Companys entitlement to continue to hold or enjoy the of the Companys Shares, including the operating and share price bene t of any authority, permission, licence or privilege which it or any performance of other companies in the industries and markets in which of its subsidiaries holds or enjoys and which enables an air service to the Group operates, speculation about its business in the media or the be operated each an Operating Right.
In particular, EC Council investment community, changes to its revenues or pro t estimates, the Regulation 2407 92 on licensing of air carriers requires that an air carrier publication of research reports by analysts and general market conditions.
must be majority-owned and effectively controlled by EEA nationals.
Arcandors position as majority shareholder The Articles allow the Directors, from time to time, to set a Permitted Arcandor AG holds directly or indirectly 52 per cent of the Companys Maximum on the number of the Companys shares which may be owned shares on a fully diluted basis.
As a result, Arcandor will have the voting by non-EEA nationals at such level as they believe is in compliance with majority necessary to block or adopt certain resolutions of the Companys the Operating Rights, provided that the Permitted Maximum shall not shareholders.
Arcandor will therefore be able to exercise in uence over be less than 40 per cent of the total number of issued shares.
the Company, although the relationship agreement between Arcandor, The Company maintains a separate register the Separate Register MyTravel Group plc and the Company states, as a general principle, that of shares in which non-EEA nationals, whether individuals, bodies the Group will carry on its business independently of Arcandor, having corporate or other entities have an interest such shares are referred to regard to the interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole.
The as Relevant Shares in the Articles.
An interest in this context is widely concentration of ownership may have the effect of delaying or deterring fide ned see below.
The Directors may require relevant members or other offers by third parties to purchase some or all of the outstanding the persons to provide them with information to enable them to determine Company Shares or otherwise to bid for ownership of the Company.
Such whether shares are, or are to be treated as, Relevant Shares.
If such delay or deterrence could deprive holders of the Company Shares of information is not provided then the Directors will be able, at their opportunities to receive a premium for the Company Shares as part of a discretion, to determine that shares to which their enquiries relate be sale of the Company, and that possibility may prospectively have treated as Relevant Shares.
Registered shareholders will also be obliged a negative effect of the market price for the Company Shares.
to notify the Company if they are aware either a that any share which Further, although Arcandor agreed in the Relationship Agreement which they hold ought to be treated as a Relevant Share for this purpose: it has entered into with the Company in June 2007 the Relationship or b that any share that they hold, which is treated as a Relevant Share, Agreement that neither it, nor any member of the Arcandor group, should no longer be so treated.
In this case, the Director shall request will subject to certain exceptions dispose of any of its holdings of the such information and evidence as they require to satisfy themselves that Companys shares for a period of 12 months following completion the share should not be treated as a Relevant Share and, on receipt of of the merger, the Arcandor group may subsequently sell all or part such evidence, shall remove particulars of the share from the Separate of its holding of the Companys shares.
Such a sale could result in an Register.
If the Directors determine that such action is necessary increase in supply of the Companys shares in the market which would to protect any Operating Right due to the fact that an Intervening in turn negatively impact the market price for the Companys shares.
Act an Intervening Act being the refusal, withholding, suspension or revocation of any Operating Right or the imposition of materially SHARE CAPITAL STRUCTURE inhibiting conditions or limitations on any Operating Right in either case, The share capital of the Company is divided into two classes of share.
by any state or regulatory authority has taken place or is contemplated, The Companys authorised ordinary share capital is 200,000,000 threatened or intended, or the aggregate number of Relevant Shares divided into 2,000,000,000 ordinary shares of 0.10 each and 50,000 is such that an Intervening Act may occur or the ownership or control divided into 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each.
Ordinary shares carry the of the Company is such that an Intervening Act may occur, the Directors right to the pro ts of the Company available for distribution and to the may, among other things: i identify those shares which give rise to the return of capital on a winding up of the Company.
The ordinary shares need to take action and treat such shares as affected shares Affected 46|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Shares see below : or ii set a Permitted Maximum on the number Existing holders of Shares will be recorded on the Special Register unless of Relevant Shares which may subsist at any time which may not, save and until they have certi ed, to the satisfaction of the Company, that they in the circumstances referred to below, be lower than 40 per cent of the are EEA nationals.
total number of issued shares and treat any Relevant Shares in excess of A person shall be deemed to have an interest in relation to TCG Shares if: this Permitted Maximum as Affected Shares see below.
The Directors may serve a notice an Affected Share Notice in respect of any i such person has an interest which would subject as provided below Affected Share.
An Affected Share Notice can, if it so speci es, have the be taken into account, or which he would be taken as having, in effect of depriving the registered holder of the right to attend, vote and determining for the purposes of Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006 speak at general meetings which he would otherwise have had as a whether a person has a noti able interest: or consequence of holding such shares.
Such an Affected Share Notice can, ii he has any such interest as is referred to in Part 22 of the Companies if it so speci es, also require the recipient to dispose of the Affected Act 2006 but shall not be deemed to have an interest in any shares in Shares so that the Relevant Shares will then cease to be Affected which his spouse or any infant, child or stepchild or, in Scotland, pupil Shares within 21 days or such longer period as the Directors may or minor of his is interested by virtue of that relationship or which he determine.
The Directors are also given the power to sell such Affected holds as a bare or custodian trustee under the laws of England or as Shares themselves where there is non-compliance with an Affected Share a simple trustee under the laws of Scotland, and interested shall be Notice at the best price reasonably obtainable at the relevant time on construed accordingly.
AGREEMENTS RESTRICTING THE TRANSFER OF SHARES In deciding which shares are to be dealt with as Affected Shares the Under the Relationship Agreement, Arcandor AG has agreed to certain Directors in their sole opinion will determine which Relevant Shares may restrictions on the ability of it and other members of the Arcandor group give rise to the fact of risk of an Intervening Act occurring and, subject to of companies to acquire further shares in the Company.
Under these any such determination, will have regard to the chronological order in restrictions, members of the Arcandor Group may not, subject to certain which particulars of Relevant Shares have been, or are to be, entered in the exceptions, acquire further shares in the Company without the prior Separate Register unless to do so would in the sole opinion of the Directors consent of the Board, provided that such consent will be given for be inequitable.
If there is a change in any applicable law or the Company or a purchase of up to 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital any subsidiary receives any direction, notice or requirement from any state unless such purchase would prejudice the Companys ability to maintain or regulatory authority, which, in either case, necessitates such action to the free oat required by the Listing Rules, or result in the Company overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act, then the Directors may either: becoming a close company.
i lo wer the Permitted Maximum to the minimum extent that they consider APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD necessary to overcome, prevent or avoid an Intervening Act: or Under the articles of association of the Company, the Company by ii resolve that any Relevant Shares shall be treated as Affected Shares ordinary resolution and the Board each has power to appoint a Director and the Conversion Permitted Maximum.
The rights of the Directors either to ll a vacancy or as an additional Director up to the maximum referred to above apply until such time as the Directors resolve that of twenty Directors.
Any Director appointed by the Board shall retire grounds for the making of a determination have ceased to exist, at the subsequent Annual General Meeting.
whereupon the Directors must withdraw such determination.
AMENDMENTS TO THE ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Permitted Maximum is set at 40 per cent.
This Permitted The articles of association of the Company may be amended Maximum may be varied by the Directors.
If the Directors resolve to by a special resolution of the Company.
vary the Permitted Maximum to deal with shares as Affected Shares SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY or relax the ownership limitations, they shall publish in at least one national newspaper in the United Kingdom and in any other country It is the Companys policy to comply with the terms of payment agreed with its suppliers.
Where payment terms are not negotiated, the Company in which the shares are listed notice of the determination and of any Permitted Maximum.
The Directors shall publish, from time to time: endeavours to adhere to suppliers standard terms.
As at 31 October 2007, the Company had no trade creditors.
As such, the disclosure regarding i information as to the number of shares particulars of which have the number of days credit taken by the Company for trade purchases been entered on the Separate Register: and at 31 October 2007 is not possible.
ii any Permitted Maximum which has been speci ed.
ENVIRONMENTAL FACTORS The Directors may not register any person as a holder of shares unless The Group takes seriously its responsibility towards the environment such person has furnished to the Directors a declaration, together which is one of the key areas of our corporate responsibility strategy.
with such evidence as the Directors may require, stating a the name Details of the Groups policies and initiatives in this area are set out on and nationality of any person who has an interest in any such share and, pages 40 to 42 of our Corporate Social Responsibility Report which is if the Directors require, the nature and extent of such interest: or b such included in this Annual Report.
other information as the Directors may from time to time determine.
The Directors may decline to register any person as a shareholder if satisfactory evidence of information is not forthcoming.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007|47 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 11 12 13 14 15 GROUP DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED EMPLOYEE FACTORS DIRECTORS DISCLOSURE STATEMENT The Group values highly the contribution made to its business by its Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report has employees across all areas of its operations.
Details of our approach con rmed that: to the interests of our workforce are set out in more detail on pages 1 so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information 40 to 42 of our Corporate Social Responsibility Report.
of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and MARKETPLACE 2 the Dir ector has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Regulatory compliance is treated as a minimum standard and the Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and Board and executive management seek to operate beyond this through to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
a combination of systems, procedures and controls to ensure our This con rmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with stakeholders are treated ethically, openly and with integrity.
the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE OWN SHARES LIABILITY The Companys articles of association provide a general authority All the information supplied in the Chairmans Statement on pages to purchase the Companys own shares, subject to the provisions of the 6 and 7, the Chief Executives Strategy Statement on pages 8 to 10, the Companies Acts.
The Companies Acts provide that such a purchase must Business Review on pages 25 to 27, the Financial Review on pages 28 to be authorised by the shareholders of the Company.
No speci c authority 35 and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 40 to 42 form was in place on 31 October 2007.
The Board intends to seek shareholder part of the Directors Report.
Any liability for the information is restricted approval at an EGM to be held in March for a share buy back programme.
to the extent prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Group takes its corporate responsibility seriously and is committed The notice convening the Annual General Meeting of the Company to conducting its business in an ethical and responsible manner.
to be held in April 2008 will be accompanied by a letter to shareholders Please refer to the separate Corporate Social Responsibility Report from the Chairman which will explain any special business to be section of this Annual Report on pages 40 to 42. transacted at the meeting.
POLITICAL DONATIONS AUDITORS The Company has not made any political donations and will not seek  LLP and Deloitte & Touche LLP were authority of its shareholders to do so.
appointed as joint auditors to ll a casual vacancy.
The Directors EMPLOYEE PARTICIPATION will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to reappoint The Company is committed to ensuring that as many of its employees  LLP as auditors for the ensuing year.
as possible are given the opportunity to share in its success.
The Company By order of the board will propose a resolution at the 2008 Annual General Meeting to approve an all employee save as you earn scheme and share incentive plan both to bene t employees and to give additional incentives for them to assist in building its success.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDING NOTIFICATIONS As at 28 January 2008, the Company had been noti ed, in accordance with rule 5 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency rules of the UK M J Vaux Listing Authority of the following major shareholdings in the ordinary Acting Company Secretary share capital of the Company: 30 January 2008 Number of % of Registered of ce: Name shares held issued capital The Thomas Cook Business Park Arcandor AG 254,377,423 26.04 Coningsby Road 1 Karstadtquelle Freizeit GmbH 254,377,423 26.04 Peterborough PE3 8SB Standard Life Investments Ltd 62,844,431 6.43 Pardus Capital Management LLC 57,338,759 5.87 Legal and General Group plc and or its subsidiaries 36,801,045 3.77 1 Karstadtquelle Freizeit GmbH is a wholly owned subsidiary of Arcandor AG.
48|THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
