Financial review continued It is our policy to retain Treasury management Treasury responsibilities and philosophy sufficient liquidity The primary responsibilities of the central treasury function are to throughout the capital procure the Groups capital resources, maintain an efficient capital expenditure cycle to structure, and manage the Groups liquidity, foreign exchange, interest rate, insurance and pensions risks on a Group-wide basis.
maintain our financial exibility and to The central treasury function operates within strict policies and guidelines approved by the Board.
Compliance with these policies and guidelines preserve our investment is monitored through the regular reporting of treasury activities.
A key element of our treasury philosophy is that funding, interest rate and currency risk decisions and the location of cash and debt balances are determined independently from each other.
For example, the Groups debt requirements are met by raising funds in the most favourable markets, with the desired currency prole of net debt being achieved by entering into foreign exchange contracts where necessary.
Similarly, the desired interest rate maturity of net debt is achieved by taking account of all debt and cash balances together with any foreign exchange transactions used to manage the currency prole of net debt.
We operate systems to ensure that all relevant assets and liabilities are taken into account on a Group-wide basis when making these decisions.
This portfolio approach to financial risk management enables our activities in these areas to be carried out effectively and efficiently and with a high degree of visibility.
Borrowing facilities Borrowing facilities are monitored against forecast requirements and timely action is taken to put in place, renew or replace credit lines.
Our policy is to reduce nancing risk by diversifying our funding sources and by staggering the maturity of our borrowings.
It is our policy to retain sufficient liquidity throughout the capital expenditure cycle to maintain our financial exibility and to preserve our investment grade credit rating.
We do not anticipate any material long-term deterioration in our overall liquidity position in the foreseeable future.
Two bonds have been drawn under the Groups Euro Medium Term Note EMTN Programme.
Our initial 150 million bond has a 10-year maturity and is due in December 2011.
In September 2003, we issued a further 250 million bond with a 12-year maturity.
Our committed bank borrowing facility is a multi-currency revolving credit facility of 400 million, which matures in August 2010.
38 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Financial review Details of our committed and uncommitted borrowing facilities are set out below: Headroom under committed and uncommitted credit facilities As at 29 December 2007 Facility Drawings Headroom million million million Bond issues 400.0 400.0 Multi-currency revolving credit facility 400.0 18.0 382.0 Finance leases 4.8 4.8 Total committed facilities 804.8 422.8 382.0 Uncommitted credit facilities 254.7 22.5 232.2 Bonds, standby letters of credit, bank guarantees 92.4 92.4 Total uncommitted facilities 254.7 114.9 139.8 Total headroom 1,059.5 537.7 521.8 Less uncommitted facilities 254.7 Total committed minimum headroom 267.1 Cash balances 151.2 Credit rating In December 2001, we established long-term credit ratings with Moodys and Standard & Poors.
Our current ratings are Baa3 Stable and BBB Stable respectively.
They cover our EMTN Programme and the two bonds issued thereunder.
We also have a short-term rating of P-3 with Moodys.
Our aim is to manage the Groups capital structure to maintain investment grade credit ratings.
Levels of borrowing and seasonality During 2007, our gross borrowings excluding convertible cumulative preference shares and our net borrowings decreased with gross debt of 448.2 million and net debt of 296.8 million on 29 December 2007 2006: 583.3 million and 403.0 million respectively.
The peak level of net debt during the year was 426.5 million.
Cash ows during the year are detailed in the table on page 35 and in note 16 to the financial statements.
As the majority of the Groups debt is denominated in currencies other than sterling, reported net debt also increased by 12.1 million, largely as a result of the strengthening of the Canadian dollar during the period.
Our weighted average cost of net debt at 29 December 2007 was 7.7% 2006: 7.0%.
We operate in a wide range of markets and geographic locations and as a result the seasonality of our borrowing requirements is low.
Underlying cyclicality before capital expenditure is driven principally by the timing of our ordinary dividends and interest payments.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 39 Financial review continued Funding requirements for investment commitments and authorisations Our present policy is to fund new investments first from existing cash resources and then from borrowings sourced centrally.
It is our intention to maintain surplus undrawn borrowing facilities sufficient to enable our investment grade credit ratings to be maintained and to enable us to manage the Groups liquidity through the operating and investment cycle.
We maintain a regular dialogue with the rating agencies, and the potential impact on our credit rating is taken into consideration when making capital allocation decisions.
Maximising returns on cash balances Our central treasury function is responsible for maximising the return on surplus cash balances within liquidity and counterparty credit constraints imposed by our Board-approved liquid funds policy.
This is done, where practical, by controlling directly all surplus cash balances and pooling arrangements on an ongoing basis and by reviewing the efficiency of all other cash balances across the Group on a weekly basis.
Our policy is to apply funds from one part of the Group to meet the obligations of another part wherever possible, to ensure maximum efficiency of the Groups funds.
No material restrictions apply that limit the application of this policy.
It is anticipated that surplus cash in excess of that required for operating purposes held in operating companies will be repatriated or reinvested in new investments during 2008.
At 29 December 2007, our total cash and investments were 151.2 million including collateralised cash and before interest accruals, of which 138.2 million was interest earning.
Of the total cash and investments balance, 37.4 million was invested in short-term deposits by our treasury department, 4.4 million of cash was held in our captive insurance company, Tomkins Insurance Limited, 32.1 million of cash was held in our Asian Unitta companies and 77.3 million of cash was held in centrally controlled pooling arrangements and with local operating companies.
At 29 December 2007, 57.0 million of our cash balance was under the direct control of Group treasury.
Interest earned on bank deposits during 2007 was 4.2 million 2006: 4.8 million.
Foreign currency translation exposures The majority of the Groups activities are transacted in US dollars but the reporting currency of the Group is sterling.
This gives rise to potential currency translation exposures in the balance sheet, income statement and cash ow.
The currency prole of the Groups net borrowings is actively managed to align with the currencies in which the Groups assets are denominated, thereby hedging the foreign currency translation exposure arising from the Groups overseas investments.
The proportion of overseas investments effectively funded by shareholders equity is not hedged.
40 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Financial review We do not hedge foreign currency profit and loss translation exposures and the reported results may therefore be affected by currency uctuations.
The impact on reported earnings per share is partly offset to the extent that interest arises on foreign currency net borrowings.
Interest payments on foreign currency net borrowings are funded with cash ows generated by the corresponding foreign currency investments.
The main potential impact of a movement in the US dollar sterling exchange rate is the effect on dividends.
The majority of the Groups cash ow is generated in US dollars from the cash ows generated by overseas investments.
Information on our use of derivatives and financial instruments is given in note 31 to the financial statements, and the year end and average exchange rates for selected currencies are set out in note 49.
Foreign currency transaction exposures The foreign currency transaction exposures in the business are protected with forward currency purchases and sales.
These are put in place when foreign currency trading transactions are committed or when there is a high likelihood of such transactions arising.
All foreign exchange contracts are carried out by our central treasury function, except in cases where this is prohibited by local regulations.
In these cases, local transactions are reported to central treasury on a systematic basis.
Our principal net currency transaction exposures arising during 2007 included US dollar to sterling 48.4 million, euro to sterling 26.5 million and euro to Polish zloty 27.4 million.
Interest rate risk management Our central treasury function manages the Groups interest rate prole within the policy established by the Board.
This is achieved by considering the portfolio of all of our interest-bearing assets and liabilities across the Group.
Our net desired interest rate prole in each currency is then managed by entering into interest rate swaps, options and forward rate agreements.
At 29 December 2007, the interest rate maturity prole of our Canadian dollar, euro and sterling net debt was less than three months and 32.6 million of our US dollar net debt was xed until December 2009.
