Industrial & Automotive What do we do?
Because of their technological product leadership, quality and service offering, Tomkins Industrial & Automotive I&A businesses have market-leading positions in most of their operating regions.
The I&A group services a wide range of industries with its products and systems: Power transmission systems, comprised of belts, pulleys and tensioners, drive industrial appliances and equipment as well as light duty and heavy duty engines.
Fluid power systems, including hydraulic hoses and ttings, operate agricultural and heavy duty equipment.
Transfer hoses transport Richard Bell liquids ranging from petroleum products to food and beverages.
Chief Operating officer Remote tyre pressure monitoring systems RTPMS measure tyre air pressure levels and communicate to a vehicles dashboard computer to warn of pressure loss.
Because of the Oil pumps and water pumps operate in a variety of engines.
diversity of its end Axles, trailers and frames equip motor homes and mobile trailers.
markets, the Industrial Market overview & Automotive group Industrial market growth continued with gains in original equipment and delivered a robust replacement segments.
Global agricultural markets and domestic durable goods led to original equipment OE increases for power transmission performance in 2007. and uid power products.
Increases in energy production, mining and oileld operations generated growth for the industrial replacement market.
Our automotive aftermarket in North America and Europe outperformed the market with new products, new distribution and promotional efforts focused on educating professional installers.
Efforts in Asia continued to increase with the pace of the market.
Technology drove record levels of business awards in the automotive OE segment.
Schrader Electronics tyre pressure monitoring systems, Gates Stackpoles variable vane technology for oil pumps and Gates new hybrid technology all address safety and environmental concerns.
Strategic progress Operations Lean process implementation continues to drive manufacturing efficiencies, material cost reductions and increased output in I&A facilities.
Fit Ofce processes, which aim to improve processes in the ofce by making them leaner, were launched in all administrative areas globally.
Internal successes led to initiatives with key customers to further eliminate waste in shipping and product handling.
Because of its quality and service, our axle and trailer business was given a vendor recognition award by Jayco, the largest recreational vehicle manufacturer in the US.
Organic growth: new products I&A continued its focus on innovative technology development.
Schrader Electronics doubled sales as the US legislative mandate for RTPMS on OE vehicles began.
As the market leader, Schrader anticipates further growth with the adoption of snap-in applications and remains the first and only supplier of this technology.
Outside of North America, momentum grows for similar mandatory use of RTPMS, particularly in Europe where there is a major focus on lowering CO emissions and 2 improving safety.
Several European vehicles are adopting RTPMS as an 20 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Our performance option.
Schrader Electronics pioneered new fuel sensing technology, Industrial & Automotive which detects fuel level and type, and signed its first contract with a Sales by business segments major German OEM.
Opportunities for growth will continue, especially as alternative fuel use increases.
21% Power Transmission launched Poly Chain GT Carbon belts in the industrial markets.
Demand for improved fuel economy and reduced emissions propelled Electro-Mechanical Drive technology and spurred 2,155.5m 48% numerous automotive application projects in Asia.
14% Fluid Power engineers continued to drive innovation through hose connector interface technology that provides customers with added 17% product safety, reliability and core product enhancements such as the Power Transmission Fluid Systems new Xtreme Heat hose.
New operations in India are well positioned to Fluid Power Other I&A manufacture belt and tensioner products as well as hoses for local markets.
Our new water pump line from China drove significant growth for I&As automotive aftermarket, with product implementation at NAPA, one of North Americas largest automotive distributors, and the first water Industrial & Automotive pump awards in Australia and Canada.
Top five customers Geographic expansion % of Group sales The I&A group grew in geographic product reach and extended its manufacturing and distribution capability.
General Motors 6.2% Genuine Parts NAPA 5.1% In Eastern Europe, where market growth is double digit, I&A added Ford 2.7% a sales ofce in Moscow to respond to increased market demand.
Chrysler 2.7% Activities in India, the Middle East and South Africa continued to focus Hyundai 1.3% on building local presence and developing staff to support growth.
Where oileld and mining operations are strong, I&A grew through products supporting these industries.
Heavy-duty belts and oileld hoses supported equipment in Australia, the Gulf Area and Canada.
During the year, we opened a new Power Transmission manufacturing facility in Chennai, India and expanded hose production in Chandigarh, India.
In Suzhou, China, we invested for increased capacity at our clamp manufacturing facility.
Investment in other geographic regions includes Aachen, Germany: Glade Springs, Virginia: and Springeld, Tennessee.
Strategic acquisitions Schrader Electronics acquired Swindon Silicon Systems, providing it with a technology platform for new applications.
Gates Winhere is expanding its manufacturing capacity by constructing a new plant in Yantai, China.
The joint venture united the manufacturing and operational expertise of Winhere with the marketing and sales network capabilities of Gates.
Going forward, I&A acquisitions will focus on the industrial space, particularly in rapidly developing regions, such as Eastern Europe and Asia.
Future priorities The I&A group will continue to expand and leverage its diverse global position and strong brands by focusing on customer service, delivery of new products, geographic expansion and entering new, untapped market segments.
Strategic initiatives will promote solutions in the areas of mass transit, energy savings and environment.
I&As priority for 2008 is to grow the industrial business with products and services adjacent to its core processes and product offering and expand its reach in emerging markets.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 21 Building Products What do we do?
Our products are sold under strong brand names through manufacturers representatives, wholesalers, distributors and retailers.
Our brands have leading market shares in most major product segments.
The Building Products group supplies a range of products to the commercial, infrastructure and residential construction markets, primarily within North America.
Its portfolio comprises: Air Systems Components ASC, which manufactures components for heating and air conditioning systems.
Bathware, which manufactures baths, shower cubicles and luxury whirlpools.
Terry OHalloran Philips, which manufactures windows for the residential and Chief Operating officer manufactured housing markets.
Market overview Our leadership position The demand for ASCs products is driven by commercial, infrastructure in both brands and and residential construction activity.
Non-residential activity remained steady during the year and our leadership position in both brands and distribution resulted in distribution resulted in a strong performance with increased market shares a strong performance in major product categories.
This strength largely offset the reduced with increased market performance in residential categories resulting from the significant reduction in new housing activity in the US.
shares in major product categories.
The demand for bathware products is driven primarily by new home construction.
Although market share gains have been realised during this downturn, overall product demand has decreased signicantly.
The focus has been on realigning capacity with current demand levels and on increasing shares in the institutional and renovation markets with the introduction of new products to meet the needs of those sectors.
Philips sales have historically depended on manufactured housing and new residential construction.
With the downturn in those markets, the focus is on growing our market share of vinyl windows in the residential replacement and renovation markets.
Strategic progress Operations During the year, we continued to focus on restructuring the production and distribution network to meet increasing demand for shorter lead times and the lowest possible delivered cost.
Accordingly, there has been a continued focus on lean manufacturing, strengthening of regional manufacturing where lead times and shipping costs are critical, and relocation of production to lower cost facilities when possible.
Lean manufacturing efforts have been expanded along with concentration on value analysis of major product offerings.
These efforts are now co-ordinated through a new group lean function, which was created during the year.
Regional manufacturing is the key to success for many products, which are congured to order and delivered with short lead times.
Coupled with optimisation of our internal transportation fleet across the Building Products group, this will provide a competitive advantage going forward.
Where regional manufacturing is not required to meet customer demand, the focus continues to be on relocation of production to low-cost countries.
22 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Our performance A number of high-volume products are sourced in China, and other Building Products production has been moved to existing and new facilities in Mexico.
Sales by business segments In addition to this, we have adjusted capacity in anticipation of 13% continued weakness in residential markets in the US.
Manufacturing facilities have been closed in Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia and California.
Overall headcount was reduced in line with our reduction 18% in sales.
786.4m Organic growth: new products Our businesses are developing new products with emphasis on the 69% needs of specic market areas.
The group operates 12 independent laboratories, which continuously introduce new products to maintain ASC our leadership role in both residential and non-residential markets.
Bathware Our brands are well positioned to take advantage of green building Philips initiatives driven by end customers around the world.
Our current product line-up includes commercial energy-recovery ventilators for more efficient outside air management, variable-air volume control boxes, free-cooling economisers, outside air measuring and maintenance Building Products devices, tight-sealing dampers, permanent building sunshade devices, Top five customers tighter sealing ductwork and energy efficient fan systems.
% of Group sales Geographic expansion Home Depot 1.6% An increased emphasis has been placed on Asia and the Middle Ferguson Enterprises 1.4% East as those markets continue to signicantly expand in their Watsco 0.7% non-residential construction sectors.
In 2007, ASC entered into York International 0.5% a joint venture in India with Caryaire to service that expanding Lennox 0.5% market, and purchased a majority stake in Rolastar in 2008.
After servicing the Chinese market from offshore for a number of years, we have begun production in China and are looking to expand that presence in the near future.
Strategic acquisitions In addition to Caryaire, ASC has integrated the operations of Heat Fab and Eastern Sheet Metal, which were acquired in late 2006.
These companies have provided important entries into specialised venting markets and spiral ducting for non-residential construction.
Further acquisitions are under review to establish a stronger presence in important markets such as India, China and the Middle East.
Future priorities With the continuing issues related to the credit markets and residential construction, we expect another difficult residential market in 2008 with further declines from 2007.
Some softness is also expected in non-residential markets.
Our primary focus going forward is on operating costs, with further adjustments to reduce our xed cost base in line with market activity.
Additional consolidation of manufacturing operations to lower cost areas will be pursued, further acquisitions are anticipated, and our Asian and Middle Eastern expansion will continue.
We believe the actions we have put in place will allow us to outperform the markets during this downturn and position us well for an eventual recovery in our end markets.
