Investor services Trading symbols Share dealing Tomkins London Stock Exchange SEDOL number is 0896265 For UK residents internet and telephone share dealing services have ISIN code GB0008962655 and its trading symbol is TOMK.
The been arranged through Equiniti Limited which provide a simple way Companys trading symbol for its American Depositary Receipts of buying or selling Tomkins ordinary shares.
For internet dealing, ADRs is TKS.
existing shareholders should log on to www.
You will need your shareholder reference number shown on your Website share certicate or tax voucher.
For new investors, the log on The Companys website address is www.
All Tomkins address is www.
The commission rate for recent results announcements and press releases are accessible, internet dealing is 0.5% with a minimum charge of 15.
For together with the latest and previous versions of the Annual Report.
telephone dealing please call 0845 603 7037 between 8.30 am The Group website also provides direct links to the websites of and 4.30 pm, Monday to Friday: the commission rate for share Tomkins main operating companies.
transactions by telephone is 1% with a minimum charge of 25.
A weekly postal dealing service is also available and a form Share price information together with terms and conditions can be obtained by calling The price of Tomkins ordinary shares and its ADRs is available, with 0871 384 2248: commission is 1% with a minimum charge of 10. a 20-minute delay, on the Companys website, www.
The site also provides historic share price information, index Global Invest Direct comparators and a shareholding calculator tool.
A simple dealing service is available to US residents only for buying and selling Tomkins ADRs.
Details can be obtained from JPMorgan Dividends Chase Bank, N. A. whose contact details are given in the table on The final dividend of 8.57p per ordinary share will be paid on the next page.
15 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 April 2008.
For holders of ADRs, the dividend, Registrar declared in pence, is converted to US dollars on the UK dividend Administrative enquiries concerning shareholdings in Tomkins plc, payment date using the exchange rate prevailing on that day.
such as loss of a share certicate, dividend payment instructions, or a change of address, should be notied direct to the registrar, Payment of dividends Equiniti Limited, whose contact details are given in the table on Shareholders who have mandated their dividends to be credited the next page.
Your correspondence should refer to Tomkins plc, to a nominated bank or building society account should note quoting the reference 0398, and state the registered name and that dividends are paid automatically to their account through the address of the shareholder.
Bankers Automated Clearing Services BACS with the associated Every effort is made to prevent multiple mailing of documents to tax voucher being sent direct to shareholders at their registered shareholders.
If you have received more than one copy of this address unless requested otherwise.
If the nominated account is Report and would like to amalgamate your holdings, please contact with a bank or building society which is not a member of BACS, the registrar.
both the payment and tax voucher are sent to the account holding branch.
Shareholders who do not currently mandate their dividends Electronic communication and who wish to have their dividend paid direct to a bank or The registrar operates a share register internet enquiry service to building society account should complete a dividend mandate provide shareholders with details of their shareholdings.
To register instruction form obtainable from the registrar Equiniti Limited for the service please go to www.
You will need at the address in the table on the next page.
your shareholder reference which can be found on your share certicate or tax voucher and you will be asked to select your Dividend Reinvestment Plan own PIN.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
Once registered, The Company offers a Dividend Reinvestment Plan.
This allows shareholders may elect to receive future shareholder information shareholders to invest their cash dividend in purchasing shares of and Company documents in electronic format.
The main benets the Company in the market.
The Companys Registrar arranges, on of this system are speed and ease of use while saving money for behalf of participants, through the agency of a suitably authorised your Company and reducing the demand on natural resources.
stockbroking business, the purchase of the maximum whole A visit to www.
co. uk will also provide you with more number of ordinary shares possible on, or as soon as reasonably details of the service and practical help and information on other practicable after, the dividend payment date.
Favourable dealing share registration matters.
For further details or an application form please contact Equiniti Limiteds Dividend Reinvestment Plan team, The Company passed a resolution at its 2007 Annual General whose address and telephone number are given below.
Meeting allowing it to take full advantage of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to electronic communications.
The Individual Savings Accounts ISAs Board intends in the future to supply all shareholders with shareholder A Tomkins ISA enables UK residents to invest in the Company documents by making them available on the Companys website, in a tax efficient manner.
You can obtain more information on www.
co. uk, except where a shareholder has specifically ISAs from our corporate ISA provider, Equiniti Limited, address requested that we continue to provide him or her with hard copies.
and telephone number as detailed in the table on the next page.
Shareholders will be informed by post or email whenever a shareholder document is made available on the website.
Shareholders can, at any time, change their decision on how they wish to receive shareholder documents by advising our registrars, Equiniti Limited, whose contact details can be found in the table on the next page.
156 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Shareholder info Electronic proxy voting Directors Report and Accounts Companies Shareholders may register their voting instructions for the House forthcoming Annual General Meeting via the internet.
If you have In accordance with the requirements of the Registrar of registered for the registrars shareview service described above, you Companies in England and Wales the registrar and following may submit your voting instructions by logging on to your shareview the passing of the resolution to be proposed at the 2008 Annual portfolio and accessing the Company Meetings Tomkins site.
If you General Meeting to receive the financial statements, a copy of have not registered with shareview, you may still register your vote the Annual Report omitting photographic representations and electronically by going to www.
You will be required with such further modications as may be necessary to comply to key in the three security numbers printed on your form of proxy with such requirements will be lodged with the registrar in to access the voting site.
accordance with the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
After being so lodged, further copies of the Annual Report in ADR holders the form sent to shareholders will be available from the Company Tomkins ordinary shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Secretary upon request.
Each ADR represents four Tomkins ordinary shares.
Tomkins is subject to the regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in the USA as they apply to foreign companies and les with the SEC its Annual Report on Form 20-F and other information as required.
ADR holders are not members of the Company but may instruct JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. which administers the Tomkins ADR programme, as to the exercise of voting rights pertaining to the number of ordinary shares represented by their ADRs.
JPMorgan Chase Banks contact details are given in the table below.
Summary of useful numbers Tomkins plc 020 8871 4544 www.
co. uk Registrars Equiniti Limited General Enquiries www.
co. uk Aspect House, Spencer Road, 0871 384 2811 Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA Textel 0871 384 2255 Share Dealing Services Equiniti Limited Telephonic 0845 603 7037 www.
co. uk Postal to order required existing shareholders paperwork 0871 384 2248 www.
com new shareholders Dividend Reinvestment Plan Equiniti Limited 0871 384 2268 ISA Helpline Equiniti Limited 0871 384 2244 Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6UY ADR General Enquiries 1 800 990 1135 US residents www.
com JPMorgan Chase Bank, N. A. PO Box 3408, 1 201 680 6630 non-US residents email: JPMorganADR@Mellon.
com South Hackensack, NJ 07606-3408, USA Tomkins Annual Report 2007 157
