Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the consolidated financial statements of Tomkins plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, the Group.
The Directors are required by law to prepare the Groups financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The Directors are required to ensure that the Groups financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows which requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denition and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In preparing the Groups financial statements, the Directors are required to select and apply accounting policies, present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information, and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements of IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position, financial performance or cash ows.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company keeps proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and which enable them to ensure that the Groups financial statements comply with applicable law.
The Directors are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for including in the Annual Report a report on Directors remuneration which complies with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The Directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the financial information contained on the corporate website, www.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
70 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Independent auditors report To the members of Tomkins plc the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Tomkins misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Groups financial plc and its subsidiaries together, the Group for the year ended statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further 29 December 2007 the Groups financial statements which information outside the Annual Report.
comprise the consolidated income statement, the consolidated cash ow statement, the consolidated balance sheet, the consolidated Basis of audit opinion statement of recognised income and expense, the reconciliation of We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards changes in consolidated shareholders equity and the related notes on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices 1 to 50.
The Groups financial statements have been prepared in Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence accordance with the accounting policies set out therein.
We have relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Groups financial also audited the information in the Remuneration Committees statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee report report that is described as having been audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the Directors in the preparation We have reported separately on parent company financial statements of the Groups financial statements, and of whether the accounting of Tomkins plc for the year ended 29 December 2007. policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in applied and adequately disclosed.
accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys information and explanations which we considered necessary members those matters we are required to state to them in an in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent assurance that the Groups financial statements and the part of permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to the Remuneration Committee report to be audited are free from anyone other than the Company and the Companys members material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Groups financial statements and the part of the Remuneration Committee Respective responsibilities of directors and report to be audited.
auditors The Directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, Opinion the Remuneration Committee report and the Groups financial In our opinion: statements in accordance with applicable law and International the Groups financial statements give a true and fair view, in Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, the European Union are set out in the statement of directors of the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 December 2007 and responsibilities on page 70. of its profit for the year then ended: the Groups financial statements have been properly prepared Our responsibility is to audit the Groups financial statements in in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and the IAS Regulation: International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
the part of the Remuneration Committee report described as We report to you our opinion as to whether the Groups financial having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance statements give a true and fair view, whether the Groups financial with the Companies Act 1985: and statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the the information given in the Directors report is consistent with Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Groups financial statements.
whether the part of the Remuneration Committee report described as having been audited has been properly prepared in accordance Separate opinion in relation to IFRS with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether, As explained in note 2 to the Groups financial statements, the in our opinion, the information given in the Directors report is Group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply consistent with the Groups financial statements.
with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with IFRS as issued by the International Accounting In addition, we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received Standards Board IASB.
all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and In our opinion the Groups financial statements give a true and fair other transactions is not disclosed.
view, in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 29 December 2007 and of its profit for the We review whether the corporate governance statement within the year then ended.
Directors report reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form Deloitte & Touche LLP an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors procedures or its risk and control procedures.
London 20 February 2008 We read the other information contained in the Annual Report as described in the contents section and consider whether it is consistent with the Groups financial statements.
We consider Tomkins Annual Report 2007 71 Consolidated income statement Re-presented Re-presented Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 Note million million million Continuing operations Sales 4 2,941.9 3,133.8 2,963.3 Cost of sales 2,141.5 2,272.0 2,105.6 Gross profit 800.4 861.8 857.7 Distribution costs 289.1 307.7 310.8 Administrative expenses 250.6 262.5 246.2 Restructuring costs 5 13.8 13.0 4.2 Gain on disposals and on the exit of businesses 5 45.7 3.1 8.5 Restructuring initiatives 31.9 9.9 4.3 Share of profit of associates 0.4 1.5 0.6 Operating profit 293.0 283.2 305.6 Analysis of operating profit: Adjusted operating profit 264.7 295.8 301.5 Restructuring initiatives 31.9 9.9 4.3 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 3.6 2.7 0.2 293.0 283.2 305.6 Interest payable 7 71.0 77.8 78.4 Investment income 8 43.4 40.0 35.2 Other finance expense income 9 2.8 0.7 4.2 Net finance costs 30.4 38.5 39.0 profit before tax 262.6 244.7 266.6 Income tax expense 11 69.9 35.8 60.0 profit for the period from continuing operations 192.7 208.9 206.6 Discontinued operations Loss for the period from discontinued operations 10 33.3 11.6 5.4 profit for the period 12 159.4 197.3 201.2 Minority interests 12.5 11.2 9.0 profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders 146.9 186.1 192.2 Earnings per share Basic Continuing operations 20.71 p 23.57 p 25.62 p Discontinued operations 3.83 p 1.39 p 0.70 p Total operations 13 16.88 p 22.18 p 24.92p Diluted Continuing operations 20.45 p 22.98 p 24.41 p Discontinued operations 3.77 p 1.31 p 0.62 p Total operations 13 16.68 p 21.67 p 23.79 p Dividends per ordinary share 14 13.89 p 13.89 p 13.23 p See note 10 72 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Consolidated cash ow statement Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 Note million million million Operating activities Cash generated from operations 16 319.2 331.5 336.5 Income taxes paid 55.2 82.8 79.5 Income taxes received 12.1 5.1 9.0 Net cash inow from operating activities 276.1 253.8 266.0 Investing activities Purchase of property, plant and equipment 115.6 105.7 128.5 Purchase of intangible assets 2.6 20.9 14.8 Capitalisation of development costs 0.2 0.3 0.4 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 19.8 14.1 23.8 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.1 0.1 Sale of available-for-sale investments 0.3 0.3 0.1 Purchase of interests in associates 1.9 1.9 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 43 8.5 109.6 101.3 Sale of businesses and subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 44 108.1 6.8 29.3 Interest received 6.1 10.2 5.8 Dividends received from associates 0.7 0.3 0.3 Net cash inow outow from investing activities 6.1 206.8 185.8 Financing activities Issue of ordinary shares 1.2 14.9 0.4 Redemption of convertible cumulative preference shares 0.6 Draw-down of bank and other loans 4.2 55.9 185.4 Repayment of bank and other loans 144.9 27.9 49.1 Capital element of finance lease rental payments 1.6 2.1 2.8 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 0.7 0.6 0.7 Decrease increase in collateralised cash 1.2 1.4 0.5 Purchase of own shares 3.8 4.8 2.4 Sale of own shares 2.9 Interest paid 32.4 38.8 26.1 Equity dividend paid 122.0 115.3 99.4 Preference dividend paid 1.0 7.1 16.1 Investment by a minority shareholder in a subsidiary 1.9 3.2 Dividend paid to a minority shareholder in a subsidiary 7.2 8.0 5.9 Net cash outow from nancing activities 305.7 129.2 14.3 Net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 23.5 82.2 65.9 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the period 166.8 220.5 178.9 Foreign currency translation 2.7 28.5 24.3 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the period 140.6 166.8 220.5 Cash and cash equivalents for the purposes of the cash ow statement comprise: As at As at As at 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Cash and cash equivalents 148.5 172.5 230.9 Bank overdrafts 7.9 5.7 10.4 140.6 166.8 220.5 As at 29 December 2007, the Groups net debt was 296.8 million 30 December 2006: 470.5 million.
Net debt as at 30 December 2006 included 67.5 million 31 December 2005: 306.8 million in respect of the preference shares that were converted or redeemed during 2007.
A reconciliation of the change in cash and cash equivalents to the movement in net debt is presented in note 16.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 73 Consolidated balance sheet As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 Note million million Non-current assets Goodwill 17 331.2 325.6 Other intangible assets 18 46.7 48.1 Property, plant and equipment 19 709.7 695.0 Investments in associates 20 8.9 7.0 Trade and other receivables 22 12.5 2.5 Deferred tax assets 35 23.8 36.3 Post-employment benefit surpluses 33 3.6 0.9 1,136.4 1,115.4 Current assets Inventories 21 401.3 393.8 Trade and other receivables 22 496.3 475.2 Income tax recoverable 14.8 21.8 Available-for-sale investments 25 1.5 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 26 148.5 172.5 1,062.4 1,065.4 Assets held for sale 27 45.6 152.0 Total assets 2,244.4 2,332.8 Current liabilities Bank overdrafts 28 7.9 5.7 Bank and other loans 28 20.0 31.8 Obligations under finance leases 29 0.9 1.4 Trade and other payables 30 370.6 353.3 Income tax liabilities 14.4 12.0 Provisions 36 25.2 26.3 Convertible cumulative preference shares 41 0.4 439.0 430.9 Non-current liabilities Bank and other loans 28 411.7 536.3 Obligations under finance leases 29 3.9 7.9 Trade and other payables 30 21.7 11.7 Post-employment benefit obligations 33 153.8 205.8 Deferred tax liabilities 35 21.2 4.3 Income tax liabilities 33.9 36.3 Provisions 36 13.7 13.9 659.9 816.2 Convertible cumulative preference shares 41 67.1 659.9 883.3 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale 27 14.1 64.1 Total liabilities 1,113.0 1,378.3 Net assets 1,131.4 954.5 Capital and reserves Ordinary share capital 37 44.2 42.9 Share premium account 37 397.3 332.1 Own shares 38 11.2 11.7 Capital redemption reserve 39 462.5 461.9 Currency translation reserve 39 6.1 60.2 Available-for-sale reserve 39 0.1 0.1 Retained profit 39 186.1 138.8 Shareholders equity 1,072.7 903.9 Minority interests 40 58.7 50.6 Total equity 1,131.4 954.5 Approved by the Board on 20 February 2008 and signed on its behalf by: J Nicol, Director J W Zimmerman, Director 74 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million profit for the period 159.4 197.3 201.2 Net income expense recognised directly in equity Loss gain on available-for-sale investments 0.4 0.6 0.7 Post-employment benets: Actuarial gain loss 48.1 19.4 44.1 Effect of the asset ceiling 22.0 0.8 0.3 Currency translation differences on foreign operations: Subsidiaries 54.6 166.4 136.2 Associates 0.3 0.5 0.4 Loss gain on net investment hedges 13.6 69.6 72.6 Tax on items taken directly to equity 6.3 1.0 16.2 60.7 79.1 36.5 Transfers from equity to the income statement Gain realised on the sale of available-for-sale investments 0.3 0.2 0.4 Currency translation differences on foreign operations sold 14.2 Total recognised income and expense for the period 234.0 118.0 237.3 Attributable to: Equity shareholders 220.1 111.1 224.6 Minority interests 13.9 6.9 12.7 234.0 118.0 237.3 Reconciliation of changes in consolidated shareholders equity Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Shareholders equity at the beginning of the period 903.9 664.5 466.5 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 63.1 903.9 664.5 529.6 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 220.1 111.1 224.6 Dividends on ordinary shares 122.0 115.3 99.4 Ordinary shares issued: Conversion of convertible cumulative preference shares 65.3 225.6 1.4 Exercise of employee share options 1.2 14.9 0.4 Purchase of own shares 3.8 4.8 2.4 Gain on disposal of own shares 2.9 Cost of share-based incentives 8.0 7.9 7.4 Net addition to shareholders equity during the period 168.8 239.4 134.9 Shareholders equity at the end of the period 1,072.7 903.9 664.5 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 75 Notes to the financial statements 1.
Basis of consolidation Tomkins plc the Company and its subsidiaries together, The consolidated financial statements include the results, cash the Group comprise a global engineering and manufacturing ows and assets and liabilities of the Company and its subsidiaries, business.
The Group is organised for management reporting and the Groups share of the results and net assets of its associates.
purposes into two business groups: Industrial & Automotive A subsidiary is an entity controlled, either directly or indirectly, and Building Products.
by the Company, where control is the power to govern the Industrial & Automotive manufactures a wide range of systems financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefit and components for car, truck and industrial equipment from its activities.
The results of a subsidiary acquired during the manufacturing markets, and industrial and automotive aftermarkets period are included in the Groups results from the effective date throughout the world.
During the year, Industrial & Automotive of acquisition.
The results of a subsidiary sold during the period are operated through five business segments: Power Transmission, included in the Groups results up to the effective date of disposal.
Fluid Power, Wiper Systems, Fluid Systems and Other Industrial & Where accumulated losses applicable to a minority interest in Automotive.
Wiper Systems is classied as a discontinued operation a subsidiary exceed the minoritys interest in the equity of the and was sold on 29 June 2007. subsidiary, the excess is allocated to the Groups interest in the Building Products is comprised of two business segments: Air subsidiary, except to the extent that the minority has a binding Systems Components and Other Building Products.
Air Systems obligation and is able to make an additional investment to cover Components supplies the industrial and residential heating, its share of the accumulated losses.
ventilation and air conditioning market mainly in North America.
Intra-Group transactions and balances, and any unrealised gains Other Building Products manufactures a variety of products for and losses arising from intra-Group transactions, are eliminated the building and construction industries mainly in North America.
Principal accounting policies C. Associates A.
Basis of preparation An associate is an entity over which the Company, either directly The consolidated financial statements on pages 72 to 134 and the or indirectly, is in a position to exercise significant influence by related information on pages 135 to 137 have been prepared in participating in, but not controlling or jointly controlling, the accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards financial and operating policies of the entity.
IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and, except Associates are accounted for using the equity method.
Losses as described under the heading Financial instruments, under of an associate in excess of the Groups interest in the entity are the historical cost convention.
not recognised, except to the extent that the Group has incurred From the Groups perspective, there are no applicable differences obligations on behalf of the entity.
profits and losses recognised between IFRS adopted for use in the European Union and IFRS by the Company or its subsidiaries on transactions with an as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB associate are eliminated to the extent of the Groups interest in and therefore the financial statements also comply with IFRS as the associate concerned.
D. Foreign currency translation The Groups principal accounting policies are unchanged compared At entity level, transactions denominated in foreign currencies are with the year ended 30 December 2006. translated into the entitys functional currency at the exchange rate ruling on the date of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities During the period, the Group adopted the following accounting denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the exchange pronouncements that are relevant to its operations, none of which rate ruling on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation had any impact on its results or financial position: differences are recognised in the income statement.
IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures and the related amendment to IAS 1 Presentation of Financial Statements On consolidation, the results of foreign operations are translated Capital Disclosures into the Groups presentation currency at the average exchange IFRIC 7 Applying the Restatement Approach under IAS 29 rate for the period and their assets and liabilities are translated Financial Reporting in Hyperinationary Economies into the Groups presentation currency at the exchange rate ruling IFRIC 8 Scope of IFRS 2 on the balance sheet date.
Currency translation differences are IFRIC 9 Reassessment of Embedded Derivatives recognised directly in equity in the currency translation reserve.
IFRIC 10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment IFRIC 11 Group and Treasury Share Transactions The Groups annual financial statements are drawn up to the Saturday nearest 31 December.
These financial statements cover the financial year from 31 December 2006 to 29 December 2007 2007 with comparative gures for the financial years from 1 January 2006 to 30 December 2006 2006 and from 2 January 2005 to 31 December 2005 2005.
76 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts In the event that a foreign operation is sold, the gain or loss on H. Other intangible assets disposal recognised in the income statement is determined after Other intangible assets are stated at cost less accumulated taking into account the cumulative currency translation differences amortisation and any recognised impairment losses.
All intangible that are attributable to the operation.
On adoption of IFRS, the assets recognised by the Group are considered to have nite Group elected to deem cumulative currency translation differences useful lives.
Accordingly, the gain or loss recognised on disposal of a i Assets acquired in business combinations foreign operation does not include currency translation differences An intangible resource acquired in a business combination is that arose before 4 January 2004. recognised as an intangible asset if it is separable from the acquired In the cash ow statement, the cash ows of foreign operations business or arises from contractual or legal rights.
An acquired are translated into the Groups presentation currency at the average intangible asset is amortised on a straight-line basis so as to charge exchange rate for the period.
its cost, which represents its fair value at the date of acquisition, to the income statement over its expected useful life, which is in E. Revenue the range 2 to 15 years.
Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the invoiced amount net of returns, early settlement discounts, rebates and sales ii Product development costs taxes and is recognised only where there is persuasive evidence All research expenditure is charged to the income statement in of a sales agreement, the delivery of goods has occurred, the sale the period in which it is incurred.
price is xed or determinable and the collectability of revenue is Development expenditure is charged to the income statement in reasonably assured.
the period in which it is incurred unless it relates to the development Revenue from long-term contracts is recognised by the of a new or signicantly improved product and it is incurred after  method determined by comparing, the technical feasibility of the product has been proven and for each contract, costs incurred for work performed to date customer orders have been received that are expected to provide to estimated total costs.
Losses on contracts, if any, are recognised income sufficient to cover the further development expenditure in the period when such losses become probable and can be that will be incurred prior to the product going into full production.
Capitalised development expenditure is amortised on a straight-line basis such that it is charged to the income statement over the Interest income is accrued on a time basis using the effective expected life of the resulting product.
iii Computer software Dividend income is recognised when payment is received.
Computer software that is not integral to an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised separately as an intangible asset.
F. Restructuring initiatives Restructuring initiatives comprise expenses incurred in major Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis so as to charge projects undertaken to rationalise and improve the cost the cost of the software to the income statement over its expected competitiveness of the Group and consequential gains and losses useful life, which is in the range three to five years.
arising on the exit and disposal of businesses or on the disposal I.
Property, plant and equipment of assets.
Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated G. Goodwill depreciation and any recognised impairment losses.
Freehold land and assets under construction are not depreciated.
Depreciation of Business combinations are accounted for using the purchase method.
property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land and assets Goodwill arises on the acquisition of interests in subsidiaries and under construction, is generally provided on a straight-line basis associates.
Goodwill represents any excess of the cost of acquisition so as to charge the depreciable amount to the income statement over the interest acquired by the Group in the fair value of the over the expected useful life of the asset concerned, which is in entitys identiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities at the the following ranges: date of acquisition.
Goodwill in respect of an acquired subsidiary is recognised as an Freehold buildings and long leasehold property 10 to 50 years intangible asset.
Goodwill in respect of an acquired interest in an Short leasehold property Length of lease associate is included within investments in associates.
Goodwill Plant, equipment and vehicles 2 to 20 years is not amortised but tested at least annually for impairment and carried at cost less any recognised impairment losses.
Borrowing costs attributable to assets under construction are charged Where the interest acquired by the Group in the fair value of the to the income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
entitys assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities exceeds the cost J.
Leases of acquisition, the excess is recognised immediately as a gain in Leases that confer rights and obligations similar to those that attach the income statement.
to owned assets are classied as finance leases.
All other leases are classied as operating leases.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 77 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued M. Grants Assets held under finance leases are included within property, Grants received relating to property, plant and equipment are plant and equipment, initially measured at their fair value or, if treated as deferred income and recognised as income in equal lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments, and instalments over the expected useful lives of the assets concerned.
a corresponding liability is recognised within obligations under Other grants received are recognised as income on a systematic finance leases.
Subsequently, the assets are depreciated on a basis so as to match them with the costs they are intended to basis consistent with similar owned assets or over the term of the compensate or, if those costs have already been recognised, the lease, if shorter.
At inception of the lease, the lease rentals are grants are recognised as income in the period in which they are apportioned between an interest element and a capital element received.
so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the N. Financial instruments outstanding liability.
Thereafter, the interest element is recognised i Investments as an expense in the income statement while the capital element Listed investments are classied as available-for-sale and are is applied to reduce the outstanding liability.
Changes in their fair values are recognised Operating lease rentals, and any incentives receivable, are in a separate component of equity except to the extent that they recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over represent an other than temporary impairment in which case the the term of the lease.
impairment loss is recognised in the income statement.
Realised gains and losses are transferred from equity to the income K. Impairment of non-current assets statement in the event of the disposal of the investments.
Non-current assets are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances indicate that their carrying amounts might be ii Trade receivables impaired.
Additionally, goodwill and capitalised development Trade receivables represent the amount of sales of goods to customers expenditure relating to a product that is not yet in full production for which payment has not been received, less an allowance for are subject to an annual impairment test.
doubtful accounts that is estimated based on factors such as the credit rating of the customer, historical trends, the current economic An impairment loss is recognised to the extent that an assets environment and other information.
carrying value exceeds its recoverable amount, which represents the higher of the assets fair value less costs to sell and its value iii Cash and cash equivalents in use.
An assets value in use represents the present value of the Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, deposits available future cash ows expected to be derived from the asset.
Where it on demand and other short-term highly liquid investments with a is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual maturity on acquisition of three months or less, and bank overdrafts.
asset, the impairment test is conducted for the cash-generating Bank overdrafts are presented as current liabilities to the extent that unit to which it belongs.
Similarly, the recoverable amount of there is no right of offset with cash balances.
goodwill is determined by reference to the discounted future iv Trade payables cash ows of the cash-generating units to which it is allocated.
Trade payables represent the amount of invoices received from Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement.
suppliers for purchases of goods and services for which payment has not been made.
Impairment losses recognised in previous periods for an asset other than goodwill are reversed if there has been a change in v Bank and other loans the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount, Bank and other loans are initially measured at fair value, net of but only to the extent that the carrying amount of the asset directly attributable transaction costs, if any, and are subsequently does not exceed its carrying amount had no impairment loss been measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method.
Impairment losses recognised in respect of goodwill are not reversed.
vi Derivative financial instruments The Group uses derivative financial instruments, principally foreign L. Inventories currency swaps, forward foreign currency contracts and interest Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value, rate swaps, to reduce its exposure to exchange rate and interest with due allowance for any excess, obsolete or slow-moving items.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for Cost represents the expenditure incurred in bringing inventories to speculative or trading purposes.
their existing location and condition, which may include the cost of raw materials, direct labour costs, other direct costs and related Derivative financial instruments are recognised as assets and production overheads.
Cost is generally determined on a first in, liabilities measured at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price less Changes in their fair values are recognised in the income statement costs to complete and sell.
and this is likely to cause volatility in situations where the carrying value of the hedged item is either not adjusted to reect fair value From time to time, the Group enters into forward purchase changes arising from the hedged risk or is so adjusted but that contracts to x the price of commodities purchased for use in its adjustment is not recognised in the income statement.
As used by the Group, such derivative conditions specified by IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition contracts do not fall within the scope of IAS 39 and therefore are and Measurement are met, hedge accounting may be used to not recognised as assets or liabilities.
78 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts The Group does not generally apply hedge accounting to O. Post-employment benets transactional foreign currency hedging relationships, such as Post-employment benets comprise pension benets provided hedges of forecast or committed transactions.
It does, however, to employees throughout the world and other benets, mainly apply hedge accounting to translational foreign currency hedging healthcare, provided to certain employees in North America.
relationships and to hedges of its interest rate exposures where For dened contribution plans, the cost of providing the benets it is permissible to do so under IAS 39.
When hedge accounting is represents the Groups contributions to the plans and is recognised used, the relevant hedging relationships are classied as a fair value in the income statement in the period in which the contributions hedge, a cash ow hedge or, in the case of a hedge of the Groups fall due.
net investment in a foreign operation, a net investment hedge.
For dened benefit plans, the cost of providing the benets is Where the hedging relationship is classied as a fair value hedge, determined based on actuarial valuations of each of the plans that the carrying amount of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted by are carried out annually at the Groups balance sheet date by the increase or decrease in its fair value attributable to the hedged independent qualied actuaries.
Plan assets if any are measured risk and the resulting gain or loss is recognised in the income at their fair values at the balance sheet date.
benefit obligations statement where, to the extent that the hedge is effective, it are measured using the projected unit credit method.
offsets the change in the fair value of the hedging instrument.
The cost of dened benefit plans recognised in the income Where the hedging relationship is classied as a cash ow hedge statement comprises the net total of the current service cost, the or as a net investment hedge, to the extent the hedge is effective, past service cost, the expected return on plan assets, the interest changes in the fair value of the hedging instrument are recognised cost and the effect of curtailments and settlements.
The current directly in equity rather than in the income statement.
When the service cost represents the increase in the present value of the plan hedged item in a cash ow hedge is recognised in the financial liabilities expected to arise from employee service in the current statements, the accumulated gains and losses recognised in equity period.
Past service costs resulting from enhanced benets are are either recycled to the income statement or, if the hedged item recognised in the income statement on a straight-line basis over results in a non-financial asset, are recognised as adjustments to the vesting period, or immediately if the benets have vested.
Accumulated gains and losses recognised The expected return on plan assets is based on market expectations, in equity in relation to a net investment hedge are recycled to the at the beginning of the period, for returns over the life of the income statement on disposal of the foreign operation.
The interest cost represents the increase in the Derivative financial instruments are classied as current assets or benefit obligation due to the passage of time.
The discount rate liabilities unless they are in a designated hedging relationship and used is determined by reference to market yields on high-quality the hedged item is classied as a non-current asset or liability.
corporate bonds, where available, or government bonds at the balance sheet date.
Gains and losses on curtailments or settlements Derivative financial instruments that are not in a designated hedging are recognised in the income statement in the period in which the relationship are classed as trading.
vii Embedded derivatives Actuarial gains and losses, which represent differences between Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are recognised the expected and actual returns on the plan assets and the effect separately as derivative financial instruments when their risks and of changes in actuarial assumptions, are recognised in the characteristics are not closely related to those of the host contract statement of recognised income and expense in the period in and the host contract is not stated at its fair value with changes in which they occur.
its fair value recognised in the income statement.
The dened benefit liability or asset recognised in the balance sheet viii Preference shares comprises the net total for each plan of the present value of the Prior to redemption, the Companys US dollar denominated benefit obligation, minus any past service costs not yet recognised, 5.56% convertible cumulative preference shares were classied as minus the fair value of the plan assets, if any, at the balance sheet non-current liabilities and translated into sterling at the exchange date.
Where a plan is in surplus, the asset recognised is limited to rate ruling at the balance sheet date.
Dividends payable on the the amount of any unrecognised past service costs and the present preference shares were included in interest payable.
value of any amounts that the Group expects to recover by way of refunds or a reduction in future contributions.
The net total for all ix Own shares plans in surplus is classied as a non-current asset.
The net total for Own shares represent the Companys ordinary shares that are held all plans in deficit is classied as a non-current liability.
by the Company, its subsidiaries and sponsored ESOP trusts in relation to the Groups employee share schemes.
Own shares are deducted at cost in arriving at shareholders equity and gains and losses on their sale or transfer are recognised directly in equity.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 79 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued The Group recognises provisions in respect of uncertain tax positions P. Share-based incentives whereby additional current tax may become payable in future Share-based incentives are provided to employees under the periods following the audit by the tax authorities of previously Groups share option, bonus and other share award schemes.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions are based All existing schemes are classied as equity-settled.
The Group upon managements assessment of the likely outcome of issues recognises a compensation expense in respect of these schemes associated with assumed permanent differences, interest that that is based on the fair value of the awards, where appropriate may be applied to temporary differences, the possible disallowance measured using an option-pricing model.
Fair value is determined of tax credits and penalties.
Provisions for uncertain tax positions at the date of grant and is not subsequently remeasured unless are reviewed regularly and are adjusted to reect events such as the conditions on which the award was granted are modied.
the expiry of limitation periods for assessing tax, administrative Generally, the compensation expense is recognised on a straightguidance given by the tax authorities and court decisions.
line basis over the vesting period.
Adjustments are made to reduce Deferred tax is tax expected to be payable or recoverable on the compensation expense to reect expected and actual differences between the carrying amount of an asset or a liability forfeitures during the vesting period due to failure to satisfy service and its tax base used in the computation of taxable profit.
conditions or non-market performance conditions.
In the event of Deferred tax is accounted for using the liability method, whereby a cancellation, the compensation expense that would have been deferred tax liabilities are generally recognised for all taxable recognised over the remainder of the vesting period is recognised temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised to immediately in the income statement.
the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available In accordance with IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of IFRS, the Group against which deductible temporary differences can be utilised.
has not applied this policy to awards that were granted on or Deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the before 7 November 2002. temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill Q.
Provisions or from the initial recognition of other assets and liabilities in a A provision is a liability of uncertain timing or amount and is transaction other than a business combination that affects neither recognised when the Group has a present obligation as a result accounting profit nor taxable profit.
of a past event, it is probable that payment will be made to settle Deferred tax is provided on temporary differences arising on the obligation and the payment can be estimated reliably.
investments in foreign subsidiaries and associates, except where Provision is made for warranty claims when the relevant products the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary are sold, based on historical experience of the nature, frequency difference and it is probable that the temporary difference will and average cost of warranty claims.
not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Provision is made for the cost of product recalls if management Deferred tax is calculated using the tax rates that are expected to apply consider it probable that it will be necessary to recall a specic in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset is realised.
product and the amount can be reasonably estimated.
Tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable Provision is made for restructuring costs when a detailed formal plan right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and for the restructuring has been determined and the plan has been when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation communicated to the affected parties.
Gains from the expected authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and disposal of assets are not taken into account in measuring these liabilities on a net basis.
provisions and provision is not made for future operating losses.
Current and deferred tax is recognised in the income statement Provision is made for claims for compensation for injuries sustained unless it relates to an item recognised directly in equity, in which by the Groups employees while at work.
The provision represents case it is recognised directly in equity.
managements best estimate of the liability for claims made but not S. Assets held for sale and discontinued operations yet fully settled and for incidents which have occurred, but have Assets are classied as held for sale if their carrying amount will not yet been reported to the Group.
The Groups liability for claims be recovered by sale rather than by continuing use in the business.
made but not yet fully settled is calculated on an actuarial basis by a For this to be the case, the asset must be available for immediate third party administrator.
Historical data trends are used to estimate sale in its present condition, management must be committed the liability for unreported incidents.
to and have initiated a plan to sell the asset which, when initiated, R. Taxation was expected to result in a completed sale within 12 months.
Current tax is the amount of tax payable or recoverable in respect An extension of the period required to complete the sale does of the taxable profit or loss for the period.
Taxable profit differs not preclude the asset from being classied as held for sale, from accounting profit because it excludes items of income or provided the delay was for reasons beyond the Groups control expense recognised for accounting purposes that are either not and management remains committed to its plan to sell the asset.
taxable or deductible for tax purposes or are taxable or deductible Assets that are classied as held for sale are measured at the in other periods.
Current tax is calculated using tax rates that have lower of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
been enacted or substantively enacted at the balance sheet date.
80 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts A discontinued operation is a component of an entity that has IAS 1 Revised Presentation of Financial Statements either been disposed of, or satisfies the criteria to be classied In September 2007, the IASB published a revised version of IAS 1 as held for sale, and represents a separate major line of business which provides for a number of presentational changes to financial or geographical area of operations, is part of a single co-ordinated statements, including the option to present a single statement plan to dispose of a separate major line of business or geographical of comprehensive income rather than an income statement area of operations or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a and a separate statement of other comprehensive income, the view to disposal.
requirement to disclose income tax relating to each component of other comprehensive income, and the requirement to present T. Dividends on ordinary shares a balance sheet as at the beginning of the earliest comparative Dividends payable on ordinary shares are recognised in the period when an entity applies a change of accounting policy financial statements when they have been appropriately authorised retrospectively or makes a retrospective restatement.
and are no longer at the Companys discretion.
Accordingly, interim dividends are recognised when they are paid and final dividends IAS 1 Revised is effective for annual periods beginning on or after are recognised when they are declared following approval by 1 January 2009. shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
IFRS 3 Revised Business Combinations and IAS 27 Revised Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as an appropriation Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements of shareholders equity.
In January 2008, the IASB issued revised versions of IFRS 3 and U.
Accounting pronouncements not yet adopted IAS 27 that introduce a number of changes that will affect the Recently-issued accounting pronouncements that are relevant to accounting for future business combinations and the accounting the Groups operations but have not yet been adopted are outlined in the event of the loss of control over a subsidiary.
With the exception of the revisions to IAS 23 and those to Where a business combination involves a minority interest, IFRS 3 and IAS 27, management does not expect that the adoption the Group will be able to choose for each business combination of these pronouncements will have a material impact on the whether to measure the minority interest at fair value or, as at Groups results or financial position.
present, at the minoritys share of the fair value of the net assets IFRS 8 Operating Segments of the acquired entity.
In step acquisitions, previously held interests IFRS 8 replaces IAS 14 Segment Reporting and aligns segment will be remeasured at fair value and any gain or loss arising will reporting with the requirements of the equivalent US accounting be recognised in the income statement.
On the loss of control standard.
IFRS 8 requires an entity to adopt a management of a subsidiary, any retained interest will be remeasured at fair approach whereby the segment information reported will be what value and any gain or loss will be reected in the gain or loss on management uses internally for evaluating segment performance loss of control.
and deciding how to allocate resources to operating segments.
Other significant changes are that acquisition costs will be IFRS 8 is effective for annual periods commencing on or after expensed and adjustments to contingent consideration will be 1 January 2009. recognised in the income statement.
IAS 23 Revised Borrowing Costs IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 Revised are effective for annual periods In March 2007, the IASB published a revised version of IAS 23 that commencing on or after 1 July 2009. changes the permitted treatment of borrowing costs relating to The financial effect of IFRS 3 Revised and IAS 27 Revised will qualifying assets, i. e. assets that necessarily take a substantial be dependent on the circumstances surrounding the future period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale.
Under the transactions to which they will apply, that are at present unknown.
existing standard, the Group recognises all borrowing costs as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
Under the revised Amendment to IFRS 2 Share-based Payment Vesting Conditions standard, borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the and Cancellations acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset must In January 2008, the IASB published an amendment to IFRS 2 be capitalised as part of the cost of that asset.
which claries that only service conditions and performance conditions attaching to a share-based incentive are vesting IAS 23 Revised must be applied to borrowing costs relating to conditions and species that all cancellations, whether by the qualifying assets for which capitalisation commences in annual Group or by the participant, should receive the same accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2009. treatment.
It is expected that the principal impact of the Management expects that IAS 23 Revised will have an initial positive amendment will be in relation to the Groups savings-related share impact on the Groups results and financial position because option scheme.
At present, if a participant in that scheme forfeits borrowing costs that would have been expensed as incurred will an award by ceasing to make payments to the savings contract the be capitalised as part of the cost of qualifying assets.
However, event is treated as a forfeiture.
On adoption of the amendment, this initial positive impact will be offset over time by the higher that event will be treated as a cancellation unless a subsequent depreciation expense that will be recognised in respect of the award is identied as a replacement in which case it will be treated qualifying assets.
Management is not yet able to estimate reliably as a modication.
the effect of IAS 23 Revised as this will depend on the level of The amendment to IFRS 2 is effective for annual periods beginning expenditure on qualifying assets and prevailing market interest rates.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 81 Notes to the financial statements continued 2.
Principal accounting policies continued As at 29 December 2007, the present value of the benefit obligation IFRIC 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum was 691.1 million.
The benefit obligation is calculated using a Funding Requirements and their Interaction number of assumptions including future salary increases, increases to IFRIC 14 claries when refunds or reductions in future contributions pension benets, mortality rates and, in the case of post-employment may be regarded as available to the sponsoring employer in medical benets, the expected rate of increase in medical costs.
assessing the amount of the surplus in a post-employment benefit The present value of the benefit obligation is calculated by discounting plan that can be recognised as an asset by the sponsoring employer.
the benefit obligation using market yields on high-quality corporate IFRIC 14 also claries how a dened benefit asset or liability may bonds at the balance sheet date.
As at 29 December 2007, the fair be affected where there is a minimum funding requirement, i. e. the value of the plan assets was 564.5 million.
The plan assets consist sponsoring employer is required to provide a minimum amount or largely of listed securities and their fair values are subject to level of contributions to a post-employment benefit plan over a uctuation in response to changes in market conditions.
As at given period to improve the security of the benefit obligations to 29 December 2007, the Group was unable to recognise a surplus members of the plan.
of 24.8 million due to the effect of the asset ceiling.
IFRIC 14 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after Effects of changes in the actuarial assumptions underlying the 1 January 2008. benefit obligation, effects of changes in the discount rate applicable to the benefit obligation and effects of differences between the 3.
Critical accounting estimates expected and actual return on the plan assets are classied as A.
Background actuarial gains and losses and are recognised directly in equity.
When applying the Groups accounting policies, management During 2007, the Group recognised a net actuarial gain of must make assumptions and estimates concerning the future that 48.1 million.
Further actuarial gains and losses will be recognised affect the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities at the balance during the next financial year.
sheet date, the disclosure of contingencies that existed at the C. Impairment of non-current assets balance sheet date and the amounts of revenue and expenses Goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment recognised during the accounting period.
Such assumptions and are tested for impairment whenever events or circumstances estimates are based on factors such as historical experience, the indicate that their carrying amounts might be impaired.
Such events observance of trends in the industries in which the Group operates and circumstances include the effects of restructurings and new and information available from the Groups customers and other product development initiated by management.
goodwill and capitalised development expenditure relating to a Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making assumptions product that is not yet in full production are subject to an annual and estimates, actual outcomes could differ from those assumptions impairment test.
Impairment testing of goodwill requires the and estimates.
An analysis of the key sources of estimation calculation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to uncertainty at the balance sheet date that have a significant risk which the goodwill is allocated.
Due to the nature of the Groups of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of operations, it is generally not possible to estimate the recoverable the Groups assets and liabilities within the next financial year amount for individual items of property, plant and equipment and is presented below.
impairment testing of these assets is also usually based on the value in use of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
B. Post-employment benets The Group operates pension plans throughout the world, covering Value in use represents the net present value of the cash ows the majority of its employees.
Pension benets are provided by expected to arise from the relevant cash-generating unit and its way of both dened contribution plans and dened benefit plans.
calculation requires management to estimate those cash ows The Groups dened benefit pension plans are closed to new and to apply a suitable discount rate to them.
The Group also provides other post-employment benets, the estimated cash ows on assumptions such as the future growth principally health and life insurance cover, to certain of its employees in sales volumes, future changes in selling prices, and expected in North America by way of unfunded dened benefit plans.
changes in material prices, salaries and other costs.
Discount rates used are based on current market interest rates.
The Group accounts for post-employment benets in accordance with IAS 19 Employee Benets, whereby the cost of dened As at 29 December 2007, the aggregate carrying amount of benefit plans is determined based on actuarial valuations of the goodwill, intangible assets and property, plant and equipment was plans that are carried out annually at the Groups balance sheet 1,087.6 million.
Impairment losses may be recognised on these date.
The actuarial valuations are dependent on assumptions assets within the next financial year if changes are necessary to about the future that are made by management on the advice the assumptions underlying the estimated future cash ows of of independent qualied actuaries.
If actual experience differs cash-generating units or if there are changes in market interest rates from these assumptions, there could be a material change in the that affect the discount rates that are applied to those cash ows.
amounts recognised by the Group in respect of dened benefit plans in the next financial year.
82 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts D. Assets held for sale I.
Product warranties Assets that are classied as held for sale are measured at the lower Provision is made for the estimated cost of future warranty claims of their carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell.
As at on the Groups products.
Management bases the provision on 29 December 2007, the carrying value of assets held for sale was historical experience of the nature, frequency and average cost 45.6 million.
Impairment losses may be recognised in the next of warranty claims and takes into account recent trends that might financial year if the amounts realised on the sale of these assets suggest that the historical claims experience may differ from future differs from managements estimates.
As at 29 December 2007, the Groups provision for warranty claims amounted to 7.6 million.
Further provision may be E. Inventory necessary within the next financial year if actual claims experience Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable differs from managements estimates.
value, with due allowance for excess, obsolete or slow moving items.
Net realisable value is based on current assessments of J.
Taxation future demand, market conditions and new product development The Group is subject to income tax in each of the jurisdictions in initiatives.
As at 29 December 2007, the carrying value of which it operates.
Management is required to exercise significant inventories was 401.3 million, net of allowances of 3.8 million.
judgement in determining the Groups provision for income taxes.
Impairment losses may be recognised on inventory within the Estimation is required of taxable profit in order to determine the next financial year if management needs to revise its estimates Groups current tax liability.
Managements judgement is required in response to changing circumstances.
in relation to uncertain tax positions whereby additional current tax F. Financial instruments may become payable in the future following the audit by the tax Derivative financial instruments that the Group holds for the authorities of previously led tax returns.
As at 29 December 2007, purpose of hedging its currency and interest rate exposures the Group holds a provision for uncertain tax positions amounting are recognised as assets and liabilities in the Groups balance to 33.9 million.
It is possible that the final outcome of these sheet measured at their fair value at the balance date.
As at uncertain tax positions may differ from managements estimates.
29 December 2007, the Group recognised a net liability of Estimation is also required of temporary differences between the 4.8 million in respect of derivatives.
The fair value of derivatives carrying amount of assets and liabilities and their tax base.
Deferred continually changes in response to changes in prevailing market tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary differences, conditions.
Where permissible under IAS 39, the Group uses but where there exist deductible temporary differences managements hedge accounting to mitigate the impact of changes in the judgement is required as to whether a deferred tax asset should be fair value of derivatives on the income statement but the recognised based on the availability of future taxable profits.
As at Groups results may be affected by changes in the fair values 29 December 2007, the Group recognised net deferred tax assets of derivatives where hedge accounting cannot be applied or amounting to 1.5 million.
It is possible that the deferred tax assets due to hedge ineffectiveness.
actually recoverable may differ from the amounts recognised if actual G. Workers compensation taxable profits differ from managements estimates.
Provision is made for claims for compensation for injuries As at 29 December 2007, deferred tax liabilities were not recognised sustained by the Groups employees while at work.
The Groups on retained profits of foreign subsidiaries and associates amounting liability for claims made but not fully settled is calculated on an to 1,971.0 million because the Group is able to control the remittance actuarial basis by a third party administrator.
Historical data trends of those profits to the UK and it is probable that they will not be are used to estimate the liability for unreported incidents.
As at remitted in the foreseeable future.
Income tax may be payable on 29 December 2007, the workers compensation provision these amounts if circumstances change and either their remittance amounted to 14.5 million.
Further provision may be necessary can no longer be controlled by the Group or they are actually remitted within the next financial year if the actual cost of settling claims to the UK.
H. Environmental liabilities Provision is made for the estimated cost of known environmental remediation obligations in relation to the Groups current and former manufacturing facilities.
Cost estimates include the expenditure expected to be incurred in the initial remediation effort and, where appropriate, in the long-term monitoring of the relevant sites.
Management monitors for each remediation project the costs incurred to date against expected total costs to complete and operates procedures to identify possible remediation obligations that are presently unknown.
As at 29 December 2007, the provision for environmental remediation costs amounted to 4.6 million.
Further provision may be necessary within the next financial year if actual remediation costs exceed expected costs, new remediation obligations are identied or there are changes in the circumstances determining the Groups legal or constructive remediation obligations.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 83 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Background The Groups businesses are grouped for management reporting purposes according to the nature of their products.
The Groups primary format for reporting segment information is therefore by business segment.
The Groups business segments are described in note 1.
The aggregate segment result of continuing operations includes a net gain of 31.9 million arising from restructuring initiatives 2006: net loss of 9.9 million: 2005: net gain of 4.3 million and the amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition of 3.6 million 2006: 2.7 million: 2005: 0.2 million.
Restructuring initiatives are analysed by business segment in note 5.
Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition may be analysed by business segment as follows: Fluid Power 0.8 million 2006: 1.3 million: 2005: nil : Other Industrial & Automotive 0.9 million 2006: 0.5 million: 2005: 0.2 million : Air Systems Components 1.9 million 2006: 0.9 million: 2005: nil.
Segmental analysis of the revenue and results of discontinued operations is presented in note 10.
84 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Reconciliation of the aggregate segment result of continuing operations to the profit for the period: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Segment result 311.8 310.2 329.9 Unallocated corporate activities 19.5 28.7 25.3 Gain on sale of available-for-sale investments 0.3 0.2 0.4 Share of profit of associates 0.4 1.5 0.6 Operating profit 293.0 283.2 305.6 Interest payable 71.0 77.8 78.4 Investment income 43.4 40.0 35.2 Other finance expense income 2.8 0.7 4.2 profit before tax 262.6 244.7 266.6 Income tax expense 69.9 35.8 60.0 profit for the period from continuing operations 192.7 208.9 206.6 Loss for the period from discontinued operations 33.3 11.6 5.4 profit for the period 159.4 197.3 201.2 Re-presented see note 10 Management uses adjusted operating profit to assess the trading performance of the Groups businesses.
Adjusted operating profit represents operating profit before restructuring initiatives and the amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition.
A reconciliation of the segment result to adjusted operating profit for each of the Groups business segments is provided in the Supplemental Financial Information on pages 135 to 137.
C. Segment assets and liabilities Segment assets Segment liabilities As at As at As at As at 29 December 30 December 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 million million million million By business segment Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 852.8 789.9 242.5 252.9 Fluid Power 283.0 269.5 96.7 114.0 Fluid Systems 200.7 163.4 60.7 51.6 Other Industrial & Automotive 229.9 243.1 66.7 80.8 1,566.4 1,465.9 466.6 499.3 Building Products: Air Systems Components 385.4 402.0 75.2 80.2 Other Building Products 75.8 104.9 25.4 35.1 461.2 506.9 100.6 115.3 2,027.6 1,972.8 567.2 614.6 Discontinued operations Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 99.5 38.0 2,027.6 2,072.3 567.2 652.6 By location of assets US 1,003.7 1,140.0 UK 135.4 134.5 Rest of Europe 274.0 234.6 Rest of the World 627.8 574.4 2,040.9 2,083.5 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 85 Notes to the financial statements continued 4.
Segment information continued Reconciliation of aggregate segment assets to consolidated total assets: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Segment assets allocated to business segments 2,027.6 2,072.3 Unallocated corporate assets 13.3 11.2 Segment assets allocated to geographical segments 2,040.9 2,083.5 Investments in associates 8.9 7.0 Available-for-sale investments 1.5 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 148.5 172.5 Collateralised cash 2.9 4.1 Derivatives hedging translational exposures 3.1 4.0 Income tax assets: Ongoing businesses 38.6 58.1 Businesses to be sold note 27 1.5 Consolidated total assets 2,244.4 2,332.8 Reconciliation of aggregate segment liabilities to consolidated total liabilities: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Segment liabilities allocated to business segments 567.2 652.6 Unallocated corporate liabilities 23.9 22.0 Bank overdrafts 7.9 5.7 Bank and other loans 431.7 568.1 Obligations under finance leases 4.8 9.3 Derivatives hedging translational exposures 6.9 0.5 Income tax liabilities: Ongoing businesses 69.5 52.6 Businesses to be sold note 27 1.1 Convertible cumulative preference shares 67.5 Consolidated total liabilities 1,113.0 1,378.3 86 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts D. Additional segment information Analysis by segment of certain changes in the carrying value of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets: Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005 Depreciation Depreciation Depreciation and Impairment and Impairment and Impairment Additions amortisation loss Additions amortisation loss Additions amortisation loss million million million million million million million million million By business segment Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 45.8 54.2 53.5 50.9 0.4 67.9 47.9 Fluid Power 18.5 16.0 14.6 15.9 20.5 13.1 Fluid Systems 21.2 15.6 18.9 15.3 16.0 15.2 Other Industrial & Automotive 14.4 9.4 0.4 9.7 10.4 8.8 9.6 99.9 95.2 0.4 96.7 92.5 0.4 113.2 85.8 Building Products: Air Systems Components 11.8 15.4 13.4 16.3 12.9 14.0 Other Building Products 4.4 6.8 11.7 9.5 10.9 9.5 16.2 22.2 25.1 25.8 23.8 23.5 Unallocated corporate assets 0.1 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.5 116.2 117.8 0.4 122.3 118.8 0.4 137.0 109.8 Discontinued operations Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 2.2 4.6 7.2 27.1 6.3 9.3 5.3 118.4 117.8 0.4 126.9 126.0 27.5 143.3 119.1 5.3 By location of assets US 45.5 51.6 0.4 56.9 65.2 26.9 62.8 62.9 UK 15.6 11.8 12.9 10.1 0.2 10.2 11.4 5.3 Rest of Europe 17.5 14.7 14.0 13.9 15.1 11.7 Rest of the World 39.8 39.7 43.1 36.8 0.4 55.2 33.1 118.4 117.8 0.4 126.9 126.0 27.5 143.3 119.1 5.3 Re-presented see note 10 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 87 Notes to the financial statements continued 5.
Restructuring initiatives Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005 Disposals Disposals Disposals Restructuring and exit of Restructuring and exit of Restructuring and exit of costs businesses Total costs businesses Total costs businesses Total million million million million million million million million million By business segment Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 3.0 0.1 2.9 6.4 3.2 3.2 1.1 1.1 Fluid Power 4.3 4.3 3.1 3.1 0.9 0.8 1.7 Fluid Systems 0.1 1.4 1.3 Other Industrial & Automotive 6.7 6.7 0.3 0.1 0.4 2.4 1.8 4.2 7.2 5.4 1.8 9.8 3.1 6.7 2.6 1.0 3.6 Building Products: Air Systems Components 3.7 3.7 3.2 0.1 3.3 1.7 9.0 7.3 Other Building Products 2.4 32.6 30.2 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.5 0.6 6.1 32.6 26.5 3.2 3.2 1.6 9.5 7.9 Unallocated corporate activities 0.5 7.7 7.2 13.8 45.7 31.9 13.0 3.1 9.9 4.2 8.5 4.3 A.
Restructuring costs In 2007, restructuring costs principally related to the rationalisation of production facilities within the Lasco Bathware and Philips Products businesses in the US 2.4 million, the outsourcing of information technology services 2.7 million, and the initiatives within the Fluid Power and Air Systems Components business groups that began in 2006 7.4 million.
In 2006, restructuring costs related to the transfer of the activities of Fluid Powers facility at St. Neots, UK to a new facility in the Czech Republic, the closure of Air Systems Components Holland, Michigan facility and the initiatives within Stackpole and the Air Systems Components business group that began in 2005.
In 2005, restructuring costs primarily related to the closure of Stackpoles pump components facility and Air Systems Components facilities at Englewood, Ohio and Tabor City, North Carolina.
B. Disposals and exit of businesses In 2007, the Group recognised a gain of 32.6 million on the disposal of Lasco Fittings Inc. a gain of 6.7 million on the disposal of Dearborn Mid-West Conveyor Company and a loss of 1.3 million on the disposal of Tridon Electronics indicator and side object detection businesses.
Also during the year, the Group recognised a gain of 7.7 million on the disposal of Corporate property.
In 2006, the Group recognised a gain of 3.1 million on the sale of property, plant and equipment relating to businesses sold in previous years.
In 2005, the Group recognised a gain of 8.5 million on the disposal of businesses, principally in relation to the sale of the business and assets of Gutter Helmet, which was part of Hart & Cooleys residential business.
Staff costs The monthly average number of persons employed by the Group, excluding the Companys Non-Executive Directors, was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 Number Number Number By business segment Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 9,298 9,102 9,168 Fluid Power 4,819 4,656 4,754 Fluid Systems 3,133 3,105 3,108 Other Industrial & Automotive 4,046 4,025 3,929 21,296 20,888 20,959 Building Products: Air Systems Components 8,836 8,692 7,081 Other Building Products 3,608 4,555 4,669 12,444 13,247 11,750 Corporate 145 145 135 33,885 34,280 32,844 Discontinued operations Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 2,009 4,019 4,480 35,894 38,299 37,324 Re-presented see note 10 Staff costs recognised in profit for the period were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Wages and salaries 641.5 685.0 680.4 Social security costs 73.8 79.5 75.0 Pensions note 33 26.7 37.0 31.2 Other post-employment benets note 33 0.2 0.4 5.9 Share-based incentives note 34 8.0 7.9 7.7 Termination benets 3.4 5.2 4.8 753.6 814.2 793.2 Continuing operations 736.5 766.3 740.6 Discontinued operations 17.1 47.9 52.6 753.6 814.2 793.2 Re-presented see note 10 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 89 Notes to the financial statements continued 7.
Interest payable Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Borrowings: Interest on bank overdrafts 0.8 2.1 1.5 Interest on loans 28.7 34.6 27.2 Interest on interest rate swaps in designated hedging relationships: Payable 30.9 27.9 25.1 Receivable 27.3 27.3 27.3 Interest on interest rate swaps classed as held for trading: Payable 4.3 4.7 4.7 Receivable 5.2 6.1 5.2 32.2 35.9 26.0 Interest element of finance lease rentals 0.7 0.6 0.7 32.9 36.5 26.7 Dividends payable on convertible cumulative preference shares 0.6 5.4 16.3 33.5 41.9 43.0 Post-employment benets: Interest cost on benefit obligation note 33 38.6 39.7 40.5 72.1 81.6 83.5 Continuing operations 71.0 77.8 78.4 Discontinued operations 1.1 3.8 5.1 72.1 81.6 83.5 Interest rate swaps are used to manage the interest rate prole of the Groups borrowings.
Accordingly, net interest payable or receivable on interest rate swaps is included in interest payable.
Investment income Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Interest on bank deposits 4.2 4.8 4.1 Other interest receivable 1.7 2.1 1.6 5.9 6.9 5.7 Post-employment benets: Expected return on plan assets note 33 38.1 36.1 34.6 44.0 43.0 40.3 Continuing operations 43.4 40.0 35.2 Discontinued operations 0.6 3.0 5.1 44.0 43.0 40.3 9.
Other finance expense income Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Hedging activities Fair value gain on derivatives in designated hedging relationships 0.8 0.9 Fair value loss gain on derivatives classed as held for trading 1.9 0.9 3.3 Loss gain on other instruments not qualifying for hedge accounting 1.5 0.7 0.9 2.6 0.7 4.2 Other items Fair value loss on embedded derivatives 0.2 2.8 0.7 4.2 90 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Other finance expense income principally represents fair value gains and losses arising on financial instruments held by the Group to hedge its translational exposures where either the economic hedging relationship does not qualify for hedge accounting or to the extent that there is deemed to be ineffectiveness in a designated hedging relationship.
Other finance expense income is wholly attributable to continuing operations.
Background Discontinued operations represent Trico Products Corporation and its related businesses Trico, which constituted the Groups former Wiper Systems business segment.
The sale of Trico was completed on 29 June 2007.
During 2007, the Group recognised a loss of 29.8 million before tax on the disposal of Trico including an impairment loss of 17.2 million that was recognised in the first quarter of 2007.
Also during the period, the Group recognised a gain of 1.2 million before tax on the receipt of contingent consideration in relation to the disposal of the Groups Valves, Taps and Mixers businesses in 2004.
After the attributable tax expense of 4.0 million, a loss of 32.6 million was recognised in 2007 on the disposal of these businesses.
B. Re-presentation of prior year results Management intended that Tridon Electronics Tridon, a manufacturer of automotive indicator lights, would be included within the Trico sale and it was therefore included within discontinued operations in 2006.
However, Tridon has been retained by the Group and no longer meets the conditions to be classied as held for sale.
Accordingly, the Groups income statements for 2006 and 2005 and the analysis of segment assets and liabilities as at 30 December 2006 have been re-presented to reect the re-classication of Tridon to continuing operations in 2007.
During 2006, Tridons revenue was 9.2 million 2005: 14.9 million and it incurred an operating loss of 0.1 million 2005: operating profit of 3.6 million.
As at 30 December 2006, Tridons segment assets were 5.2 million and its segment liabilities were 1.2 million.
C. Results and cash ows The loss for the period from discontinued operations may be analysed as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Loss for the period of discontinued operations Sales 79.9 187.5 219.1 Cost of sales 66.5 162.0 183.3 Gross profit 13.4 25.5 35.8 Distribution costs 6.5 13.4 15.6 Administrative expenses 5.0 11.5 13.0 Restructuring costs 0.8 6.5 16.1 Operating profit loss 1.1 5.9 8.9 Interest payable 1.1 3.8 5.1 Investment income 0.6 3.0 5.1 profit loss before tax 0.6 6.7 8.9 Income tax expense benefit 1.3 2.8 1.0 Loss after tax 0.7 9.5 7.9 Loss profit on disposal of discontinued operations Loss profit before tax 28.6 22.5 3.4 Income tax expense benefit 4.0 20.4 0.9 Loss profit after tax 32.6 2.1 2.5 Loss for the period from discontinued operations 33.3 11.6 5.4 Re-presented Restructuring costs in each period relate to the transfer of manufacturing activities from the Wiper Systems facility at Pontypool, UK to more cost competitive locations.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 91 Notes to the financial statements continued 10.
Discontinued operations continued Cash ows arising from discontinued operations during the period were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Cash inow outow from operating activities 3.7 0.4 17.9 Cash outow inow from investing activities 1.3 1.7 4.4 Cash outow from nancing activities 0.6 1.4 0.7 Net increase decrease in cash and cash equivalents from discontinued operations 1.8 0.1 21.6 Re-presented D. Segment revenue and results The segment revenue and result of discontinued operations may be analysed as follows: Segment revenue Segment result Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 million million million million million million By business segment Industrial & Automotive: Wiper Systems 79.9 187.5 219.1 1.1 5.9 8.9 By origin US 62.4 142.4 161.3 2.3 4.2 13.0 UK 6.9 22.8 32.3 1.2 7.4 22.5 Rest of Europe 0.1 Rest of the World 10.6 22.2 25.5 2.7 0.6 79.9 187.5 219.1 1.1 5.9 8.9 By destination US 57.6 127.0 137.5 UK 3.8 7.9 9.8 Rest of Europe 4.7 15.8 22.1 Rest of the World 13.8 36.8 49.7 79.9 187.5 219.1 Re-presented Reconciliation of the aggregate segment result of discontinued operations to the loss for the period from discontinued operations: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Segment result 1.1 5.9 8.9 Interest payable 1.1 3.8 5.1 Investment income 0.6 3.0 5.1 profit loss before tax 0.6 6.7 8.9 Income tax expense benefit 1.3 2.8 1.0 Loss for the period of discontinued operations 0.7 9.5 7.9 Loss profit on disposal of discontinued operations 32.6 2.1 2.5 Loss for the period from discontinued operations 33.3 11.6 5.4 Re-presented 92 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts 11.
Income tax expense Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Current tax UK corporation tax on profits for the period 1.1 1.1 1.3 Decrease in provision for uncertain tax positions 19.3 6.0 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 0.4 0.3 Total UK tax 1.1 20.0 5.0 Overseas tax on profits for the period 54.7 55.6 76.7 Decrease in provision for uncertain tax positions 2.0 31.3 52.7 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 4.1 0.3 Total overseas tax 48.6 24.0 24.0 Total current tax 49.7 4.0 19.0 Deferred tax Origination or reversal of temporary differences 64.0 15.7 44.2 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 4.9 28.2 40.3 Tax losses in the period not recognised 93.7 20.1 14.4 Other changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 2.8 4.5 14.9 Adjustments in respect of prior periods 2.1 2.1 7.7 Total deferred tax 25.5 14.2 40.9 Income tax expense for the period 75.2 18.2 59.9 Continuing operations 69.9 35.8 60.0 Discontinued operations note 10 5.3 17.6 0.1 75.2 18.2 59.9 Re-presented see note 10 During 2006, there was a release of provisions for uncertain tax positions of 50.6 million as a result of tax planning, the clarification of tax legislation, the performance of certain studies and the change of views on the likely outcome of challenges by various tax authorities.
During 2005, there was a similar release of 58.7 million.
The income tax expense for the period recognised in the income statement differs from the product of the profit before tax for the period and the rate of UK corporation tax as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million profit before tax Continuing operations 262.6 244.7 266.6 Discontinued operations 28.0 29.2 5.5 234.6 215.5 261.1 UK corporation tax at 30% 2006: 30%: 2005: 30% on profit before tax 70.4 64.7 78.3 Permanent differences 1.7 13.7 45.6 Adjustment in respect of prior periods 6.2 2.2 7.4 Decrease in provisions for uncertain tax positions 2.0 50.6 58.7 Effect of different tax rates on overseas profits 10.3 13.1 12.4 Foreign tax credits 6.9 1.4 14.1 Temporary differences on investment in subsidiaries 80.3 22.7 Tax losses in the period not recognised 93.7 20.1 14.4 Utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses 4.9 28.2 40.3 Other changes in unrecognised deferred tax assets 2.8 4.5 14.9 Income tax expense for the period 75.2 18.2 59.9 Re-presented see note 10 In addition to the income tax expense recognised in the income statement, an income tax expense of 6.3 million 2006: expense of 1.0 million: 2005: benefit of 16.2 million was recognised directly in equity.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 93 Notes to the financial statements continued 12. profit for the period profit for the period is stated after charging crediting : Continuing Discontinued operations operations Total million million million Year ended 29 December 2007 Inventories: Cost of inventories 1,987.4 64.5 2,051.9 Write-down of inventories 3.5 0.3 3.8 Staff costs note 6 736.5 17.1 753.6 Goodwill note 17 : Impairment loss recognised in operating profit 0.4 0.4 Other intangible assets note 18 : Amortisation 10.3 10.3 Property, plant and equipment note 19 : Depreciation 107.5 107.5 Impairment loss recognised in operating profit 0.4 0.4 Research and development costs 49.4 2.3 51.7 Government grants: Revenue 1.0 0.1 1.1 Capital 0.2 0.2 Net foreign exchange gains 0.5 0.3 0.8 Year ended 30 December 2006 Inventories: Cost of inventories 2,035.0 156.7 2,191.7 Write-down of inventories 0.9 1.3 2.2 Staff costs note 6 766.3 47.9 814.2 Goodwill note 17 : Impairment loss recognised in operating profit 1.6 1.6 Impairment loss recognised in loss on disposal of discontinued operations 4.1 4.1 Other intangible assets note 18 : Amortisation 13.2 0.1 13.3 Impairment loss recognised in loss on disposal of discontinued operations 0.2 0.2 Property, plant and equipment note 19 : Depreciation 105.6 7.1 112.7 Impairment loss recognised in operating profit 0.4 0.5 0.9 Impairment loss recognised in loss on disposal of discontinued operations 20.7 20.7 Research and development costs 46.8 5.7 52.5 Government grants: Revenue 2.2 0.3 2.5 Capital 0.2 0.2 Net foreign exchange gains 1.2 0.7 1.9 Year ended 31 December 2005 Inventories: Cost of inventories 2,026.7 244.3 2,271.0 Write-down of inventories 0.3 0.9 1.2 Staff costs note 6 740.6 52.6 793.2 Other intangible assets note 18 : Amortisation 2.2 0.2 2.4 Property, plant and equipment note 19 : Depreciation 112.9 3.8 116.7 Impairment loss recognised in operating profit 5.3 5.3 Research and development costs 40.9 5.8 46.7 Government grants: Revenue 0.8 0.5 1.3 Capital 0.3 0.3 Net foreign exchange losses gains 1.7 0.1 1.6 Re-presented see note 10 94 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts 13.
Earnings per share Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit for the period attributable to equity shareholders by the weighted average number of the Companys ordinary shares in issue during the period.
The weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period excludes 4,331,018 shares 2006: 3,759,701 shares: 2005: 2,888,908 shares, being the weighted average number of own shares held during the period.
Diluted earnings per share takes into account the dilutive effect of options and awards outstanding under the Groups employee share schemes and the dilutive effect of the potential conversion of the Companys preference shares into the Companys ordinary shares.
The weighted average number of the Companys ordinary shares used in the calculation of diluted earnings per share excludes the effect of options and awards over 9,318,429 shares 2006: 1,229,593 shares: 2005: 2,549,390 shares that were anti-dilutive for the periods presented but could dilute earnings per share in the future.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Continuing operations profit for the period 192.7 208.9 206.6 Minority interests 12.5 11.2 9.0 Earnings for calculating basic earnings per share 180.2 197.7 197.6 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Dividends payable on preference shares 0.6 5.4 16.3 Earnings for calculating diluted earnings per share 180.8 203.1 213.9 Discontinued operations Loss for the period, being earnings for calculating basic and diluted earnings per share 33.3 11.6 5.4 Continuing and discontinued operations profit for the period 159.4 197.3 201.2 Minority interests 12.5 11.2 9.0 Earnings for calculating basic earnings per share 146.9 186.1 192.2 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Dividends payable on preference shares 0.6 5.4 16.3 Earnings for calculating diluted earnings per share 147.5 191.5 208.5 Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 Number Number Number Weighted average number of ordinary shares For calculating basic earnings per share 870,297,953 838,893,502 771,416,964 Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares: Share options and awards 4,018,619 5,173,658 2,593,300 Preference shares 9,714,541 39,759,222 102,375,159 For calculating diluted earnings per share 884,031,113 883,826,382 876,385,423 Re-presented see note 10 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 95 Notes to the financial statements continued 14.
Dividends on ordinary shares Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 Per share Per share Per share Paid or proposed in respect of the period Interim dividend 5.32p 5.32p 5.07p Final dividend 8.57p 8.57p 8.16p 13.89p 13.89p 13.23p Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Recognised in the period Interim dividend for the period of 5.32p 2006: 5.32p: 2005: 5.07p per share 46.8 45.5 39.4 Final dividend for the prior period of 8.57p 2006: 8.16p: 2005: 7.77p per share 75.2 69.8 60.0 122.0 115.3 99.4 The Directors propose a final dividend for 2007 of 8.57p per share that, subject to approval by shareholders, will be paid on 15 May 2008 to shareholders on the register on 18 April 2008.
Based on the number of ordinary shares currently in issue, the final dividend for 2007 is expected to absorb 75.5 million.
Auditors remuneration Fees payable by the Group to the Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP Deloitte and its associates were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Statutory services: Audit of the Companys accounts 0.4 0.4 0.4 Audit of the accounts of the Companys subsidiaries 2.5 2.2 1.9 Other statutory services 0.1 1.3 0.6 3.0 3.9 2.9 Tax services: Compliance services 0.3 0.2 0.3 Advisory services 0.6 0.4 1.8 0.9 0.6 2.1 Other services 0.3 0.5 0.3 Total fees 4.2 5.0 5.3 Fees for the audit of the Companys accounts represent fees payable to Deloitte in respect of the audit of the Companys individual financial statements and the Groups consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS.
Other statutory services include the review of the Groups interim financial statements and, in 2006 and 2005, the audit of the Groups consolidated financial statements prepared in accordance with US GAAP and fees associated with section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX 404.
In 2007, fees associated with SOX 404 are included in audit fees.
Tax advisory services in 2005 included advice provided in relation to the tax benets available to the Group under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 in the United States and for certain tax planning projects.
Other services include advice on accounting matters and non-statutory reporting.
Fees relating to all services must be reported to and approved by the Audit Committee or, between meetings, the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Fees payable by associated pension schemes to Deloitte and its associates were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Statutory services: Audit of the pension schemes of the Companys subsidiaries 0.2 0.2 96 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts 16.
Cash ow A. Reconciliation of profit for the period to cash generated from operations Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million profit for the period 159.4 197.3 201.2 Interest payable 72.1 81.6 83.5 Investment income 44.0 43.0 40.3 Other finance expense income 2.8 0.7 4.2 Income tax expense 75.2 18.2 59.9 profit from continuing and discontinued operations 265.5 254.8 300.1 Share of profit of associates 0.4 1.5 0.6 Amortisation of intangible assets 10.3 13.3 2.4 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 107.5 112.7 116.7 Impairment of property, plant and equipment 0.4 0.9 5.3 Impairment of goodwill 0.4 1.6 Cost of share-based incentives 8.0 7.9 7.4 Gain loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 5.6 2.9 0.1 Gain on available-for-sale investments 0.3 0.2 Gain loss on disposal of businesses: Continuing operations 38.0 3.1 8.5 Discontinued operations 28.6 22.5 3.4 Decrease in post-employment benefit obligations 37.1 34.8 55.4 Decrease in provisions 1.2 9.7 2.6 Operating cash ows before movements in working capital 338.1 367.3 361.3 Increase in inventories 10.0 20.4 22.3 Increase in receivables 37.0 10.1 22.3 Increase decrease in payables 28.1 5.3 19.8 Cash generated from operations 319.2 331.5 336.5 B. Reconciliation of net decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents to movement in net debt Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Net debt at the beginning of the period 470.5 641.3 244.5 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 271.7 470.5 641.3 516.2 Decrease increase in net debt resulting from cash ows: Decrease increase in cash and cash equivalents 23.5 82.2 65.9 Decrease increase in debt and lease nancing 142.3 25.9 133.5 Redemption of preference shares 0.6 Decrease increase in collateralised cash 1.2 1.4 0.5 118.2 109.5 67.1 Conversion of preference shares 65.3 225.6 Leases disposed of on sale of businesses 3.1 Leases obtained on acquisition of businesses 2.0 Other non-cash movements 0.8 1.1 4.6 Foreign currency translation 12.1 53.6 60.6 Decrease increase in net debt during the period 173.7 170.8 125.1 Net debt at the end of the period 296.8 470.5 641.3 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 97 Notes to the financial statements continued 16.
Cash ow continued C. Analysis of net debt As at As at As at 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Cash and cash equivalents 148.5 172.5 230.9 Collateralised cash 2.9 4.1 5.3 Bank overdrafts 7.9 5.7 10.4 Bank and other loans 431.7 568.1 562.1 Obligations under finance leases 4.8 9.3 12.3 Derivatives hedging translational exposures 3.8 3.5 14.1 Net debt excluding preference shares 296.8 403.0 334.5 Preference shares 67.5 306.8 Net debt including preference shares 296.8 470.5 641.3 17.
Goodwill million Cost As at 31 December 2005 319.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 53.9 Impairment loss 1.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 4.1 Foreign currency translation 42.1 As at 30 December 2006 325.6 Acquisition of subsidiaries current period 3.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries adjustments to prior period 7.1 Impairment loss 0.4 Foreign currency translation 10.0 As at 29 December 2007 331.2 98 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts The carrying amount of goodwill was allocated to the following groups of cash-generating units: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Industrial & Automotive Power Transmission: Stackpole 88.5 75.3 Mectrol 18.8 19.0 107.3 94.3 Fluid Power 9.6 8.8 Fluid Systems 2.7 Other Industrial & Automotive: Ideal 10.5 10.7 Dexter Group 25.5 25.9 Fleximak 8.5 8.5 Winhere 1.1 1.1 45.6 46.2 165.2 149.3 Building Products Air Systems Components: Air Systems Components 32.4 33.0 Hart & Cooley 73.3 74.7 Ruskin 14.5 18.1 Ruskin Air Management 4.9 4.9 Selkirk 36.3 40.9 161.4 171.6 Other Building Products: Bathware 4.6 4.7 166.0 176.3 331.2 325.6 The Group tests goodwill annually for impairment, or more frequently if there are indications that goodwill might be impaired.
The recoverable amounts of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are determined from value in use calculations in which the principal assumptions are those regarding discount rates, growth rates and expected changes to selling prices and direct costs.
Management uses discount rates that reect current market assessments of the time value of money.
Growth rates are based on industry growth forecasts.
Changes in selling prices and direct costs are based on past practices and expectations of future changes in the market in which the cash-generating units operate.
The Group prepares cash ow forecasts derived from the most recent financial plans approved by management for the next three years and extrapolates cash ows for the following seven years based on managements assessment of industry growth rates.
The rate used to discount the forecast cash ows resulting from these projections was 8.0% 2006: 8.0%.
The recoverable amount of Stackpole is based on financial budgets approved by management covering a three-year period.
Stackpoles cash ows beyond the three-year period are extrapolated for a further two years using 5% growth and thereafter using a steady 2%, which does not exceed the long-term growth rate for the market in which it operates.
All cash ows are discounted at a rate of 8%.
The calculation shows that the recoverable amount marginally exceeds the carrying amount of Stackpole.
Management have determined that the recoverable amount calculations are most sensitive to changes in the discount rate and operating margin assumptions.
The sensitivity of the recoverable amount to changes in those assumptions assuming all other assumptions remain unchanged is as follows: Increase of one Decrease of one percentage point percentage point million million Effect of a change in: Discount rate 29.1 40.4 Operating margin 25.7 25.7 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 99 Notes to the financial statements continued 18.
Other intangible assets Development Assets arising Computer costs on acquisition software Total million million million million Cost As at 31 December 2005 0.4 3.9 53.7 58.0 Additions 0.3 20.9 21.2 Acquisition of subsidiaries 22.2 0.4 22.6 Transfer to assets held for sale 3.2 3.2 Disposals 2.1 2.1 Foreign currency translation 1.9 6.5 8.4 As at 30 December 2006 0.7 24.2 63.2 88.1 Additions 0.2 2.6 2.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5.4 0.1 5.5 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.4 1.4 Disposals 2.5 2.5 Foreign currency translation 1.2 0.3 0.9 As at 29 December 2007 0.9 30.8 61.7 93.4 Accumulated amortisation As at 31 December 2005 0.2 35.8 36.0 Amortisation charge for the period 2.7 10.6 13.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 2.9 2.9 Disposals 2.0 2.0 Foreign currency translation 0.1 4.3 4.4 As at 30 December 2006 2.8 37.2 40.0 Amortisation charge for the period 0.1 3.6 6.6 10.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.2 1.2 Disposals 2.5 2.5 Foreign currency translation 0.3 0.2 0.1 As at 29 December 2007 0.1 6.7 39.9 46.7 Carrying amount As at 30 December 2006 0.7 21.4 26.0 48.1 As at 29 December 2007 0.8 24.1 21.8 46.7 All intangible assets included above have nite useful lives.
Property, plant and equipment Land and Plant, equipment Assets under buildings and vehicles construction Total million million million million Cost As at 31 December 2005 426.8 1,428.3 80.6 1,935.7 Additions 4.7 54.4 46.6 105.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 5.5 10.8 16.3 Transfer from assets under construction 8.3 67.5 75.8 Transfer to assets held for sale 39.1 119.8 4.3 163.2 Disposals 12.1 86.7 0.1 98.9 Foreign currency translation 41.6 137.9 4.7 184.2 As at 30 December 2006 352.5 1,216.6 42.3 1,611.4 Additions 2.9 27.7 80.8 111.4 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.6 2.9 3.5 Disposal of subsidiaries 3.0 3.0 Transfer from assets under construction 7.0 65.3 72.3 Transfer to assets held for sale 6.7 37.1 43.8 Disposals 13.9 43.9 0.6 58.4 Foreign currency translation 8.6 57.9 2.3 68.8 As at 29 December 2007 351.0 1,286.4 52.5 1,689.9 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses As at 31 December 2005 146.7 957.3 1,104.0 Depreciation charge for the period 12.6 100.1 112.7 Transfers 0.7 0.7 Transfer to assets held for sale 17.1 90.6 107.7 Disposals 4.7 82.9 87.6 Impairment loss recognised in the period 0.9 0.9 Foreign currency translation 14.8 91.1 105.9 As at 30 December 2006 123.4 793.0 916.4 Depreciation charge for the period 11.1 96.4 107.5 Disposal of subsidiaries 1.9 1.9 Transfer to assets held for sale 3.4 28.5 31.9 Disposals 6.5 39.1 45.6 Impairment loss recognised in the period 0.4 0.4 Foreign currency translation 2.3 33.0 35.3 As at 29 December 2007 126.9 853.3 980.2 Carrying amount As at 30 December 2006 229.1 423.6 42.3 695.0 As at 29 December 2007 224.1 433.1 52.5 709.7 Land and buildings include freehold land with a carrying value of 34.1 million 30 December 2006: 33.5 million that is not depreciated.
As at 29 December 2007, the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment included 6.3 million 30 December 2006: 7.0 million in respect of assets held under finance leases.
The Groups obligations under finance leases, which are analysed in note 29, are secured by a lessors charge over the leased assets.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 101 Notes to the financial statements continued 20.
Investments in associates Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Carrying amount At the beginning of the period 7.0 4.4 3.7 Share of profit of associates 0.4 1.5 0.6 Dividends received from associates 0.7 0.3 0.3 6.7 5.6 4.0 Additions 1.9 1.9 Foreign currency translation 0.3 0.5 0.4 At the end of the period 8.9 7.0 4.4 On 3 August 2007, the Group acquired a 50% interest in Caryaire Air System Components Private Ltd CASC.
CASC is located in India and is engaged in the manufacture, assembly and marketing of air distribution and HVAC products for commercial applications.
Details of the Groups principal associates are set out on page 154.
Summarised financial information in respect of the Groups associates: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Total assets 39.6 41.6 Total liabilities 20.7 24.7 Net assets 18.9 16.9 Groups share of associates net assets 8.9 7.0 Segment analysis of the Groups share of associates profit loss for the period and of its investments in associates: Investments in associates Share of profit loss of associates As at As at Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 2005 million million million million million By business segment Industrial & Automotive: Power Transmission 3.5 3.5 0.1 0.3 Fluid Systems 3.2 3.1 0.2 1.4 0.3 Other Industrial & Automotive 0.3 0.4 0.2 0.2 7.0 7.0 0.4 1.5 0.6 Building Products: Air Systems Components 1.9 8.9 7.0 0.4 1.5 0.6 By location US 1.7 1.8 Rest of the World 7.2 5.2 8.9 7.0 Schrader Duncan Limited, an associate in which the Group owns a 50% interest, is listed on the Mumbai Stock Exchange.
As at 29 December 2007, the fair value of the Groups investment based on the quoted market price of the associates shares was 6.4 million 30 December 2006: 3.6 million.
Inventories As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Raw materials and supplies 132.6 128.9 Work in progress 47.4 46.0 Finished goods and goods held for resale 221.3 218.9 401.3 393.8 22.
Trade and other receivables As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Current assets Financial assets: Trade receivables note 23 430.8 417.4 Derivative financial instruments note 31 2.8 2.8 Other receivables 37.1 27.9 Collateralised cash 2.9 4.1 473.6 452.2 Non-financial assets: Prepayments 22.7 23.0 496.3 475.2 Non-current assets Financial assets: Derivative financial instruments note 31 3.1 2.5 Other receivables 9.4 12.5 2.5 The Group is the beneciary of a number of corporate-owned life assurance policies against which it borrows from the relevant life assurance company.
As at 29 December 2007, the surrender value of the policies was 235.3 million 30 December 2006: 216.2 million and the amount outstanding on the related loans was 234.3 million 30 December 2006: 214.6 million.
For accounting purposes, these amounts are offset and the net receivable of 1.0 million 30 December 2006: 1.6 million is included in other receivables.
Collateralised cash represents cash given as collateral under letters of credit for insurance and regulatory purposes.
Trade receivables Trade receivables amounted to 430.8 million 30 December 2006: 417.4 million, net of an allowance of 5.5 million 30 December 2006: 5.2 million for doubtful debts.
The Group has a significant concentration of customers in the US, who accounted for 63.1% 2006: 66.8%: 2005: 69.3% of the Groups sales during the period, and in the industrial and automotive industry, which accounted for 73.3% 2006: 69.3%: 2005: 70.2% of the Groups sales during the period.
However, no single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Groups sales and there were no significant amounts due from any one customer.
Before accepting a new customer, the Group assesses the potential customers credit quality and establishes a credit limit.
Credit quality is assessed by using data maintained by reputable credit rating agencies, by checking of references included in credit applications and, where they are available, by reviewing the customers recent financial statements.
Credit limits are subject to multiple levels of authorisation and are reviewed on a regular basis.
Trade receivables are regularly reviewed for bad and doubtful debts.
Bad debts are written-off and an allowance is established for specic doubtful debts.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 103 Notes to the financial statements continued 23.
Trade receivables continued Trade receivables may be analysed as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Amounts neither past due nor impaired 370.3 356.7 Amounts past due but not impaired: Less than 30 days old 4.6 4.1 Between 30 and 60 days old 27.0 28.4 Between 60 and 90 days old 11.2 11.0 More than 90 days old 14.6 15.7 57.4 59.2 Amounts impaired: Total amounts that have been impaired 8.6 6.7 Allowance for doubtful debts 5.5 5.2 3.1 1.5 430.8 417.4 Movements in the allowance for doubtful debts were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million At the beginning of the period 5.2 7.9 6.1 Charge for the period 0.9 0.9 3.0 Transfer to assets held for sale 1.5 Utilised during the period 0.7 1.7 1.6 Foreign currency translation 0.1 0.4 0.4 At the end of the period 5.5 5.2 7.9 Trade receivables are not generally interest-bearing although interest may be charged to customers on overdue accounts.
Trade receivables with a carrying value of 0.1 million 30 December 2006: nil have been pledged as security for amounts outstanding under secured bank loans.
Long-term contracts Long-term contracts were entered into by Dearborn Mid-West Conveyor Company which was sold on 23 November 2007.
Revenue recognised on long-term contracts during 2007 prior to completion of the sale amounted to 80.0 million 2006: 112.6 million: 2005: 76.4 million.
Amounts recognised in respect of contracts in progress were as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Costs incurred to date 180.7 Recognised profits less recognised losses to date 12.3 193.0 Progress billings to date 195.9 Net amount due to customers 2.9 Gross amount due from customers included in trade and other receivables 4.1 Gross amount due to customers included in trade and other payables 7.0 Net amount due to customers 2.9 Retentions held by customers 3.4 As at 30 December 2006, there were no unpaid progress billings and no advances received from customers.
Available-for-sale investments million Carrying amount As at 31 December 2005 2.2 Additions 0.1 Fair value gain recognised directly in equity 0.6 Disposals 0.3 Foreign currency translation 0.5 As at 30 December 2006 2.1 Additions 0.1 Fair value loss recognised directly in equity 0.4 Disposals 0.3 Foreign currency translation As at 29 December 2007 1.5 Available-for-sale investments comprise listed equities.
Cash and cash equivalents As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Cash on hand and demand deposits 115.8 153.7 Term deposits 32.7 18.8 148.5 172.5 As at 29 December 2007, the carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents included accrued interest receivable of 0.2 million 30 December 2006: 0.2 million.
The currency and interest rate prole of cash and cash equivalents was as follows: Floating interest rate Weighted average Non-interest interest rate bearing Total million % million million As at 29 December 2007 Currency: Sterling 9.0 4.9 1.1 10.1 US dollar 40.0 3.6 3.1 43.1 Euro 11.3 3.0 0.6 11.9 Canadian dollar 7.8 3.6 7.8 Other 67.4 3.4 8.2 75.6 135.5 13.0 148.5 As at 30 December 2006 Currency: Sterling 5.2 3.3 1.2 6.4 US dollar 67.8 4.1 12.4 80.2 Euro 12.4 1.6 11.8 24.2 Canadian dollar 5.1 2.6 4.3 9.4 Other 41.7 2.7 10.6 52.3 132.2 40.3 172.5 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 105 Notes to the financial statements continued 27.
Assets held for sale Management has an ongoing programme of identifying non-core businesses for disposal.
During the fourth quarter of 2006, management approved the disposal of the following businesses whose assets and liabilities were classied as held for sale as at 30 December 2006: Trico Products Corporation and its related businesses Trico, which constituted the Groups Wiper Systems business segment, that are classed as discontinued operations: Lasco Fittings Inc. a manufacturer of injection moulded ttings that was included within the Other Building Products business segment: and Dearborn Mid-West Conveyor Company, a manufacturer of automotive assembly lines and materials handling equipment that was included within the Other Industrial & Automotive business segment.
All of these businesses were sold during 2007.
As at 29 December 2007, the assets and liabilities of the following businesses for which management began actively seeking prospective buyers during the second quarter of 2007 were classied as held for sale: Stant Manufacturing, Inc. Stant, a manufacturer of automotive closure caps: and Standard-Thomson Corporation, a manufacturer of automotive thermostats.
Both Stant and Standard-Thomson Corporation are included within the Fluid Systems business segment.
Assets held for sale also include vacant properties no longer required by the Group for manufacturing operations.
Assets classied as held for sale and directly associated liabilities were as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Assets held for sale Intangible assets 0.3 0.1 Property, plant and equipment 17.9 34.7 Deferred tax assets note 35 1.5 Inventories 7.8 42.4 Trade and other receivables 19.6 73.3 45.6 152.0 Liabilities directly associated with assets held for sale Trade and other payables 11.1 49.3 Post employment benefit obligations note 33 1.2 11.4 Deferred tax liabilities note 35 1.1 Provisions note 36 0.7 3.4 14.1 64.1 31.5 87.9 In 2006, the Group recognised an impairment loss of 26.6 million on assets classied as held for sale.
As at 29 December 2007, cumulative currency translation differences recognised directly in equity in relation to foreign operations classied as held for sale amounted to 2.8 million 30 December 2006: 9.1 million.
Borrowings As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Current Non-current Current Non-current liabilities liabilities Total liabilities liabilities Total million million million million million million Carrying amount Bank overdrafts 7.9 7.9 5.7 5.7 Bank and other loans Bank loans secured 0.1 0.1 unsecured 14.4 18.0 32.4 26.2 145.3 171.5 Other loans unsecured 5.3 393.7 399.0 5.3 391.0 396.3 Unsecured loan notes 0.2 0.2 0.3 0.3 20.0 411.7 431.7 31.8 536.3 568.1 27.9 411.7 439.6 37.5 536.3 573.8 106 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts The carrying amount of borrowings may be reconciled to the principal amount outstanding as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Carrying amount 439.6 573.8 Accrued interest payable 4.9 5.3 Unamortised transaction costs 2.2 2.7 Fair value hedge adjustment note 31 3.7 6.4 Principal amount 440.6 577.6 The maturity analysis of the principal amount outstanding is presented in note 32.
Bank loans Bank loans include amounts drawn down under the Groups 400 million multi-currency revolving credit facility amounting to 18.0 million 30 December 2006: 145.8 million.
Borrowings under the facility attract interest at oating rates determined by reference to LIBOR and the facility expires on 8 August 2010.
Other loans The Group has a Euro Medium Term Note Programme under which it may borrow up to a total maximum principal amount of 750 million.
So far, two bonds have been issued under this programme: 150 million repayable at par on 20 December 2011 that bears interest at a xed rate of 8%: and 250 million repayable at par on 16 September 2015 that bears interest at a xed rate of 6.125%.
Unsecured loan notes The unsecured loan notes must be repaid, at par, on 30 June 2012.
Until that time, in certain circumstances the noteholders have the right to require full or part repayment, at par, half yearly on 30 June and 31 December and for this reason they are classied as current liabilities.
The unsecured loan notes bear interest at a xed rate of 2.6%.
Currency and interest rate prole The currency and interest rate prole of outstanding borrowings, after taking into account the effect of the Groups currency and interest rate hedging activities, was as follows: Floating interest rate Fixed interest rate Interest-free Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average period for interest rate interest rate which rate is xed Total million % million % Years million million As at 29 December 2007 Currency: Sterling 17.9 5.6 0.6 18.5 US dollar 221.2 7.7 32.6 7.7 4.8 0.2 254.0 Euro 47.8 7.7 3.3 2.5 3.0 51.1 Canadian dollar 84.4 7.7 84.4 Other 30.4 8.1 1.2 13.1 2.6 31.6 401.7 37.1 0.8 439.6 As at 30 December 2006 Currency: Sterling 39.3 6.4 39.3 US dollar 223.6 5.0 107.3 4.1 2.5 330.9 Euro 66.6 5.0 66.6 Canadian dollar 92.2 4.2 92.2 Other 42.9 5.6 1.9 8.6 1.4 44.8 464.6 109.2 573.8 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 107 Notes to the financial statements continued 29.
Obligations under finance leases Minimum lease payments Carrying amount As at As at As at As at 29 December 30 December 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 2007 2006 million million million million Amounts payable under finance leases Within one year 1.2 1.9 0.9 1.4 In the second to fifth years, inclusive 2.9 5.7 2.3 4.4 After more than five years 2.3 3.9 1.6 3.5 6.4 11.5 4.8 9.3 Less: Future finance charges 1.6 2.2 4.8 9.3 4.8 9.3 The Group leases certain of its plant, equipment and vehicles under finance leases.
All leases are on a xed repayment basis and no arrangements have been entered into for contingent rental payments.
As at 29 December 2007, the average effective interest rate was 6.4% 30 December 2006: 6.0%.
All finance leases are held by the Groups ongoing businesses.
The Groups obligations under finance leases are secured by the lessors title to the leased assets.
Trade and other payables As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Current liabilities Financial liabilities: Trade payables 217.2 217.5 Other taxes and social security 18.0 15.5 Derivative financial instruments note 31 1.7 0.1 Other payables 21.0 17.8 257.9 250.9 Non-financial liabilities: Accruals and deferred income 112.7 102.4 370.6 353.3 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities: Derivative financial instruments note 31 6.6 0.5 Other payables 9.3 8.5 15.9 9.0 Non-financial liabilities: Accruals and deferred income 5.8 2.7 21.7 11.7 Trade payables are generally not interest-bearing, but interest may be charged by suppliers on overdue accounts.
Summary Derivative financial instruments are held in relation to the Groups financial risk management policy which is described in note 32.
The Group does not hold or issue derivatives for speculative or trading purposes.
The carrying amount of derivative financial instruments held by the Group was as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Assets Liabilities Net Assets Liabilities Net million million million million million million Hedging activities Translational hedges: Currency forwards 6.6 6.6 2.5 0.2 2.3 Interest rate swaps 3.1 0.3 2.8 1.5 0.3 1.2 3.1 6.9 3.8 4.0 0.5 3.5 Transactional hedges: Currency forwards and swaps 0.3 1.4 1.1 1.3 0.1 1.2 3.4 8.3 4.9 5.3 0.6 4.7 Other items Embedded derivatives 2.5 2.5 5.9 8.3 2.4 5.3 0.6 4.7 Classied as: Current 2.8 1.7 1.1 2.8 0.1 2.7 Non-current 3.1 6.6 3.5 2.5 0.5 2.0 5.9 8.3 2.4 5.3 0.6 4.7 B.
Currency derivatives As at 29 December 2007, the notional principal amount of outstanding foreign exchange contracts that are used to manage the currency prole of the Groups net assets was 585.8 million 30 December 2006: 384.5 million.
The Group has designated these contracts as net investment hedges.
During 2007, the net fair value loss of 15.5 million 2006: net gain of 43.5 million: 2005: net loss of 35.6 million in relation to these contracts was recognised directly in equity.
The Group also designated as net investment hedges the US dollar denominated preference shares and US dollar borrowings under the multi-currency revolving credit facility.
During 2007, the net currency translation gain of 1.9 million 2006: net gain of 26.1 million: 2005: net loss of 37.0 million arising on these instruments was recognised directly in equity.
The currency prole of the Groups net assets after taking into account translation hedges is presented in note 32.
During 2007, a net loss of 1.5 million 2006: net loss of 0.7 million: 2005: net gain of 0.9 million was recognised within other finance expense income in respect of currency translation hedges that did not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Also during 2007, a net fair value loss of 2.0 million 2006: net loss of 0.7 million: 2005: net gain of 0.4 million was recognised within operating profit in respect of currency derivatives that were held to provide an economic hedge of transactional currency exposures but were not designated as hedges for accounting purposes.
C. Interest rate swaps Interest rate swaps are used to swap borrowings under the Groups Euro Medium Term Note Programme from xed interest rates to oating interest rates.
As at 29 December 2007, the nominal value of the contracts outstanding was 400 million 30 December 2006: 400 million.
The Group has designated these contracts as fair value hedges in relation to the borrowings.
During 2007, the Group recognised a net fair value gain of 3.5 million 2006: net loss of 19.9 million: 2005: net gain of 8.6 million in relation to these contracts and the carrying amount of the hedged borrowings was increased by 2.7 million 2006: reduced by 20.7 million: 2005: increased by 8.6 million to reect the change in the fair value of the borrowings attributable to the hedged risk and the amortisation of the transitional adjustment that was recognised on initial adoption of IAS 39.
During 2007, a net gain of 0.8 million 2006: net gain of 0.9 million: 2005: nil was therefore recognised within other finance expense income in relation to these hedges.
Interest rate swaps are also used to restrict the amount of oating rate US dollar debt.
As at 29 December 2007, the nominal value of these contracts held was US$130 million 30 December 2006: US$275 million, including contracts with a nominal value of US$65 million 30 December 2006: US$65 million that commence on the maturity of equivalent contracts that are currently in force.
During 2007, a net fair value loss of 1.9 million 2006: net loss of 0.9 million: 2005: net gain of 3.3 million was recognised within other finance expense income in relation to these contracts that did not qualify for hedge accounting under IAS 39.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 109 Notes to the financial statements continued 31.
Derivative financial instruments continued The prole of interest rate swaps held by the Group was as follows: Interest rate Payable Receivable Notional principal amount million Variable Fixed Variable Fixed Variable rate index As at 29 December 2007 Maturity date: December 2011 150.0 8.6% 8.0% 6 month LIBOR September 2015 250.0 7.2% 6.1% 3 month LIBOR June 2008 US$65.0 3.8% 4.9% 3 month LIBOR December 2009 commences June 2008 US$65.0 4.6% 3 month LIBOR As at 30 December 2006 Maturity date: December 2011 150.0 8.0% 8.0% 6 month LIBOR September 2015 250.0 6.4% 6.1% 3 month LIBOR June 2008 US$65.0 3.8% 5.4% 3 month LIBOR December 2007 US$145.0 4.2% 5.4% 3 month LIBOR December 2009 commences June 2008 US$65.0 4.6% 3 month LIBOR 32.
Risk management policies The Groups central treasury function is responsible for procuring the Groups capital resources and maintaining an efficient capital structure, together with managing the Groups liquidity, foreign exchange and interest rate exposures.
All treasury operations are conducted within strict policies and guidelines that are approved by the Board.
Compliance with those policies and guidelines is monitored by the regular reporting of treasury activities to the Board.
A key element of the Groups treasury philosophy is that funding, interest rate and currency decisions and the location of cash and debt balances are determined independently of each other.
The Groups borrowing requirements are met by raising funds in the most favourable markets.
Management aims to retain net debt in proportion to the currencies in which the net assets of the Groups operations are denominated.
The desired currency prole of net debt is achieved by entering into currency derivative contracts.
The proportion of overseas investments effectively funded by shareholders equity is not hedged.
The net income of foreign operations is not hedged but the effect of currency uctuations on the Groups reported net income is partly offset by interest payable on net debt denominated in foreign currencies.
From time to time, the Group also enters into currency derivative contracts to manage currency transaction exposures.
The Groups interest rate prole is managed within the policy established by the Board.
The desired interest rate prole of net debt in each currency is achieved by entering into interest rate derivative contracts.
The Groups portfolio of cash and cash equivalents is managed such that there is no significant concentration of credit risk in any one bank or other financial institution.
Management monitors closely the credit quality of the institutions with which it holds deposits.
Similar considerations are given to the Groups portfolio of derivative financial instruments.
The Groups borrowing facilities are monitored against forecast requirements and timely action is taken to put in place, renew or replace credit lines.
Managements policy is to reduce liquidity risk by diversifying the Groups funding sources and by staggering the maturity of its borrowings.
The Group has established long-term credit ratings of Baa3 Stable with Moodys and BBB Stable with Standard & Poors and a short-term credit rating of P-2 with Moodys.
Management aims to achieve an appropriate mix of debt and equity to ensure an efficient capital structure and to preserve these ratings.
Disclosures about the Groups capital are set out in note 42.
Financial assets and liabilities Financial assets and liabilities analysed by the categories dened in IAS 39 were as follows: Fair value through profit or loss Designated Total Loans and AvailableAmortised hedging carrying Fair receivables for-sale cost relationships Trading value value million million million million million million million As at 29 December 2007 Financial assets Trade and other receivables: Non-derivative assets 480.2 480.2 480.2 Derivative assets 3.1 2.8 5.9 5.9 480.2 3.1 2.8 486.1 486.1 Available-for-sale investments 1.5 1.5 1.5 Cash and cash equivalents 148.5 148.5 148.5 628.7 1.5 3.1 2.8 636.1 636.1 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 265.5 265.5 265.5 Derivative liabilities 6.6 1.7 8.3 8.3 265.5 6.6 1.7 273.8 273.8 Bank overdrafts 7.9 7.9 7.9 Bank and other loans: Current 20.0 20.0 20.0 Non-current 415.4 3.7 411.7 415.2 Obligations under finance leases 4.8 4.8 4.8 265.5 448.1 2.9 1.7 718.2 721.7 363.2 1.5 448.1 0.2 1.1 82.1 85.6 Fair value through profit or loss Designated Total Loans and AvailableAmortised hedging carrying Fair receivables for-sale cost relationships Trading value value million million million million million million million As at 30 December 2006 Financial assets Trade and other receivables: Non-derivative assets 449.4 449.4 449.4 Derivative assets 2.5 2.8 5.3 5.3 449.4 2.5 2.8 454.7 454.7 Available-for-sale investments 2.1 2.1 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents 172.5 172.5 172.5 621.9 2.1 2.5 2.8 629.3 629.3 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 259.3 259.3 259.3 Derivative liabilities 0.5 0.1 0.6 0.6 259.3 0.5 0.1 259.9 259.9 Bank overdrafts 5.7 5.7 5.7 Bank and other loans: Current 31.8 31.8 31.8 Non-current 542.7 6.4 536.3 550.8 Obligations under finance leases 9.3 9.3 9.3 Preference shares 67.5 67.5 65.8 259.3 657.0 5.9 0.1 910.5 923.3 362.6 2.1 657.0 8.4 2.7 281.2 294.0 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 111 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued Available-for-sale investments are listed and are valued by reference to quoted market prices.
Cash and cash equivalents and current bank and other loans largely attract oating interest rates.
Accordingly, their carrying amounts are considered to approximate to fair value.
Non-current bank and other loans principally comprise borrowings under the Groups multi-currency revolving credit facility that attract oating interest rates, the carrying amount of which is considered to approximate to fair value, and the listed bonds issued under the Groups Euro Medium Term Note Programme, the fair value of which is based on their quoted market prices.
Finance lease obligations attract xed interest rates that are implicit in the lease rentals and their fair value has been assessed by reference to prevailing market interest rates.
Derivative assets and liabilities represent the fair value of foreign currency derivatives and interest rate derivatives held by the Group at the balance sheet date.
Foreign currency derivatives are valued by reference to prevailing forward exchange rates.
Interest rate derivatives are valued by discounting the related cash ows using prevailing market interest rates.
Preference shares were not traded in an organised market and their fair value was assessed using a valuation model that took into account prevailing market interest rates and the existence of the holders conversion option.
C. Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group.
Management considers the Groups maximum exposure to credit risk to be as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Trade and other receivables: Derivative assets 5.9 5.3 Non-derivative assets 480.2 449.4 Add: Allowance for doubtful debts 5.5 5.2 491.6 459.9 Cash and cash equivalents 148.5 172.5 640.1 632.4 As at 29 December 2007, 86% 30 December 2006: 86% of the Groups cash and cash equivalents were held with institutions rated at least A-1 by Standard & Poors and P-1 by Moodys.
Credit risk disclosures with respect to trade receivables are set out in note 23.
D. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
As at 29 December 2007, the Group had undrawn committed borrowing facilities of 382.0 million 30 December 2006: 254.2 million available under the multi-currency revolving credit facility that expires on 8 August 2010.
Borrowings under this facility will be at prevailing LIBOR rates, plus an agreed margin, dependent on the period of drawdown.
In addition, the Group had uncommitted borrowing facilities of 254.7 million 30 December 2006: 255.8 million, of which 22.5 million 30 December 2006: 31.8 million had been drawn down for cash and 92.4 million 30 December 2006: 86.4 million had been utilised through the issuance of bank guarantees and standby letters of credit.
Consequently, the Groups committed borrowing headroom was 267.1 million 30 December 2006: 136.0 million in addition to cash and cash equivalents of 148.5 million 30 December 2006: 172.5 million.
The Group is subject to covenants, representations and warranties commonly associated with investment grade borrowings in respect of its committed borrowing facilities and borrowings under the Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
The Group is subject to two financial covenants in respect of its committed borrowing facilities.
The ratio of net debt to consolidated earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation must not exceed 2.5 times, and the ratio of consolidated operating profit to the consolidated net interest charge must not be less than 3.0 times.
The financial covenants are calculated by applying UK GAAP extant as at 31 December 2002.
The Group complied with the borrowing covenants throughout each of the periods presented in the financial statements.
Any future non-compliance with the borrowing covenants could, if not waived, constitute an event of default and may, in certain circumstances lead to an acceleration of the maturity of borrowings drawn down and the inability to access committed facilities.
112 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Contractual cash ows related to the Groups financial liabilities are as follows: Within Between Between Between Between After 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 3 years 3 and 4 years 4 and 5 years 5 years Total million million million million million million million As at 29 December 2007 Bank overdrafts 7.9 7.9 Bank and other loans: Principal 22.6 18.0 150.0 250.0 440.6 Interest payments 29.7 28.4 28.4 28.0 15.3 45.9 175.7 Finance lease obligations 1.2 1.0 0.9 0.6 0.4 2.3 6.4 Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 256.2 9.3 265.5 Derivative liabilities Payments 621.3 6.8 4.2 632.3 Receipts 613.8 6.3 4.0 624.1 Cash ows on financial liabilities 325.1 39.2 47.5 178.6 15.7 298.2 904.3 Cash ows on related financial assets: Derivative assets Payments 46.1 26.9 26.9 26.9 15.2 45.8 187.8 Receipts 45.6 28.2 28.2 28.2 15.3 45.9 191.4 Cash ows related to financial assets 0.5 1.3 1.3 1.3 0.1 0.1 3.6 Within Between Between Between Between After 1 year 1 and 2 years 2 and 3 years 3 and 4 years 4 and 5 years 5 years Total million million million million million million million As at 30 December 2006 Bank overdrafts 5.7 5.7 Bank and other loans: Principal 32.3 145.3 150.0 250.0 577.6 Interest payments 37.4 35.5 35.5 32.8 27.3 61.2 229.7 Finance lease obligations 1.9 1.8 1.5 1.4 1.0 3.9 11.5 Trade and other payables: Non-derivative liabilities 250.8 8.5 259.3 Derivative liabilities Payments 95.6 29.0 28.6 28.1 27.1 59.7 268.1 Receipts 94.9 28.2 28.2 28.2 28.2 61.3 269.0 Cash ows on financial liabilities 328.8 46.6 37.4 179.4 177.2 313.5 1,082.9 Cash ows on related financial assets: Derivative assets Payments 374.7 4.5 1.5 380.7 Receipts 378.4 5.4 1.7 385.5 Cash ows related to financial assets 3.7 0.9 0.2 4.8 Maturities in the above table are based on the earliest date on which the Group could be required to settle the liabilities.
Floating interest payments and payments and receipts on interest rate derivatives are estimated based on market interest rates prevailing at the balance sheet date.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 113 Notes to the financial statements continued 32.
Financial risk management continued E. Interest rate risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value of or future cash ows associated with a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The interest rate prole of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, after taking into account the effect of the Groups interest rate hedging activities, was as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Interest-bearing Interest-bearing Floating Fixed Non-interest Floating Fixed Non-interest rate rate bearing Total rate rate bearing Total million million million million million million million million Financial assets Trade and other receivables 486.1 486.1 454.7 454.7 Available-for-sale investments 1.5 1.5 2.1 2.1 Cash and cash equivalents note 26 135.5 13.0 148.5 132.2 40.3 172.5 135.5 500.6 636.1 132.2 497.1 629.3 Financial liabilities Trade and other payables 273.8 273.8 259.9 259.9 Borrowings note 28 401.7 37.1 0.8 439.6 464.6 109.2 573.8 Obligations under finance leases 4.8 4.8 9.3 9.3 401.7 41.9 274.6 718.2 464.6 118.5 259.9 843.0 266.2 41.9 226.0 82.1 332.4 118.5 237.2 213.7 On the assumption that the change in interest rates is applied to the risk exposures in existence at the balance sheet date and that designated fair value hedges are highly effective, an increase decrease of 100 basis points in the interest rates applying to financial assets and liabilities would increase decrease the Groups profit before tax by 3.1 million 2006: increase decrease by 3.7 million.
No amounts would be taken directly to equity.
F. Currency risk Currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash ows of a financial instrument will uctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
Currency risk arises on financial assets and liabilities that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the entity by which they are held.
The Groups exposure to currency risk was as follows: Net foreign currency financial assets liabilities Sterling US dollar Euro Canadian dollar Other Total million million million million million million As at 29 December 2007 Functional currency of entity: Sterling 12.2 5.2 0.1 17.5 US dollar 0.1 1.6 0.1 3.2 1.6 Euro 0.1 2.2 2.3 Canadian dollar 0.2 1.5 0.1 0.2 1.0 Other 3.7 12.2 1.4 1.1 15.6 4.1 0.7 4.9 1.0 3.1 2.2 As at 30 December 2006 Functional currency of entity: Sterling 12.7 6.4 2.1 0.2 21.0 US dollar 0.2 0.3 1.2 0.7 Euro 0.2 1.1 0.2 0.1 1.6 Canadian dollar 0.2 3.9 0.1 0.8 2.8 Other 1.9 1.9 0.5 0.5 4.8 2.5 13.6 5.5 1.4 0.1 18.1 Currency exposures shown above take into account the effect of the Groups transaction hedging activities.
114 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts On the assumption that the change in exchange rates is applied to the risk exposures in existence at the balance sheet date and that designated net investment hedges are highly effective, an increase decrease of 10% in the value of the functional currencies of the entities concerned against the currencies in which the financial assets and liabilities are denominated would increase decrease the Groups profit before tax by 0.2 million 2006: increase decrease by 1.8 million.
Currency exposures on the Groups net assets, after taking into account the translation hedges applied to the Groups borrowings, were as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Net assets Net assets excluding net Net Net excluding net Net Net debt funds debt funds assets debt funds debt funds assets million million million million million million Currency: Sterling 85.2 6.2 79.0 71.1 27.7 43.4 US dollar 697.5 214.9 482.6 784.2 322.9 461.3 Euro 121.2 43.0 78.2 124.2 46.0 78.2 Canadian dollar 260.7 78.8 181.9 216.4 81.7 134.7 Other 263.6 46.1 309.7 229.1 7.8 236.9 1,428.2 296.8 1,131.4 1,425.0 470.5 954.5 33.
Background The Group operates pension plans throughout the world, covering the majority of its employees.
The plans are structured to accord with local conditions and practices in each country and include dened contribution plans and dened benefit plans.
The Group provides dened contribution pension benets in most of the countries in which it operates: in particular, the majority of the Groups employees in the United States of America are entitled to such benets.
The expense recognised in the income statement in respect of these plans represents the contributions payable by the Group for the period at rates that are specified in the rules of the plans.
At the balance sheet date, the Group had not paid over to the plans contributions due amounting to 7.5 million 30 December 2006: 7.1 million.
All amounts due for the period were paid over subsequent to the balance sheet date.
The Group operates dened benefit pension plans in several countries: in particular, in the United Kingdom and the United States of America.
Generally, the pension benets provided under these plans are based upon pensionable salary and the period of service of the individual employees.
The assets of the plans are held separately from those of the Group in funds that are under the control of trustees.
The majority of the dened benefit pension plans operated by the Group are closed to new entrants.
In addition to the funded dened benefit pension plans, the Group has unfunded dened benefit obligations to certain employees.
The Group also provides other post-employment benets, principally health and life insurance cover, to certain of its employees in North America.
These plans, which are unfunded, are dened benefit plans.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 115 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Summary of financial effect An analysis of the effect of providing post-employment benets on the Groups results is set out below.
Year ended 29 December 2007 Pensions Other post-employment benets Loss from Loss from Operating Finance discontinued Operating Finance discontinued profit charges operations Total profit charges operations Total million million million million million million million million Dened contribution plans 23.4 0.4 23.8 Dened benefit plans Recognised in the income statement: Current service cost 5.8 0.1 5.9 0.2 0.2 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 Settlement and curtailments 1.9 1.2 3.1 Interest cost 33.0 0.5 33.5 5.1 5.1 Expected return on plan assets 37.5 0.6 38.1 4.0 4.5 1.2 1.7 0.2 5.1 5.3 Recognised in equity: Actuarial gain 45.1 3.0 Effect of the asset ceiling 22.0 23.1 3.0 24.8 2.3 Year ended 30 December 2006 Pensions Other post-employment benets Loss from Loss from Operating Finance discontinued Operating Finance discontinued profit charges operations Total profit charges operations Total million million million million million million million million Dened contribution plans 27.8 1.4 29.2 Dened benefit plans Recognised in the income statement: Current service cost 6.9 0.4 7.3 0.2 0.2 Past service cost 0.4 0.4 Settlement and curtailments 0.1 0.1 0.6 0.6 Interest cost 31.5 2.7 34.2 5.4 0.1 5.5 Expected return on plan assets 33.3 2.8 36.1 7.4 1.8 0.3 5.9 0.4 5.4 0.1 5.1 Recognised in equity: Actuarial gain loss 20.8 1.4 Effect of the asset ceiling 0.8 20.0 1.4 14.1 6.5 116 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Year ended 31 December 2005 Pensions Other post-employment benets Loss from Loss from Operating Finance discontinued Operating Finance discontinued profit charges operations Total profit charges operations Total million million million million million million million million Dened contribution plans 25.3 1.4 26.7 Dened benefit plans Recognised in the income statement: Current service cost 5.8 0.3 6.1 0.4 0.4 Past service cost 0.3 0.3 0.7 0.7 Settlement and curtailments 1.9 1.9 5.6 5.6 Interest cost 31.1 2.9 34.0 6.4 0.1 6.5 Expected return on plan assets 31.4 3.2 34.6 4.2 0.3 3.9 5.9 6.4 0.1 0.6 Recognised in equity: Actuarial loss gain 45.9 1.8 Effect of the asset ceiling 0.3 46.2 1.8 50.1 1.2 The net liability recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of dened benefit plans was as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Pensions Other benets Total Pensions Other benets Total million million million million million million Present value of the benefit obligation: Funded 579.5 579.5 625.0 625.0 Unfunded 20.9 90.7 111.6 23.9 96.9 120.8 600.4 90.7 691.1 648.9 96.9 745.8 Fair value of plan assets 564.5 564.5 532.3 532.3 35.9 90.7 126.6 116.6 96.9 213.5 Effect of the asset ceiling 24.8 24.8 2.8 2.8 Net liability 60.7 90.7 151.4 119.4 96.9 216.3 Amounts recognised in the consolidated balance sheet: Ongoing businesses: Surpluses 3.6 3.6 0.9 0.9 deficits 64.3 89.5 153.8 110.4 95.4 205.8 60.7 89.5 150.2 109.5 95.4 204.9 Businesses to be sold note 27 : deficits 1.2 1.2 9.9 1.5 11.4 1.2 1.2 9.9 1.5 11.4 Net liability 60.7 90.7 151.4 119.4 96.9 216.3 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 117 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued C. Pensions The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the dened benefit pension plans were as follows: UK US Other countries % per annum % per annum % per annum Valuation as at 29 December 2007 Salary increases 4.25% 3.00% 5.92% 1.00% 3.50% Increase to pensions in payment 3.25% n a n a Increase to deferred pensions 3.25% n a n a Long-term rate of return on plan assets 5.25% 7.00% 8.00% 1.00% 7.00% Discount rate 5.75% 6.375% 2.00% 6.00% Ination rate 3.25% 0.00% 0.50% 3.50% Valuation as at 30 December 2006 Salary increases 4.00% 3.00% 5.92% 2.00% 3.80% Increase to pensions in payment 2.90% 3.00% n a n a Increase to deferred pensions 2.90% 3.00% n a n a Long-term rate of return on plan assets 5.00% 7.00% 8.00% 5.50% 7.00% Discount rate 5.125% 5.75% 2.00% 6.00% Ination rate 2.90% 3.00% 0.00% 0.00% 2.00% The current life expectancies underlying the value of the accrued liabilities for the main plans operated by the Group were as follows: UK US Other countries As at 29 December 2007 Current pensioners at age 65 male 20.5 years 17.7 years 19.1 years female 23.4 years 20.2 years 21.6 years Future pensioners at age 65 male 22.2 years 17.7 years 19.1 years female 25.0 years 20.2 years 21.6 years As at 30 December 2006 Current pensioners at age 65 male 19.1 years 17.7 years 18.4 years female 22.0 years 20.2 years 21.4 years Future pensioners at age 65 male 20.4 years 17.7 years 18.4 years female 23.3 years 20.2 years 21.4 years The net liability recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of dened benefit pension plans was as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total million million million million million million million million Present value of benefit obligation: Funded 213.5 294.1 71.9 579.5 230.3 325.5 69.2 625.0 Unfunded 3.9 15.9 1.1 20.9 3.9 18.5 1.5 23.9 217.4 310.0 73.0 600.4 234.2 344.0 70.7 648.9 Fair value of plan assets 225.7 280.4 58.4 564.5 218.5 265.1 48.7 532.3 8.3 29.6 14.6 35.9 15.7 78.9 22.0 116.6 Effect of the asset ceiling 22.9 1.9 24.8 2.8 2.8 Net liability 14.6 31.5 14.6 60.7 18.5 78.9 22.0 119.4 118 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Changes in the present value of the benefit obligation were as follows: Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total million million million million million million million million At the beginning of the period 234.2 344.0 70.7 648.9 243.4 388.6 76.8 708.8 Current service cost 0.6 2.6 2.7 5.9 1.0 3.2 3.1 7.3 Past service cost 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.4 Curtailments 1.2 2.0 3.2 0.5 0.5 Settlements 0.7 0.2 0.9 0.2 0.3 0.1 0.6 Interest cost 11.7 18.6 3.2 33.5 11.3 19.8 3.1 34.2 Special termination benets 0.1 0.1 Actuarial gain 16.8 21.4 8.4 46.6 10.6 2.5 13.1 227.9 341.7 68.2 637.8 244.9 408.9 82.7 736.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 10.9 10.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.5 0.5 Employees contributions 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.5 Benets paid 10.7 25.0 4.9 40.6 11.0 27.2 3.2 41.4 Foreign currency translation 6.2 9.6 3.4 48.6 9.0 57.6 At the end of the period 217.4 310.0 73.0 600.4 234.2 344.0 70.7 648.9 Changes in the fair value of plan assets were as follows: Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total million million million million million million million million At the beginning of the period 218.5 265.1 48.7 532.3 212.7 266.5 47.9 527.1 Expected return on plan assets 14.7 20.2 3.2 38.1 13.8 19.3 3.0 36.1 Settlements 0.7 0.2 0.9 0.2 0.3 0.7 1.2 Actuarial loss gain 1.5 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.1 6.4 2.4 7.7 231.0 286.8 50.2 568.0 225.2 291.9 52.6 569.7 Acquisition of subsidiaries 11.3 11.3 Employers contributions 5.2 23.3 5.5 34.0 4.0 24.0 5.3 33.3 Employees contributions 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.5 Benets paid 10.7 25.0 4.9 40.6 11.0 27.2 3.2 41.4 Foreign currency translation 4.7 7.5 2.8 34.9 6.2 41.1 At the end of the period 225.7 280.4 58.4 564.5 218.5 265.1 48.7 532.3 The fair value of plan assets by asset category was as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 Other Other UK US countries Total UK US countries Total million million million million million million million million Equity instruments 119.0 170.4 25.2 314.6 123.3 160.0 24.5 307.8 Debt instruments 105.8 93.5 24.1 223.4 94.5 91.7 15.9 202.1 Other assets 0.9 16.5 9.1 26.5 0.7 13.4 8.3 22.4 225.7 280.4 58.4 564.5 218.5 265.1 48.7 532.3 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 119 Notes to the financial statements continued 33.
Post-employment benefit obligations continued Plan assets do not include any of the Groups own financial instruments, nor any property occupied by, or other assets used by, the Group.
The return and risk expectations for each asset class incorporate assumptions about historical return relationships, current financial market conditions and the degree of global capital market integration.
The assumptions used have been derived from rigorous historical performance analysis combined with forward-looking views of the financial markets as revealed through a the yield on long-term bonds and b the price earnings ratios of the major stock market indices.
The actuaries review analyses of historical risk and the correlation of the return on asset classes and apply subjective judgment based on their knowledge of the Groups plans.
The result of this analysis is incorporated into a risk matrix from which expected long-term risk premiums for each asset class are developed.
The nominal return expectations are determined by combining the asset class risk premiums with expected ination and real risk-free rate assumptions.
As a final consideration, the nominal return assumptions are blended with current market conditions to develop long-term equilibrium expectations.
The Groups investment strategy for pension plan assets includes diversication to minimise interest and market risks.
Accordingly, the interest rate risk inherent in 269.7 million of the benefit obligation of the Groups US pension plans is hedged by an investment in xed income assets amounting to 91.1 million and through the use of US dollar oating to xed interest rate swaps with a combined average duration of 12.7 years.
In general, the investment strategy for the Groups pension plans outside the US does not involve the use of derivative financial instruments.
Plan assets are rebalanced periodically to maintain target asset allocations.
Maturities of investments are not necessarily related to the timing of expected future benefit payments, but adequate liquidity to make immediate and medium-term benefit payments is ensured.
The weighted average expected return on plan assets was as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 As at 31 December 2005 Other Other Other UK US countries UK US countries UK US countries Equity instruments 7.95% 9.31% 9.39% 7.90% 9.61% 8.20% 8.00% 9.93% 9.60% Debt instruments 5.65% 6.30% 5.11% 5.00% 5.70% 5.04% 4.50% 4.70% 5.19% Other assets 4.85% 4.80% 1.00% 4.20% 3.80% 3.73% 3.80% The actual return on plan assets was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 UK 6.0% 6.0% 16.4% US 8.3% 9.6% 7.0% Other countries 3.1% 11.3% 10.2% Actuarial gains and losses recognised in relation to dened benefit pension plans since the adoption of IFRS are as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 1 January 2007 2006 2005 2005 million million million million At the end of the period: Present value of benefit obligation 600.4 648.9 708.8 605.4 Fair value of plan assets 564.5 532.3 527.1 441.7 deficit in the plans 35.9 116.6 181.7 163.7 Recognised in the period: Actuarial loss gain on plan assets 1.5 7.7 15.1 4.7 Actuarial gain loss on benefit obligation 46.6 13.1 61.0 16.9 As at 29 December 2007, the cumulative net actuarial gain recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense amounted to 7.8 million.
The Group expects to contribute approximately 24 million to dened benefit pension plans in 2008.
120 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts D. Other post-employment benets The principal assumptions used in the actuarial valuations of the other post-employment benefit plans were as follows: As at As at As at 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 % per annum % per annum % per annum Discount rate 6.28% 5.65% 5.44% Medical cost ination rate 7.13% 7.94% 8.68% The Groups other post-retirement benefit plans are unfunded.
Accordingly, the liability recognised in the Groups balance sheet in respect of these plans represents the present value of the benefit obligation.
Changes in the present value of the benefit obligation were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million At the beginning of the period 96.9 112.7 111.2 Current service cost 0.2 0.2 0.4 Past service cost 0.7 Settlements 5.6 Interest cost 5.1 5.5 6.5 Actuarial gain loss 3.0 1.4 1.8 99.2 119.8 110.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.2 Disposal of subsidiaries 1.4 Benets paid 7.8 9.5 10.3 Foreign currency translation 0.7 13.6 13.0 At the end of the period 90.7 96.9 112.7 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in relation to other post-employment benefit plans since the adoption of IFRS are as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 1 January 2007 2006 2005 2005 million million million million At the end of the period: Present value of benefit obligation 90.7 96.9 112.7 111.2 Recognised in the period: Actuarial gains losses on benefit obligation 3.0 1.4 1.8 23.8 As at 29 December 2007, the cumulative net actuarial gain recognised in the statement of recognised income and expense amounted to 27.2 million.
Sensitivity to change in the assumed medical cost ination rate used in the actuarial valuations as at 29 December 2007 is as follows: Increase of one Decrease of one percentage point percentage point million million Effect on the aggregate of the current service cost and the interest cost 0.3 0.2 Effect on the accumulated benefit obligation 4.3 3.7 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 121 Notes to the financial statements continued 34.
Background The Company operates a number of share-based compensation arrangements to provide incentives to the Groups senior executives and other eligible employees.
Details of the schemes in respect of which options and awards are outstanding are set out in the Remuneration Committee report.
Share options Following a review by the Board in 2004, it was decided that the Companys executive share option schemes would not be renewed when they lapsed for the purposes of new grants in May 2005.
Options do however continue to be granted from time to time under the Companys savings-related share option scheme, which is restricted to employees who are resident for tax purposes in the UK.
In 2007, the compensation expense recognised in respect of share options was 1.4 million 2006: 2.7 million: 2005: 3.9 million.
Changes in the total number of share options outstanding during the period were as follows: Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Weighted Weighted average average Options exercise price Options exercise price Number Pence Number Pence Outstanding at the beginning of the period 20,495,555 243.10 28,429,132 234.03 Granted during the period 272,695 211.40 233,939 269.40 Forfeited during the period 679,573 243.08 1,026,815 227.95 Exercised during the period 485,751 241.19 7,140,701 210.02 Expired during the period Outstanding at the end of the period 19,602,926 242.71 20,495,555 243.10 Exercisable at the end of the period 12,455,986 245.11 13,743,098 243.91 On the dates on which options were exercised during 2007, the weighted average market price of the Companys ordinary shares was 277.83p per share 2006: 333.60p per share.
The compensation expense recognised in respect of share options is based on their fair value at the grant date calculated using the Black-Scholes option pricing formula.
Assumptions made in calculating the fair values of options granted during the period were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 Weighted average fair value 73.81p 106.61p 87.24p Weighted average assumptions: Share price 264.25p 336.75p 273.00p Exercise price 211.40p 269.40p 218.40p Expected volatility 25.40% 28.94% 30.46% Expected life 4.66 years 4.55 years 5.25 years Risk-free interest rate 5.23% 4.50% 3.84% Expected dividends 13.89p 13.00p 12.60p Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys ordinary shares over the shorter of the expected life of the options and the period since the beginning of the Groups financial year ended 30 April 2002 when, following a period of significant demerger activity, the Group was refocused on its remaining core businesses.
Adjustments have been made to the expected life used in the model to reect the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
122 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts The weighted average contractual life of share options outstanding at the end of the period was as follows: As at 29 December 2007 As at 30 December 2006 As at 31 December 2005 Weighted Weighted Weighted average average average remaining remaining remaining Outstanding contractual life Outstanding contractual life Outstanding contractual life Number Years Number Years Number Years Range of exercise prices 150p to 200p 3,519,072 3.94 3,563,072 4.98 6,165,914 5.78 201p to 250p 9,244,600 5.39 9,641,668 6.59 15,073,768 7.06 251p to 300p 5,821,026 5.01 6,272,587 6.41 6,171,222 7.49 301p and higher 1,018,228 4.11 1,018,228 5.11 1,018,228 6.10 19,602,926 20,495,555 28,429,132 C. Other awards The Groups principal ongoing share-based compensation arrangements are the Annual Bonus Incentive Plan ABIP and the Performance Share Plan PSP.
Both are restricted to the Groups senior executives.
ABIP provides an award of bonus shares and deferred shares based on the profit of the business for which the participants have responsibility.
Bonus shares are restricted and vest after a period of three years.
Dividends are paid on the bonus shares.
Deferred shares vest after a period of three years conditional on the participants continued employment with the Group.
Dividends are not paid on the deferred shares until they have vested.
During 2007, awards were granted over 1,727,352 ordinary shares 2006: 1,643,031 ordinary shares: 2005: 1,415,047 ordinary shares under the ABIP.
PSP provides awards of shares which vest after a period of three years conditional on the Groups total shareholder return relative to its cost of equity over the vesting period and the participants continued employment with the Group.
During 2007, awards were granted over 5,852,671 ordinary shares under the PSP 2006: 7,866,573 ordinary shares.
The fair value of awards made under the ABIP is measured based on the market price of the Companys ordinary shares on the date of the award.
Where the awards do not attract dividends during the vesting period, the market price is reduced by the present value of the dividends expected to be paid during the expected life of the awards.
The weighted average fair value of awards made under these schemes during the period was 211.93p 2006: 266.60p.
The fair value of awards made under the PSP is measured using a Monte-Carlo valuation model.
Assumptions made in calculating the fair values of awards granted under the PSP were as follows: Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 Weighted average fair value 66.45p 87.19p Weighted average assumptions: Expected volatility 27.67% 23.01% Expected life 3.00 years 2.78 years Risk-free interest rate 4.88% 4.75% Dividend yield 5.00% 4.73% Expected volatility was determined based on the historical volatility of the market price of the Companys ordinary shares over the expected life of the awards.
In 2007, the compensation expense recognised in respect of other awards was 6.6 million 2006: 5.2 million: 2005: 4.1 million.
In 2005, the compensation expense included 0.6 million in respect of the Deferred Matching Share Purchase Plan which was a plan introduced for James Nicol as part of the incentive package to attract him to the Company.
Under the terms of his contract, Mr Nicol was entitled to elect to receive a cash payment in lieu of shares and for this reason the award to him under this plan was classied as a cash-settled transaction.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 123 Notes to the financial statements continued 35.
Deferred tax Movements in the net deferred tax assets and liabilities recognised by the Group were as follows: PostNet employment Tax investment in Accrued Long-lived Other benets losses subsidiaries expenses assets Inventories items Total million million million million million million million million As at 31 December 2005 98.0 16.3 26.8 69.3 28.2 8.3 51.9 Reclassication of valuation allowances 6.7 2.0 6.7 0.1 15.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 2.1 2.1 Charge credit to the income statement 28.0 2.7 16.9 1.9 9.7 1.5 6.7 14.2 Charge credit directly to equity 2.0 0.9 1.1 Currency translation differences 1.9 0.7 1.1 3.0 4.3 3.5 2.1 1.0 As at 30 December 2006 59.4 10.9 15.8 21.9 64.1 26.3 15.9 33.5 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 0.2 1.5 3.4 0.5 0.6 Charge credit to the income statement 6.4 6.5 16.8 0.6 4.9 1.9 3.2 25.5 Charge credit directly to equity 7.4 0.1 7.3 Currency translation differences 0.2 0.7 0.4 0.5 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.1 As at 29 December 2007 45.5 4.8 1.4 22.8 61.4 20.5 11.7 1.5 Deferred tax assets and liabilities presented in the Groups balance sheet are as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Deferred tax assets: Ongoing businesses 23.8 36.3 Businesses to be sold note 27 1.5 23.8 37.8 Deferred tax liabilities: Ongoing businesses 21.2 4.3 Businesses to be sold note 27 1.1 1.5 33.5 As at 29 December 2007, the Group had operating tax losses amounting to 923.5 million, of which 890.6 million can be carried forward indefinitely and 32.9 million have expiry dates between 2008 and 2019.
As at 29 December 2007, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset of 4.2 million in respect of these losses.
As at 29 December 2007, the Group had capital tax losses amounting to 296.7 million, of which 284.2 million can be carried forward indefinitely and 12.5 million expire in 2012.
As at 29 December 2007, the Group recognised a deferred tax asset of 0.6 million in respect of these losses.
As at 29 December 2007, the Group had foreign and other tax credits amounting to 26.7 million, of which 18.5 million can be carried forward indefinitely and 8.2 million expire between 2014 and 2017.
As at 29 December 2007, the Group had not recognised a deferred tax asset in respect of these tax credits.
As at 29 December 2007, the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries amounted to 1,971.0 million 30 December 2006: 1,708.8 million.
No income taxes have been provided on the Companys share of these undistributed earnings due to managements ability and intent to reinvest such amounts indefinitely.
A determination of the amount of the unrecognised deferred tax liability has not been made because it is not practical to do so.
A portion of these earnings can be distributed without incurring additional taxes.
Provisions Restructuring Environmental Workers costs remediation compensation Other Total million million million million million As at 1 January 2005 10.8 5.6 18.4 24.6 59.4 Charge for the period 5.1 1.1 7.6 2.0 15.8 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.3 0.3 Utilised during the period 5.9 1.0 6.3 7.7 20.9 Foreign currency translation 0.7 0.5 2.2 1.5 4.9 As at 31 December 2005 10.7 6.2 21.9 20.7 59.5 Charge for the period 8.5 0.2 10.5 3.8 23.0 Acquisition of subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Utilised during the period 14.2 2.0 10.8 7.2 34.2 Foreign currency translation 0.4 0.5 2.6 1.3 4.8 As at 30 December 2006 4.6 3.9 19.0 16.1 43.6 Charge for the period 7.7 2.0 6.3 6.3 22.3 Utilised during the period 7.4 1.4 8.8 6.3 23.9 Disposal of subsidiaries 0.1 1.7 0.5 2.3 Foreign currency translation 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.1 0.1 As at 29 December 2007 5.0 4.6 14.5 15.5 39.6 Provisions are presented in the Groups balance sheet as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Ongoing businesses: Current liabilities 25.2 26.3 Non-current liabilities 13.7 13.9 38.9 40.2 Businesses to be sold note 27 0.7 3.4 39.6 43.6 Other provisions comprise warranty provisions of 7.6 million 30 December 2006: 5.7 million, product liability provisions of 3.8 million 30 December 2006: 4.4 million and insurance provisions of 4.1 million 30 December 2006: 6.0 million.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 125 Notes to the financial statements continued 37.
Ordinary shares Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Number Number of shares million of shares million Ordinary shares of 5p each Authorised At the beginning and end of the period 1,585,164,220 79.2 1,585,164,220 79.2 Share Share premium Number capital account Total of shares million million million Allotted and fully paid As at 1 January 2005 773,889,884 38.7 94.0 132.7 Shares issued during the period: Conversion of preference shares 429,356 1.4 1.4 Exercise of employee share options 175,884 0.4 0.4 605,240 1.8 1.8 As at 31 December 2005 774,495,124 38.7 95.8 134.5 Shares issued during the period: Conversion of preference shares 76,573,697 3.8 221.8 225.6 Exercise of employee share options 7,140,701 0.4 14.5 14.9 83,714,398 4.2 236.3 240.5 As at 30 December 2006 858,209,522 42.9 332.1 375.0 Shares issued during the period: Conversion of preference shares 25,411,499 1.3 64.0 65.3 Exercise of employee share options 485,751 1.2 1.2 25,897,250 1.3 65.2 66.5 As at 29 December 2007 884,106,772 44.2 397.3 441.5 Ordinary shareholders have no entitlement to share in the profits of the Company, except for dividends that have been declared and in the event of the liquidation of the Company.
Ordinary shareholders have the right to attend, and vote at, general meetings of the Company or to appoint a proxy to attend and vote at such meetings on their behalf.
Ordinary shareholders have one vote for every share held.
Share capital represents the nominal value of ordinary shares issued.
The share premium account records the difference between the nominal value of ordinary shares issued and the fair value of the consideration received.
The share premium account is not distributable but may be used for certain purposes specified by UK law, including to write off expenses on any issue of shares or debentures and to pay up fully paid bonus shares.
The share premium account may be reduced by special resolution of the Companys shareholders and with the approval of the court.
Own shares Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005 Number Number Number of shares million of shares million of shares million At the beginning of the period 4,205,248 11.7 3,230,402 8.7 3,500,040 8.9 Own shares purchased 1,597,500 3.8 1,647,013 4.8 860,338 2.4 Sale or transfer of own shares 1,596,907 4.3 672,167 1.8 1,129,976 2.6 At the end of the period 4,205,841 11.2 4,205,248 11.7 3,230,402 8.7 Own shares represent the cost of the Companys ordinary shares acquired to meet the Groups expected obligations under the employee share schemes.
Dividends relating to own shares held have been waived with the exception of those that are payable to participants in the relevant schemes.
As at 29 December 2007, 1,376,975 ordinary shares 30 December 2006: 1,833,151 ordinary shares were held in trust and 2,828,866 ordinary shares 30 December 2006: 2,372,097 ordinary shares were held as treasury shares.
As at 29 December 2007, the market value of own shares held was 7.6 million 30 December 2006: 10.3 million.
Other reserves Capital Currency Availableredemption translation for-sale Retained reserve reserve reserve profit losses Total million million million million million As at 1 January 2005 461.9 27.6 91.6 342.7 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 0.1 63.0 63.1 461.9 27.6 0.1 28.6 405.8 Year ended 31 December 2005 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 60.1 0.1 164.6 224.6 Other changes in shareholders equity: Gain on sale or transfer of own shares 0.3 0.3 Cost of share-based incentives 7.4 7.4 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 99.4 99.4 91.7 91.7 As at 31 December 2005 461.9 32.5 44.3 538.7 Year ended 30 December 2006 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 92.7 0.1 203.7 111.1 Other changes in shareholders equity: Loss on transfer of own shares 1.8 1.8 Cost of share-based incentives 7.9 7.9 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 115.3 115.3 109.2 109.2 As at 30 December 2006 461.9 60.2 0.1 138.8 540.6 Year ended 29 December 2007 Total recognised income and expense attributable to equity shareholders 54.1 0.2 166.2 220.1 Other changes in shareholders equity: Loss on transfer of own shares 4.3 4.3 Redemption of preference shares 0.6 0.6 Cost of share-based incentives 8.0 8.0 Dividends paid on ordinary shares 122.0 122.0 0.6 118.9 118.3 As at 29 December 2007 462.5 6.1 0.1 186.1 642.4 The capital redemption reserve records the cost of shares purchased by the Company for cancellation or redeemed in excess of the proceeds of any fresh issue of shares made specifically to fund the purchase or redemption.
The capital redemption reserve is not distributable but may be reduced by special resolution of the Companys shareholders and with the approval of the court.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 127 Notes to the financial statements continued 40.
Minority interests Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million At the beginning of the period 50.6 48.4 41.6 Total recognised income and expense attributable to minority interests 13.9 7.0 12.7 Other changes in equity attributable to minority interests: Shares issued by a subsidiary to minority shareholders 1.9 3.2 Purchase of a minority shareholding 0.5 Dividends paid to minority shareholders 7.2 8.0 5.9 5.8 4.8 5.9 At the end of the period 58.7 50.6 48.4 41.
Convertible cumulative preference shares Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 Number Nominal value Number Nominal value of shares US$ million of shares US$ million Convertible cumulative preference shares of US$50 each Authorised At the beginning and end of the period 13,920,000 696.0 13,920,000 696.0 Carrying amount Accrued Nominal dividend Number value payable Total of shares million million million Allotted and fully paid As at 1 January 2005 10,506,721 337.2 337.2 Adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 63.6 1.9 61.7 10,506,721 273.6 1.9 275.5 Shares converted 43,947 1.4 1.4 Foreign currency translation 32.5 0.2 32.7 As at 31 December 2005 10,462,774 304.7 2.1 306.8 Shares converted 7,837,636 225.6 225.6 Charge for the period 5.4 5.4 Dividend paid 7.1 7.1 Foreign currency translation 12.0 12.0 As at 30 December 2006 2,625,138 67.1 0.4 67.5 Shares converted 2,600,973 65.3 65.3 Shares redeemed 24,165 0.6 0.6 Dividend accrued for the period 0.6 0.6 Dividend paid 1.0 1.0 Foreign currency translation 1.2 1.2 As at 29 December 2007 On 29 July 1996, the Company issued 10,532,732 convertible cumulative preference shares of US$50 each the preference shares in connection with the acquisition of The Gates Corporation.
The preference shares were issued on terms that they could be converted at any time, at the shareholders option, into fully paid ordinary shares of 5p each in the Company on the basis of 9.77 ordinary shares for every one preference share so converted.
With effect from 26 July 2006, the Company had the option to redeem at par at any time all or any of the issued and outstanding preference shares.
On 21 May 2007, the Company gave notice that it would exercise its right to redeem all of the preference shares that remained in issue and outstanding as at 24 July 2007.
During the period from 30 December 2006 to the redemption date, 2,600,973 preference shares were converted into 25,411,499 ordinary shares in the Company.
On the redemption date, there remained 24,165 preference shares in issue and outstanding that were redeemed for 0.6 million in cash.
Holders of the preference shares had a right to receive dividends at an annual rate of 5.560% in preference to the holders of the Companys ordinary shares.
Capital Management considers that the Groups capital comprises shareholders equity plus the principal amount of the Groups net debt including preference shares.
The Groups capital was as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Shareholders equity 1,072.7 903.9 Net debt Cash and cash equivalents 148.3 172.3 Collateralised cash 2.9 4.1 Borrowings 440.6 577.6 Obligations under finance leases 4.8 9.3 Preference shares 67.1 294.2 477.6 1,366.9 1,381.5 The Group maintains an appropriate mix of equity and debt to ensure an efficient capital structure consistent with its desired investment grade financial prole.
Current year acquisitions Industrial & Automotive Fluid Systems On 8 March 2007, the Group acquired the 40% minority interest in Schrader Engineered Products Kunshan Co Ltd.
Goodwill of 0.4 million was recognised on the acquisition.
On 26 September 2007, the Group acquired 100% of Swindon Silicon Systems Ltd SSSL.
SSSL is located in the UK and designs, develops and supplies integrated circuits.
Provisional goodwill of 2.7 million has been recognised, which represents benets from the further development of Schrader Electronics RTPMS made possible by the acquisition.
Adjustments in respect of prior year acquisitions On the completion of initial accounting for acquisitions completed in 2006, attributable goodwill at the date of acquisition was reduced by 7.1 million, at the acquisition date exchange rates, as follows: Provisional Final goodwill Adjustment goodwill million million million Heat-Fab Inc 6.2 4.0 2.2 Eastern Sheet Metal 4.4 3.2 1.2 ENZED Fleximak Ltd 8.8 0.1 8.9 7.1 Adjustments to goodwill principally reect the allocation of additional amounts to identiable intangible assets.
Comparative information has not been restated to reect these adjustments because they are not material to the Groups results or financial position.
Tomkins Annual Report 2007 129 Notes to the financial statements continued 43.
Acquisitions continued C. Financial effect of acquisitions Year ended 29 December 2007 Acquirees Year ended Year ended carrying amount 30 December 31 December in accordance Fair value Fair 2006 2005 with IFRS adjustments value Fair value Fair value million million million million million Net assets acquired Intangible assets 0.1 5.4 5.5 22.6 3.6 Property, plant and equipment 0.7 2.8 3.5 16.3 18.0 Deferred tax assets 0.1 0.1 Pension surplus 0.2 Inventories 1.2 0.1 1.3 16.8 17.1 Trade and other receivables 3.8 3.8 14.9 14.3 Income tax recoverable 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 2.8 1.7 Trade and other payables 2.0 0.2 2.2 13.5 10.1 Income tax liabilities 0.4 0.4 Deferred tax liabilities 2.1 1.3 Provisions 0.1 Minority interest 0.5 0.5 3.9 8.2 12.1 58.5 43.3 Goodwill on current year acquisitions 3.1 61.6 58.9 Adjustments to goodwill on prior year acquisitions 7.1 7.7 0.8 Consideration including transaction costs 8.1 112.4 103.0 The net cash outow on acquisitions during the period was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Consideration paid on current period acquisitions 7.6 112.2 103.3 Cash and cash equivalents acquired 2.8 1.7 Adjustment to consideration on prior period acquisitions 0.9 0.2 0.3 8.5 109.6 101.3 Businesses acquired during the year contributed 0.7 million to the Groups sales and 0.3 million to the Groups profit for the year ended 29 December 2007.
If the businesses had been acquired on 31 December 2006, it is estimated that they would have contributed 8.7 million to the Groups sales and 0.8 million to the Groups profit for the year ended 29 December 2007.
Continuing operations Industrial & Automotive Other Industrial & Automotive On 23 November 2007, the Group sold Dearborn Mid-West Conveyor Company Dearborn, a manufacturer of automotive assembly lines and materials handling equipment.
A gain of 6.7 million was recognised on the disposal.
On 19 November 2007, the Group sold Tridon Electronics indicator and side object detection businesses.
A loss of 1.3 million was recognised on the disposal.
Building Products Other Building Products On 23 February 2007, the Group sold the business and assets of Lasco Fittings Inc. a manufacturer of injection moulded ttings.
A gain of 32.6 million was recognised on the disposal.
Discontinued operations Industrial & Automotive Wiper Systems On 29 June 2007, the Group completed the sale of Trico Products Corporation and its related businesses Trico, which constituted the Groups former Wiper Systems business segment.
The Group recognised a loss of 29.8 million on the disposal including an impairment loss of 17.2 million that was recognised in the first quarter of 2007.
Valves, Taps and Mixers During 2007, the Group recognised a gain of 1.2 million on the receipt of contingent consideration in relation to the disposal of the Groups Valves, Taps and Mixers businesses in 2004.
C. Financial effect of disposals Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Proceeds Cash 116.9 6.8 29.3 Deferred 8.8 2.4 Loan notes 8.4 134.1 6.8 31.7 Net assets disposed of Intangible assets 0.3 Property, plant and equipment 31.8 3.7 11.2 Inventories 47.1 4.0 Trade and other receivables 90.5 9.2 Income tax recoverable 0.5 Cash and cash equivalents 4.6 Trade and other payables 60.2 0.6 Finance lease obligations 3.1 Deferred tax liabilities 0.6 Post-employment benefit obligations 1.9 Provisions 2.3 106.7 3.7 23.8 Disposal costs 3.6 Utilisation of provision 4.0 Currency translation differences transferred from equity 14.4 Gain on disposal 9.4 3.1 11.9 Attributable to: Continuing operations 38.0 3.1 8.5 Discontinued operations 28.6 3.4 9.4 3.1 11.9 The net cash inow on disposals during the period was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Proceeds received on current period disposals 116.9 18.9 Disposal costs paid 4.5 Cash and cash equivalents disposed of 4.6 Proceeds received on prior period disposals 0.3 6.8 10.4 108.1 6.8 29.3 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 131 Notes to the financial statements continued 45.
Contingencies The Group is, from time to time, party to legal proceedings and claims, which arise in the ordinary course of business.
Management does not anticipate that the outcome of any current proceedings or known claims, either individually or in aggregate, will have a material adverse effect upon the Groups financial position.
Operating leases The Group rents certain ofce premises and plant, equipment and vehicles under operating lease arrangements.
During the period, the Group recognised as an expense operating lease rentals of 26.9 million 2006: 27.3 million: 2005: 20.7 million.
As at 29 December 2007, the Group had outstanding commitments under non-cancellable operating leases of 116.8 million 30 December 2006: 142.8 million, falling due as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Payments to be made Within one year 18.9 24.7 In the second to fifth years, inclusive 52.8 63.8 After more than five years 45.1 54.3 116.8 142.8 47.
Capital commitments As at 29 December 2007, the Group had entered into contractual commitments for the purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting to 36.8 million 30 December 2006: 20.0 million, and for the purchase of non-integral computer software amounting to 5.7 million.
Related party transactions Transactions between the Company and its subsidiaries, which are related parties of the Company, have been eliminated on consolidation and therefore are not required to be disclosed in these financial statements.
Details of transactions between the Group and other related parties are disclosed on the next page.
Post-employment benefit plans During the period, the Group paid employers contributions amounting to 56.7 million 2006: 61.9 million: 2005: 69.9 million in total to dened benefit and dened contribution pension plans established for the benefit of its employees.
As at 29 December 2007, an amount of 7.5 million 30 December 2006: 7.1 million in respect of employers contributions due was included in trade payables.
In addition, during the period, the Group paid benets of 7.8 million 2006: 9.5 million: 2005: 10.3 million to other post-employment benefit plans.
132 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Compensation of key management personnel For the purposes of these disclosures, the Group regards its key management personnel as the Directors of the Company together with those persons who, in accordance with the Listing Rules of the London Stock Exchange, are regarded as discharging management responsibility.
Compensation paid or payable to key management personnel in respect of their services to the Group was as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 000 000 000 Short-term employee benets: Salaries and fees 3,332 3,686 3,549 Bonus cash 2,039 2,690 2,686 Benets-in-kind 154 128 161 Social security contributions 555 542 1,030 Termination benets 1,126 7,206 7,046 7,426 Share-based incentives: Bonus shares 465 660 665 Deferred shares 887 1,320 1,330 Long-term incentive plans 4,193 Notional gains on the exercise of share options 3,952 17 1,352 5,932 6,205 Pension contributions 989 889 978 9,547 13,867 14,609 Details of Directors remuneration are presented in the Remuneration Committee report.
Associates Sales to and purchases from associates were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Sales 0.3 0.3 0.2 Purchases 6.0 5.5 5.2 Amounts outstanding in respect of these transactions were as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Receivables 0.1 0.1 Payables 1.5 1.0 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 133 Notes to the financial statements continued 48.
Related party transactions continued Entities controlled by minority shareholders Sales to and purchases from entities controlled by minority shareholders were as follows: Year ended Year ended Year ended 29 December 30 December 31 December 2007 2006 2005 million million million Sales 23.2 26.3 23.3 Purchases 30.7 31.7 32.3 Amounts outstanding in respect of these transactions were as follows: As at As at 29 December 30 December 2007 2006 million million Receivables 0.4 0.2 Payables 1.0 0.7 Other related parties Dexon Investments Limited Dexon Investments Limited Dexon is the minority shareholder in the Groups 60% owned subsidiary, Winhere LLC, that was incorporated during 2006.
On 19 July 2006, Winhere LLC, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, Gates Winhere Automotive Pump Products Yantai Co Ltd Gates Winhere, acquired the business and assets of the water pump manufacturing operations of Winhere Auto Part Manufacturing Co Ltd Winhere, a fellow subsidiary of Dexon, for 4.7 million in cash.
IGC, LLC During the period, the Group purchased aviation services under an agreement with IGC, LLC and GForce Aviation, LLC.
IGC, LLC is wholly owned by the Gates family, certain of whom had an interest in the Companys convertible cumulative preference shares.
The agreement was entered into on an arms length basis and the services provided are used strictly for corporate travel to the Groups diverse locations within North America and only if there is no lower cost alternative available to the Groups employees.
The agreement permits the Group to purchase an unlimited number of aircraft ying hours at the rate of US$3,300 per ying hour, plus US$1,600 per day for crew, plus US$2,300 per month to cover insurance costs.
During the period prior to the redemption of the preference shares on 24 July 2007 when IGC, LLC ceased to be a related party, the Group recognised an expense of 67,377 2006: 53,938: 2005: 81,444 in respect of these services.
As at 24 July 2007, nil was payable to IGC, LLC in respect of these transactions 30 December 2006: 8,174.
Subsequent event Subsequent to the year end, the Group acquired a 60% interest in Rolastar Pvt Ltd Rolastar, a duct manufacturer based in India that will be included within the Air Systems Components business segment.
Rolastars annual sales are approximately 9.0 million.
At this early stage, it is not possible to reliably estimate the amount of goodwill that will be recognised on the acquisition.
134 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Supplemental information Segmental information Year ended 29 December 2007 Unallocated Industrial & Building corporate Continuing Discontinued Automotive Products activities operations operations Total million million million million million million Revenue 2,155.5 786.4 2,941.9 79.9 3,021.8 Segment result see notes 4 & 10 234.0 77.8 311.8 1.1 312.9 Adjust for: Restructuring costs 7.2 6.1 0.5 13.8 0.8 14.6 Disposals and exit of businesses 5.4 32.6 7.7 45.7 45.7 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 1.7 1.9 3.6 3.6 Gain on sale of available-for-sale investments 0.3 0.3 0.3 Share of results of associates 0.4 0.4 0.4 Unallocated corporate activities 19.5 19.5 19.5 Adjusted operating profit loss 238.2 53.2 26.7 264.7 1.9 266.6 Operating margin 11.1% 6.8% 9.0% 2.4% 8.8% Other Total Power Fluid Fluid Industrial & Industrial & Transmission Power Systems Automotive Automotive million million million million million Revenue 1,031.2 374.0 291.8 458.5 2,155.5 Segment result see note 4 130.1 28.7 25.5 49.7 234.0 Adjust for: Restructuring costs 3.0 4.3 0.1 7.2 Disposals and exit of businesses 0.1 1.4 6.7 5.4 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.8 0.9 1.7 Gain on sale of available-for-sale investments 0.3 0.3 Share of results of associates 0.3 0.1 0.4 Adjusted operating profit 133.3 33.8 27.1 44.0 238.2 Operating margin 12.9% 9.0% 9.3% 9.6% 11.1% Other Total Air Systems Building Building Components Products Products million million million Revenue 541.6 244.8 786.4 Segment result see note 4 45.6 32.2 77.8 Adjust for: Restructuring costs 3.7 2.4 6.1 Disposals and exit of businesses 32.6 32.6 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 1.9 1.9 Adjusted operating profit 51.2 2.0 53.2 Operating margin 9.5% 0.8% 6.8% Based on adjusted operating profit Tomkins Annual Report 2007 135 Supplemental information continued Segmental information continued Year ended 30 December 2006 Unallocated Industrial & Building corporate Continuing Discontinued Automotive Products activities operations operations Total million million million million million million Revenue 2,172.8 961.0 3,133.8 187.5 3,321.3 Segment result see notes 4 & 10 230.5 79.7 310.2 5.9 304.3 Adjust for: Restructuring costs 9.8 3.2 13.0 6.5 19.5 Disposals and exit of businesses 3.1 3.1 3.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 1.8 0.9 2.7 2.7 Gain on sale of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 0.2 Share of results of associates 1.5 1.5 1.5 Unallocated corporate activities 28.7 28.7 28.7 Adjusted operating profit loss 240.7 83.8 28.7 295.8 0.6 296.4 Operating margin 11.1% 8.7% 9.4% 0.3% 8.9% Other Total Power Fluid Fluid Industrial & Industrial & Transmission Power Systems Automotive Automotive million million million million million Revenue 1,009.6 383.8 244.0 535.4 2,172.8 Segment result see note 4 137.5 30.0 9.5 53.5 230.5 Adjust for: Restructuring costs 6.4 3.1 0.3 9.8 Disposals and exit of businesses 3.2 0.1 3.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 1.3 0.5 1.8 Gain on sale of available-for-sale investments 0.2 0.2 Share of results of associates 0.1 1.4 0.2 1.5 Adjusted operating profit 140.8 34.4 10.9 54.6 240.7 Operating margin 13.9% 9.0% 4.5% 10.2% 11.1% Other Total Air Systems Building Building Components Products Products million million million Revenue 583.9 377.1 961.0 Segment result see note 4 53.8 25.9 79.7 Adjust for: Restructuring costs 3.2 3.2 Disposals and exit of businesses 0.1 0.1 Amortisation of intangible assets arising on acquisition 0.9 0.9 Adjusted operating profit 58.0 25.8 83.8 Operating margin 9.9% 6.8% 8.7% Re-presented see note 10 Based on adjusted operating profit 136 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 Accounts Supplemental cash ow analysis Year ended 29 December 2007 Year ended 30 December 2006 million million million million Cash generated from operations 319.2 331.5 Purchase of property, plant and equipment 115.6 105.7 Purchase of intangible assets 2.6 20.9 Gross capital expenditure 118.2 126.6 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 19.8 14.1 Operating cash ow 220.8 219.0 Income taxes paid 55.2 82.8 Income taxes received 12.1 5.1 Tax 43.1 77.7 Interest element of finance lease rental payments 0.7 0.6 Interest received 6.1 10.2 Interest paid 32.4 38.8 Preference dividend paid 1.0 7.1 Interest and preference dividends 28.0 36.3 Capitalisation of development costs 0.2 0.3 Dividends received from associates 0.7 0.3 Investment by a minority shareholder in a subsidiary 1.9 3.2 Dividend paid to a minority shareholder in a subsidiary 7.2 8.0 Other movements 4.8 4.8 Free cash ow to equity shareholders 144.9 100.2 Ordinary dividends 122.0 115.3 Cash ow after interest, tax and dividends 22.9 15.1 Purchase of subsidiaries, net of cash acquired 8.5 109.6 Sales of businesses and subsidiaries, net of cash disposed 108.1 6.8 Purchase of available-for-sale investments 0.1 0.1 Sale of available-for-sale investments 0.3 0.3 Lease disposed of on sale of businesses 3.1 Purchase of interests in associates 1.9 1.9 Acquisitions and disposals 101.0 104.5 Issue of ordinary shares 1.2 14.9 Purchase of own shares 3.8 4.8 Ordinary share movements 2.6 10.1 Redemption of convertible cumulative preference shares 0.6 Cash and cash equivalents 2.7 28.5 Other debt 10.6 13.1 Foreign currency translation 13.3 41.6 Cash movement in net debt 107.4 67.9 Tomkins Annual Report 2007 137
