Dear Autonomy Investor, 2007 was a transformational year for our industry and our business.
During the year the issues surrounding unstructured information were driven to the forefront by many forces, such as changing business needs, new regulations changes and the compliance and risk matters.
I am pleased to report that Autonomy was once again well positioned to reap the benefit of these market changes and experienced another extraordinary year.
It is my great pleasure to present to you our results from another amazing year for Autonomy.
Top line revenues, operating profits, bottom line profit before tax and EPS are all up significantly, ahead of analyst consensus expectations, with strong organic growth and the ZANTAZ acquisition performing well.
Throughout 2007 we consolidated our industry leadership position, and finished 2007 as the undisputed leader in pan-enterprise search and meaning based computing.
Our growth and expansion has always been driven by the goal of establishing Autonomy as the key infrastructure for the automated handling of all forms of unstructured information such as text, audio and video.
Following this unwavering goal we have achieved sales success and proven our profitable business model, and have created a special software company which is leading the market.
In 2007 we produced record results in every area, which is enabling us to build on our position.
In this letter let me recap for you our successes during 2007, as well as comment on some of the trends we saw in our business during the year.
Financial Results: In 2007 revenues, operating profits, profit before tax and EPS all soared from our previous records in 2006, driven by a combination of strong organic growth and our strategic acquisitions.
Autonomys growth continues to outperform the sector despite our ongoing significant investment in research and development for the future.
2007 achievements included: Record revenues, up 37% from 2006 including strong organic growth and contribution from acquisitions Record profit from operations adjusted at $108.8 million, up 60% from 2006 Record profit from operations IFRS up 60% from 2006 Record profit before tax adjusted at $113.2 million, up 64% from 2006 Record profit before tax IFRS, up 62% from 2006 Record fully diluted EPS adjusted at $0.38, up 47% from 2006 Net profit IFRS up 60% from 2006 Gross margins adjusted at 89% rising during second half of year following ZANTAZ acquisition as expected R&D investment up 21% year-on-year Positive cash flow generated by operations of $83.1 million 2006: $46.9 million, up 77% Cash balance of $92.6 million at year end and no net debt Accolades: Throughout 2007 Autonomy was recognized by industry analysts as the unmatched market leader.
"Accolades included: Leader in Gartners 2007 Information Access Technology Magic Quadrant Leader in Forester Enterprise Search Wave, 2007 Best Performing Software Company in Europe Top 100 companies in the digital content industry by EContent Magazine Growth leader in Software Magazine's 25th Annual Software 500 ranking Autonomy etalk ""Strong Positive"" in Gartners 2007 MarketScope for Contact Center Quality Management report, the highest ranking possible Market Leader in speech analytics from Speech Technology Magazine ""100 Companies that Matter in Knowledge Management"" by KMWorld Autonomys CEO and founder awarded the Technology Entrepreneur of the Year Award by the UK Technology Innovation and Growth Forum Multiple product of the year awards Adjusted results exclude post-acquisition restructuring costs, impairment of investments, share of loss of associates and non-cash charges, namely the amortization of purchased intangibles, share-based compensation, impairment of investments and non-cash translational foreign exchange gains and losses and associated tax effects."
Autonomy Corporation plc 2 Operations: We saw growth across the globe during the year, in virtually every geographic and vertical market we serve.
Weve begun to see significant success across Latin America, including key wins during the year in Brazil, Mexico and Colombia, and continue to win marquee customers in countries like China, Japan and Singapore.
Our strong R&D investment, including an increase in R&D spend in 2007 of 21% from 2006, is seeing clear returns.
2007 saw significant Autonomy product developments, with the continued development of industry-leading new technologies.
New technology announcements during the year included the introduction of: The newest releases of Autonomy ZANTAZs industry-leading Enterprise Archive Solution version 6 EAS 6 and its eDiscovery application Introspect 6, each giving companies the first and only consolidated archive for all information sources in more than 1,000 different data formats, including voice and videos, and across 100 languages stored in more than 400 different content repositories, including business applications such as SAP and Oracle Autonomy Desktop Legal Hold, the industry's first comprehensive solution that enables corporate legal and IT departments to remotely enforce legal hold across desktops and laptops The next generation of the Autonomy ZANTAZ Digital Safe, its consolidated archiving Software as a Service solution, powered by Autonomy's advanced IDOL and IDOL Speech technologies, providing a full spectrum of Proactive Information Management capabilities The Autonomy Business Console, an intuitive and easy-to-use interface to the company's IDOL platform Virage Automatic Copyright Infringement Detection ACID, enabling copyright owners such as broadcasters, production houses and publishers to maintain control of their Intellectual Property by automating the detection of illegal distributed copyrighted material on the Internet Autonomys IDOL ECHO, a ground-breaking new module that allows global organizations to forensically account, track and trace the lifecycle of every single piece of data within an organization including telephone calls, voicemails, emails, instant messages, documents and videos Cardiff LiquidOffice Version 5.0, extending Cardiff's vision for Intelligent Documents with major enhancements such as the ability to create dynamic documents and processes that can automatically adapt to changing business conditions Autonomy etalks Intelligent Contact Center, providing the ability to capture, share and analyze the critical structured and unstructured data that flows through the contact center, no matter what the format - be it text, email, IM, audio or video After having cemented Autonomys position as the industry leader during the year, including as the fide facto standard in OEM market, Autonomy was recognized when it was presented an award by the EU commissioner for being Europes best performing software company.
The results of our investment can also be seen in the continued success of our vertical divisions, including: Aungate, Autonomys awardwinning division specializing in compliance, litigation and risk technology: etalk, a leading provider of next-generation contact center technology: Virage, a leading provider of security and surveillance software and rich media content management software: and Cardiff, a leading provider of business process management software.
Each of these divisions is founded on Autonomys unique Intelligent Data Operating Layer, our core infrastructure for automating the handling of all forms of unstructured and structured information.
The business value of Autonomys infrastructure technology and its demonstrable ROI are ultimately borne out by our average selling price, which remained stable throughout 2007 and rising to $390,000 in the fourth quarter.
3 Autonomy Corporation plc The net result of all of the activity in 2007 was clearly reflected in Autonomys share price, up 73% during 2007, following Autonomys performance as the best performing stock in the FTSE250 in 2005 and 31% rise in 2006.
Our two year performance is in the graph below: 1,200 1,000 800 600 400 200 0 Jan-06 Apr-06 Jul-06 Sep-06 Dec-06 Mar-07 Jun-07 Sep-07 Dec-07 Autonomy FTSE 350 Acquisitions: I am pleased to report that our acquisition of ZANTAZ in July 2007 has delivered significant results, following a rapid and successful integration.
The combination of Autonomy and ZANTAZ created the unmatched leader in the space.
Trends: 2007 was a transformational year for our markets driven by the fundamental change of the IT world to the usage of unstructured information and the secondary drivers of regulatory changes such as the U. S. Federal Rules of Civil Procedure resulting in a convergence of legal and operational information systems.
The elevation of unstructured information issues to prime-time status also drives growth in our OEM business, where we remain the fide facto standard.
The last few years have continued to see explosive growth in the use of unstructured information, which includes documents, emails, telephone conversations and multimedia.
More than 85% of all information inside an enterprise is now unstructured and this 'humanfriendly' information has traditionally been difficult for computers to understand and use.
As always, our position in the market is underpinned by our unique value proposition: to provide the software infrastructure that automates operations on all forms of information.
The unique nature of our technology delivers the only platform truly built around Meaning Based Computing, enabling computers to understand the relationships that exist between disparate pieces of information and perform sophisticated analysis operations with real business value, automatically and in real-time.
Through the understanding of information Autonomy empowers organizations to understand and capitalize on the information that really matters to their business by enabling computers to process human-friendly unstructured information, such as text documents, emails, voice and video, without the need for manual intervention.
We are seeing continuing strength as the momentum of the revolution towards unstructured information gathers pace.
We are experiencing tremendous amounts of activity across the company and across the globe, with particular strength in our regulatory, compliance and government-driven prospects.
Our strong fundamental market dynamics together with a record sales pipeline underlie our confidence in the current outlook for the business, and we look forward to an exciting 2008.
I take this opportunity to thank once again our customers, shareholders, employees and partners for their continued support.
Dr. Michael R. Lynch Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder 11 February 2008 Autonomy Corporation plc 4 Share price rebased to Autonomy p
