Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2007 The directors present their report and group audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Principal Activity The principal activity of the group during 2007 continued to be software development and distribution and related support, maintenance and consulting services.
The group has activities throughout Europe, North America, Asia and Australia, with smaller operations in Brazil and Argentina.
Review of Developments and 2007 Results Results of the company are set out beginning on page 21.
Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2007 was $343.4 million, an increase of 37% from $250.7 million in 2006.
Net profit adjusted was $77.2 million for 2007 compared with net profit adjusted of $47.9 million in 2006.
The company solidified its industry-leading position during 2007.
The Financial Review beginning on page 5 provides further comment on the developments and the results for the year, as well as risks and uncertainties.
Enhanced Business Review The directors are required to provide an enhanced business review.
The information the review is required to contain is set out in this report and in the financial results section of the letter from the CEO and the Financial Review, which also report on the business and principal issues of the past year and future prospects.
Research and Development The group remains firmly committed to research and development to maintain its position as a market leader.
During the year the group expensed $62.3 million related to research and development 2006: $51.7 million, an increase of 21% from 2006.
In addition, the Group capitalised $6.9 million 2006: $3.2 million of qualifying research and development expenditure as required in accordance with IAS 38.
Dividends The Board reviews uses of cash resources on an ongoing basis.
In light of the companys continued need for cash for potential trade investments and expected significant investment in further research and development, the company to date has not paid or declared dividends on its shares, in common with most of its peer companies in the high technology sector.
The policy will be kept under continual review.
Accordingly the directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2006 - Nil.
Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the last Annual General Meeting, the shareholders authorized the company to make market purchases of up to 28,207,611 ordinary shares representing approximately 14.9% of its issued share capital at that time.
The authority will expire at the end of the next Annual General Meeting of the company unless renewed at that meeting.
During 2007 the company did not conduct any share repurchases.
In total, the company has purchased for cancellation 20,997,824 shares, representing approximately 9.9% of the company's total issued share capital at 31 December 2007, at an average price of 1.65 per share, for aggregate consideration of 34.5 million.
As of 31 December 2007, the company had remaining authorization to repurchase 28,207,611 of the companys ordinary shares.
Any repurchase program during 2008 will depend on market conditions.
Financial Instruments In relation to the use of financial instruments, the directors' objectives are to minimize risk whilst achieving maximum return on liquid assets.
The directors are averse to principal loss and manage the safety and preservation of the companys invested funds by limiting default and market risks by investing with high rated financial institutions.
The companys investment portfolio is comprised entirely of cash and cash equivalents.
All short-term investments have a fixed interest rate.
The company does not use derivative financial instruments.
The group historically has not faced material exposure to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk or cash flow risk, outside of the ordinary course of business.
As the company has a bank loan, arising in connection with the Verity acquisition, the company is marginally exposed to interest rate risk.
Further information about the companys financial assets and liabilities is provided in the notes to the financial statements.
Future Developments The company's stated objective is to establish its technology as the infrastructure standard for automating operations on all forms of unstructured information.
The directors continue to believe that to achieve this goal it is important to expand the number and range of potential customers for its technology.
To this end, the company intends to sign further licence agreements with new customers and to establish relationships with third-party value added resellers, services providers and OEMs to ensure that the company's products are distributed as widely as practicable.
The company also plans to develop new technology to license to new and existing customers.
As a result of its position as an emerging standard in its industry, the company is presented with opportunities from time to time to acquire complementary technology or resources.
Research and development activities are discussed above.
The company operates through offices around the globe, all of which are engaged in the primary business of the company.
Adjusted results exclude post-acquisition restructuring costs, impairment of investments, share of loss of associates and non-cash charges, namely the amortization of purchased intangibles, share-based compensation, impairment of investments and non-cash translational foreign exchange gains and losses and associated tax effects.
9 Autonomy Corporation plc Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2007 Directors and Their Interests A list of the directors who served during the year, their interests in the ordinary share capital of the company and details of any share options over the ordinary share capital of the company, as well as details of service contracts, are set forth in the Remuneration Committee report beginning on page 15.
No director had a material interest in any significant contract, other than a service contract or contract for services, with the company or any of its subsidiaries at any time during the year.
Re-election of Directors The companys Articles of Association require at least one third of the directors to be subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
Messrs. Ariko and McMonigall were re-elected as directors at the companys Annual General Meeting in 2005 and are standing for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
In addition Mr. McMonigall is standing for re-election in accordance with 2006 FRC Combined Code.
Each individuals performance continues to be exemplary and they demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Biographies for all directors, including those standing for re-election, appear on page 8.
2 Interests of FMR Corp and Fidelity International Limited were previously aggregated under Fidelity International Limited prior to implementation of the EU Transparency Directive, but are now reported separately.
Supplier Payment Policy The company's policy is to settle payment terms with all suppliers when agreeing a transaction, to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms and to abide by such terms.
Generally the company pays suppliers at the end of the month following that in which the supplier's invoice is received.
Creditor days outstanding as at 31 December 2007 calculated in accordance with Schedule 7 Companies Act 1985 for the company was 53 days 2006 - 25 days and for the principal U. K. subsidiary was 85 days 2006 - 52 days.
Employees Matters relating to the companys employees are discussed on page 19.
Charitable and Political Contributions The companys charitable policies are discussed on page 20.
The group made $155,000 in charitable donations during 2007 to a variety of charities including National Parks, Comic Relief and Alderburgh Music 2006 - $164,000.
The group did not make any political contributions during 2007 2006 - $Nil.
Going Concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the group has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Capital Structure The structure of the companys capital consists solely of ordinary shares, nominal value 1 3p per share.
There are no restrictions imposed by the company on the transfer of securities in the company or limitations on the holding of securities or requirements to obtain approval for a transfer of securities.
The Substantial Shareholdings table above sets forth such details as are known to the company of the identity of persons holding a significant direct or indirect interest, and the holdings size.
The company has no information with regards to the holdings to believe such holdings are for any reason other than ordinary financial investment purposes.
The company has an Employee Benefit Trust which holds approximately 484,000 ordinary shares of the company and approximately 496,800 ordinary shares of blinkx Plc.
All rights with respect to such shares are exercised by the independent trustee of the trust.
There are no restrictions on voting rights on the companys ordinary shares, including any limitations on voting rights of holders of a given percentage or number of votes, deadlines for exercising voting rights, or arrangements by which with the companys co-operation financial rights carried by securities are held by a person other than the holder of the securities.
The company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or voting rights.
The company does not have any rules regarding the appointment and replacement of directors and amendment of the articles of association other than those set forth in the articles of association.
The powers of the directors are as set forth in the companys articles of association and as permitted by shareholders pursuant to the companys Annual General Meeting.
The company is not party to any material agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, or any agreements between the company and its directors or employees providing for compensation or loss of office or employment that occur because of a takeover bid.
Autonomy Corporation plc 10 Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2007 Indemnity Provisions At the companys Annual General Meeting in May 2006 shareholders approved an amendment to the companys Articles of Association providing for indemnification of directors, which remain in force.
A copy of the companys Memorandum and Articles of Association are available for inspection at the companys office and from Companies House.
No qualifying third party indemnity provisions or any qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions are in force as of the date of this report or were in force during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at the companys offices in Cambridge, UK, on 19 March 2008, at 1:00 pm.
The company will convey the results of proxy votes cast at the Annual General Meeting, and the results of the meeting will be announced through the regulatory news services.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is set out in the circular to shareholders accompanying this annual report.
The company is committed to the policy of one share one vote.
Deloitte & Touche LLP, the companys independent auditors, have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the company in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the company, for safeguarding the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Audit Each of the persons who were a director at the date of approval of this annual report confirms that: so far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the company's auditors are unaware: and he has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
On behalf of the Board, Dr. Michael R. Lynch Chief Executive Officer and Co-Founder 11 February 2008 Registered Office: Cambridge Business Park, Cowley Road, Cambridge CB4 0WZ Registered Number: 3175909 11 Autonomy Corporation plc
