qxp 19 3 08 23:05 Page 6 Travis Perkins, a major PLC, is a main supplier to the building and construction market, one of the largest industries in the UK.
The present day Company was formed in 1988 out of a becoming listed public companies, Travis and Arnold was merger between Travis and Arnold plc, a company with a the first to the market in 1964, followed 22 years later by strong Midlands and Northern based business, and Sandell Sandell Perkins.
Perkins plc, a company with an equivalent strength in the 2007 saw continued expansion of the Group with new South of England.
outlets opening in each brand and a new business stream The origins of Sandell Perkins can be traced back over being added in the form of Tile Giant.
200 years to 1797 when a carpentry company was first established in London: Travis and Arnold was initially formed as a partnership in 1899.
During the early to mid 20th century both businesses expanded before eventually Andrew Pike Carol Kavanagh Martin Meech Company Secretary Group Human Group Property Director Resources Director 6 W H O W E A R E 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:05 Page 7 RETAIL DIVISION The Retail Division comprises two businesses Wickes, a national chain of DIY retail outlets and Tile Giant a ceramic tile merchant acquired in 2007.
Our new Wickes Extra store in Newcastle, which opened in August 2007 Wickes stores are designed to appeal to tradesmen, who brand, Tile Giant.
The acquisition is consistent with the undertake general repairs, maintenance and improvement Groups strategy for growth and facilitates entry into the projects for households and small businesses and to specialist ceramic tile market.
The subsequent acquisition serious DIY customers, who carry out more complete DIY in early 2008 of Tile Magic, a seventeen store chain, means projects.
These customers are more demanding in terms of the brand is now trading from a total of 51 stores.
Under the leadership of Mo Iqbal, the Managing The Company meets these expectations by offering a Director of Tile Giant, the brand offers a strong pipeline for focussed range of high quality, primarily own brand, further expansion.
Mo Iqbal competitively priced home improvement products, such as MD Tile Giant timber, building materials, tools and decorative materials.
In addition, Wickes stores offer a range of kitchens, conservatories, bathrooms and bedrooms, which are sold through in-store showrooms.
Wickes, which opened its first store in the UK in 1972 at Whitefield in Manchester, was acquired by Travis Perkins in 2005 and the company now operates from 191 stores nationwide.
The Managing Director of Wickes is Jeremy Bird who joined Wickes thirteen years ago and has fulfilled various Jeremy Bird roles including that of Commercial Director.
Divisional Chairman In November 2007 Travis Perkins acquired its seventh and MD Wickes 7 W H O W E A R E 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:05 Page 8 SPECIALIST MERCHANTING The Specialist Merchanting division was formed in 2007 and is led by the Divisional Chairman, Arthur Davidson.
He has worked in merchanting for over thirty years having joined Keyline prior to its acquisition by the Travis Perkins Group.
The Specialist Merchanting division consists of four separate businesses trading under the following brands, Keyline, City Plumbing Supplies, CCF and Benchmarx.
Dan Smart, yard supervisor, carefully loading a lorry in readiness for a delivery from Keyline Exeter Keyline is a major specialist merchant supplying heavy Perkins traditional markets.
The vision of the business is to building materials and civils and drainage solutions to the become the first choice supplier of kitchen and joinery construction industry throughout the UK.
Keyline is known products to the trade through its competitive pricing, quality for its knowledgeable, friendly staff and is led by Managing products and knowledgeable staff.
The Managing Director Director, Phil Atkinson, who joined the business in of Benchmarx is Andrew Harrison, who formerly was November 2007 from the construction sector.
City Plumbing Supplies is a major nationwide plumbing and heating merchant serving both the contract market and Arthur Davidson the general plumbing and heating market.
The company Divisional Chairman offers high quality products and expert service to the trade.
The Managing Director of City Plumbing Supplies is John Frost who joined the Travis Perkins group in 1983.
CCF is a leading supplier of interior building products to the construction industry.
It operates throughout the UK, offering a one-stop-shop to its customers from its nationwide branch network.
In 2007 CCF was led by Managing Director Andrew Harrison, who joined the Travis Perkins group following the acquisition of Sharpe and Fisher in 1999.
Benchmarx is the first group brand to be created as a Phil Atkinson John Frost Andrew Harrison completely new business within a market, adjacent to Travis MD Keyline MD City Plumbing Supplies MD Benchmarx 8 W H O W E A R E 77266 Pre.
qxp 19 3 08 23:05 Page 9 GENERAL MERCHANTING The core businesses of Travis and Arnold plc and Sandell Perkins plc formed, following a merger in 1988, what is now the general merchanting business within the trade division.
It trades nationally through the Travis Perkins brand and comprises four geographically individual businesses.
Travis Perkins Central Birmingham, a branch opened by the Group in July 2006 Joe Mescall, who has been with the Group since 1974, and also have stretching targets in place to deliver further leads the business in his role as Divisional Chairman.
Managing Directors of the four regional businesses are Ian Network expansion will continue through a combination Church Travis Perkins Midlands, Phil Gransden Travis of acquisitions and brownfield openings, as well as an Perkins South East, Norman Bell Travis Perkins South increasing number of Local Authority and Housing West and Mark Nottingham Travis Perkins Northern.
Potential exists to further The customers of the general merchanting business are increase the number of merchanting branches by 25% over primarily professional tradesmen, ranging from sole traders the coming years.
Joe Mescall to national housebuilders, whose key requirements are Overall the division has the capacity to deliver continuing Divisional Chairman product range and availability, pricing clarity and customer growth.
The general merchanting business, through the Travis Perkins brand, operates to high standards in each of these requirements and continues to improve to meet customer needs.
The strategy of the general merchanting division aims to increase market share through implementation of our Best Practice programme and ongoing branch network expansion.
The Best Practice programme is designed to enhance our overall service to trade customers and covers all of their key requirements: all four general merchanting Mark Nottingham Ian Church Phil Gransden Norman Bell businesses are operating to high standards in these areas MD Northern MD Midlands MD South East MD South West 9 W H O W E A R E
