qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 63 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 The Directors present their annual report and audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Travis Perkins is one of the largest builders merchants and home improvement retailers in the UK.
The principal activities of the Group are the sale of timber, building materials, plumbing and heating products, and the hiring of tools to the building trade and industry generally and, since the acquisition in 2005 of Wickes and, in 2007, Tile Giant, to the general public, within the United Kingdom.
The Directors are not aware, at the date of this report, of any likely major changes in the Groups activities in the next year.
ENHANCED BUSINESS REVIEW A review of the Groups position, developments and future prospects is contained in the Chairmans statement on pages 10 and 11, the Chief Executives review of the year on pages 12 to 27, the Chief Operating Officers review of the year on pages 28 to 36 and the Finance Directors review of the year on pages 38 to 43.
A review of the Groups environmental One of the bathrooms on display performance is contained in the Chief Executives review at City Plumbing Supplies Ipswich of the year on pages 21 to 25.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The names of the Directors at 31 December 2007, together RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS with their biographical details, are set out on pages 46 and The Group results and dividends for the year ended 31 47.
All of those Directors held office throughout the year.
In December 2007 are set out on page 72.
If approved, the accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, final dividend will be paid on 15 May 2008 to those Chris Bunker, Geoff Cooper and Paul Hampden Smith will shareholders on the register at the close of business on 18 retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves April 2008. for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Geoff Cooper and Paul Hampden Smith have a rolling 12 BALANCE SHEET AND POST BALANCE month notice period in their contracts.
As a non-executive SHEET EVENTS director, Chris Bunker does not have a service contract.
In The balance sheet on pages 73 and 74 shows the light of the evaluation of his performance as a result of the Groups financial position.
At the year end, in both net process described on page 49, Tim Stevenson, Chairman, assets and cash terms, it is consistent with the prior year.
confirms on behalf of the Board that Chris Bunker No significant events have occurred since the balance continues to be effective in, and committed to, his role as a sheet date.
non-executive director, including his chairmanship of the Audit Committee.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Directors and officers of the Company are entitled to be A review of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are indemnified out of the assets of the Company in respect of contained in the Finance Directors review of the year on any liability incurred in relation to the affairs of the pages 40 to 43.
Company, or any associate company, to the extent the law 63 DIRECTORS REPOR T 77266 Pre.
In this regard, the Company is required to disclose recognises the benefit of diversity within its workforce.
It has that under article 147 of the Companys Articles of an Equal Opportunities Policy aimed at ensuring that Association, the Directors have the benefit of an indemnity, employment decisions are based on ability and potential to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985 against regardless of gender, race, colour, ethnic origin or sexual liabilities incurred by them in the execution of their duties orientation, age or disability.
In particular, applications for and exercise of their powers.
This indemnity is currently in employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, force.
In addition, if proceedings against Directors are bearing in mind the aptitudes of the person concerned.
In the instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of the event of a member of staff becoming disabled, every effort is Company, the Company has agreed with each of the made to ensure that their employment with the Group Directors that pursuant to article 146 D of the Companys continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is the Articles of Association, the Company shall provide a policy of the Company that the training, career development Director with funds subject to certain restrictions to meet and promotion of disabled persons should, as far as possible, expenditure incurred by that Director in defending any be identical to that of other employees.
The Groups policies and practices have been A copy of the Companys Articles of Association which established to keep employees informed on matters contains this indemnity is available for inspection at the relevant to them as employees through regular meetings Companys registered office during normal business hours and newsletters.
Employee representatives are consulted and will be available for inspection at the Companys regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
All employees with more than three months None of the Directors had an interest in any contract to service are eligible to participate in the Companys which the Company or any of its subsidiaries was a party Sharesave and Buy as You Earn plans.
Details are provided during the year.
in the Directors Remuneration report.
The disclosable interests of Directors at 31 December 2007, including holdings, if any, of wives and of children POLITICAL DONATIONS aged under 18, were as detailed in the Directors The Group did not give any money for political purposes in Remuneration Report on pages 57, 58 and 60. the UK nor did it make any donations to EU political organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS the year.
As at 3 March 2008, the Company had received notification under Disclosure Transparency Rules that the holdings and SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY voting rights exceeding the 3% notification threshold were The Groups policy is to pay all of its suppliers in as follows.
Group trade creditors at 31 December 2007 represented 48 days 31 December Number % 2006: 52.5 days of average purchases of goods and C. M. Travis 7,850,949 6.3 services.
The Companys trade creditors at 31 December Baillie Gifford and Co 7,033,703 5.75 2007 represented 30 days 2006: 30 days.
E. R. A. Travis 6,677,770 5.4 Wickes Newcastle stocks many bathroom fittings, including a Legal and General Group PLC 4,962,736 4.05 AUDITORS wide selection of taps Barclays Global Investors 4,051,910 3.32 A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix the C. M. Travis and E. R. A. Travis have each disclosed that auditors remuneration will be proposed at the Annual they have voting rights over the same 4,193,257 ordinary General Meeting.
shares in aggregate, by virtue of each of them being a trustee of the same Travis family trusts which STATEMENT ON DISCLOSURE OF hold ordinary shares.
INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Each of the persons who is a director at the date of CLOSE COMPANY STATUS approval of this report confirms that: The close company provisions of the Income and So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit Corporation Taxes Act 1988 do not apply to the Company.
information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and EMPLOYEES AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS The Director has taken all reasonable steps that he Statements on these matters are contained in the Chief ought to have taken as a director in order to make Operating Officers review of the year and in the Chief himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Executives review of the year respectively on pages 30, establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that 31 and 25. information.
Details of the number of employees and related costs This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in can be found in note 7 to the financial statements.
accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the The Company is committed to equality of opportunity and Companies Act 1985.
qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 65 SHARE CAPITAL AND CHANGE OF CONTROL ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING As at 31 December 2007 the Company had an authorised SPECIAL BUSINESS share capital of 135,000,000 ordinary shares of 10 pence The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held each, with an aggregate nominal value of 13,500,000 and at Northampton Rugby Football Club, Franklins Gardens, an allotted and fully paid share capital of 122,641,849 Weedon Road, Northampton, NN5 5BG on Tuesday 13 May ordinary shares of 10 pence each, with an aggregate 2008 at 11.45 a. m. The following items are to be nominal value of 12,264,184.90 including shares owned proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as by the employee share trust.
The ordinary shares are listed items of special business, and the Board recommends that on the London Stock Exchange.
All the shares rank pari shareholders vote in favour of all resolutions put before the passu.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Annual General Meeting.
Companys shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association a copy of which will be will be available for inspection from the date of this notice up to the time of the Annual General Meeting at the registered office of the Company during usual business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
Fully paid shares in the Company are freely transferable.
There are no persons that hold securities carrying special rights with regard to the control of the Company.
Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and changes in the share capital during the year are also included in note 21 to the financial statements.
The Travis Perkins ESOP Trust owns 5,698,300 shares allocated and unallocated executive share option grants in the Company 4.65%.
Any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
There are no restrictions on voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Stop tap boxes, which are powers of the Companys Directors are set out in the supplied to local authorities Companys Articles of Association.
In particular, the Board has Resolution 7: Directors remuneration report throughout the country the power to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report of that power at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting Regulations 2002, this resolution seeks shareholders within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
approval of the report of the Directors Remuneration There are a number of agreements to which the Report as set out on pages 53 to 61.
Company is a party that may take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid.
None of Resolution 8: Renewal of authority to allot shares these agreements is considered to be significant in the Under the Companies Act 1985, the Board is not able to context of the Company as a whole.
allot shares except with the general or specific authority of There are no agreements providing for compensation for shareholders.
Resolution 8 renews the Boards authority to Directors or employees on change of control.
As set out in issue share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of the Directors Remuneration Report on page 44, service 1,233,034 being the Companys authorised but unissued contracts for executive directors do not specify any share capital.
This represents 10.05% of the issued share particular level of compensation in the event of termination capital of the Company as at 3 March 2008 excluding following change of control of the Company.
The Company holds no treasury shares at above, the Company has agreed with each of the Directors 3 March 2008.
The authority extends until the earlier of the that it shall provide a Director with funds subject to certain conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and the date restrictions to meet expenditure incurred in defending any fifteen months from the passing of this resolution.
The criminal or civil proceedings if such proceedings are Board does not have any present intention of exercising this instituted subsequent to any person acquiring control of authority other than for the purposes of the Companys the Company.
qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 66 Resolution 9: Limited authority to allot shares for cash 1.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions The Companies Act 1985 provides that, when equity Provisions in the Current Articles, which replicate provisions securities are being issued for cash, such securities must contained in the 2006 Act, are in the main amended to first be offered pro-rata to existing shareholders unless bring them into line with the 2006 Act.
These include the Board is given power to allot them without regard to provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of that requirement.
Resolution 9 therefore empowers the class rights and provisions regarding the period of notice Board to allot for cash, equity securities of a nominal required to convene general meetings.
The main changes amount not exceeding 613,348 representing 5% of the made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
issued share capital as at 3 March 2008 without first offering such securities to existing shareholders.
Form of resolution the relevant institutional shareholder voting guidelines, The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any the annual disapplication of pre-emption rights should purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the 2006 Act.
The Current Articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the 2006 Act, public companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
Provisions dealing with written resolutions have therefore been removed in the New Articles.
Variation of class rights The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
Revised proceedings and quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the 2006 Act.
The relevant provisions have therefore been amended in the New Articles.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the 2006 Act.
In particular, a general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice, whereas previously 21 days Reinforcing mesh, used by notice was required.
ground workers to strengthen not exceed 5% of the issued share capital and there is concrete foundation slabs also a cumulative limit of 7.5% of issued share capital in 5.
Votes of members any three year period.
The authority extends until the Under the 2006 Act proxies are entitled to vote on a show of earlier of the conclusion of the next Annual General hands, whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment Meeting and the date fifteen months from the passing of this resolution.
Any issue of shares for cash will, or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by however, still be subject to the requirements of the UK the 2006 Act so that the articles cannot provide that they Listing Authority.
should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or, in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking Resolution 10: Amendment of Articles of Association Resolution 10 proposes certain amendments to the of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted Companys current Articles of Association the Current to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be Articles.
The revised updated Articles of Association appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the New Articles are primarily to take account of the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate representatives may also be changes in English law brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
The principal changes are appointed in accordance with the 2006 Act.
Other changes, which are of a minor Articles reflect all of these new provisions.
or technical nature, have not been noted below.
As noted at the end of this section, the New Articles 6.
Conflicts of interest The 2006 Act sets out directors general duties which showing all the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection.
largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
qxp 19 3 08 23:09 Page 67 Under the 2006 Act, from 1 October 2008 a director must Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 113, will be avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or proposed as special business at the forthcoming Annual indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with General Meeting to give the Company the authority to the Companys interests.
The requirement is very broad purchase its own ordinary shares in the market as and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a permitted by the Companies Act 1985.
The authority limits director of another company or a trustee of another the number of shares that could be purchased to a organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public maximum of 12,266,966 representing 10% of the issued companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, ordinary share capital of the Company as at 3 March 2008 where appropriate, as long as the articles of association and sets minimum and maximum prices.
This authority will contain a provision permitting this.
expire no later than 15 months after the date of the There are safeguards which will apply when directors forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
The Directors consider that it is in the best interests of First, only directors who have no interest in the matter the Company to have available this authorisation, in case of being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, circumstances when it would be appropriate to use it.
They and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act would only use it after consideration of the effect on in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to earnings per share and the longer term benefit for the promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able Company and shareholders generally.
The fact that such to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if authorisation is being sought should not be taken to imply they think this is appropriate.
that shares would be purchased at any particular price or It is also proposed that the New Articles should contain indeed at all.
Any ordinary shares purchased pursuant to provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at this authority may either be held as treasury shares or board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a cancelled by the Company, depending on which course of director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or action is considered by the Directors to be in the best potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will interests of shareholders at the time.
only apply where the position giving rise to the potential As at 3 March 2008, there were options over 5,183,405 conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
It is ordinary shares in the capital of the Company, including the Boards intention to report annually on the Companys 37,417 Deferred Shares, 37,417 Deferred Matching Shares procedures for ensuring that the Boards powers to and 92,773 Investment Matching Shares, these are authorise conflicts are operated effectively.
described in the Share Matching Awards section of the Remuneration Report on pages 55 and 58, which 7.
Directors indemnities and loans to fund expenditure represent 4.23% of the Companys issued ordinary share The 2006 Act has in some areas widened the scope of the capital excluding treasury shares.
If the authority to powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund purchase the Companys ordinary shares were exercised in expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions full, these options would represent 4.69% of the Companys against directors.
In addition, the existing exemption issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares.
As allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of at 3 March 2008, the Company did not hold any treasury funding a directors defence in court proceedings now shares in the Company and no warrants over ordinary expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to shares in the capital of the Company existed.
A copy of the Current Articles, a copy marked to show the differences between the Current Articles and the New Articles as proposed to be amended pursuant to resolution 10 and a copy of the New Articles incorporating such amendments will be available for inspection from the date By order of the Board of this notice up to the time of the Annual General Meeting A. S. Pike at the registered office of the Company during usual Secretary business hours and at the place of the Annual General 3 March 2008 Meeting for at least 15 minutes before and during the meeting.
Representatives of the Companys solicitors, Clifford Chance, will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
Resolution 11: Authority to purchase own shares The authority for the Company to purchase its own shares of 10 pence each granted at last years Annual General Meeting will expire on the date of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors wish to renew this authority and a special resolution, which is set out in full in the 67 DIRECTORS REPOR T
