49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Statement of directors responsibilities The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, corporate and financial information included on the Companys directors remuneration report and the financial statements in website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation accordance with applicable law and regulations.
and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors are required by the IAS Business review Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under The Business Review is set out on pages 12 to 27. International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also Principal activities and future development required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the The principal activity of the Group is the publication and printing Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
of newspapers, primarily in the United Kingdom.
The analysis of turnover and operating profit are included in note 5 to the financial International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial statements.
A review of our business and activities during the period statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys is contained in the Chairman and Chief Executive Statement on financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires pages 8 to 11 and the Business Review on pages 12 to 27. the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition Our strategic goal is to build a growing multi-platform media criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the business, by developing and sustaining strong positions across print International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the and digital, with products and services which meet the needs preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all of our customers, both readers and advertisers.
circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, directors are also required to: We will achieve this via launch and acquisition, and by layering and segmenting our portfolio both geographically and by advertiser properly select and apply accounting policies: or content segment, thereby deepening our penetration and present information, including accounting policies, in a manner reach across our markets.
that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Results and dividends provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific The profit for the 52 weeks to 30 December 2007 attributable to requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand shareholders after taxation and minority interest was 203.3 million.
the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions The comparative for 2006 was a loss of 11.5 million.
An interim on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
dividend of 6.4 pence per share has been paid on ordinary shares.
The directors now recommend a final dividend of 15.5 pence per The directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial share, making a total dividend for the year of 21.9 pence per share.
statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Payment of the recommended final dividend will be made on 6 June Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and 2008 to shareholders registered at the close of business on 9 May applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are 2008.
The payment of these dividends requires up to 45.2 million required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of 2006: 45.4 million, as disclosed in note 13 to the Group financial the Company.
In preparing financial statements, the directors are statements, leaving a profit of 158.1 million 2006: loss of required to: 56.9 million to be retained in the Group.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Charitable and political donations make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: During the year contributions for charitable purposes totalled state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been 79,000 2006: 68,000, principally to various charities connected followed: and or associated with the newspaper, printing or advertising industries prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless and local charities serving the communities in which we operate.
In it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue addition, 10 million of donations were made to charities connected in business.
to the horse racing industry following the sale of the Sports division.
No direct political contributions were paid during the year 2006: nil.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The editorial stance of our national titles, and in particular that of the that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Daily Mirror and the Daily Record, is politically left of centre and often position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent supportive of the Labour Party.
Although we do not make direct company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. political donations, it has been in the best interests of the Daily Mirror They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and Daily Record to sponsor, on commercial terms, certain events in and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and aid of the Labour Party.
This is a practice that has been followed for detection of fraud and other irregularities.
At the Companys Annual General Meeting held in 2004, various of our subsidiaries received authority from shareholders under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 to make donations to political parties of up to 75,000 in aggregate per annum.
In 2007 there were no such payments 2006: nil.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 50 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT Employment policies Directors We pursue a policy of equal opportunities to all employees and The directors of the Company who served during the period potential employees.
We have continued our policy of giving fair unless stated otherwise are listed below: consideration to applications for employment made by disabled persons bearing in mind the requirements for skills and aptitude for Executive the job.
In the areas of planned employee training and career Sly Bailey development, we strive to ensure that disabled employees receive Vijay Vaghela maximum possible benefits, including opportunities for promotion.
Paul Vickers Every effort is made to ensure that continuing employment and opportunities are also provided for employees who become disabled.
Non-executive Within the limitations of commercial confidentiality and security, it is Peter Birch CBE retired 10 May 2007 the policy of the Company to take views of employees into account Sir Angus Grossart retired 10 May 2007 in making decisions, and, wherever possible, to encourage the Sir Ian Gibson CBE involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
Gary Hoffman Kathleen ODonovan appointed 11 May 2007 Group companies evolve their own consultative policies.
Methods of David Ross retired 10 May 2007 communication used include advisory committee meetings, Laura Wade-Gery newsletters, bulletins, pension trustee reports and management briefings.
We have operated a savings-related share option scheme Jane Lighting was appointed a Director of the Company on since 1987 and all eligible employees are encouraged to participate.
Payment of suppliers Their remuneration is summarised on page 46 in the Remuneration We have a supplier payment policy which provides for payment of all Report.
suppliers other than those with agreed alternative terms at the month end following the month of receipt of invoice.
All companies Details of the directors beneficial and non-beneficial interests within the Group are encouraged to make payments in accordance in shares can be found on pages 47 and 48. with those terms and conditions provided that the supplier has also complied with them.
At 30 December 2007, the Company had In accordance with the Articles of Association, the directors an average of 35 days 2006: 32 days purchases outstanding in are required to retire every three years.
Gary Hoffman and trade creditors.
Paul Vickers, who were last elected in 2005, retire and offer themselves for re-election.
Share capital Details of the movements in the Companys share capital are included In accordance with the Articles of Association, directors who in note 32 to the financial statements.
are appointed between Annual General Meetings are required to retire at the next Annual General Meeting.
Jane Lighting and Substantial shareholdings Kathleen ODonovan retire and offer themselves for re-election.
So far as is known the only persons interested in 3% or more of the ordinary shares of the Company as at 1 February 2008 were: Auditors Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this Holding in annual report confirms that: Number of shares Company % so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information AXA S. A 40,121,874 14.52 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Barclays plc 15,443,905 5.27 the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken Brandes Investment Partners, L. P. 13,619,586 4.67 as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant Fidelity Investments 8,872,747 3.03 audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are Harris Associates, L. P. 29,012,006 10.05 aware of that information.
Legal & General Group plc 14,069,385 5.00 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance Lloyds TSB Group plc 8,931,102 3.05 with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Schroeder plc 14,790,655 5.04 Standard Life Investments 11,731,465 3.96 In accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act 1985 Tweedy, Browne Company LLC 14,887,173 5.08 a resolution proposing the re-appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors to the Company will be put to the Annual All percentages are based on date of notification as opposed to General Meeting.
current issued share capital figure.
By order of the Board Paul Vickers Secretary and Group Legal Director 28 February 2008 TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
