34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Board and Management Team BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sly Bailey chief executive 1 Sir Ian Gibson chairman 2 Gary Hoffman non-executive director 3 Jane lighting non-executive director 4 Kathleen ODonovan non-executive director 5 Vijay Vaghela group finance director 6 Paul Vickers Secretary and group legal director 7 laura Wade-Gery non-executive director 8 EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Sly Bailey chief executive 1 Vijay Vaghela group finance director 6 Paul Vickers Secretary and group legal director 7 Max Alexander managing director, new ventures and Strategy 9 Steve Bird group human resources director 10 Nick Fullagar director of corporate communications 11 Georgina Harvey managing director, regionals 12 Mark Hollinshead managing director, Scottish nationals 13 Rupert Middleton director of manufacturing 14 Tony Pusey group information technology director 15 Richard Webb managing director, UK nationals 16 Trini TriniT Ty Mirror plc Annu y Mirror plc AnnuA Al l r repor eporT T & Accoun & AccounT Ts 2007 s 2007 35 14 7 13 12 16 5 10 15 6 9 2 1 3 4 11 8 Trini TriniT Ty Mirror plc Annu y Mirror plc AnnuA Al l r repor eporT T & Accoun & AccounT Ts 2007 s 2007 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Sly Bailey 46 chief executive Kathleen ODonovan 50 non-executive director Sly joined the board in february 2003.
She started her media career Kathleen joined the board as a non-executive director in may 2007. in advertising sales at the guardian and then the independent.
She is chairman of the Audit committee.
Kathleen is the senior in 1989 she joined ipc media limited as head of classified independent director and deputy chairman of great portland estates Advertising Sales and joined their board in 1994 as Advertising plc and is a non-executive director at prudential plc and Arm director.
in 1997 Sly was appointed managing director of ipc tx, the holdings plc.
previously she was on the court of the bank of england tv listings division.
in december 1999 she was appointed chief and held non-executive directorships at O2 plc and emi plc.
between executive of ipc media limited and subsequently led the sale of the 1998 and 2002 she was cfO of invensys plc, having previously business to AOl time Warner.
Sly was previously Senior independent been the finance director of its legacy company btr plc which director and remuneration committee chairman of emi plc and a merged with Siebe plc to create invensys.
non-executive director of littlewoods plc.
currently she is on the press Association board and president of newstrAid, a charity for Vijay Vaghela 41 group finance director the distribution and retail trade.
vijay qualified as a chartered accountant and worked in private practice with deloitte.
he joined mirror group in 1994 as an internal Sir Ian Gibson CBE 61 chairman Auditor.
he was subsequently group treasurer and then director Sir ian joined the board of trinity mirror and was appointed chairman of Accounting and treasury.
he was appointed group finance in may 2006. he is non-executive deputy chairman of Wm morrison director and joined the board in may 2003.
Supermarkets plc and is due to take up the role of chairman in march.
previously he was president of nissan europe and Senior Paul Vickers 48 Secretary and group legal director vice president of nissan group.
Sir ian was chairman of bpb plc, paul joined the board in September 1999 having been a director was on the court of the bank of england, was deputy chairman of mirror group since 1994. he originally qualified as a barrister and of Asda group plc, Senior non-executive director of northern rock was in private practice at the bar.
he was legal manager of the plc and a non-executive director of gKn plc and greggs plc.
london daily news, which he left to join the breakfast television company tv-am where he subsequently became Assistant Gary Hoffman 47 non-executive director managing director.
he was previously a non-executive director of gary joined the board in march 2005. he was appointed Senior virgin radio.
independent director in may 2007 and is chairman of the remuneration committee.
he is group vice chairman of barclays, laura Wade-Gery 43 non-executive director having previously been chairman of barclays UK banking and laura joined the board in August 2006.
She is chief executive chairman of barclaycard.
gary joined barclays main board of tesco.
com and a director of tesco personal finance.
previously in January 2004. he began his career in barclays in 1982 and she was group Strategy director, tesco plc.
prior to joining tesco held various positions until he was appointed managing director, in 1997 laura held positions with gemini consulting and marketing and distribution in 1998. gary was responsible for the Kleinwort benson.
launch of internet banking as well as setting up barclaycall, the telephone banking service.
he is a member of the board of visa europe.
Jane lighting 51 non-executive director Jane lighting joined the board as a non-executive director in January 2008.
Jane is chief executive of five, the UKs fifth terrestrial channel.
prior to joining five in 2003 Jane was chief executive of flextech plc.
Jane is the chair and a fellow of the royal television Society, fellow of the royal Society of Arts and until recently was governor, national film and television School.
TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Sly Bailey chief executive Vijay Vaghela group finance director Paul Vickers Secretary and group legal director Rupert Middleton director of manufacturing Max Alexander managing director, new ventures and Strategy max was appointed to the role in October 2007. prior to this he was rupert joined trinity mirror as group director of manufacturing in march 2004. he is responsible for trinity mirror printing, the ceO of thomson directories, and previously he was md of talktalk a division of carphone Warehouse, which grew from foundation to 2 integrated manufacturing division that prints all trinity mirror newspaper titles and a significant volume of copies for external million customers and 400 million of annualised revenue in 3 years.
max has also worked for bSkyb and was a consultant at mcKinsey.
publishers including the daily mail and the independent.
prior to joining trinity mirror, rupert has previously been managing director he is a qualified barrister.
of a division within the Stationery Office, and managing director of Westferry printers.
Steve Bird group hr director Steve joined trinity mirror in 2005. previously he was group hr Tony Pusey group information technology director director at lend lease corporation, a global property business best known in the UK for its development of the bluewater tony was appointed group it director in december 2000. prior to joining trinity mirror, he was group ciO and business shopping centre and the greenwich peninsula.
Steve has also held senior positions at natWest group, glaxo Wellcome and ford change director at Storehouse plc, which incorporates bhs and mothercare.
Richard Webb managing director, UK nationals Nick Fullagar director of corporate communications nick joined mirror group as a reporter for the daily mirror in 1980. richard joined trinity mirror in January 2006 as managing director of national newspapers.
previously he was general manager of news he is responsible for group communications including investor and public relations.
he was appointed to the executive committee group newspapers, responsible for the Sun and the news of the World.
prior to working in the newspaper industry he worked in in 2002. advertising and media buying, latterly as deputy managing director of Optimedia UK.
Georgina Harvey managing director, regionals georgina joined the company in february 2005.
She started her media career at express newspapers where she was appointed Advertising director in 1994.
She joined ipc media in 1995 as group Advertising Sales director for its Southbank and went on to form ipc Advertising in 1998, where she was managing director.
georgina became a member of the board of ipc media in 2000 and was subsequently appointed managing director of Wallpaper group in 2003.
Mark Hollinshead managing director, Scottish nationals mark joined the Scottish daily record and Sunday mail ltd in 1998, prior to which he was managing director of midland Weekly media ltd. he was previously business development director at thomson regional newspapers ltd, marketing director at min plc and Research Manager at the Wolverhampton Express & Star, having entered the newspaper industry in advertising sales at the midland news Association ltd in the mid 1980s.
mark spent the early part of his career working in advertising agencies.
he is also non executive chairman of Scottish Athletics ltd. TriniTy Mirror plc AnnuAl reporT & AccounTs 2007
