Directors report: Corporate governance Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 4.
Patrick Plunkett Chairman Age 57 Exploration Director Age 46 Pat Plunkett joined the Board as a non-executive Director in Angus McCoss was appointed to the Board in December 2006.
1998 and was appointed non-executive Chairman in 2000.
He is He joined Tullow in April 2006 as General Manager Exploration.
also Chairman of the Nominations Committee and a member of A geologist: he has 20 years of wide-ranging exploration experience, the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Plunkett is an accountant with working primarily with Shell in Africa, Europe, China, South America over thirty years experience in the financial services sector and is and the Middle East.
He has held a number of senior positions within a former director of the Irish Stock Exchange.
He managed the Shell including Americas Regional Vice President Exploration and stockbroking and corporate finance businesses of ABN AMRO ultimately as the General Manager of Exploration throughout Bank in Ireland from 1993 to 1998.
Since then he has been providing onshore and offshore Nigeria.
strategic advice and non-executive director services to a number of private companies.
Paul McDade Chief Operating Officer Age 44 Paul McDade was appointed to the Board in March 2006.
Aidan Heavey Chief Executive Officer Age 55 joined Tullow in 2001 and was appointed Chief Operating Officer A founding Director and shareholder of the Company, Aidan Heavey following the Energy Africa acquisition in 2004, having previously managed Tullows UK gas business.
An engineer with over 20 years has played a key role in the development of Tullow from its formation in 1985 to its current international status as a leading independent oil experience, he has worked in various operational, commercial and and gas exploration and production group.
A Chartered Accountant, management roles with Conoco, Lasmo and ERC.
He has broad he previously held roles in the airline and engineering sectors in international experience having worked in the UK North Sea, Latin Ireland.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee.
America, Africa and South East Asia and holds degrees in Civil Engineering and Petroleum Engineering.
Aidan is a director of Traidlinks, an Irish-based charity established to develop and promote enterprise and diminish poverty in the 6.
Graham Martin developing world, particularly Africa.
General Counsel and Company Secretary Age 54 A solicitor, Graham Martin joined Tullow as Legal and Commercial 3.
Tom Hickey Director in 1997 from Vinson & Elkins, a leading international law Chief Financial Officer Age 39 practice, where he was a partner.
Prior to that, he was a partner in A Chartered Accountant, Tom Hickey was appointed Chief Financial Dickson Minto WS, a UK corporate law firm.
He has over 25 years Officer and to the Board in 2000.
Prior to joining Tullow he was an experience of UK and international corporate and energy transactions.
Associate Director of ABN AMRO Corporate Finance Ireland Limited, He has been the principal legal adviser to Tullow since its formation which he joined in 1995.
In this role, he advised public and private in 1985 and was appointed to his current position as General Counsel companies in a wide range of industry sectors in the areas of fund in 2004.
He recently also assumed the role of Company Secretary.
raising, stock exchange requirements, mergers and acquisitions, flotations and related transactions.
He is a non-executive director of Ikon Science Limited, a specialist geological software company in which Tullow has a minority equity stake, and of PetroNeft Resources plc, an Irish oil and gas company with development interests, principally in Russia.
46 Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 8 9 10 11 7.
David Bamford General Manager Projects Age 63 Non-Executive Director Age 61 Matthew ODonoghue was appointed to the Board as Operations David Bamford was appointed as a non-executive Director Director in 1998 having joined Tullow in 1987 as General Manager in July 2004.
Mr Bamford is a member of the Audit, in Senegal.
An engineer, he has over 35 years experience in the oil Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
With and gas exploration sector and held a number of senior roles with a PhD in Geological Sciences from the University of Schlumberger Wireline, working in Europe, Africa and the Middle Birmingham, he has had over 23 years exploration East.
A core member of the original team that has developed the experience with BP where he was Chief Geophysicist Groups business and international operating capability.
He was from 1990 to 1995, General Manager for West Africa appointed to his current position in 2004. from 1995 to 1998, and acted as Vice President, Exploration, directing BP's global exploration 8.
Clare Spottiswoode CBE programme, from 2001 to 2003.
He is a non-executive Non-Executive Director Age 55 Director of Paras Limited, a specialist oil and gas Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as a non-executive Director in industry consulting firm.
She is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
David Williams Non-Executive Director an economist by training, Ms Spottiswoode began her career in the Non-Executive Director Age 62 Treasury before starting her own software company.
Between 1993 David Williams was appointed as a non-executive and 1998 she was Director General of Ofgas, the UK gas regulator.
He is Chairman of the Audit She is Chairman of Gas Strategies Limited, and also a non-executive Committee and a member of the Nominations Director of Bergesen ASA.
In November 2006, she became the and Remuneration Committees.
A Chartered Policyholder Advocate for Aviva plc.
Previously, she was Deputy Accountant, he brings a wealth of public company Chairman of British Energy from 2002 to 2007.
In 1999, she was experience to Tullow from many years with Bunzl awarded a CBE for services to the Gas industry, and also holds plc where he was Finance Director, until he retired an Honorary Doctorate of Social Sciences from Brunel University.
in 2006, and prior to that as Finance Director of Tootal Group plc.
Steven McTiernan and also the Senior Independent Director of each Senior Independent Director Age 56 of Taylor Wimpey plc and Mondi plc.
He is also Steven McTiernan was appointed as a non-executive Director a non-executive Director of Meggit PLC and in 2002 and was appointed Senior Independent Director on DP World Limited, a Dubai quoted company.
He is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Mr Williams was a non-executive director of Remuneration Committees.
Mr McTiernan began his career as The Peninsular and Oriental Steam Navigation a petroleum engineer, working with BP, Amoco and Mesa in the Company until its acquisition in 2006.
In 1979, he joined Chase Manhattan Bank, where he became Senior Vice-President and head of the banks energy group based in New York.
From 1996 to 2001 he held senior energy-related positions at NatWest Markets and then CIBC World Markets.
He is currently principal of Sandown Energy Consultants Limited, a natural resources advisory firm based in London.
On 31 March 2008, following the dating of this report on 11 March 2008, Matthew ODonoghue retired from the Board with immediate effect.
Tullow Oil plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 47
