20 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review UBM Divisional Performance continued Results for 2007 CMP Information In 2007 CMP Information achieved strong revenue growth, 13.2% representing a considerable improvement on 2006 CMP Information operates internationally providing 2006: 7.7%.
Underlying revenue and profit were up exhibitions, conferences, awards events, magazines, 9.4% and 2.5% respectively.
The strength of the performance data and information products and websites targeted at of CMPis live media trade shows, conferences was notable, business professionals across more than 20 professional particularly its international shows which grew 12%.
CMPis key markets such as the built environment, travel, licensed print titles such as Property Week also performed strongly during trade, agriculture, security and food and pharmaceutical the year, although a number of other smaller titles declined.
CMPi expanded its levels of investment in new product development in events notably Think 07, online and data Websites products through 2007: operating profit performance reflected www.
com During the year CMPi made five acquisitions for a total www.
As part of the continuing strategy to www.
co. uk rebalance and refocus CMPis product portfolio, each acquisition www.
com was made as a complementary addition to an existing portfolio www.
co. uk Achievements in delivering UBM strategy Revenue 13.2 per cent Operating profit 16.7 per cent In 2007 CMP Information continued its strategic development as 05 157.7m 05 40.7m a more balanced and focused international publishing and events 06 169.8m 06 40.8m business.
Over the course of the last several years CMPi has 07 07 192.2m 47.6m successfully shifted its business mix, rebalancing its media portfolio away from print products and towards events and other sources of revenue.
Print products now contribute 35% of CMPis Major products revenues, down from 42% in 2005.
Events CPhI, Furniture Show, IFSEC Print Building, Building Design, CMPi has continued to shift the geographical mix of Online Barbour ABI, Barbour Property Week, Farmers Guardian Construction Services: Barbour Health Awards The Publican Awards, its business to reduce its reliance on UK-based products.
& Safety Services Property Industry Awards, CMPis international events business performed well in 2007 Websites Daltonsbusiness.
com: Building Awards with revenues rising 12% to 31.4m.
CMPi has had considerable Daltonsholidays.
com: success in rolling out its key event franchises into new territories Venuefinder.
com around the globe, particularly into fast-growing emerging Office locations economies.
A successful second year CPhI show was run in India 1,200 people while the worldwide event, held at a different European venue 6 countries each year, continues to grow well, with revenues rising more than 10% to record levels and earning strong profits.
Working in partnership with CMP Asia, CMPi also successfully transplanted a number of other shows to India, including the Food Ingredients and IFSEC fire and security shows: Food Ingredients South Africa was also launched CMPis first event in that continent.
During the year CMPi opened an office in Brazil and launched the Food Ingredients event, also in Brazil.
To build its business in Brazil further, CMPi acquired the Intermodal South America trade show for 3.4m in July.
The show is the leading transportation event serving Latin America.
CMPi will work with UK Commonwealth Business Media on this show, taking advantage London of Commonwealths editorial and sector expertise.
In total, five USA Tonbridge shows are scheduled to be held in Brazil in 2008.
Princeton Preston United New Jersey Brazil Ascot Arab Netherlands New York So Paulo Neston Emirates India Maarssen Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 CMP Information brands CMPi is also developing its business in the Middle East, launching its first show at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre in December 2007 and a second in March 2008.
The performance of CMPis print titles has been mixed with some titles such as Property Week, Building Design and Building Services showing double digit revenue growth during the year.
In May, CMPi won an unprecedented five PPA awards, the Oscars of the magazine world, with CMPi being awarded best weekly magazine, best monthly magazine and best website of the year.
CMPi is investing both in new product development and in acquisitions to strengthen the range of products and services it offers to specific communities.
This includes Sheds, RESI and Office, three new conference and networking events aimed at the commercial property market.
CMPi also launched its conference division during the year.
CMPi Conferences will leverage its editorial leadership in many markets to provide thought leadership and content to business professionals.
Since October 2007 CMPi has launched over 20 conferences in the market which will take place up to June with an estimated 3,000 paying delegates.
A further 50 conferences will be launched between now and December 2008.
The intention is to build a portfolio of market-leading, high quality and repeatable events.
In 2007 CMPi made five acquisitions for a total of 24.7m to strengthen its position in a number of key markets.
The largest acquisition was of Ithaca Holdings which gave CMPi six complementary events and related media.
CMPi also acquired the Decorex tradeshow, the UK's flagship tradeshow for the high end and contract interior design market in London to complement the existing Interiors event held annually in Birmingham.
In October CMPi acquired Energy Solutions Expo, the UKs leading event for the commercial energy supply and management sector.
Finally, the acquisition of Quest Media gave CMPi six events and three conferences to add to its existing business awards portfolio.
Strategic priorities for 200810 CMP Information is developing a broader product portfolio, growing particularly its events, conference and online elements, to meet the needs of each community, striving for innovative solutions which will help the community to do business.
CMPi seeks to achieve this both through inhouse new product development as well as by making acquisitions.
Building is the UKs leading The Publican is a print CMP Information will continue to focus on internationalising magazine for construction component of CMPis portfolio its event business in higher growth economies, in particular professionals, featuring the latest of products serving the UKs news, features and intelligence pub and bar industry.
seeking to take its key franchises such as CPhI, Food Ingredients from the Building industry.
and IFSEC to countries and regions that offer profitable growth opportunities.
Find out more... For more information about how these products serve their communities worldwide, visit www.
