22 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review UBM Divisional Performance continued Results for 2007 CMP Technology In 2007 CMP Technology achieved a significant improvement in its performance while continuing to reshape its business.
2007 During 2007 CMP Technology provided a comprehensive profits were 30.1% above 2006 at $50.1m 2006: $38.3m and portfolio of market-leading events, print and online underlying revenues increased by 2.4%, the first such increase media brands, bringing together the builders, sellers and since 2001.
As a result of the print portfolio consolidation buyers of information technology worldwide.
In early announced in June, headline revenues were 10.1% below 2006 2008 UBM announced an important reorganisation at $320.6m.
This represents of CMP Technology to create four new independent CMP Technologys best margin performance for five years.
businesses: these changes are highlighted overleaf.
During the year, CMP Technology made four acquisitions for 18 a total investment of $47.4m: these acquisitions are performing Websites ahead of plan.
Businesses acquired by CMP in the last three years www.
com also contributed significantly to the years results, with each www.
com acquisition expected to exceed the UBM cost of capital threshold www.
com in the first full year of ownership.
com During 2007 CMP undertook a significant restructuring of its www.
com print portfolio, incurring an exceptional charge of $12.5m which www.
com was taken in the first half.
Achievement in delivering UBM strategy Revenue 10.4 per cent Operating profit 18.9 per cent In 2007 CMP Technology continued to evolve its business, 05 156.6m 05 16.0m reshaping its product portfolio largely through the acquisition of 06 179.2m 06 21.3m events, data and service businesses, and by exiting declining markets.
07 07 160.5m 25.2m In June, against a backdrop of a shrinking market for magazines, CMP Technology restructured its print portfolio, closing a number of titles and merging others to focus on the principal marketMajor products Online TechWeb, LightReading, leading brands.
Over the course of the past three years, CMP Events InterOp, Game Developer TechOnline, Dr. Dobb's, Conference, Black Hat, ChannelWeb.
com Technology has successfully transitioned its sources of revenue Embedded System Conference, Print InformationWeek, CRN, away from print and towards event, online media, data and other Web 2.0, Xchange VARBusiness, EE Times services.
Print products now contribute less than 40% of total revenue, compared to almost 75% in 2004.
2007 marks the first Office locations time CMP Technologys event and online revenues exceed those it 1,200 people 6 countries derived from print products.
The event portfolio made an excellent contribution with revenues growing at a rate of 16.2% to contribute 34.2% of CMP Technologys 2007 total revenues.
The primary driver of the growth was the continuing momentum behind market-leading events such as Interop, Game Developer, Black Hat, Web 2.0 and Voicecon, all of which achieved revenue growth of more than 10%.
CMP Technology has worked to globalise its leading event franchises during 2007.
The event portfolio is being globalised with, for example, Interop events taking place in Tokyo, Moscow and Germany in 2007.
In 2007, CMP Technology continued its strategic development USA New York, NY of products and services based on intellectual property and San Francisco, CA communities, and away from products based on display Irvine, CA advertising.
CMP Technologys key data and services businesses Lawrence, KS Canada UK Belgium India Japan Waltham, MA Ottawa London Brussels Mumbai Tokyo 18 Amount invested includes estimate of potential earnout, but excludes deal costs.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 such as IPED Institute for Partner Education and Development, a in 2007, a proportion which will rise in 2008 as a result of the research consulting service for IT solution provider organisations acquisitions noted above.
and ICMI International Customer Management Institute have Aggregate online revenues now make up 20.2% of CMP been augmented with new inhouse products such as Heavy Technologys total revenues, growing only modestly in 2007.
Reading a telecoms research and consulting business developed In July, CMP Technology acquired How Machines Work, a leading from Light Reading as well as by a number of acquisitions.
designer and developer on interactive online environments.
Acquisitions in this space included CCCS and Think Service, Inc UBM Technology businesses from March 2008 both bolt-on acquisitions for ICMI, Semiconductor Insights a In February 2008 UBM announced the creation of four new, leading provider of technical and intellectual property information market-focused businesses from CMP Technology.
As agile, to the global semiconductor industry, Portelligent a leading independent companies, each new business will be well provider of electronic product teardown to the electronics positioned to accelerate its profitable growth as it meets the industry and an equity investment in eXalt an IT sales channel changing needs of the professional communities and technology workflow tool.
Taken together, these and CMP Technologys markets it serves.
This is a further step in the redevelopment of other data and services business contributed 7.2% of revenue CMP Technology from a single traditional print media business to a set of next generation, integrated media businesses that offer 2004 2007 their varied customers a portfolio of event, online, print and databased workflow products and services.
Since 2005 UBM has supported this development with an investment of more than $200m in 18 acquisitions, particularly of events, online and business information products, as well as with investment in CMP Technologys inhouse product development and geographical expansion.
Print 73% Print 38% Events 14% Events 34% Each business will have the freedom to develop business Online 12% Online 20% models, audience development and international programmes Data & services 1% Data & services 8% that best fit its specific marketplace while also taking advantage of UBMs global footprint to support its international expansion.
The four new businesses and their respective Chief Executive Officer are listed overleaf: each CEO will report to UBM Chief Executive, David Levin.
Strategic priorities for 200810 The key strategic priority for each of the four new businesses created from CMP Technology will be to focus on building businesses that best meet the changing needs of the specific communities they serve.
Each business will look to expand both in its existing markets and, with support from UBM, CMP Technology events now TechWeb, Everything Channel, Tech Insights and Think Services use a variety of events within an integrated media product in new markets in fast-growing economies.
offering that is tailored to meet the specific needs of each professional community served.
These events range from large scale industry tradeshows such as Interop to much smaller training seminars.
Find out more... For more information about how UBM serves technology communities worldwide, visit www.
com 24 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review UBM Divisional Performance continued CMP Technology continued TechWeb Everything Channel www.
com The global leader in business technology media, focused The one-stop-shop for the indirect channel that drives on seving the needs of technology decision-makers and 75% of global technology sales.
and solution providers turn to Everything Channel to manage and accelerate their business.
Key products Key products Interop, Web 2.0, Black Hat, VoiceCon Online resources: ChannelWeb online network, magazines CRN and VARBusiness, The TechWeb Network, Light Reading, Intelligent Enterprise, events XChange and Vision, workflow tools MTC and eXalt, InformationWeek.
com and The Financial tele-recruiting, sales support, marketing services, research and Technology Network: and the market leading, award-winning education IPED.
print versions of InformationWeek, TechNet and MSDN Magazines.
TechWeb also provides end-to-end services ranging from next-generation performance marketing, custom media, research and analyst services.
19 19 CEO CEO 2007 Proforma revenues 2007 Proforma revenues Tony Uphoff Robert Faletra $148m $73m Tech Web brands Everything Channel brands 20 19 Proforma revenues are 2007 revenues adjusted to include the proforma of 2007 and 2008 acquisitions and exclude the revenue from discontinued titles.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Tech Insights Think Services www.
com The source of essential business and technical Connects specialized communities via interactive media, information for the electronics industrys decision educational events, consulting, training and certification.
Key products Key products EE Times, Semiconductor Insights, TechOnline, Embedded Game Developers Conference, the Webby Award-winning Systems Conferences and Portelligent.
com, the International Customer Management Institute, the Help Desk Institute and Dr. Dobb's Journal.
19 19 CEO CEO 2007 Proforma revenues 2007 Proforma revenues Paul Miller Philip Chapnick $83m $61m Tech Insights brands Think Services brands 19 Proforma revenues are 2007 revenues adjusted to include the proforma of 2007 and 2008 acquisitions and exclude the revenue from discontinued titles.
