57 Independent auditors report to the members of United Business Media plc We have audited the Group financial statements of United Business Media plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income and Expense and the related notes 1 to 36.
These Group financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the parent company financial statements of United Business Media plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the Companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the Group financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the financial statements.
The information given in the Directors Report includes that specific information presented in the Business Review that is cross referred from the Business Review section of the Directors Report.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Chairmans Review, the Chief Executives Review, the Business Review, the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report, the Corporate Governance Statement, the Directors Report and the Five Year Financial Summary.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Group financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the Group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 December 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the Group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: and the information given in the Directors Report is consistent with the Group financial statements.
Ernst & Young LLP Registered auditor London 29 February 2008 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the United Business Media plc website is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
58 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. Business review During 2007 the Groups principal activities were in the areas of news distribution and professional media.
The review of the Groups business and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, prepared in accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985, comprises the sections entitled Strategy and Performance, UBM Divisional Performance and Risks and Uncertainties which form part of the Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 41.
Results for the year and dividends The results for the year are set out in the Group income statement on page 62.
The balance to be transferred to reserves is 114.0m.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 16.76p per share for the year ended 31 December 2007 to be paid on 22 May 2008 to those shareholders on the register on 14 March 2008.
An interim dividend of 4.84p per share was paid on 18 October 2007, making a total for the year of 21.60p 2006: 18.00p.
A dividend of 10p per B share will be paid on 24 April 2008 to holders of B shares on the register on 25 March 2008.
Directors and their interests Biographical details of the directors in office as at 29 February 2008 are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The following directors held office during the year: Geoff Unwin resigned 13 December 2007, David Levin, John Botts, Charles Gregson resigned 31 December 2007, Christopher Hyman, Pradeep Kar, Sandy Leitch, Jonathan Newcomb, Karen Thomson, Adair Turner and Nigel Wilson.
David Levin, Nigel Wilson, Christopher Hyman, Sandy Leitch and Jonathan Newcomb will retire from the Board in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association at the Annual General Meeting: all are eligible for re-election.
David Levin and Nigel Wilson each have a service contract which is terminable by either party on 12 months notice.
Christopher Hyman, Sandy Leitch and Jonathan Newcomb do not have service contracts: all are considered by the Company to be independent.
The interests of the directors in office at 31 December 2007 in the shares of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 53.
No director had a material interest in any contract other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary at any time during the year.
Changes in share capital 5 71 14 88 On 19 March 2007, the 281,591,877 ordinary shares of 30 p then in issue were converted into 252,858,012 new ordinary shares of 33 p per share.
During the year the Company repurchased a total of 10,727,793 ordinary shares with a nominal value of 3.6m for consideration of 75.9m, being 4.22% of the issued ordinary share capital, and 323,838 B shares with a nominal value of 0.03m for consideration of 0.8m.
All repurchased shares were cancelled under the provisions of the Companies Act 1985.
As at 31 December 2007, the Company held valid authorities from shareholders to purchase up to 25,285,801 ordinary shares and up to 4,133,770 B shares.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 13 May 2008.
Resolutions to renew them will be put to shareholders at that meeting.
e-communications At the Annual General Meeting of the Company on 10 May 2007 shareholders passed a resolution to enable the Company to send documents or information to members by making them available on the website or by electronic means.
Deregistration from US listing On 6 February 2006 the Company notified the US Securities and Exchange Commission SEC of the cancellation of the registration of its shares under the US Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, and termination of the Companys SEC registration took effect on 7 May 2006.
Under the rules then in force, there were certain circumstances whereby the deregistration might not become permanent and re-commencement of SEC reporting requirements could be triggered.
Following a change in the SECs rules, on 7 August 2007 a Form 15F was filed with the SEC to give permanent effect to the Companys deregistration in the USA.
This took effect on 5 November 2007.
Statement of directors responsibilities for the financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union.
The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable comparable and understandable information: Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and State that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The financial statements are also published on the United Business Media website: the maintenance and integrity of the website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and the dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
59 Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Substantial shareholdings As at 29 February 2008 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary share capital: Aviva 8.11% Lloyds TSB Group plc 7.93% Legal & General 6.98% Resolution Asset Management 4.99% Hermes 3.92% All information disclosed is in accordance with DTR5.
Creditor payment policy In view of the diversity of its businesses the Group does not offer or operate a uniform timetable for payment of suppliers.
Each operating company is responsible for agreeing with its own suppliers the terms and conditions on which it will transact business with them, including payment terms.
The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with these agreed terms.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Donations In 2007 the Group donated 543,372 to charitable organisations 2006: 600,138.
The Group made no political donations during 2007 2006: nil.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 10 May 2007 shareholders approved a resolution allowing the Company to make EU political donations and expenditure as defined in the Companies Act totalling in aggregate up to 50,000.
No such expenditure or donations were made during the year.
A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The annual general meeting of the Company will be held on 13 May 2008.
The notice of meeting and a description of the business to be transacted is contained in the accompanying document.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution for their re-appointment and on their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Takeover Directive The companys articles of association may only be amended by a special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors are reappointed by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
Under the companys Articles of Association, at each Annual General Meeting any director then in office who has been appointed by the board since the previous annual general meeting and any director who at the date of the notice convening the meeting had held office for more than thirty months since he was last appointed or re-appointed by the company in general meeting shall retire from office but is eligible for re-appointment.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
Change of Control The Company is not party to any significant agreements which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no agreements between the Company and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Company is party to a number of banking arrangements which upon a change of control of the Company are terminable by the bank upon the provision of 28 days notice Other information Other information relevant to and forming part of the Directors Report is to be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Business Review Operating and Financial Review Strategy and Performance pages 6 to 13 UBM Divisional Performance pages 14 to 29 Risks and Uncertainties pages 34 and 35 Corporate Social Responsibility Operating and Financial Review pages 36 to 41 Corporate Governance Statement pages 54 to 56 Events since 31 December 2007 Note 35 to the Financial Statements page 122 Share capital Note 26 to the Financial Statements page 108 Treasury Policy Operating and Financial Review pages 32 to 33 The Directors Report of United Business Media plc for the year ended 31 December 2007 comprises pages 58 and 59 of this Annual Report and the other sections listed above, which are incorporated into the Directors Report by reference.
By order of the Board Anne Siddell Registered office: Company Secretary Ludgate House 245 Blackfriars Road 29 February 2008 London SE1 9UY 60 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007
