26 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review UBM Divisional Performance continued Results for 2007 CMPMedica CMPMedicas overall performance was disappointing with revenue and profit falling by 4.5% and 18.9% to 161.8m and 18.5m CMPMedica provides information and education to respectively.
On an underlying basis, revenue fell by 1.7% and healthcare professionals and patients around the world.
Its unique portfolio of professional media products Revenue growth in CMPMedicas Vidal drug information includes journals, drug directories, electronic databases, product portfolio and in the Iberian and Pacific businesses websites and events.
was offset by declines in other national businesses in Benelux, Germany, the UK and most notably in the US.
The US business Websites has been particularly adversely affected in its pharmaceutical www.
com advertising and Continuing Medical Education markets.
net During the year CMPMedica acquired Physicians Practice and www.
fr Australian Prescription Products Guide APPG for a total of 9.4m.
com Physicians Practice is a leading practice management publication www.
com that supports physicians with business, financial and legal www.
co. uk expertise to help them manage their practices more efficiently.
fr The acquisition broadens and deepens CMPMedicas offer to the US primary care physician community.
Revenue 4.5 per cent Operating profit 18.9 per cent The APPG is a key drug information brand for the Australian 05 154.3m 05 24.1m pharmacy market and will extend the reach of CMPMedica's 06 169.5m 06 22.8m Australian drug information systems business, which is currently 07 161.8m 07 18.5m focused on medical practitioners.
The integration of both businesses has proceeded to plan.
Major products Asia, Consultant US, The acquisitions made in 2006 are all performing in line with their Vidal Fr, Quotidien du Medecin Fr, Oncology news international US, respective acquisition case.
Pulse Magazine UK, SearchMedica Medical Progress Asia, Health Today UK, US, Fr, U. S. Psychiatric & Mental Asia, Vademecum Sp, Gelbe Liste In February 2007, UBM announced that it would take 1824 Health Congress US, Psychiatric Ger, Kassenarzt Ger, Journal du months to restructure CMPMedica to enable the business to Times US, MIMS Australia, NZ, Medecin Artsenkrant Be achieve sustainable profitable growth.
The businesss management is in the process of implementing a substantial restructuring plan.
Office locations Restructuring costs of approximately 6m have been charged as 1,500 people an exceptional item.
Worldwide Achievement in delivering UBM strategy CMPMedica operates in the global healthcare market, a market whose continuing growth offers significant business opportunities in the medium term.
CMPMedicas business comprises Drug Information Systems directories and digital services Professional Media journals and custom, Continuing Medical Education events, print and online.
CMPMedica aims to continue to develop its product offering and to build even stronger positions in its chosen markets, with a particular focus on developing complementary digital and events business.
In France, a new annual healthcare infomatics event, HIT, was launched with a significantly improved audience.
Americas Europe USA Belgium Asia Pacific Korea France Australia New Zealand Germany Bangladesh Philippines Holland China Singapore Hungary Hong Kong Taiwan Poland India Thailand Portugal Indonesia Vietnam Russia Spain UK Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 VIDAL Expert can be used as a standalone or online product to provide exhaustive information on drugs, nonmedicinal health products, accessories, medical devices, homeopathy and nutritional products.
CMP Medica brands Investment in digital products continued, for example Vidal launched the digital version of its disease guideline product www.
fr, MIMS relaunched its web services www.
com and both DIS brands enhanced their data solutions for workflow systems providers.
SearchMedica, the search engine for doctors, was rolled out to France, Spain and to the USA.
CMPMedica also rolled out existing products into new territories, for example with the launch of branded drug information systems in Ukraine and Kazakhstan.
The restructuring programme for CMPMedica aims to: rebalance its product portfolios to better meet the future needs of customers and audiences, and to ensure the support platforms are cost efficient.
This will be undertaken by a combination of cost reductions and investment in organic product development and acquisitions.
CMPMedicas US operations are being substantially reorganised, including the transfer of the Continuing Medical Education business closer to customers on the East Coast.
A number of senior management changes have also made, including the appointment of a new CEO, as well as improvements to the businesss operational support functions.
Senior management changes have also been made in other parts of the business during the year with a reorganisation of responsibilities for Benelux and Iberia, the appointment of a Chief Financial Officer for CMPMedica, and new heads appointed to the Pacific, Asian, Belgian and Polish businesses.
Strategic priorities for 200810 CMPMedicas primary strategic priority is to complete its restructuring plan in order to position the business for future profitable growth.
The plan requires the business to rebalance its media portfolio, reducing its dependency on print and expanding its digital and events capabilities.
The rebalanced business will be able to offer customisable integrated marketing solutions that meet the requirements of its global customers.
CMPMedica events Events are an important element within CMPMedicas product In the medium term, CMPMedica is well positioned to provide portfolio.
CMPMedicas events include Le Medec, the most important French media services to its global customers in what is a large and CME congress for GPs which attracts 23,000 visitors, Hopital Expo Inter Medica growing healthcare services market.
CMPMedica has significant which attracts exhibitors from all sectors linked to the world of hospitals, and the opportunities to leverage its skills and expertise across territories, U. S. Psychiatric and Mental Health Congress, a national congress which provides psychiatrists and other mental health practitioners with the most up-toin particular as the product mix shifts to digital.
date, clinically relevant research and treatment options in mental health care.
Event links Find out more... www.
com events u. s.  For more information about how these products serve the medical community worldwide, visit www.
