18 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review UBM Divisional Performance continued Results for 2007 CMP Asia CMP Asia delivered another strong performance in 2007 with underlying revenue up 10.7% and underlying operating profits CMP Asia is the leading private organiser of exhibitions, 11.4%.
CMP Asias established events had another successful year.
with associated print and online media, in Asia.
The key Hong Kong shows the Hong Kong Jewellery Shows, CMP Asia holds the leading events of their kind in the Fashion Jewellery and Fashion Access Fairs all performed Asia for the jewellery, leather, fashion, beauty, maritime, to plan or better, with Cosmoprof Asia delivering record profits.
pharmaceutical ingredients and furniture industries.
CMP Asias events in mainland China were particularly strong with CMP Asia also operates joint ventures with other UBM revenue up 50%.
CMP Asia invested in new events, for example businesses e. g. CMP Information and CMP Technology the launch of the fashion jewellery fair at a new Hong Kong venue as well as with other businesses from the region.
Operating margins of 27.4% 2006: 26.7% reflect CMP Asia operates CMP Sinoexpo as a joint venture CMP Asias continuing investment in new product development, with Shanghai Sinoexpo International Exhibition Ltd. particularly in the launch of new events in India and in China, CMP Asia combines its global strength and experience and in developing a complementary online component to the with Sinoexpos local network and expertise to stage events business.
Achievements in delivering UBM strategy In 2007, CMP Asia delivered excellent profitable growth from Websites its portfolio of established events, from its organic initiatives and www.
com CMP Asia is UBMs flagship business in terms of its strategic www.
com ambition to access the fast-growing Asian economies.
com Sinoexpo business mainland China events grew by 28% during www.
The largest mainland China show, the furniture fair, grew by more than 30%, taking up net space of 100,000 square metres.
Revenue 3.8 per cent Operating profit 6.6 per cent Also held in Shanghai in November, the biennial Marintec China 05 61.0m 05 17.5m show grew significantly, delivering record revenues, up by more 73.8m 19.7m 06 06 than a third on 2005s show.
07 76.6m 07 21.0m In terms of organic initiatives, the new March fashion jewellery fair was successfully launched at Hong Kongs new AsiaWorld Expo venue, helping CMP Asias Jewellery exhibition group to continue Major products its growth.
In January 2008, CMP Asia launched its first event at Hong Kong Jewellery & Watch Fair Cosmoprof Asia Fashion Access Tokyo Health Industry Show the newly-constructed Venetian venue in Macau.
The event was Furniture China Jewellery News Asia CMP Asias most successful launch event ever.
The Asian Jewellery exhibitions portfolio now comprises 12 shows across the region, including Hong Kong, mainland China, Japan and Macau, Office locations 600 people with two Indian shows to be launched in 2008 in Hyderabad 9 countries and Chennai.
CMP Asia continues to expand its portfolio of events across Asia.
CMP Asia is responsible for UBM India and now runs six events in India, four of which are joint ventures with other UBM businesses.
CMP Asia and CMPi continued the successful global roll-out of the CPhI event brand with the second editions of the co-located CPhI India and P-MEC India shows.
The IFSEC security and Embedded Systems electronics shows were also successfully launched in 2007.
In its second year of business CMP Asias India business doubled its overall revenues to 2.6m 2006: 1.3m.
USA New York China Hong Kong, India Mumbai, Singapore Shanghai, Beijing, Delhi Taiwan Taipei Guangzhou Japan Tokyo Thailand Bangkok HQ: Hong Kong Korea Seoul Indonesia Jakarta Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 CMP Asia brands In 2007 CMP Asia has continued its investment in portal websites to provide its customers with a year round online presence to complement its shows and to provide an integrated media offering.
The portals offer market news, a trading network and provide a marketing and sourcing platform for global materials and components suppliers, designers, manufacturers and buyers.
In 2007 CMP Asia launched JewelleryNetAsia.
com, a trade portal for the jewellery and gem industries, FurnitureInChina.
com, an online network for the China furniture industry, and AsiaFJA.
com, which aims to be Asias leading online trading network for the fashion jewellery and accessories trades.
com, was launched on 28 January 2008.
Strategic priorities for 200810 CMP Asia is investing to take advantage of the rapid economic growth of many of the countries in the region, with a particular focus on China and India.
CMP Asia will launch several new shows in Macau and will also host two new jewellery shows in India in 2008.
CMP Asia is also taking advantage of newly-constructed venue capacity in the region, notably in Macau.
The business continues to look to expand its operations in Thailand, Taiwan, Japan, Singapore and Korea, and is pursuing acquisition and partnership opportunities across Asia.
CMP Asia also continues to provide its customers with an online capability that complements its shows, allowing CMP Asia to engage with its customers beyond the events.
CMP Asia look to be able to provide value added online services to customers throughout the year, as well as to engage with the wider business communities CMP Asia serves.
With its in-depth knowledge of the regions high growth markets and existing infrastructure, CMP Asia is well positioned to provide logistics and operational support to UBMs other specialist businesses as they seek to expand their businesses into Asia.
Find out more... For more information about how these products serve their communities across Asia, visit www.
com The annual Tokyo Health Industry Marintec China 2007 Show is the biggest health-related Marintec China has become tradeshow in Japan, featuring over the definitive maritime conference 1,200 stands, with separate halls and exhibition in Asia, in 2007 the for Ingredients, Health & Natural show hosted more than 1,100 Foods, Wellness attracting more exhibitors and 35,000 visitors.
