44 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Board of Directors 12 3 1 4 5 2 3 1 3 1.
Lord Sandy Leitch Non-Executive Director, Age 60 Appointed to the Board in 1997, John Botts is chairman of Botts & Company Appointed to the Board in January 2005, Sandy is chairman of the Limited, a corporate finance and private equity investment company.
Other Remuneration Committee and senior independent director.
He is chairman directorships include Euromoney Institutional Investor plc, Medi Capital Bank of Intrinsic Financial Services Ltd, BUPA and Scottish Widows plc, and a Plc, Tisbury Europe Master Fund Ltd and Convera Corporation Inc. Graduate of non-executive director of Lloyds TSB plc and Paternoster UK Limited.
He succeeded Geoff Unwin as Chairman of UBM in December 2007.
Sandy was previously chairman and chief executive of Zurich Financial Services UK, Ireland, Southern Africa and Asia Pacific, holding senior positions at Allied 2.
David Levin Chief Executive Officer, Age 46 Dunbar, Eagle Star and Threadneedle Asset Management.
Sandy was Chairman, David Levin was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in April 2005, having until January 2007, of the National Employment Panel, which advises previously been chief executive of Symbian, a mobile phone software licensing government on employment issues, and recently chaired an independent company, since April 2002.
He joined Symbian from Psion plc, the handheld review of skills in the UK.
He is also deputy chair of the Commonwealth computing company, where he was chief executive from February 1999.
Prior Education Fund and was previously chairman of The Association of British to that, he spent five years with the international business-publishing group Insurers.
Sandy was appointed to the House of Lords in 2004.
Euromoney Institutional Investor, as chief operating officer and before that as 1 2 3 president of Institutional Investor in New York.
Previously he worked with the 5.
Jonathan Newcomb Non-Executive Director Age 61 venture capital group Apax Partners and with the consultancy firm Bain and Jonathan Newcomb was appointed to the Board in 2001.
He is a board Company for five years, mostly in Asia.
David has an MBA from Stanford member of Journal Communications NYSE and the BNA Corporation, and University and an MA from Oxford.
David is also a member of the finance is currently a senior advisor at the New York based investment firm Coady committee of the Oxford University Press, a department of Oxford University.
He was chairman and CEO of Simon & Schuster, one of the worlds largest book publishers and providers of educational and training materials from 3.
Nigel Wilson Chief Financial Officer & Deputy Chief Executive Officer, Age 51 1994 until 2002, having been president and chief operating officer from 1991.
Nigel Wilson was appointed to the Board as Chief Financial Officer in 2001.
From 2002 to 2004 he was a principal with Leeds Equity Partners, a New York Prior to that he was group finance director of Viridian Group plc from based private equity firm, and between 2006 and 2007 he was President and 1996 to 2000, and became managing director of Viridian Capital in 2000.
Chief Executive Officer of Cambium Learning, an educational services provider.
Nigel is a non-executive director of Halfords Group PLC where he is the Previous employment included McGraw Hill where he was responsible for senior independent director and chairman of the Audit Committee.
Previous Standard & Poors and Data Resources and Dun & Bradstreet.
appointments include group finance director at Waste Management International plc, chief executive, corporate, Guinness Peat Aviation G. P. A., head of corporate finance and group commercial director of Dixons Group plc, managing director of Stanhope Properties plc and a consultant at McKinsey & Co. Nigel has a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Section 2: Governance United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 45 6 78 9 1 2 1 6.
Lord Adair Turner Non-Executive Director Age 52 8.
Pradeep Kar Non-Executive Director Age 49 Appointed to the Board in 2000, Adair Turner is a non-executive director of Appointed to the Board in August 2006, Pradeep Kar is the founder, chairman Standard Chartered plc, Paternoster UK Limited and Siemens Holdings plc.
and managing director of Microland, Indias leading provider of outsourced IT He is a visiting professor at the London School of Economics, a Trustee of Save infrastructure management services.
A serial entrepreneur, Pradeep Kar founded the Children UK and is a member of the advisory board of Climate Change Planetasia.
com Indias leading internet professional services company, Capital, and was recently appointed as Chair of the Governments Committee Indya.
com Indias leading portal acquired by News Corporation, Net Brahma, on Climate Change.
He was previously vice-chairman of Merrill Lynch Europe.
a telecom software company and also merged his internet media business with Prior to that he held appointments as director general of the Confederation Indias leading marketing company.
Pradeep is a member of the Technology of British Industry and as director of McKinsey & Co.
In December 2002 Advisory Panel to the Government of Karnataka, and the president of he was appointed by the Government to chair an independent commission The IndUS Entrepreneurs TiE, Bangalore Chapter.
He sits on several boards on pensions, and became a member of the House of Lords in 2005. including the Advisory Board of Leaders Quest, an international social Adair is chairman of the Audit Committee.
He graduated from Cambridge enterprise based in London.
Pradeep holds a degree in mechanical engineering University in 1978 with an MA in History and Economics.
and a post-graduate degree in management.
Christopher Hyman Non-Executive Director Age 44 9.
Karen Thomson Non-Executive Director, Age 46 Appointed to the Board in 2004, Christopher Hyman is chief executive of Appointed to the Board in August 2006, Karen Thomson is a director of Serco Group plc, which he joined in 1994 and where he has served in a Vodafone UK Limited.
She was previously president of AOL Europe, having number of roles, including company secretary, corporate finance director, been chief executive and chairman of AOL UK, with responsibility for the and group finance director, before becoming chief executive in 2002.
Serco AOL and Compuserve services in the UK.
Karen was with AOL for over 11 years is one of the worlds leading service companies.
It provides governments and and under her leadership, AOL became one of the leading online content companies with management and consulting expertise across a range of sectors providers in the UK.
Prior to AOL, Karen held roles as planning and business including civil government, science, local government, transport and defence development director in UK advertising and marketing agencies following in more than 38 countries.
He is also non-executive director of Habitat for positions in the mobile communications industry.
She holds a Masters degree Humanity, Africa Foundation and the Borneo Tropical Rainforest Foundation.
in Philosophy from Aberdeen University and an honorary doctorate and MBA In 2007 Chris was appointed Chairman of the Prince of Wales' charity In Kind from Middlesex University.
Direct and was made South East Ambassador to the Prince of Wales for Business in the Community.
He is also a member of the UK Government's Honours 1 Member of the Remuneration Committee Advisory Committee for Economy and the UK Commission for Employment 2 Member of the Audit Committee and Skills UKCES.
Chris has a BCom and PhDip Acc from Natal University 3 Member of the Nomination Committee and qualified as a chartered accountant in South Africa.
