16 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review UBM Divisional Performance continued Results for 2007 PR Newswire PR Newswire delivered another excellent performance, particularly in the second half of the year, generating profits close to $100m.
PR Newswire is one of the worlds leading commercial Underlying revenue and operating profit rose 6.9% and 15.4% news and information distribution service.
respectively, with the businesss overall operating margin Headquartered in New York, PR Newswire provides continuing to improve, rising from 32.3% to 34.8%.
news distribution, targeting, measurement and PR Newswires strong performance continues to be driven broadcast services on behalf of tens of thousands primarily by growth in demand from US customers for PR of customers, including many of the worlds top Newswires premium news distribution service, US1.
This growth companies, organisations and agencies.
PR Newswire was augmented by a growing contribution from non-regulatory, routinely sends its customers news to outlets in non-wire, added value services such as MultiVu, MEDIAtlas and 135 countries and in more than 40 languages.
ProfNet and by an expanding international business in Europe, China and Latin America.
Websites Continuing cost management efforts also helped to ensure www.
com that margins improved in each of businesss operational profnet.
com geographies over the course of 2007.
com project to consolidate its US editorial bureaux from 11 offices to mediatlas.
com three facilities in Cleveland, Albuquerque and Washington DC.
com The project was almost completed during the year, with the final www.
com stages of the Albuquerque move due to be completed by March 2008.
The project successfully reduced overall costs and, in time, will enable PR Newswire to improve both its service levels and Major products Search Engine Optimization US1 Premium Newsline MediaRoom its ability to win business.
However, as previously disclosed, the SM ProfNet Experts MediaSense disruption of the consolidation and the demands of training of eWatch MultiVu new staff caused PR Newswire to experience some service lapses.
MEDIAtlas U. S. Newswire Achievements in delivering UBM strategy Revenue 8.6 per cent Operating profit 17.2 per cent PR Newswire has a successful strategy of focusing on higher value product sales and tight cost management, complemented by 05 104.1m 05 29.2m investment in new non-wire product development and in 06 129.9m 06 41.9m acquisitions to facilitate further expansion into new market 07 07 141.1m 49.1m segments and into new geographical markets.
In 2007 PR Newswires share of the wire message distribution Locations market in the US fell in volume terms by around 5% as a result 1,000 people of increasing price-based competition and service issues arising 16 countries worldwide from the consolidation project noted above.
However take up of PR Newswires premium US1 distribution product over the basic newswire product drove the improved yield of the US wire business.
The US1 product provides comprehensive distribution of a customers release to news outlets across the US but also provides additional services such as search engine optimisation, online and offline media monitoring.
PR Newswire continued to expand its business geographically during 2007.
The European business performed ahead of plan, with good profit growth, revenues rising by 14.6%.
The key driver of the European growth was organic market growth, particularly in the major European markets of the UK, Germany, the Nordic countries, France and Benelux.
During 2007 PR Newswire Europe Americas Europe Asia Pacific also started operations in a number of new territories, including Bureaux in Bureaux in Bureaux in Sweden, Belgium, Dubai and India.
5 countries 6 countries 5 countries Revenues generated by PR Newswires marketing venture with HQ in New York Xinhua Finance Limited in China grew rapidly in 2007, more than doubling in the year as interest in and the practice of corporate news distribution continued to gather pace.
Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 PR Newswire products and brands PR Newswire made three acquisitions during 2007.
In April, PR Newswire expanded its offering in the filings services market with the acquisition of Vintage Filings, a leading New York-based online EDGAR filing service a service which lodges public company financial accounts with the US regulatory authorities.
PR Newswires expansion into Latin America has been further advanced by the acquisition of Notilog, a Spanish and Portuguese language news monitoring service.
Notilog is a leading media monitoring service in Mexico with strong market positions in the Argentinian and Brazilian markets.
At the end of 2007, PR Newswire acquired the business of Hispanic PR Wire, including LatinClips and Hispanic Digital Network.
These Miami-based businesses provide media services to the important and growing US Hispanic market.
Strategic priorities for 20082010 PR Newswire will continue seek to maintain its strong position in regulatory disclosure markets while taking advantage of the growing integration of marketing and PR.
PR Newswire aims to address the needs of a wider set of customers such as private companies, marketing professionals, public policy sector and small businesses.
By means of both in-house product development and by acquisition, PR Newswire aims to provide products and services, particularly online, that enable marketers and advertisers to identify, target and reach their chosen audiences, and to monitor audiences responses.
Within the US market, PR Newswires focus will be to ensure its new service centres operate at maximum efficiency, delivering the highest quality service to customers and enabling the business to regain market share and continue to drive higher value US1 distribution sales.
PR Newswire aims to continue its geographical expansion, both organically and by acquisition, particularly in countries and regions that are experiencing rapid economic growth.
With its business in Europe and Latin America well established, in 2008 PR Newswire looks to build on its new operations in both the Middle East and the Indian sub-continent.
Find out more... For more information about how these products serve their communities worldwide, visit www.
