28 United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review UBM Divisional Performance continued Results for 2007 Commonwealth Business Media Commonwealth Business Media has performed to expectations in its transitional year following its acquisition by UBM in July 2006.
Commonwealth Business Media is the leading Commonwealths underlying revenues and operating profits grew information provider to the global trade and by 6.7% and 6.9% respectively.
transportation industry, delivering comprehensive PIERS and BACK, the online workflow information businesses market information, news and analysis online, at events that contribute more than 25% of Commonwealths total revenue and in print.
showed good organic growth, growing by 7.7% on 2006.
Commonwealth made no acquisitions in 2007 but made Websites two acquisitions at the very end of 2006.
com Aviation Industry Group are both complementary bolt-on www.
com acquisitions for the BACK Aviation Solutions business.
com businesses performed to their respective business case and their www.
com integration is progressing in line with plan.
com Commonwealths acquisition of OAG was made in the knowledge that the business needed to be significantly restructured before it could contribute fully to Commonwealths Revenue 237.9 per cent Operating profit 111.8 per cent profitable growth.
The restructuring plan commenced immediately after the acquisition was completed and it is now 06 16.9m 06 3.4m largely finished.
An exceptional charge of 7.7m was taken 07 57.1m 07 7.2m during 2007 against the costs arising from the restructuring.
OAG has moved from making losses in the year before its acquisition to trading profitably in 2007.
Further improvements Major products OAG Travel Planner are expected in 2008, in line with its business case.
PIERS Aircraft Technology BACK Aviation Solutions Airline Fleet & Network Management Achievements in delivering UBM strategy The Journal of Commerce Commonwealths PIERS Global Intelligence Solutions and BACK Aviation Solutions products, as well as the Journal of Commerce Office locations and Official Airline Guide and Aviation Industry Guide provide 660 people data, news and analytical content integral to the everyday 8 countries workflow of professionals working in the international trade and transportation industry.
As a substantial business with an existing strong market position in a fragmented global, specialist market, Commonwealth has clear opportunities to consolidate its market position through internationalisation of its existing products, new product development and by acquisitions, as has already been shown by the acquisition of OAG and AIG.
Americas Newark Chicago San Francisco New Haven Long Beach Atlanta Montreal Toronto Washington DC Miami UK London Fort Lauderdale China Tampa Dunstable Hong Kong Singapore Section 1: 2007 Review United Business Media Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Commonwealth Business Media brands Generating around 80% of its revenue from online and print data and workflow products, Commonwealth helps UBM diversify its revenue streams and provides a higher quality of earnings through recurring and more predictable, principally subscription, revenue streams.
The PIERS business grew well during the year with successful new online product developments such as the WebTI product, which grew 28% over the prior year.
The product will be further upgraded in 2008 and is anticipated to generate additional growth.
The Profiles product, launched in February 2006, also performed well.
Profiles provides a customer with detailed information about a specific company and its holdings, as well as snapshot of what the company imports and exports, complemented with current Dunn & Bradstreet information.
Commonwealths events business grew 20% year on year, with organic growth in its existing portfolio of shows, particularly BreakBulk, and also from a new conference TPM Asia.
In addition, the newly-acquired AIGs portfolio of 21 conferences contributed to Commonwealths growing events portfolio, an aspect of the business that will be increasingly important in future.
Strategic priorities for 200810 The global trade and transportation market is a substantial and growing market that offers Commonwealth continuing opportunities for profitable growth through making acquisitions, internationalising its existing products and through expanding its events portfolio.
Commonwealth looks to take advantage of UBMs global B2B media infrastructure and expertise, as well as to build on OAGs worldwide presence to help expand its business.
Commonwealth is partnering with CMP Information on the Intermodal South America trade show in Brazil in 2008.
Find out more... For more information about how we serve the trade and transportation community worldwide, visit www.
com Commonwealth Business Media publications Commonwealth Business Media serves the professional communities of the global trade, travel and transportation industries with a portfolio of event, online data and print products that provide comprehensive business information, news and analytical content.
