Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Key Performance Indicators Performance indicator Definition 2007 result 2006 result 1 Revenue growth Growth in total Group revenue 10% 10% compared to the prior year.
2 Profit growth Growth in Group profit before 11% 16% tax, amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and fair value movement on derivatives compared to the prior year.
3 Order book visibility Order cover for next 67% cover on consensus 60% cover on actual financial year as percentage forecast 2008 sales of 2007 sales of 413m of market consensus sales 439m forecast for the year.
4 Growth in earnings Annual average growth in 14% 15% per share over a earnings per share, before three year period amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and fair value movement on derivatives, calculated over a rolling three year period.
5 Cash conversion Net cash from operating 83% 98% activities, less net purchases of property, plant and equipment, less expenditure on product development and LTIP purchases, expressed as a percentage of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
6 Interest cover The ratio of profit from 29 times 22 times operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition to finance costs associated with bank borrowings.
7 Relative total Annual total shareholder return 4% per annum 9% per annum shareholder return capital growth plus dividends paid, assuming dividends reinvested over a rolling five year period compared to the FTSE 250 index.
The indicators shown above have been identified by the Directors reinvested in the business in the form of acquisitions.
Ultra uses as giving the best overall indication of the Groups long-term operating cash conversion as a simple yet reliable measure of success.
Revenue growth gives a quantified indication of the cash generation, which represents the major element of the rate at which the Groups business activity is expanding.
A Groups short-term incentive bonus scheme.
Whilst free cash will satisfactory profit growth trend confirms that additional revenue continue to fund Ultras expansion by acquisition, it is important is being gained without profit margins being compromised.
It also to ensure that the balance sheet remains sufficiently strong and indicates that acquisitions are value-enhancing.
Order book that the cost of carrying additional debt does not become too visibility, based upon expected sales during the year to come, high.
Interest cover is a reliable indicator of balance sheet gives the Board confidence as to the achievement of future strength.
Finally, it remains the overriding objective of the growth forecasts.
A key objective of the Board is to increase Directors to provide shareholders with a long-term return on their earnings per share at a faster rate than other similar quoted investment in Ultra that exceeds that of other potential equity companies in the UK.
If successful this should ensure that investments with a similar risk profile.
Total shareholder return investors will continue to hold Ultras shares, rather than those of is a suitable measure, as compared to the overall population of its peers.
The Directors aim to manage the Group so that it FTSE 250 companies.
continues to generate high levels of cash, which can then be 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01
