Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Chief Executives report Ultras objectives Earnings per share 12% growth 65.4p 2006: 58.4p Douglas Caster, Chief Executive Competitive strategy The Boards prime objective continues to The resilience of Ultras financial performance is derived from the be to outperform the market in terms Groups broad mix of activities within its twenty one businesses.
Ultras ability to combine its niche capabilities enables it to win of annual increases in shareholder value contracts as a sub-systems integrator for complex systems, often by delivering above average increases involving a number of different Group businesses.
Increasingly, Ultra teams with international, world-class partners to access in earnings and by communicating best of breed technology.
The Group undertakes specialist effectively with shareholders and the system and sub-system design and integration, again often using the combined expertise of the Group businesses.
The Group has financial community generally.
a reputation for successful programme execution, culminating in innovative solutions utilising differentiated technologies delivered The superior financial performance that is required in order to on-time to its customers.
Ultras spread of businesses across North meet the above objective will be derived from the successful America and the United Kingdom also enables it to address specific execution of competitive strategies implemented by each of Ultras national requirements where a sovereign operational capability businesses, augmented by the delivery of a value-adding Group must be maintained.
The competitive strategies focus on winning in the niche, commercial markets in which the Group operates while Corporate strategy the corporate strategy covers Ultras investments in acquisitions Ultras success is underpinned by its investment strategy.
Ultra has and in significant internally funded development programmes.
demonstrated its expertise in identifying investment opportunities Ultras track record of delivering above average shareholder returns that deliver growth, either within existing businesses or by over the last ten years is summarised in the following graph: acquiring businesses which complement and broaden the Groups portfolio of products and services.
During 2007 Ultra invested a Ultra share price pence ten year performance total of 69.8m 2006: 35.4m in acquisitions, research and 1400 development, capital expenditure and new business development.
1300 This investment relates to the development of systems on 1200 programmes that have been won and also supports the Groups 1100 long-term positioning for contracts to be won in the future.
1000 900 To ensure that this investment strategy remains affordable, Ultra 800 focuses on delivering a high quality of earnings from its 700 operations.
Evidence of this quality is the consistently strong cash 600 generation that the Group has achieved.
Over the last five years, 500 the average conversion of operating profit to operating cash 400 flow has been 102%.
300 200 The cash generated from operations is then available to fund 100 acquisitions Ultra seeks to maintain a broad balance between 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 organic and acquisition growth.
To date, all of Ultras acquisitions have been funded by free cash flow and despite this the level of Ultra Electronics Holdings plc net debt has remained low.
It is foreseen that the acquisition FTSE all share price index FTSE all share aerospace defence strategy that has served Ultra well to date will be continued.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 03 Chief Executives report
