Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ultra and its strategic positioning in growing niche markets Revenue by sector Revenue by region Battlespace IT 32% United Kingdom 42% Sonar 21% North America 42% Civil equipment 16% Defence equipment 12% Mainland Europe 10% Civil aircraft equipment 9% Rest of world 6% Military aircraft equipment 10% Ultra Electronics is an internationally successful defence and sonar systems: expanding Ultras traditional world-leading aerospace company with a long, consistent track record of airborne anti-submarine warfare capability into broader activities development and growth.
Ultra businesses constantly innovate to in the underwater battlespace.
These include integrated ship and create solutions to customer requirements that are different from submarine sonar systems, persistent seabed-deployed sensor and better than those of the Groups competitors.
The Group has arrays, torpedo defence and sea mine disposal systems.
The fact over one hundred distinct market or technology niches within its that over forty countries have, between them, more than four twenty one businesses.
The diversity of niches enables Ultra to hundred highly capable, stealthy submarines is continuing to focus contribute to a large number of defence, aerospace and civil expenditure in this sector.
platforms and programmes and provides resilience to the Groups civil and military aircraft equipment.
Ultra provides specialist financial performance.
Ultra has world-leading positions in many of sub-systems and equipment for military and civil aircraft.
The its niches and, as an independent, non-threatening partner, is able main military aircraft programmes on which Ultra equipment is to support all of the main prime contractors with specialist tted continue to have political support, underpinned by capabilities and solutions.
As a result of such positioning, Ultras consistent financial commitment.
For civil aircraft, record order systems, equipment or services are often mission-critical to the intake performance by all major aircraft manufacturers underpins successful operation of the platform to which they contribute.
In increasing build rates for the medium term.
turn, this mission-criticality secures Ultras positions for the long term specialist defence equipment, including power conversion and which underpin the superior financial performance of the Group.
signature systems for naval ships and submarines.
Ultras Ultra offers support to its customers through the design, delivery specialist capability in high integrity controls for submarine and support phases of a programme.
Ultra businesses have a high nuclear reactors is included in this sector, for which there is degree of operational autonomy where the local management continuing commitment to new platforms and the upgrade of teams are empowered to devise and implement competitive existing boats.
Ultra also supplies advanced sub-systems for strategies that reect their expertise in their specic niches.
The modern armoured vehicles including those for electrical power Group has a small head ofce and executive team that provide to management, indirect vision and weapon control.
The need for the individual businesses the same agile, responsive support that increased mobility and force protection is driving a number of they provide to customers as well as formulating Ultras large military vehicle procurements in Ultras main markets.
specialist civil systems and equipment, including Ultras Across the Groups three divisions, the major market advanced airport IT solutions.
Airline passenger growth around the world is driving continuing expansion and upgrade of airport sectors in which Ultra operates are: infrastructure.
Ultra supplies trackside power equipment for rail battlespace IT, summarised as being the systems and equipment transit systems, for which demand continues driven by the need that allow coalition commanders to have an integrated, real-time to expand and upgrade rail networks.
The UK market for nuclear picture of the disposition of friendly and enemy forces that is power generation is expanding and Ultras offering derived from better than the one available to the enemy.
This information its equivalent military capability is well positioned to benefit.
superiority underpins rapid decision making which, together with effective command, control and communications, translates into military superiority.
The use of battlespace IT is fundamental to the implementation of the military doctrines of network-centric warfare or network-enabled capability that are seen as transformational in the capability to win future battles.
Expenditure on battlespace IT equipment therefore continues to represent an increasing share of the total defence budget in the main markets in which Ultra operates.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 16.1% operating margin for Aircraft & Vehicle Systems 2006: 14.1% 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 mission critical superior performance high integrity Ultra provides advanced mission-critical systems for modern armoured vehicles.
The crews of the Mastiff vehicles delivered to the British Army in 2007 can operate under armour using Ultras all-round indirect vision system.
US Army vehicles are being tted with self defence weapons that are remotely operated using Ultras innovative, intuitive hand-held controllers.
Ultra continues to invest its In The control system for the resources in developing UK AWEs new Orion mission-critical systems for advanced high power laser, the worlds largest new used to investigate nuclear aircraft programmes the effects, is undoubtedly Boeing 787 Dreamliner civil mission-critical.
In 2007 Ultra aircraft, the F-35 Joint Strike was selected by the AWE to Fighter and the Airbus design a control system using A400M military transporter.
System deliveries to support these development programmes were made by Ultra in 2007.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Information & Power Systems 21% increase in order book value for Information & Power Systems 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 mission critical superior performance powerful solutions Ultra delivers its range of innovative electrical power control solutions to a broad range of civil and military customers.
Ultra also supplies safety-critical control systems for nuclear reactors.
Ultras trackside power supplies are part of the upgrade of Londons rail transit system in preparation for the 2012 Olympics.
Ultras ADSI system provides In The smooth throughput of military information passengers at busy modern superiority by fusing data airports must be maintained from a variety of tactical at all times.
Airport IT sources to provide a systems that support this are coherent, local airspace mission-critical and so must picture, showing friendly and be highly resilient.
A new, around the world increasingly enhanced, user-friendly turn to Ultra to provide interface makes the system advanced, integrated IT even easier to use.
solutions that will not let them down.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Tactical & Sonar Systems 15% revenue growth for Tactical & Sonar Systems 12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 mission critical superior performance highly capable When the challenge is to nd small but highly capable, stealthy submarines in noisy coastal waters, Ultra systems provide superior performance.
Ultra supplies key elements of the mission systems on the worlds most modern submarine-hunter aircraft.
Ultras technology is also being used in persistent, underwater, deployed sensing systems.
The ability to find small, In Ultras high capacity, mobile targets on the line-of-sight radios form ground and to designate the backbone of a modern them for attack is critical to armys deployed, tactical the mission of Royal Air communications network.
Force Tornado aircraft flying The radios now have in current operations in Iraq enhanced operational and Afghanistan.
Ultra flexibility through being fitted the aircraft with an fully software controlled, advanced targeting pod as well as being able to that greatly improved their transmit the higher volumes mission capability.
of information required in current and future operations.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Chief Executives report
