Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ultras strategies to achieve the Groups objective 18% 16% Total shareholder return Operating profit growth at compound average growth rate constant currencies since otation in 1996 1 To concentrate on aerospace and defence Ultras success has been achieved by The Groups core competencies, domain knowledge, and market positioning its products and services on a positions give it particular credibility in the aerospace and defence sector worldwide.
Core competencies include market positioning broad range of international, long-term through a thorough understanding of customers operational platforms and programmes.
These positions requirements: responding to complex invitations to tender or requests for proposals to capture large contracts: the are created by applying strategies to ensure management of complex development programmes where risks that Ultras offerings are differentiated need careful identication and control: manufacturing and aftermarket support over long timescales and the discipline to from those of the competition in a way meet our commitments.
The strategy is to increase the capability of the Group to allow adjacent market sectors that exhibit growth that the customer values.
sustained on creating and maintaining this 2 To be a niche player where the Group has competitive differentiation and on continuing to advantage through technology or market position provide innovative solutions to satisfy Within the Groups twenty one businesses, over one hundred niches can be identified where the aim is to sustain evolving customer requirements.
competitive advantage and achieve a world-leading position.
The Group values its portfolio of niches, since each offering can be defended against competition through barriers to entry resulting in the potential for superior financial performance.
Furthermore these niches provide a high level of resilience for the Group in the face of technological changes or funding cut backs.
This wide spread gives the Group low dependency on any single programme or platform.
3 To offer a through-life product and service portfolio that includes systems, sub-systems, products and components The Group values any position within the supply chain that is held by any particular niche.
Frequently, more attractive margins can be generated by providing components than by supplying entire systems.
Where the Group has a number of complementary niches, it does combine these to offer sub-systems, systems and through-life management solutions to customer requirements.
Generally however, Ultra prefers to retain a leading niche position rather than constantly pursue the supply of systems with the hope of higher added value.
The scope of Ultras offering is determined after a rigorous strategic review.
04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ultras strategies to achieve the Groups objective Operating margin Operating cash conversion 15.2% 83% 2006: 15.3% 2006: 98% 4 To grow organically and by acquisition 6 To be an excellent and strategic supplier to Each Ultra business has a contribution to make to the organic our customers growth of the Group, as well as identifying well matched Having established an initial relationship with customers by acquisition targets.
To ensure that organic growth is achieved, offering innovative solutions, businesses are expected to businesses produce annual five-year strategic plans that target maximise these positions for the long term.
This is achieved by specific opportunities.
The focus on cash generation is a key nurturing relationships through sustained on-time delivery of driver to the affordability of suitable acquisitions to augment high quality products and services.
Businesses often create the Groups growth rate.
The Groups acquisition strategy is strategic relationships rather than arms-length customer-supplier summarised as being the pursuit of bolt-on or bolt-in relationships by offering long-term support or through-life acquisitions that: solutions.
Many of the Groups niche offerings involve the design and supply of complex products and services which are are defence or aerospace based: typically safety or performance-critical in their application.
This are in a growth market sector: creates a dependency from the customers perspective and augment a current niche, or encourages a long-term strategic relationship where Ultras add a new, related niche, or businesses become part of the customers extended enterprises, widen Ultras geographic reach.
The ideal size of acquisitions, as measured by annual revenue, is 7 To gain competitive advantage by internal and currently about 30m to 70m for bolt-ons and up to 15m for external teaming bolt-ins.
Organisation transforming acquisitions are unlikely Teaming, internally within the Group or externally with other owing to the risk prole of acquisitions.
The Group will seek to companies, broadens offerings by combining niche products or maintain a robust portfolio of niche activities.
It attains competitive advantage by accessing off-the-shelf technology at lower cost, allowing 5 To have an efficient organisation with committed timely delivery while avoiding expensive development costs and and competent people high project risk.
Increasingly, Ultra teams with international, Ultra seeks to maximise efficiency throughout its organisation.
world-class partners to access best of breed technology and The levels of commitment and competency of business undertakes specialist system and sub-system design and management teams is continuously assessed through strategic, integration, ensuring sovereign operational independence budget, organisation and succession, and regular business where required.
The Group places a high degree of trust in, and has high expectations of, its senior staff and supports 8 To meet our commitments their development and improvement activities.
Ultra empowers Ultra has built a reputation of meeting its commitments.
This management teams to run their respective businesses to deliver reputation is not only based on businesses meeting their agreed strategies, meet budgets and continuously develop their obligations, but also by establishing a culture within the Group people.
Ultra constantly develops its people and structure which is based on this principle.
Ultra believes that this reputation through a rigorous, annual organisation and succession planning is one of its dening and most valuable characteristics.
Specic personalised training programmes are identied in this way fosters long-term relationships.
and provided as necessary, and good performance is rewarded through career development, bonuses and share options.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Chief Executives report
