Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Inuences on the Groups long-term value The US Navy is procuring In Ultra is demonstrating over 240 anti-submarine how unmanned air vehicles warfare helicopters for which can be used to attack Ultra is supplying specialist time-critical targets at long mission equipment range cost effectively posed by stealthy submarines.
Ultra is already under contract to Market trends likely to impact future prospects develop multi-static active systems to satisfy this requirement.
Whilst budgets have continued to rise over recent years in Ultras main defence markets, in both the US and UK the continuing Ultra provides specialist sub-systems and equipment for military costs of peacekeeping operations are straining these defence aircraft.
The main military aircraft programmes on which Ultra budgets.
Nevertheless defence budgets continue to increase in equipment is fitted include the F A-18 E F Super Hornet and the real terms throughout the world.
F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter.
These programmes continue to have political support, underpinned by consistent financial In the US, Ultras biggest defence market, the defence budget for commitment.
Ultra has production contracts for the second 2007 8 is over $480 billion to fund the necessary strategic tranche of the Eurofighter Typhoon aircraft as well as firm investments to modernise and recapitalise key capabilities in the contracts for the design and delivery of 192 aircraft sets of armed forces.
That figure does not include the tens-of-billions of equipment for the new Airbus A400M military transport aircraft.
dollars in expected costs for US operations in Iraq and The Group also is positioned on Boeings Small Diameter Bomb Afghanistan.
The administration funds the Iraq and Afghanistan programme which will require over 2,000 bomb racks, each of deployments through separate legislation.
The Presidents defence which will contain a HiPPAG compressor.
budget request for FY09 totals $515 billion to finance improved readiness through additional training and maintenance and by The perceived terrorist threat to individuals and to economically resetting or re-equipping forces following overseas deployments.
important assets, together with the need to protect borders and coastlines from illegal immigrants and smugglers, are driving an Within the US and UK defence budgets, expenditure continues to increase in global demand for surveillance and enforcement be focused on improving the use of intelligence, on enhancing systems, a market sector in which Ultra has innovative and the ability to deploy forces rapidly and in providing increased cost-effective solutions.
Ultras success in winning contracts for protection for personnel.
Ultra has pursued a strategy through combat systems on the ships for Trinidad & Tobago and for investment in product niches that has positioned the Group to border and coastal surveillance systems demonstrate that the benefit from these trends.
Moreover, Ultra constantly seeks Group can continue to benefit from this market.
opportunities to offer new products and services to meet such customer requirements.
Worldwide, there is a move to increase the unmanned element of fighting forces.
By so doing, the cost per platform is reduced There is some evidence that the decline in one of Ultras as is the risk to personnel from enemy action.
For Ultra, this will traditional market sectors, that of Anti-Submarine Warfare reduce demand for specialist Human-Machine Interface HMI ASW, is bottoming out.
The US has committed to buying over equipment used in cockpits.
Anticipating this, Ultra has 100 fixed wing aircraft and over 240 helicopters capable of positioned its HMI equipment for use on base stations that performing ASW missions.
The Canadian government is control the unmanned vehicles.
Unmanned air vehicles must be procuring 28 ASW helicopters.
In Europe, the NH-90 ASW controlled using high integrity radio links and Ultra has helicopter will shortly enter service as will, eventually, the Nimrod developed an innovative solution that is being adopted as an MRA4 aircraft.
In the short term, Ultra is supplying equipment to international standard.
Ultra is also demonstrating unmanned air each of these programmes.
In the longer term, the entry into vehicle systems that, in addition to acting as surveillance assets, service of these platforms might be expected to increase the will be able to attack time-critical targets at long range.
annual consumption and therefore demand for sonobuoys, the acoustic sensors that are used to detect submarines and for In civil markets, aerospace remains healthy.
Both Airbus and which Ultra is the world-leading supplier.
There is also renewed Boeing, benefiting from aircraft order backlogs equivalent to interest on both sides of the Atlantic in upgrading sonobuoy seven years production, are increasing their build rates which sensor systems to improve the ability to sanitise coastal waters, will increase demand for original equipment.
High aircraft where amphibious operations may be mounted, from the threat 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Inuences on Groups long-term value Ultra provides innovative In Modern airports around hand controls for remotely the world rely on Ultras operated weapons on airport IT solutions armoured vehicles utilisation, driven by greater demand for air travel as a result of Resources growing populations with higher disposable incomes, is also Ultra has access to adequate financial and human resources to increasing after market spares and repair activity.
The high price implement its strategy for the foreseeable future.
The of oil is causing a shift in demand from turbo-jet regional aircraft performance of Ultra is fundamentally driven by the individual to more fuel efficient turbo-prop aircraft where Ultra has the and team contributions made by its employees.
The Groups opportunity to supply cabin quietening systems.
Ultra has niche success in innovating to meet customer needs is based on the technology offerings that have well established positions on broad range of skills and capabilities of employees.
The long-term aircraft build programmes that should provide a availability of appropriately skilled engineers and other specialist flywheel effect for Ultras civil aerospace sales.
Ultras newer staff is finite.
In this competitive market, Ultra pursues a number technology of wing ice protection has achieved a position on the of initiatives to give it an advantage over competing employers Boeing 787 aircraft which is set to become one of the worlds to attract, retain and develop the best people.
These are most successful aircraft programmes with firm orders at the end described more fully on pages 25 and 26 of this document.
An important Group resource is its excellent reputation in the The worldwide increase in air travel is also driving investment in market with its customers.
All employees strive constantly to ensure infrastructure including airport IT systems.
Ultra is an that this reputation is upheld.
The eight Group strategies described internationally competitive supplier of advanced airport IT on pages 4 and 5 of this document include a focus on being an systems and of integration services.
The Group continues to win excellent and strategic supplier and on meeting commitments.
new business all around the world, reflecting the global nature of this market sector.
Ground transport systems also require Management of risks and uncertainties continuing investment in regions of high population density, a Ultras confidence in its ability to continue to deliver growth is trend from which Ultra benefits.
Ultra specialises in the supply of underpinned by a number of key factors.
The Group has a track trackside power supplies for mass transit systems.
In London, record of year-on-year success despite significant volatility in preparation for the 2012 Olympic Games is resulting in a high foreign exchange rates and whilst experiencing full market cycles level of investment in the transport infrastructure and Ultra will in both the civil aerospace and defence sectors.
These risks will supply equipment as part of this upgrade programme.
continue to be mitigated through robust business strategies.
In the UK the need to reduce carbon emissions and the strategic About three quarters of Ultras revenue is from the defence need to maintain independence of energy supplies are driving an sector.
A theoretical risk would therefore be a significant increasing level of planned investment in civil nuclear power worldwide reduction in defence expenditure.
The overall size of generation.
This is a market in which Ultra has niche capabilities, the defence budgets relative to Ultras annual revenue provides both in specialist sensors and, potentially, the supply of high sufficient headroom for the Groups growth to continue.
Ultras integrity control systems derived from the Groups experience in constant focus has consistently been on ensuring that the the provision of the naval equivalents.
This market includes both Groups businesses operate in a large number of growing niche the refurbishment and life extension of existing installations and markets where the Group can create and maintain sustainable the supply of new power stations.
competitive advantage and can win business worldwide.
This specialism and diversity give some protection from budget The order book at the end of the year was 621m, an increase variations and so provide resilience to Ultras performance.
6% over the value at the same time last year and an increase of 24% over the last two years.
The order book, at its closing level, continues to provide the Group with good earnings visibility.
see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Chief Executives report Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Inuences on Groups long-term value Ultra supplies battlespace IT In Ultra is developing a new systems and equipment for suite of reactor control and allied forces engaged in instrumentation equipment current operations in Iraq for Royal Navy submarines and Afghanistan Ultras financial performance has not been significantly driven by The perceived terrorist threat to the current allied operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
These individuals and to economically important operations will be scaled back in the next few years.
Since Ultra did not benefit materially from the start of these operations, it is assets, together with the need to protect anticipated that such a withdrawal would not harm the Groups borders and coastlines from illegal trading position.
Indeed, it might well be an overall benefit to the Group as it may alleviate some of the current pressures on immigrants and smugglers, are driving an defence budgets.
increase in global demand for surveillance The international spread of Ultras activities provides resilience to its performance.
The Group now sells its products and services in and enforcement systems, a market over thirty countries worldwide and this has broadened the sector in which Ultra has innovative and customer base.
Ultra also has a transatlantic capability, with eleven of its twenty one businesses being in North America and so is cost-effective solutions.
Ultras success in exploiting its innovative solutions and operating as a domestic winning contracts for combat systems on agent on both sides of the Atlantic, thereby providing sovereign operational independence of the respective armed forces.
the ships for Trinidad & Tobago and for Ultra is represented on a significant range of major international border and coastal surveillance systems programmes and platforms.
Despite Ultras growth it remains true that no single programme represents more than 5% of demonstrate that the Group can continue Ultras revenue in any year.
The cancellation or curtailment of any to benefit from this market.
single programme is unlikely therefore to have a material adverse impact on the Group.
Ultra supplies all elements of the armed forces, i. e. the army, navy, air force and marines together with first responders such as medical staff and firefighters.
This customer spread provides an element of risk mitigation.
In addition, Ultra operates in a number of different distinct market sectors, including battlespace IT: sonar: military aircraft equipment and military vehicle equipment.
Again, this reduces the risk of decline in any one market sector materially affecting Ultras overall performance.
Ultra has significant business in the civil sector and this provides useful diversification, often providing an adjacent market in which to exploit complementary skills and technologies.
Within the civil market, Ultra operates in aerospace, transport and commercial security sectors.
This spread gives further resilience to Ultras performance.
Ultras reported financial results are influenced by movements in exchange rates and the overall impact is a combination of currency translation and currency transaction effects.
The biggest 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc see footnote on page 01 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Inuences on Groups long-term value Ultra launched in 2007 an In In 2007 Ultra was awarded a improved human-machine contract for the development interface for its ADSI system of enhanced secure radio of which over 900 are in communications equipment use worldwide for the RAFs Tornado aircraft sensitivity is to the US and Canadian dollars: more than half of offset by Ultras strategy of operating in specic market niches Ultras revenue is denominated in these currencies.
Foreign where it has some sustainable differentiation.
exchange rate movements continued to impact adversely upon Ultras customers aspire to stable or reducing prices for the goods Ultras profitability in 2007, with the further weakening of the US and services that they procure.
This inevitably leads to cost dollar having the biggest effect.
The average dollar exchange pressures to which the Group must respond.
Ultra has a long rates used in the year to translate the sales and operating profits track record of product innovation, exploiting new, lower cost of Ultras US and Canadian subsidiaries into sterling weakened electronics technologies to reduce costs whilst delivering on average by 8% and 3% respectively.
The result was a improved performance.
Additionally, operational efficiencies are negative translation impact upon revenue of 4%.
On operating achieved by working more intelligently, particularly through profit the effect was a reduction of 3%, equivalent to 2.2m.
embracing lean manufacturing and design processes.
More With regard to currency transaction risk, Ultra has a natural recently, Ultra has made significant progress in sourcing hedge from its geographic split of businesses.
However some production in low cost economies where this is appropriate given businesses in the UK and Canada also trade in foreign currencies, the nature of the products that the Group provides.
When the foreign currency weakens against anticipated cost reductions have been achieved, thereby helping local currencies this means that turnover suffers from a negative protect and improve the Groups operating margins.
To reduce the impact, the Group has Relationships responded by sourcing a higher proportion of the cost of dollardenominated products in dollar zones.
This is in addition to the The diversified nature of Ultras activities is reflected in the broad range of platforms and programmes in which the Group is Groups usual currency hedging arrangements.
Ultras policy is to involved.
This diversification extends to customer, supplier and hedge forward its foreign currency trading exposure in order to increase certainty the typical forward cover is 18-24 months for partner relationships.
Within the major prime contractors, Ultra typically supplies products, equipment and sub-systems to a US dollar-denominated sales in the UK and Canada.
Exposure to range of different platforms and programmes, with each one other currencies is hedged as it arises on specific contracts.
The effectively acting as a different customer.
Given that no single US dollar hedged rates weakened during 2007, with an overall platform or programme represents more than 5% of revenue in adverse impact on operating profit of 1.7m.
any one year, there is, therefore, no single relationship of such The lag between the time that foreign exchange contracts are significance that its severance would have a material impact on taken out and the time of maturity means that effective hedged Ultras performance or prospects.
rates in 2008 will be even weaker.
Ultras effective US$:UK rate for 2008, based upon the forward contracts currently in place, is expected to be approximately $1.92, compared to $1.82 in 2007.
For the US dollar to Canadian dollar exposure there is expected to be a weakening of 4% in the effective hedged rate for the year to come.
At this point the negative transaction effect upon profit is expected to be approximately 3.0m more, assuming the same level of underlying trading as in 2007.
The industries in which the Group operates continue to experience restructuring, which sometimes results in Ultras customers themselves becoming more vertically integrated.
This may increase the incidence of the Groups customers having capabilities that overlap with Ultras.
The threat that this otherwise might pose is see footnote on page 01 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Chief Executives report
