AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information Sector focus Oil and gas OIL & GAS 04 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 4 07 06 2007 14:52:09 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information AVEV AVEV A Gr A Gr oup plc oup plc Annual r Annual r epor epor t 200 t 200 7 7 O t D h ie re r c in to fo rs rm re ap tio orn t With around 30% of our customers active in this market globally, AVEVA has grown from a base of North Sea customers who pioneered 3D design using AVEVA tools.
Today, our products have become the global benchmark for the offshore industry and a major part of the more diverse onshore oil and gas market.
Increased energy commodity prices, demand growth and investment in infrastructure have led to unprecedented demand for AVEVA tools, positioning AVEVA as the primary supplier to this ever more global industry.
In fact, across the world we have seen very high levels of demand, both in our established markets of the USA and northern Europe as well as in newer markets in which we have invested over recent years.
The new AVEVA of ce in Russia has seen some large orders from new customers such as URAL TEP, Gazprom and RAO UES.
In Latin America we have had great success with Petrobras, PEMEX and PDVSA.
In Europe we have seen some of our very large rental customers double their annual commitment to meet the increased workload.
The investments in providing a system that can be used across multiple engineering sites around the world and still provide a consistent and high quality design has set AVEVA apart from its competitors.
AVEVAs ability to offer facilities to segment databases across multiple locations very ef ciently has become a major differentiator for the larger engineering companies and has been one of the most in uential factors in winning business from the worlds top engineering companies.
With over 60 Floating Production Storage and Offloading FPSO platforms currently in production and many of AVEVAs customers specialising in this type of deepwater mega platform, we anticipate that demand will increase as more of the available reserves are found in deepwater and further offshore.
The increase in these highly complex assets will drive a signi cant increase in the amount of engineering design hours and consequent use of AVEVA products.
Additionally, management of such high value assets during their 30 year lives will become increasingly important and the AVEVA NET products will address this growing market.
AVEVA has invested heavily in building products that are not only attractive to its traditional customers, but also appeal to the owner operator customers.
Products such as AVEVA NET and the AVEVA Laser Model Interface play well to customers seeking to maximise the valuable data locked up in their assets.
In Norway, Statoil has decided to move all engineering design data into AVEVA systems, using specially developed translators to migrate data from legacy systems, in conjunction with capturing the vitally important as-built plant status using laser technology.
This means that accurate asset information can be built in the AVEVA systems and used for design modi cation and extension.
indd 5 07 06 2007 14:52:13 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information Sector focus Power POWER 06 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 6 07 06 2007 14:52:33 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information AVEV AVEV A Gr A Gr oup plc oup plc Annual r Annual r epor epor t 200 t 200 7 7 O t D h ie re r c in to fo rs rm re ap tio orn t In the last 2 years AVEVA has seen its market share in the power related industries expand signi cantly, as the above-trend growth for increased supply globally continues to gather pace, with a particular emphasis on the high growth regions of Brazil, China, India and Russia.
In the thermal power generation market, one of AVEVAs longest established customers doubled their spending on AVEVA tools last year.
In addition, on top of our global customer base of world leading suppliers of fossil fuelled capacity, we are seeing a renewed interest in nuclear power generation.
The first new design nuclear reactor for many years is being built in Finland and the prime contractor, AREVA, uses the complete AVEVA plant product portfolio.
During the year we have also sold new installations at Bechtel and Constellation Energy in the USA.
In China, through focused marketing efforts, we now have 21 of the 26 top grade design institutes using AVEVA technology.
Our design tools are being used on the new 1000MW ultra-supercritical thermal power plants in Zouxian and on the largest coal liquefaction plant in the world.
Nuclear power plays a major part in the generating mix in China and as well as working with Chinas supply partners AVEVA will supply the design tools for the first new generation nuclear plant to be designed and built by Chinese companies.
During the past year the demand for AVEVA products in the power industry has been such that we have set up a dedicated centre of excellence for the power industries.
The aim of the centre is to provide tailored solutions and applications built on the AVEVA core products in order to make our tools even more attractive to the customers and to extend our competitive advantage.
It was a strategic decision to establish the Power Centre of Excellence in the AVEVA of ce in Guangzhou, and the product add-ons developed there will be available to customers globally.
indd 7 07 06 2007 14:52:39 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information Sector focus Marine MARINE 08 1 AVV ar07 frontlrmap.
indd 8 07 06 2007 14:52:59 AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Other information AVEV AVEV A Gr A Gr oup plc oup plc Annual r Annual r epor epor t 200 t 200 7 7 O t D h ie re r c in to fo rs rm re ap tio orn t AVEVA Marine is a suite of products speci cally produced for the worlds ship building market.
Not only are the tools the best in the design of ce, but through many years of working closely with world leaders in the marine industry, AVEVA Marine products also offer unique bene ts in ship production.
Many of the new customers this year have chosen AVEVA due to the new capabilities of the combination of highly sophisticated hull design and out tting technology available on a single database platform.
With such a high demand for yard capacity, yards worldwide are looking to increase their productivity and ability to offer a wide range of vessel designs.
AVEVA tools offer unrivalled levels of productivity and have been proven by many of the worlds leading shipbuilders.
Our contract with Hyundai has seen delivery of the first combined Tribon and AVEVA technology, and AVEVA Marine 12 will follow later this year with full customer roll-out before the end of 2007.
Such is the pace of development of the new AVEVA Marine product that many long-term marine customers can see the value in future releases and are signing recurring fee contracts to ensure they have access to the new releases as they become available.
The Korean team has been very successful in building the marine business as well as developing and maintaining first class customer relationships with the leading shipyards that we intend to open a Research and Development centre in Busan in May 2007.
The aim of the Marine Technology Support Centre will be to harness some of the most modern production technology and encapsulate this in future AVEVA Marine software tools.
Already AVEVA has very strong working relationships with a number of the worlds major shipbuilders in Korea, and these relationships will be of great bene t as we work to develop new technology in conjunction with customers and af liated educational institutes.
China has a goal to become the worlds largest supplier of new ship tonnage within 10 years and the substantial investments to build new yards and restructure older yards has seen a huge increase in business for AVEVA over the past year.
We have made large system installations in COSCO, Rongsheng and several other yards during the year.
Josephine Zhou manages the business in China, with a highly professional support and customer service team based in Shanghai.
During the coming year we will launch signi cant new products for the marine industry.
This combined with our increasing marketing efforts in naval marine design, will enable us to attract new customers and supply new products to our installed base.
