AVEVA Group plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Board of Directors Nick Prest CBE, aged 54 Richard Longdon, aged 51 Paul Taylor, FCCA, aged 42 Chairman Chief Executive Finance Director and Company Secretary Nick Prest joined the Board of AVEVA in Richard Longdon received an engineering Paul Taylor is a Fellow of the Association January 2006.
Following a spell at the training in the defence industry then of Chartered Certi ed Accountants and Ministry of Defence at the outset of his gained experience in the project joined AVEVA in 1989.
He was heavily career Nick joined Alvis, the defence management of high value engineering involved in the otation process and has contractor, in 1982, becoming Chief projects.
He moved into sales and held a been responsible for both UK accounting Executive in 1989 and Chairman and series of international sales and marketing and the development of its overseas Chief Executive in 1996.
He joined AVEVA in 1984 and subsidiaries, including adherence to Group following its acquisition by BAE Systems shortly afterwards was made marketing standards.
Between 1998 and 2001 Paul in 2004, by which time the Company manager for the process products.
In was also UK Director of Human Resources had become a leading international January 1992 he relocated to Frankfurt and was appointed to the position of business in military land systems.
where he was responsible for setting up Finance Director and Company Secretary In addition to his position at Alvis, Nick and running the Groups German of ce.
of AVEVA Group plc on 1 March 2001.
Prior had a prominent role in defence industry He returned to the UK as part of the to joining AVEVA, Paul originally trained representation, serving as Chairman management buyout team in 1994, within the accountancy profession before of the Defence Manufacturers Association subsequently taking responsibility for the moving to Philips Telecommunications UK, and Vice-Chairman of the National Groups worldwide sales and marketing where he was responsible for the Defence Industries Council.
In addition activities, before being appointed Managing management accounts of its public to being Chairman of AVEVA, Nick is also Director in May 1999.
He took over as sectors division.
Chairman of Cohort plc, a defence Group Chief Executive in December 1999. technical services business oated on AIM in March 2006.
David Mann, aged 62 Colin Garrett, ACA, aged 50 Non-executive Director and Non-executive Director Senior Independent Director Colin Garrett has spent the majority David Mann was educated at Jesus College, of his career in corporate finance.
He is Non-executive Chairman of Since 2000 he has been involved, in a Charteris plc, a business and IT management Non-executive capacity, with a number consultancy, which he established with of companies and management teams.
some colleagues in 1996 and was oated Colin is a Non-executive Director on AIM in 2000.
He is also Non-executive of Intec Business Colleges plc, Chairman of Flomerics Group plc and Velti Sentec Limited and Ark Capital Limited.
Group plc both quoted on AIM.
Prior to He is also Non-executive Chairman of setting up Charteris, he spent almost all ZBD Displays Limited and Pelikon Limited.
his career with Logica plc where he became head of worldwide operations, then Group Chief Executive and nally Deputy Chairman.
He is a Past President of the British Computer Society and a Past Master of the Worshipful Company of Information 22 Technologists in the City of London.
