Report of the Directors continued About Unilever Description of business million million million 2007 2006 2005 Unilever is one of the worlds leading suppliers of fast moving consumer goods across Foods and Home and Personal Care Turnover 40 187 39 642 38 401 categories.
Unilevers portfolio includes some of the worlds best Net profit 4 136 5 015 3 975 Cash ow from operating activities 5 188 5 574 5 924 known and most loved brands.
Strategy and long-term financial targets In 2007, we set out simultaneously to deliver a higher and more At the heart of Unilever's strategy is a concentration of resources consistent level of underlying sales growth in combination with an on areas where we have leading category and brand positions underlying improvement in operating margin.
Underlying sales and which offer excellent opportunities for profitable growth, growth has indeed shown a marked increase to 5.5% in 2007, especially in personal care, developing and emerging markets and driven by better innovation rolled out faster to more countries Vitality.
The focus is primarily on developing the business and better execution in local markets.
organically, but acquisitions and disposals can also play a role in accelerating the portfolio development.
We also achieved an underlying improvement in operating margin of 0.2 percentage points in 2007, as the combination of volume To execute this strategy we have reorganised the business to leverage, higher prices, cost savings and mix improvement simplify the organisation and management structure and to successfully offset a sharp rise in commodity costs and other improve capabilities in marketing, customer management, and ination.
The result is better allocation of resources, faster decision-making and a lower cost level.
This Our reported operating margin declined by 0.5 percentage points, transformation, known as the One Unilever programme, allows us due to a signicantly higher level of restructuring charges related to leverage our scale both globally and locally.
to our plans to accelerate change, which were announced in August 2007.
These plans aim to deliver a reduction in our annual Unilever's long-term ambition is to be in the top third of our peer cost base by around 1.5 billion by the end of 2010, compared group in terms of total shareholder return.
We expect underlying with our 2006 cost base, through the creation of multi-country sales growth of 3-5% per annum and an operating margin in organisations MCOs, the closure or streamlining of 50-60 excess of 15% by 2010 after a normal level of restructuring factories, and a further reduction in regional and global charges of 0.5 to 1 percent of turnover.
Return on invested capital overheads.
is targeted to increase over the 2004 base of 11%.
Over the period 2005 2010, we aim to deliver ungeared free cash ow of Ungeared free cash ow was 3.8 billion, which was 0.4 billion 25-30 billion.
It should be noted that previous and planned lower than a year earlier, including the effect of the higher cash disposals and the additional restructuring plans will have reduced restructuring costs and increased capital expenditure.
Return on ungeared free cash ow by about 2.5 billion over this period, invested capital was 12.7% in 2007.
This represented an while enhancing the ongoing cash generating capacity of the improvement from 11.5% in 2006, when adjusted for the profit business.
on the disposal of frozen foods.
Before allowing for this adjustment, return on invested capital in 2006 was 14.6%.
Key indicators performance and portfolio These long-term financial targets determine the scope of our key On our three-year average Total Shareholder Return key financial performance indicators.
The values for these indicators performance measure, which forms part of the basis for top for the last three reporting years are as follows: management remuneration, we remained just outside the top third of our peer group, although we further improved our 2007 2006 2005 position to the 8th place out of 21 companies.
Underlying sales growth % 5.5 3.8 3.4 Operating margin % 13.1 13.6 13.2 Further information about these measures, including denitions Ungeared free cash ow billion 3.8 4.2 4.0 and, where appropriate, reconciliation to GAAP measures, can be Return on invested capital % 12.7 14.6 12.5 found in our Financial Review starting on page 29.
Total shareholder return ranking 8 13 14 In addition to these financial indicators, we track other measures Underlying sales growth USG, ungeared free cash ow UFCF in support of our strategic goals.
We believe that the share of our and return on invested capital ROIC are not recognised measures business that is generated in developing and emerging D&E under IFRS.
The IFRS measure most comparable with USG is markets, and the proportion of our turnover that is generated by turnover.
In our Financial Review on page 32 we reconcile USG our top 25 brands are particularly relevant.
In the latter context with changes in turnover.
There is no IFRS measure directly we group together brands that have a common consumer comparable with either UFCF or ROIC.
In our Financial Review we proposition and are supported by common innovation reconcile ROIC to net profit, and UFCF to both net profit and cash programmes, although in some cases the brand names may vary ow from operations.
The values of turnover, net profit and cash between countries.
The results for these measures for the last ow from operating activities for the last three reporting years are three reporting years are as follows: as follows: 2007 2006 2005 Share of turnover in D&E markets % 44 42 40 Share of turnover in top 25 brands % 73 73 72 6 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Our D&E businesses continue to show strong growth, in Asia, The table below shows the results for these indicators for the last Africa, Central and Eastern Europe and Latin America, and now three years for which independently assured performed by rms make up 44% of our total turnover.
Our D&E strategy is focused other than Unilevers external auditors data are available: on leveraging and further strengthening our existing leading 2006 2005 2004 positions in many D&E markets, such as India and Brazil, as well as building our brands and business in countries where we Total recordable accident frequency rate currently have a relatively smaller presence, notably China and per 100 000 hours 0.33 0.39 0.46 CO2 from energy per tonne of Russia.
Our sustained growth is reecting the strength of our D&E production kg 164.59 171.75 185.67 business model which is characterised by a differentiated portfolio 3 Water per tonne of production m 3.29 3.52 3.67 of strong global and regional brands addressing the needs of the Total waste per tonne of production kg 7.46 8.74 9.79 different income groups, high quality innovation and communication, scale and depth in distribution, and an excellent The type of assurance undertaken has been limited to enquiries of track record and reputation for developing management talent.
company personnel and analytical procedures together with Our focus on our best global and regional brands, with increased review on a sample basis of the operation of processes relating to investment in advertising and faster roll-out of innovation, has performance data noted in the table above.
Assurance of this resulted in a focused portfolio, with 12 brands having a nature is substantially less in scope than a financial audit and does worldwide turnover in excess of 1 billion and our top 25 brands not include detailed sample testing of source data, processes or collectively delivering 73% of our turnover in 2007. internal controls.
We also monitor the development of our brands through market A comprehensive review of Unilevers social and environmental information that gives us insights into our leading positions versus performance can be found in our annual Sustainable our direct competitors.
In our section on Operating environment Development Report, available online at www.
com on page 8 below we indicate the product areas in which we have Published in May 2008, our next Report will contain updated and leading or key strategic positions.
independently assured results for 2007 for the measures above, as well as trend information that demonstrates our consistent Key indicators people and sustainability performance over the longer term.
Unilever has for many years recognised the signicance of social and environmental issues as a critical dimension of its operations, Please refer also to the Corporate responsibility and sustainability and has established many indicators to track its performance in section on page 12 which highlights a number of key issues and these areas.
activities in this area in 2007.
Our Operating Review starting on page 15 also gives examples of the ways in which our brands are We regard safety as an essential element of a successful and addressing consumers social and environmental concerns.
sustainable business and take seriously our responsibility to provide a safe workplace.
We aim to improve continuously the Ten-year trends in many of the measures described above, health, safety and well-being of everyone working for or on together with a range of other indicators, are included in the behalf of Unilever to a standard on a par with the very best of our document Unilever Charts which can be found on our website at peers.
A key measure of our progress in this area is our total www.
com ourcompany investorcentre annual reports recordable accident frequency rate which counts all workplace accidents except those requiring only simple first aid treatment.
In Organisation 2007 this decreased to 0.26 accidents per 100 000 hours worked, The three building blocks of our organisation are regions, declining from 0.46 in 2004. categories and functions.
We are committed to meeting the needs of customers and Three regions Europe, the Americas and Asia Africa are consumers in an environmentally sound and sustainable responsible for managing Unilevers business and local market manner, through continuous improvement in environmental operations in their regions.
They are primarily responsible for performance in all our activities.
We exercise the same concern building relationships with customers, managing supply chain for the environment wherever we operate and aim to reduce networks, and deploying brands and innovations effectively, the environmental footprint of our business and brands.
The focused on excellent execution in the marketplace.
The regions environmental measures that we regard as the most significant in are accountable for the delivery of in-year financial results relation to our business are those relating to the amounts of CO2 including growth, profits and cash ow, and in-year development from energy that we produce, the water that we consume as part of market shares.
The Europe region includes our operations in of our production processes, and the amount of waste that we Western Europe and Central and Eastern Europe, and in 2007 generate.
We continue to improve our performance across these accounted for approximately 38% of turnover.
The Americas measures, having reduced our CO2 emissions from energy by region includes our operations in North America and Latin 33.5%, our water use by 58.6% and our total waste by 69.3% America and represented around 33% of turnover.
The Asia per tonne of production over the period 1995 2006.
In 2007 Africa region accounted for 29% of turnover, and includes our we set ourselves the further goal of achieving a 25% reduction in operations in the Middle East, Africa, South Asia, South East Asia, CO2 emissions by 2012 from a 2004 baseline, to give a total North East Asia and Australasia.
During 2008 changes will be made to the regional structures.
Notably Central and Eastern Europe, will be managed as part of the Asia Africa region - further concentrating our focus on emerging markets.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Two category teams Foods and Home and Personal Care are physically distributed through a network of distribution centres, responsible for the development of category and brand strategies, satellite warehouses, company-operated and public storage the development of brand communication, and the delivery of facilities, depots and other facilities.
Categories also lead the strategic direction of the supply chain and are accountable for long-term value creation We sell our products in over 150 countries around the world.
In in the business, as measured by longer-term market share many countries we manufacture the products that we sell, while development, category growth, innovation metrics and brand we also export products to countries where we do not have health.
The chosen manufacturing network is generally determined by an optimised regional sourcing strategy Building on the success of the One Unilever programme, Foods which takes account of requirements for innovation, quality, and Home and Personal Care will be brought together in 2008 service, cost and exibility.
Certain of our businesses, such as ice cream, are subject to Five functional teams Finance, HR, IT, Communications and significant seasonal uctuations in sales.
However, Unilever Legal are responsible for providing value-adding business operates globally in many different markets and product partnering, strategic support and competitive services to the whole categories.
No individual element of seasonality is likely to be business.
They are each organised around the same basic principles material to the results of the Group as a whole.
of business partners, shared services and expertise teams.
Transactions with related parties are conducted in accordance Since 2005, the One Unilever programme has streamlined with agreed transfer pricing policies and include sales to joint our business by creating a single operating company for each ventures and associates.
Other than those disclosed in this report, country combining previously separate Foods and Home and there were no related party transactions that were material to the Personal Care operating units into a One Unilever company and Group or to the related parties concerned that are required to be by creating and outsourcing shared services centres for the back reported in 2007 or the two preceding years.
ofce operations of our Finance, HR and IT functions.
In 2007, we announced new plans to accelerate change including the creation For more information about related party transactions please refer of multi-country organisations MCOs clusters of countries with also to note 30 on page 120. a single centralised management and shared functions and further simplication of our regional supply chains.
Resources Operating environment Our brands We have a wide and diverse set of competitors in our categories.
We have a strong and well differentiated portfolio of global and Many competitors also operate on an international scale, while regional brands, which are positioned to meet the needs and others have a narrower regional or local focus.
aspirations of our consumers across a variety of price points, segments and channels, allowing us to compete effectively in our Competition is a normal part of business.
We aim to compete key categories and countries.
and provide added value to our consumers, customers and shareholders in three ways: Twelve of our brands have global turnover in excess of 1 billion.
These are Knorr, Hellmanns, Lipton, Becel Flora Healthy Heart, by continually developing new and improved products that Rama Blue Band Family Goodness, Walls Algida Heart brand, address relevant consumer needs and aspirations: Omo, Surf, Dove, Lux, Rexona including Sure and Degree and by rolling out innovations and brand concepts across our Sunsilk including Seda and Sedal.
businesses around the world: and by striving to lower the cost of our sourcing, manufacturing We manage our brands under the following four category and distribution processes while ensuring the quality of our headings: savoury, dressings and spreads: ice cream and products.
beverages: personal care: and home care.
Our businesses have established strong leadership positions Savoury, dressings and spreads includes soups, bouillons, sauces, typically number 1 or number 2 in the markets in which we are snacks, mayonnaise, salad dressings, olive oil, margarines, spreads operating.
In Foods, we hold the global number 1 position in and cooking products such as liquid margarines, and some frozen savoury and dressings, spreads, tea-based beverages and ice foods.
Our key brands here are Knorr, Hellmanns, Becel Flora cream.
In home care, we hold the global number 2 position in Healthy Heart, Rama Blue Band Family Goodness, Calv, Wishlaundry, with a number 1 position in many developing and Bone, Amora, Rag and Bertolli.
In personal care, we hold the global number 1 position in mass skin care and deodorants, and the number 2 Ice cream and beverages includes ice cream sold under the position in hair care.
In oral care and household care, our strategy international Heart brand, including Cornetto, Magnum, Carte is focused on strong regional and local leadership positions in dOr and Solero, Walls, Kibon, Algida and Ola.
Our portfolio also selected makets in Europe, Asia and Latin America.
includes Ben & Jerrys, Breyers, Klondike and Popsicle.
This category also includes tea-based beverages, where our principal Unilevers products are generally sold through our own sales force brands are Lipton, Brooke Bond and PG Tips.
This group also as well as through independent brokers, agents and distributors includes weight management products, principally Slim Fast, and to chain, wholesale, co-operative and independent grocery nutritionally enhanced products sold in developing markets, accounts, food service distributors and institutions.
Products are including Annapurna and AdeS Adez.
8 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Within these groups, we also include sales of our Unilever groups findings have been shared with the Unilever Executive and Foodsolutions, which is a global food service business providing Board of Directors, and are helping to shape further our approach solutions for professional chefs and caterers.
In Personal Care, six global brands are the core of our business in Our Standards of Leadership programme is a set of behaviours the mass skin care, daily hair care and deodorants product areas aimed at ensuring that every manager takes personal Dove, Lux, Rexona including Sure and Degree, Sunsilk including responsibility for delivering Unilevers agenda through excellence Seda Sedal, Axe and Ponds.
Other important brands include in strategy execution.
During the year, the framework was rolled Suave, Clear, Lifebuoy and Vaseline, together with Signal and out globally to an enthusiastic response.
In Asia the process was Close Up in oral care.
particularly effective, with managers across 15 countries attending interactive workshops.
Individuals made personal commitments to Our Home Care ranges include laundry products, such as tablets, live the behaviours and to model them in their daily working traditional powders and liquids for washing of clothing by hand lives.
Tailored products including soap bars are available for lower-income consumers.
Our brands include Omo Dirt is Good We aim to offer our people stimulating ways to broaden their platform, Surf, Comfort, Radiant, Skip and Snuggle.
Our skills and experience while at the same time giving something household care products include surface cleaners and bleach, sold back to the community.
Salvatore Lucia, a Supply Chain Manager under the Cif, Domestos and Sun Sunlight brands.
from Italy, was one of the Unilever specialists seconded to the World Food Programme WFP as part of their professional Corporate venture activities development.
He is helping WFP Ghana deliver its school feeding Unilever has allocated 350 million to its venturing activities in and nutrition programme and learning valuable skills to bring order to create new business opportunities that have the potential back to the business.
to help build our core brands and business interests in Foods and Home and Personal Care.
These activities include: We are committed to nding fresh ways of working that improve business effectiveness, enhance work-life balance and benefit the Unilever Ventures, an early-stage business development fund environment.
We created four Telepresence video-conferencing for businesses from both inside and outside Unilever: rooms: in Englewood Cliffs, Rotterdam, London and Singapore.
Langholm Capital, an independent fund investing in private Telepresence uses high-denition video screens with life-size European companies with above-average longer-term growth images around a single virtual table, to replicate as closely as prospects: and possible a face-to-face meeting.
It is also the first technology of Physic Ventures, an early-stage venture capital fund investing in its kind to be certied by the CarbonNeutral Company.
A further technology driven, consumer-directed health, wellness and eight rooms will be added in 2008. sustainable living companies.
Our total employee numbers over the last five years were as Our employees follows: Our One Unilever programme is already streamlining the business Year end in thousands 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 by creating single operating companies for each country and outsourcing parts of our IT, HR and Finance functions.
In 2007 we Europe 43 44 49 52 55 The Americas 43 45 47 47 50 announced plans to accelerate our change programme further by Asia Africa 88 90 110 124 129 developing more multi-country organisations MCOs clusters of countries with a single centralised management and shared Total 174 179 206 223 234 functions.
MCOs reduce duplication and free up resources to focus on customers and consumers.
All regions announced or The total reported numbers included approximately 26 000 partcontinued to implement MCOs in the year.
The newly announced time or seasonal employees in both 2007 and 2006.
MCOs include Benelux: Germany, Austria and Switzerland: UK Ireland: and Central Africa.
Diversity Diversity in Unilever is about inclusion, embracing differences, Our leaders make diversity a top business priority.
Signalling this creating possibilities and growing together for better business commitment, the Global Diversity Board draws together 15 performance.
We embrace diversity in our workforce: this means leaders from all business functions and is chaired by Group Chief giving full and fair consideration to all applicants and continuing Executive Patrick Cescau.
The board focuses on driving the development to all employees regardless of gender, nationality, diversity agenda into our business processes and tracking the race, creed, disability, style or sexuality.
Diversity plays a vital role progress of diversity initiatives.
It also champions new ways of in ensuring we understand consumers needs.
working to boost employees personal vitality.
The commitment to diversity is set right at the top of our The Senior Executive Seminar, our pioneering leadership business.
It is driven by the Global Diversity Board, chaired by development programme, was led this year by leading business Group Chief Executive Patrick Cescau, who has emphasised that academic C K Prahalad.
The event brought together 28 of our top diversity is critical to our business competitiveness and long-term leaders to examine key business issues, with a particularly strong sustainability.
They concentrated on developing and emerging markets, visiting more than 50 companies and 20 NGOs to gain insights into global trends and practices for opening up opportunities at the bottom of the economic pyramid.
The Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Unilever is one of the worlds most culturally diverse companies, Property, plant and equipment with 21 different nationalities represented among our top level We have interests in properties in most of the countries where group of 113 managers worldwide.
However, none is material in the context of the Group as a whole.
The properties are used In 2007 we worked to embed diversity even more rmly into our predominantly to house production and distribution activities day-to-day business decisions, via our talent management and and as ofces.
There is a mixture of leased and owned property people processes, from appointments to development.
As part of throughout the Group.
There are no environmental issues the Human Resources planning process our businesses units are affecting the properties which would have a material impact also developing specific diversity plans that are aligned to the upon the Group, and there are no material encumbrances on our priorities and needs of their regions and categories.
Any difference between the market value of properties held by the Group and the amount at which they are included in We continue to carry out quarterly measurement and tracking of the balance sheet is not significant.
Please refer also to the diversity against our objectives, using the HR Strategy in Action schedule of principal group companies and non-current tool.
Gender remains an important priority and is reviewed by the investments on page 125 and to details of property, plant and Unilever Executive team UEx.
equipment in note 10 on page 88.
We currently have no plans to construct new facilities or expand or improve our current facilities Information technology in a manner that is material to the Group.
Unilever Information Technology is a global function, headed by a global Chief Information officer, with a strategy to deliver Laws and regulation competitive and cost effective IT solutions to support the business.
Unilever businesses are governed by laws and regulations designed to ensure that products may be safely used for their A common technology framework and standards for architecture, intended purpose and that labelling and advertising are truthful key technologies, processes, information and services allow and not misleading.
Unilever businesses are further regulated by Unilever to leverage its scale in IT.
For example, this approach is data protection and anti-trust legislation.
Important regulatory supporting the setting up and the operation of regional shared bodies in respect of our businesses include the European services centres for back-ofce operations, notably in Finance Commission and the US Food and Drug Administration.
and Human Resources, which in some cases are outsourced.
We have processes in place to ensure that products, ingredients, The IT function is a key enabler for the One Unilever change from manufacturing processes, marketing materials and activities a multi-local to a globally aligned business through: comply with the above-mentioned laws and regulations.
strategic alliances and partnerships with key global suppliers: Legal proceedings improving IT capabilities and processes: We are not involved in any legal or arbitration proceedings which improving overall IT infrastructure and service value: and might lead to material loss or expenditure in the context of the strategic outsourcing in selected key areas.
Similarly we do not have any material obligations under environmental legislation.
None of our Directors or Ofcers The implementation across the Group of a world-class is involved in any legal proceedings which are material as aforesaid.
harmonised ERP system in each region in support of the One Nonetheless, we comment on certain proceedings below: Unilever programme is progressing well.
The Americas implementation has already been completed across the region, Ice cream cases while two-thirds of our European business is now on a single Unilever has businesses in many countries and from time to time instance ERP system with full implementation expected to be these are subject to investigation by competition and other largely completed by the end of 2008.
In Asia Africa, a phased regulatory authorities.
One such matter under review is our ice implementation towards 2010 has seen the first four countries cream distribution in Europe, specifically the exclusivity for the use completed in 2007. of freezer cabinets provided to retailers free-on-loan for the sale of impulse ice cream.
In September 2006 the European Court of Unilever partners with a few major suppliers to develop the Justice in Luxembourg ECJ dismissed the appeal by Unilevers minimum number of non-overlapping IT systems needed to Irish ice cream business, HB Ice Cream, of the 2003 Court of First deliver the business objectives.
This promotes radical simplication Instance 'CFI' judgment that upheld the European Commissions with exibility and agility, faster implementation and reduced 1998 decision to ban HB Ice Cream from imposing cabinet costs.
exclusivity in Ireland in circumstances where these were the only cabinets used by the retailer.
The ECJ ruling is final as regards Intellectual property Ireland and ends 14 years of legal debate.
We have a large portfolio of patents and trademarks, and we conduct some of our operations under licences which are based on patents or trademarks owned or controlled by others.
We are not dependent on any one patent or group of patents.
We use our best efforts to protect our brands and technology.
10 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Unilever has been fully compliant with the ruling in the Irish case Other competition issues since October 2003, when we lifted cabinet exclusivity from In 2006 the French competition authorities commenced an inquiry outlets that only have HB freezers Unilever was not ordered to into potential competition law infringements in France involving a abandon cabinet exclusivity altogether.
Parallel proceedings number of consumer goods companies in the home and personal between HB Ice Cream and Masterfoods re-named Mars before care sector, including Unilever France and Lever Faberg France, the Irish High Court, which had been deferred pending the ECJ both subsidiaries of the Unilever Group.
Interviews have been ruling, were reopened in 2007 at the request of Mars to claim conducted with present and former members of our staff and damages from Unilever.
We will resist any claim for compensation documents have been supplied to the French authorities.
No for losses that cannot be directly attributed to the practices statement of objections or proposals for fines have yet been prohibited by the European Commissions 1998 decision as lodged against either Unilever France or Lever Faberg France as regards Ireland.
the authorities investigation has had to be restarted following procedural challenge.
Accordingly, the potential financial The Commission decision applied only to Ireland.
The relevance of implications, if any, of this investigation cannot yet be assessed.
A its reasoning to other markets depends on a detailed factual statement of objections is however expected in the near future.
assessment of the effects of cabinet exclusivity in each market.
Unilever has given careful consideration to the potential On 14 March 2007 representatives from the German Federal application of the reasoning in the Irish case to its cabinet policies Cartel Ofce carried out an inspection at the ofces of Unilever in other EU countries.
The majority of markets are not affected by Deutschland GmbH in Hamburg.
The inspection was in relation to this development.
However we have taken a number of the home and personal care market in Germany.
Statements of commercial steps to avoid extending the debate further, in the objections have been received by and fines have been imposed on interest of focusing on our day-to-day business.
Unilever Deutschland, which currently intends to defend its position by way of appeal.
Since the ECJ ruling, Mars has nonetheless sought to bring claims against Unilever before authorities and courts in a number of On 25 February 2008, a purported class action lawsuit was led countries.
Mars allegations must be scrutinised in the light of in the United States of America in the United States District Court prevailing national market conditions, this can be a complex and for the Northern District of Illinois alleging, relying upon the lengthy process.
However by 26 October 2007 a civil claim by German investigation described above, that Unilever N. V. Unilever Mars in Germany had already been dismissed by the Hamburg PLC and Unilever United States, Inc. allegedly conspired with Regional Court.
Although Mars has appealed this decision, we certain other companies to x prices of oral, home and personal will continue vigorously to resist Mars claim.
care products in the United States.
The Unilever parties deny the claims and intend to defend the action.
Mars also brought a claim before the Swedish Market Court, which on 25 September 2007 issued an interim order that broadly Tax cases Brazil reects Unilevers current policy as regards the loan of freezer During 2004 the Federal Supreme Court in Brazil local acronym cabinets, namely that retail customers in Sweden must be free to STF announced a review of certain cases that it had previously decide what products to store in Unilever cabinets where these decided in favour of taxpayers.
Because of this action we are the only cabinets used by the retailer.
The Courts order did established a provision in 2004 for the potential repayment not require material changes beyond those already made by of sales tax credits in the event that the cases establishing Unilevers Swedish business, GB Glace.
The main proceedings precedents in our favour are reversed.
Since that time we have remain ongoing but the Market Court does not have jurisdiction continued to monitor the situation and have made changes to make damages awards.
as appropriate to the amount provided.
An investigation by the Portuguese competition authority is In June 2007, the Supreme Court ruled against the taxpayers in ongoing since March 2007.
Portuguese law prevents us from one of these cases.
Management believes that the amount disclosing details of this investigation.
Unilever engages provided in Unilevers accounts should be sufficient to cover the proactively with the authority.
amount of the tax in question, but industry associations of which Unilever is a member are currently attempting to negotiate a In Italy the Consiglio di Stato overturned a 2003 decision by the settlement with the Federal Revenue Service to reduce or avoid Italian competition authority ICA that responded positively to a the payment of interest and or penalties on such amounts.
notication by Unilever of its policy in relation to outlet exclusivity.
Management is optimistic that such negotiations will lead to a The Consiglio di Stato made its decision on 24 July 2007 on the settlement, but no assurance can be given that a settlement will basis that Unilevers market position in Italy had not been be reached or that the amount of any interest or penalties will be sufciently investigated by the ICA.
Unilever has always engaged covered by such provision.
proactively with the ICA and continues to do so to secure a prompt resolution to the outstanding issues.
Also during 2004 in Brazil, and in common with many other businesses operating in that country, one of our Brazilian We cannot exclude that Mars may seek to bring claims in other subsidiaries received a notice of infringement from the Federal jurisdictions, in which case Unilever can be expected to defend its Revenue Service.
The notice alleges that a 2001 reorganisation position vigorously.
We believe that our true strength lies in the of our local corporate structure was undertaken without valid appeal and quality of our ice cream brands.
By way of illustration business purpose.
If upheld, the notice could result in a tax claim of the point, in the UK since 2000, when cabinet exclusivity was in respect of prior years.
The 2001 reorganisation was comparable effectively abandoned by Unilever, there has not been any with that used by many companies in Brazil and we believe that material change in Unilevers relevant market share.
the likelihood of a successful challenge by the tax authorities is remote.
While this view is supported by the opinion of outside counsel there can be no guarantee of success on the merits.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 Report of the Directors continued About Unilever continued Preference shares Our ambitions for our brands are underpinned by our Mission and In 1999, NV issued cumulative preference shares, with a notional Corporate Purpose and our Code of Business Principles.
14.50, as an alternative to a cash dividend.
On encapsulate the values and standards by which we expect our 24 March 2004, NV announced its intention to convert part employees and our business to be judged.
We communicate and 6.53 equivalent to Fl.
14.40 of the notional value of the monitor these standards actively and any lapses are fully preference shares, in accordance with its Articles of Association, investigated: in 2007 we dismissed 54 people for conduct that into NV ordinary shares in the first quarter of 2005.
This breached our Code of Business Principles.
conversion took place in February 2005 for a value of 4.55 for each preference share.
In May 2005, NVs Annual General To reinforce this commitment and maintain our operational Meeting decided to cancel the preference shares and cancellation integrity, we seek to share these standards with our suppliers and took effect in July 2005. contractors through our Business Partner Code.
This sets out standards on ten key points of business ethics, labour standards, In November 2006 NV announced that it had agreed a settlement consumer safety and the environment.
with the main parties in a legal dispute over the conversion of the preference shares.
Former preference shareholders who held In 2007 we reviewed our sustainability strategies for agriculture preference shares on 24 March 2004 were entitled to participate from which about two-thirds of our raw materials come, in the settlement.
These shareholders could apply for the packaging, water and greenhouse gases to connect them more settlement from 20 January 2007 up to and including 30 June closely to our business objectives.
Unilever has paid 304 million in respect of the settlement further information in note 19 on page 102.
Our targets in these areas will help us control costs, respond to our customers and consumers desire to reduce waste and open A group of former preference shareholders who had bought their up avenues for innovation that benefit our consumers, for preference shares after 24 March 2004 and who are not entitled example concentrated laundry products such as all Small & to the settlement, instituted claims with the Rotterdam District Mighty.
Small & Mightys consumer and environmental benets Court for nullification of the NV Boards decision to convert the were promoted by Wal-Mart, helping the brand to grow its sales preference shares and NVs Annual General Meeting decision to in the US to US $140 million in 2007.
Small & Mighty, which uses cancel the preference shares.
The Rotterdam District Court has less water, less packaging and less fuel for transport, has now not yet decided on these claims.
They also claim damages in the launched in Europe across the brand portfolio, for example Persil, amount of approximately 81 million.
These claims will be Surf and Omo.
Many of our major retail customers are focusing on sustainability Corporate responsibility and sustainability and, by sharing our expertise in this area, we are able to We aim to manage and grow our business around the world in a strengthen our relationships with them and grow our business.
responsible and sustainable way, creating long-term value for all For example, the success of our ongoing partnership with Walthose with a stake in our business.
Mart led the worlds largest retailer to name us 2007 Supplier of the Year for Sustainable Engagement.
We believe our brands must be at the forefront of delivering our sustainability commitments.
The successful brands of the future We continue to work in partnership in elds where we can will be those that satisfy both the functional needs of consumers contribute our expertise.
The breadth of our portfolio means we and address their concerns as citizens including concerns about are uniquely placed to share our understanding of how to run the environment and social justice.
effective programmes to improve both nutrition and hygiene.
For example, through our partnership with the UN World Food To enable our brands to integrate social and environmental drivers Programme we are working to improve the health and nutrition into their development plans in a structured way, we are rolling of poor children through school feeding programmes, providing out a programme called Brand Imprint.
This helps our managers over 15 million school meals to 80 000 children in 2007.
With the to understand and assess the challenges and opportunities that FDI World Dental Federation we are running projects to improve sustainability presents for our business.
An early example of the oral care in 38 countries.
In 2007 we contributed 89 million to potential of Brand Imprint is our decision to put the sourcing of communities through corporate and brand initiatives.
all our tea on to a sustainable, ethical basis and to work with the Rainforest Alliance to achieve certication for our tea estates.
In 2007 the strength of our commitment to sustainable Lipton the worlds largest tea brand, and PG Tips, one of the UKs development was recognised by our ranking as foods producers leading brands, became the first to carry the Rainforest Alliance sector leader of the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes for the ninth logo, showing that they meet the independent organisations year running.
We were also ranked best in class in the food strict sustainability criteria.
products sector of the fifth Carbon Disclosure Project a coalition of over 315 global investors with combined assets in excess of Another significant step was taken by our ice cream brand Ben & US $41 trillion and named in its Climate Disclosure Leadership Jerrys, which announced plans to invest 2.4 million over the five Index in recognition of our efforts to address the challenges of years 2007-2012 in reducing its impact on climate change climate change.
through initiatives covering every stage of its European production process.
Further details of the progress we are making to integrate sustainability into our day-to-day business operations can be found in our annual Sustainable Development Report, available at www.
com 12 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
