Report of the Directors continued Outlook and risks The following discussion about outlook and risk management Risk management activities includes forward-looking statements that involve risk Unilevers system of risk management is outlined on page 66. and uncertainties.
The actual results could differ materially from Responsibility for establishing a coherent framework for the those projected.
See the Cautionary statement on the inside Group to manage risk resides with the Boards.
The remit of the back cover.
Boards is outlined on page 33.
Outlook Particular risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to Our strategy is to focus our resources on our priority areas of vary from those described in forward-looking statements within Vitality, personal care, and developing and emerging markets, this document, or which could impact on our ability to meet our where we are well placed to achieve sustainable profitable growth published targets, have been identied.
Unilever has described with our brands and strong value creation for our shareholders.
some mitigating actions it intends to take to address the risks set This is the basis for our strategic plan which aims to deliver out below.
These actions may not succeed in mitigating these consistent and competitive underlying sales growth in the 3-5% risks.
Additionally, Unilever may not be successful in deploying growth range per annum and an operating margin improving to a some or all of these mitigating actions, which may impair level in excess of 15% by 2010.
The underlying sales growth Unilever's profitability or adversely impact its reputation.
range is based on market growth of typically around 3-4%, and reects our ambition to strengthen our leadership positions over Sales and profit growth time.
The increasingly competitive environment, the further consolidation in the marketplace and continued growth of In August 2007, we announced new plans to accelerate change discounters could adversely impact our rate of sales growth and of Unilever, including a step-up in innovation, plans to shape our our profit margins.
In the light of this, we will continue to invest portfolio, and measures to improve our margins, to strengthen in selected brands and high growth market areas in an effort to and further enhance Unilevers financial performance.
These plans include the creation of multi-country organisations in During 2007 we have reinforced our ability to deliver growth by all regions, closure or streamlining of 50-60 factories and a continuing to dispose of low growth or non relevant components further reduction in global and regional overheads.
These changes in the category portfolio i. e. those that do not t with the aim to deliver a reduction in our annual cost base by around strategy.
This we believe has the impact of concentrating brand 1.5 billion by the end of 2010, compared with our 2006 cost strength and therefore reducing the risk of brand equity loss or base.
The related restructuring charges are estimated to amount impairment in our global brands.
It also improves our overall to about 2.5% of sales on average per annum in the period competitive position on a global basis by shifting more turnover 20072009.
For 2010 and beyond, we expect restructuring costs weight into high growth-high share business as a percentage of to come down to a normal level of 0.5% to 1% of turnover per our total portfolio.
We will continue to actively manage our annum.
portfolio with the goal of improving investor returns by strengthening the competitive position of our business.
This, we We also announced our intention to dispose of brands and believe, will also reduce business risk by minimising the weakness businesses with a combined turnover in excess of 2 billion, in our portfolio.
including the sale of our North American laundry business.
The focus is on brands that do not have a longer-term strategic t Our continued sales and profit growth depends in large part on with our strategy and business model or have a strategically our ability to generate and implement a stream of  position in their particular markets.
These valuerelevant improvements to our products.
The contribution of enhancing disposals are expected to collectively improve the innovation is affected by the level of funding that can be made underlying sales growth rate of our business by around 0.4 available, the technical capability of the research and percentage points and will be neutral to operating margin, after development functions, and the success of operating removal of uncovered costs.
management in rolling out quickly the resulting improvements.
Our focus will continue to be on developing our brands in ways We also expect to improve our return on invested capital over that are distinctive and are relevant for our customers.
time, above the base level of 11% in 2004, and to generate ungeared free cash ow of 25-30 billion over the period We have a number of large global brands, including 12 with an 20052010.
It should be noted that previous and planned annual turnover greater than 1 billion, which often depend on disposals and the additional restructuring plans will have reduced global or regional development and supply chains.
Any adverse ungeared free cash ow by about 2.5 billion over this period, event affecting consumer confidence or continuity of supply of while enhancing the ongoing cash generating capacity of the such a brand could have an impact in many markets.
value of intangible assets associated with our brands is significant, and depends on the future success of those brands.
There In February 2008 we indicated that in 2008 we expect underlying remains a risk that events affecting one or more of our global sales growth to be towards the upper end of our 3-5% target brands could potentially impair the value of those brands.
range, and to see a further underlying improvement in operating margin.
In the three-year period 20052007, Unilever generated a cumulative ungeared free cash ow of 12 billion, towards the 25-30 billion target for the six-year period 20052010.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 Report of the Directors continued Outlook and risks continued As the retail market place through which our products are Price and supply of raw materials and distributed continues to evolve, our growth and profitability can commodities contracts be threatened if we do not adapt our strategies and enhance our We faced significant increases in the cost of various commodities operational capabilities.
It is important that we continue to build and raw and packing materials throughout the year.
We have and deepen relationships with our customers.
Plans to raise our been able to substantially mitigate these through a combination effectiveness in the trade, where necessary, receive increasing of price increases, supply chain savings and mix improvements.
We see a trend of increasing commodity prices going into 2008.
In addition to our ongoing actions to mitigate these risks, and Change initiatives where appropriate, we purchase forward contracts for raw The continuing restructuring of the business which is designed to materials and commodities.
Where appropriate, we also use simplify our operations and leverage our scale more effectively, futures contracts to hedge future price movements, however, the includes outsourcing back ofce support operations, forming amounts are not material.
multi-country organisations and converging regional processes and systems.
Building on the experiences of 2007, we will Insurance of risks continue to manage the risks in this area diligently and develop As a multinational group with diverse product offerings and clear action plans in an attempt to mitigate these risks.
Key to this operations in around 100 countries, Unilever is subject to varying is the establishment and maintenance of project management degrees of risk and uncertainty.
It does not take out insurance processes to monitor progress against milestones and targets against all risks and retains a significant element of exposure to together with appropriate communication programmes.
those risks against which it does insure.
However, it insures its business assets in each country against insurable risks as it deems People appropriate.
Unilevers performance targets require it to have the right calibre of people at all levels.
We must compete to obtain capable Financial risks recruits for the business, and then train them in the skills and In addition to the above, Unilever is exposed to various specic competencies that we need to deliver profitable growth.
At a risks in connection with its financial operations and results.
time of substantial change in the business there is a particular These include the following: focus on creating alignment and energetic leadership.
the impact of movement in equity markets, interest rates and Corporate reputation life expectancy on net pension liabilities: Unilever has created a strong corporate reputation over many maintenance of group cash ows at an appropriate level: years, and many of our businesses have a high local prole.
This exposure of debt and cash positions to changes in interest rates: reputation is underpinned by ensuring that all employees embrace potential impact of changes in exchange rates on the Groups the principles prescribed in our Code of Business Principles.
earnings and on the translation of its underlying net assets: Unilever products carrying our well-known brand names are sold market liquidity and counterparty risks: and in over 150 countries.
Should we fail to meet high product safety, risks associated with the holding of our own shares in social, environmental and ethical standards in all our operations connection with share-based remuneration schemes.
and activities, Unilevers corporate reputation could be damaged, leading to the rejection of our products by consumers, damage to Further information about these, including sensitivity analysis to our brands and diversion of management time into rebuilding our changes in certain of the key measures, is given in note 17 on reputation.
Potential economic instability Other risks Around 44% of Unilevers turnover comes from the developing Unilevers businesses are exposed to varying degrees of risk and and emerging economies.
We have long experience in these uncertainty related to other factors including competitive pricing, markets, which are also an important source of our growth.
These consumption levels, physical risks, legislative, scal, tax and economies are typically more volatile than those in the developed regulatory developments, terrorism and economic, political, and world, and there is a risk of downturns in consumer demand that social conditions in the environments where we operate.
All of would reduce the sales of our products.
We will continue to these risks could materially affect the Groups business, our monitor closely performance in the most volatile markets and turnover, operating profit, net profit, net assets and liquidity.
respond quickly in an effort to protect our business.
In cases of There may be risks which are unknown to Unilever or which are extreme social disruption, protecting our people is always the currently believed to be immaterial.
14 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2007
