34 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited accounts for the year In utilising any free cash flow generated, the Board has determined ended 31 December 2007. the following priorities: first, acquisitions or other internally generated business development opportunities meeting Ventures strict investment Principal Activities criteria: second, the repayment of part of the Groups outstanding The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings debt to sustainable long term levels: and third, the return of capital to is oil and gas production.
Its specific focus is on the exploitation of shareholders through dividends or other mechanisms.
discovered but undeveloped fields, known as stranded reserves, through the application of modern technology and oil field operating During the course of 2007, Venture spent 13.9 million 6.3 million practices.
cash and 7.6 million equity on the acquisition of WHAM Energy plc.
In addition, a substantial proportion of the shares needed to satisfy Business Review share-based incentive compensation schemes for management and The Companies Act 1985 requires the Directors Report to include a employees have been met by purchasing shares in the market, as well as Business Review of the Company, giving a true and fair review of the through the issue of additional new shares.
Details of the shares purchased business of the Group and its subsidiary undertakings plus a description by the Company are shown below under the Authority to Purchase of the principal risks and uncertainties.
The Business Review should also Shares section.
include analysis using financial and other key performance indicators KPIs, as well as information relating to environmental and employee This flexible policy will continue, allowing Venture to manage the matters.
The Business Review must also provide an indication of likely purchase of acquisitions, which are an important but unpredictable part future developments in the Groups business and an assessment of the of Ventures growth.
Charitable and Political Donations A review of the Groups business performance during 2007, position at During the year the Group made charitable donations amounting to the year end and likely future developments are reviewed in the Business 18,162 2006: 1,270.
A Social Investment Policy has been approved and Operational Review pages 14 to 29, the Chairmans Statement by the Board and is based around our employees links in the local pages 8 and 9 and the Chief Executives Review pages 10 to 13. communities.
The Group operates an informal Employee Matched The Financial Review pages 30 and 31 covers financial aspects of the Funding Scheme within pre-determined social and financial criteria.
Groups performance during the year with risk management and controls being addressed within the Corporate Governance Report pages 37 No political donations were made and no political expenditure was to 44.
A report on Corporate Social Responsibility appears on pages 54 incurred during the year.
Creditor Payment Policy The information in all of these sections, which fulfils the requirements It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in of the Business Review, is incorporated into this Directors Report accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Group by reference.
and its suppliers, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
Results and Dividend The Groups profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to At 31 December 2007, the Group had an average of 40 days purchases 48.2 million 2006: 81.6 million, which will be transferred to reserves.
The Directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend of 12.0 pence Directors per share 2006: 10.0 pence.
No special dividend is proposed The current Directors of the Company and their biographical details 2006: 40.0 pence.
are contained on pages 32 and 33 and their interests, including share options in the Companys share capital, are set out in the Directors Dividends have been waived on the holdings of Venture Production IOM Remuneration Report on page 50.
On 16 June 2007, Rod Begbie was appointed as Corporate Development Dividend Policy Director, having joined Venture in 2002 as Corporate Development As an oil and gas production company, Venture is required to maintain Manager.
This reflects the importance of this activity to our next stage of high and sustained levels of capital reinvestment into its business.
Up development and the Boards wish for clear Board level accountability.
to 2005, Venture had invested far greater levels of capital than it had generated in operating cash flow.
This shortfall has been funded by Following the announcement of the strategic partnership with a combination of debt and equity financing.
During 2006 and 2007 3i Group plc and its affiliates and ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC in July Venture generated free cash flow expenditures and expects to continue and subsequent approval of the 151 million convertible bond financing doing so.
in August, two new Non-Executive Directors were appointed.
Robb Turner, co-founder of ArcLight, was appointed on 12 September and Graeme Sword, a partner with 3is Oil, Gas and Power business unit, joined the Board on 24 October.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 Marie-Louise Clayton, having indicated her intention to leave the Board Authority to Purchase Shares earlier in the year, was replaced as Finance Director by Peter Turner on The authority given at last years AGM held on 6 June 2007 for the 6 December.
Company to purchase in the market up to 13,349,629 of its ordinary shares, representing 10% of the issued share capital, expires on 14 May 2008.
On 3 March 2008 Andrew Carr-Locke joined the Board as an additional Shareholders will be asked to give a similar authority at the 2008 AGM.
No shares have been purchased under the authority granted at the The Companys Articles of Association require that one third of the AGM in 2007, however, 2,173,250 ordinary shares of 0.4 pence each were Directors must submit themselves for re-election each year by rotation.
purchased in January and February 2007 under the authority granted Additionally, newly appointed Directors will submit themselves for in 2006 for a total consideration of 15.8 million at an average price of election at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The shares were purchased in an on-market programme of buying back the Companys shares, initiated in May 2006.
No Director was or is materially interested in any contract which was significant in relation to the Groups business, other than his service At the date of this report all the shares bought back had been transferred contract, where appropriate, during or at the end of the period.
out of treasury into the Companys Employee Benefit Trust to meet Details of service contracts are set out on pages 49 and 50.
During the obligations under employee share plans.
year, the Company maintained insurance for its Directors and Officers.
No dividends are paid on treasury shares and no voting rights attach An evaluation has been carried out of each Directors performance to them.
during the year and it has been concluded that each Director continues to be effective and demonstrates a strong commitment to the role.
Employees and Employment Practices Employees are encouraged to become involved in the Groups operating Substantial Shareholdings performance and in all matters that affect them.
Regular performance At 10 March 2008 the Companys share register of substantial updates are provided by the Executive team and also on employment shareholdings showed the following interests in 3% or more of the related matters such as appraisal training, stress counselling workshops Companys issued share capital: and winter driver training.
Number of Ordinary Shares % A significant proportion of the employee bonus arrangements are linked to overall Group performance and employee involvement in key targets is encouraged through appropriate incentive schemes.
Employees are Schroders Investment Management 15,576,117 10.88 also actively encouraged to participate in the Companys Share Incentive Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 12,671,380 8.85 Plan, which all employees are eligible to join after six months service.
LW Kinch 11,049,572 7.72 ArcLight Capital Partners, LLC 10,186,510 7.11 The Group remains committed to improving the skills, knowledge and AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 8,410,804 5.87 competence of all employees and appropriate training is provided in a 3i Group plc 8,108,328 5.66 number of areas.
Legal & General Investment Management 6,818,485 4.76 Lloyds TSB Group plc 6,610,756 4.62 The development needs of all employees are reviewed as part of the Barclays Plc 4,580,305 3.20 annual appraisal process and development activity is a key part of this process.
Share Capital The share capital and the changes during the year are described in The Group acknowledges the importance of its workforce and its aim is Note 26 on page 93. to attract, retain and motivate high calibre employees.
Annual General Meeting AGM The Group gives full and sympathetic consideration to the employment, The Companys AGM will be held on 14 May 2008 at the Copthorne training, career development and promotion of disabled employees.
Hotel, Huntly Street, Aberdeen and the Notice of Meeting has been As far as employees who become disabled during their employment circulated separately to shareholders with this report.
are concerned each case is judged on its own specific circumstances.
The Group is opposed to all forms of discrimination and offers equal access to employment, promotion and development regardless of gender, race, ethnic origin, religion, sexual orientation, age and disability.
36 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report continued Going Concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing these accounts, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently.
Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts.
Prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and for ensuring that the accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and hence for taking reasonable steps to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Auditors and Disclosure of Information to Auditors So far as the Directors are aware there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The Directors will place a resolution before the AGM to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Group to hold office until the conclusion at the next general meeting, at which the accounts are laid before the Company.
By Order of the Board Simon N Waite Company Secretary 17 March 2008
