32 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Board of Directors Executive Directors 1 2 1.
Michael Wagstaff 46 Chief Executive Member of the Nominations Committee Mike Wagstaff took over as Chief Executive in September 2004, having joined Venture as Finance Director in June 1999 and he was appointed to the Board on 26 October 1999.
He began his career with Shell as a Petroleum Engineer based in various locations in Western Europe.
From 1988 to 1999, he was employed by Schroders in its Corporate Finance 3 4 department, based in London and New York, where he provided corporate finance advice to a wide range of energy companies including Venture.
Jon Murphy 52 Chief Operating Officer Jon Murphy joined Venture in March 1999 and was appointed a Director on 16 August 1999.
He is a geologist by profession and, prior to joining Venture, he spent over ten years with LASMO.
His positions within LASMO included Chief Geologist in Indonesia and New Business 5 6 Manager in Pakistan.
Prior to joining LASMO, he served in several senior technical positions for Conoco, Texas Eastern and Thomson North Sea.
Peter Turner 37 Finance Director Peter Turner was appointed to the Board on 6 December 2007 as Finance Director.
He was previously at The BOC Group plc, prior to its acquisition by Linde AG, where he held a number of senior financial positions including Director of Taxation and Treasury and Finance Director of the 7 8 groups largest division, Industrial and Special Products.
Peter qualified as a Chartered Accountant whilst working at  and has a degree in chemistry from Oxford University.
Rod Begbie 41 Corporate Development Director Rod Begbie joined Venture in August 2002 and was appointed a Director on 19 June 2007.
He has 16 years experience in corporate finance and private equity and spent the early part of his career as a management 9 10 consultant, before moving into a Group Corporate Strategy role at the Royal Bank of Scotland.
Latterly he was a Director of ING Barings pan-European private equity business, a position that followed four years of successful investing as an Assistant Director within the private equity arm of RBS.
Having spent his early life in Aberdeen, he returned in 2002, after completing an MBA at INSEAD.
John Morgan 63 Chairman Chairman of the Nominations Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee John Morgan was appointed a Director of Venture on 7 September 1998.
He worked for BP for over 30 years and held senior positions in that company including Head of South East Asia Exploration Office, North Sea Commercial Manager, General Manager North Sea Operations and President BP Exploration Alaska.
He is also a Director of John Wood 13 Group PLC.
Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 6.
Robb Turner 45 Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Robb Turner was appointed a Director of Venture on 12 September 2007.
Chairman of the Audit Committee: member of the Remuneration He is a co-founder of ArcLight Capital Partners and has 17 years of energy Committee and member of the Nominations Committee finance, corporate finance, and public and private equity investment Mark Nicholls was appointed a Director of Venture on 15 January 2004. experience.
Prior to forming ArcLight in 2000, Robb founded and built Having qualified as a Solicitor, he spent most of his career with SG Berenson Minella & Companys energy advisory practice.
From 1990 to Warburg, becoming Head of Corporate Finance and a main board 1998, he held senior positions at Smith Barney, Schroders, Wasserstein Director of the SG Warburg Group.
More recently his broad knowledge Perella and Kidder, and Peabody & Co. where he was responsible of the financial market place was applied at the Royal Bank of Scotland for advising on buyouts, corporate finance structures, and mergers Group where he was Managing Director of the private equity group.
Robb earned a Bachelor of Science in Engineering Currently he is Non-Executive Chairman of EcoSecurities Group plc from the US Military Academy at West Point and a Master of Business and a Non-Executive Director of Nationwide Building Society, Administration from Harvard Business School.
Northern Investors Company plc and Evolution Group plc.
Larry Kinch 54 Member of the Remuneration Committee Larry Kinch is a founder of Venture and was appointed a Director Tom Blades was appointed a Director of Venture on 16 March 2006. on 1 November 1996.
He is a Petroleum Engineer by profession and his A qualified Chartered Electrical Engineer, he spent most of his formative previous experience was with Schlumberger, Shell and BP as an Engineer.
years with Schlumberger, the majority of these in managerial positions In 1985, Larry co-founded Petroleum Engineering Services, an Aberdeen worldwide.
Since then he has led Numar Corporation through its rapid based oil field equipment and services company, which was acquired post-IPO growth and following its acquisition, briefly became Executive by Halliburton Company in February 2000.
He also established Energy Vice-President of Halliburton.
As President and Chief Executive Officer of Development Partners, of which he is Chairman.
Spectro, a specialised manufacturer in the global analytical instruments industry, he restructured the company and implemented a programme 8.
Alan Jones 63 Independent of fundamental change.
For the past three years Tom has been Chief Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: member of the Executive Officer of Choren Industries, a German technology company, Audit Committee and member of the Nominations Committee which he has transformed to become the world leader in the conversion Alan Jones was appointed a Director of Venture on 28 April 2005.
In his 35 of biomass to synthetic transport fuels.
He is also a Director of Twister BV.
year career with BP he gained extensive experience, both internationally and in the North Sea in major oil field developments and in operational 12.
He was responsible for managing the successful $6 billion Graeme Sword was appointed a Director of Venture on 24 October 2007 development of BPs Cuisiana and Cupiagua fields in Colombia.
Alan retired and is a Partner with 3i as well as Head of 3is Oil, Gas & Power business from BP in 2000 after three years as regional President of BP in Scotland, unit.
He started his career in brand management with Unilever before during which time he was a member of the Government task force joining 3i in 1995.
Graeme was appointed a Partner with 3i in 2001 examining the future of the UK oil and gas industry.
and took up his current position in 2002.
In his career he has led a number of high profile transactions in the exploration and production 9.
Tom Ehret 56 Independent and oil service sectors including Petrofac, Vetco, Dockwise and Member of the Audit Committee Delta Hydrocarbons.
Graeme also serves on the Boards of Energy Tom Ehret was appointed a Director of Venture on 16 March 2006.
Development Partners and Delta Hydrocarbons.
Graeme holds an He trained as a mechanical engineer and in his 30 year career has held MA from the University of Dundee.
a variety of both technical and commercial positions in several leading offshore engineering and construction companies.
Andrew Carr-Locke 54 Independent he has been instrumental in several industry shaping moves, including Member of the Audit Committee the turnaround of the loss-making Stena Offshore, its acquisition of Andrew Carr-Locke was appointed a Director of Venture on 3 March Santa Fes pipelay business and the merger between Stena Offshore 2008.
He was Finance Director of George Wimpey PLC for six years until and Coflexip, the leading company at that time in the subsea sector.
June 2007 when the Company merged with Taylor Woodrow.
A Fellow Following his success as Chief Executive Officer of Stena Offshore of the Chartered Institute of Cost and Management Accountants, subsequently Coflexip-Stena Offshore, CSO, Tom became Group Andrew has extensive experience of working at a senior level in a Vice-Chairman and President of the offshore branch of Technip following number of high profile roles.
Before joining George Wimpey he was its acquisition of CSO.
He is now Chief Executive Officer of Acergy SA, Group Finance Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc, prior to which he was a leading offshore contractor to the oil and gas industry, and was European Finance Director at United Distillers and Vintners.
Andrew was recently appointed as a Director of Dockwise.
also a Non-Executive Director of the utility company AWG plc from 2003 until it was successfully sold and delisted in 2007.
