2 Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 What we do, our goals and how we get things done We turn stranded fields into profitable assets by applying Implementation advanced technology, modern operating practices and T ight geographic focus: concentrated North Sea player.
Operatorship and large working interests: control over our destiny.
Core areas production hubs: building competitive advantage.
Venture is often referred to as a new generation oil and gas Achieving critical mass and scale with portfolio diversification.
But what does that mean exactly?
Venture is an independent company part of a new generation of energy companies working collaboratively with governments, Stranded fields defined suppliers and larger companies to tap the full potential of fields Producing fields or undeveloped discoveries that: left stranded by a changing industry.
May be too small to be economic for larger companies.
May need investment, modernisation or rehabilitation.
In todays maturing oil industry, Venture is The New Generation.
May no longer fit with a companys strategy e. g. a company decides to sell its North Sea fields in order to shift its focus overseas.
Our strategy Mature basin acquisition and exploitation business model.
These fields often have huge potential for the right company with Focus on acquiring and developing proved but stranded the right strategy.
Focus on assets with development potential.
1015% of annual investment into lower risk exploration.
Years of unprecedented mergers have made larger oil companies Lower absolute reserves potential than wildcat frontier even bigger.
It makes good economic sense for these larger companies exploration but lower risk and faster project cycle times.
to focus on bigger fields, using their vast resources where they will get Leading to better risked returns.
This has left many smaller fields stranded or dormant.
While these fields may be marginal to a large company, they can be profitable to a smaller company with an innovative approach.
Venture was created to take advantage of this opportunity in the UK market, emulating the successful precedents set in the North American market.
Value creation and corporate structure The Venture business model is Lower our cost of capital designed to deliver maximum Efficient balance sheet Reduce acquisition, value to shareholders as follows: Recycle capital faster finding and development Maximise return on equity costs Reduce acquisition, finding and development costs Maximise cash margin Smart deals Maximise unit revenues VaLue Control capital costs Control lifting costs Sensible innovation Minimise cash taxes Lower our cost Maximise cash of capital margin Overview of Our Business Our Performance in 2007 Governance Accounts & Notes Venture Production plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3 We achieve our goals by being...
Highly focused Operators and owners Every aspect of our operation is designed As operators and owners of many of our to revitalise stranded oil and gas fields.
fields, we have far greater control over the This is our core business, allowing us to safety, quality, and development of our focus on precisely the kind of expertise assets.
We can apply the right technology, needed to make such fields a success.
the best people and the necessary resources to achieve success.
Risk aware Because Venture targets fields that have Committed to modern technology already been discovered, or are currently applied intelligently producing, and by only making limited Venture offers a range of innovative investment in lower risk exploration technical solutions, but its more than we avoid the huge expenses and technology we bring to a field.
We know risks associated with wildcat frontier when to use it.
To ensure our fields are exploration.
We focus on proven oil and economical, Venture carefully chooses gas.
We know the potential is there.
its technologies, looking at both the We just need to tap into it, quickly and technical and financial needs of a field.
Trusted partners Lean and nimble We know that transferring operatorship To thrive in this growing niche market, of a field requires trust.
At Venture, we have a company needs to be able to move a highly experienced management team.
At Venture, we We have a track record of success, have built a highly efficient organisation.
dramatically increasing production in Freed of large overheads and bureaucratic field after field.
We have sound financial backlogs, we can focus on smaller assets backing.
Our commitment to health, and ensure their profitability.
safety and the environment is backed by action.
We have worked hard to build a world-class organisation a partner you can trust.
Venture Production plc Venture Production VP Infrastructure VP Services VP Investment Holdings GKA Pipeline ETS Pipeline Oil Gas 49.9% 49.9% Trees GMA GKA A Fields Other CNS
