DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Dividends audited accounts of the Group and of the Company, Cookson The Board is recommending a final dividend in respect of 2007 of Group plc, for the year ended 31 December 2007.
8.75p 2006: 7.00p per ordinary share which, if approved, will be The Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review, the paid on 9 June 2008 to shareholders on the register at 23 May Financial Review, the Corporate Governance Report, the 2008.
An interim dividend of 4.25p 2006: 3.00p per ordinary Corporate Responsibility and Health, Safety and Environmental share was paid on 15 October 2007 to shareholders on the Statements and Board of Directors section of the Annual Report register at 28 September 2007, making total dividends of 13.00p are each incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this per ordinary share for the year 2006: 10.00p.
The Annual Report contains certain forward-looking Accountability and audit statements with respect to the operations, performance and A responsibility statement of the Directors and a statement by financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these statements the Auditor about its reporting responsibilities can be found on involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can pages 48 and 49, respectively.
The Directors fulfil the cause results and developments to differ materially from those responsibilities set out in their statement within the context of an anticipated.
The forward-looking statements reflect knowledge overall control environment of central strategic direction and and information available at the date of preparation of this Annual decentralised operating responsibility.
Report and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
Nothing in this Annual Report should Disclosure of information to the Auditor be construed as a profit forecast.
As at the date of this report, so far as each Director of the Company is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Principal activities the Companys Auditor is unaware and each Director hereby Cookson Group plc is a leading materials science company which confirms that he has taken all the steps that he ought to have provides materials, processes and services to customers taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant worldwide.
The Groups operations are formed into three divisions audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditor is Ceramics, Electronics and Precious Metals.
Known in its markets aware of that information.
as Vesuvius, the Ceramics division is the world leader in the supply of advanced steel flow control refractory products and systems to Auditor the global steel industry and a leading supplier of specialist Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditor ceramic products to the glass, solar and foundry industries.
It is of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine its also a regional leader in the US, UK and Australia in the supply and remuneration are to be proposed at the AGM.
installation of monolithic refractory linings.
The Electronics division is a leading supplier of advanced surface treatment and Remuneration matters plating chemicals and assembly materials to the electronics, The Directors Remuneration Report appears on pages 42 to 47. industrial and automotive markets.
It comprises two sectors: Neither of the executive Directors contracts contains any change Assembly Materials and Chemistry.
The Precious Metals division is of control provisions.
a leading supplier of fabricated precious metals primarily gold, silver and platinum to the jewellery industry in the US, the UK, Remuneration of the Chairman and non-executive Directors France and Spain.
Products include alloy materials, semi-finished The Board considers the remuneration policy for the nonjewellery components and finished jewellery.
Non-executive Directors fees have not been increased during the year and remain at 40,000 per annum.
Business review A supplementary fee is payable to the Chairman of the Audit As required by the Companies Act 1985, the Company must Committee of 15,000 per annum.
The Chairman of the provide a fair review of the development and performance of the Remuneration Committee receives a supplementary fee of Group during 2007, its financial position at the end of the year and 10,000 per annum and a supplementary fee of 5,000 per likely future developments in the Groups business, together with annum is payable to the Senior Independent Director.
No changes information on environmental matters and employees and a were made in 2007 to the supplementary fees payable.
description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the The Group Chairmans remuneration, which is subject to Group.
The information which satisfies these requirements is to be periodic review, is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
found in the Chief Executives Review on pages 8 and 9: the There was no change to the Group Chairmans remuneration, Operating Review on pages 10 to 22: the Financial Review on pages which was reviewed during the year.
Neither the Group Chairman, 23 to 27: the Corporate Responsibility and Health, Safety and who is not an executive Director, nor the other non-executive Environmental Statements on pages 28 to 29: and the Corporate Directors are members of the Groups pension plans, nor do they Governance Report on pages 32 to 37. participate in the Groups incentive schemes.
Going concern Directors The financial statements of the Company and the Group, Biographical information for the Directors of the Company who respectively, have been prepared on a going concern basis as the served during the year is given on page 31.
Messrs Oosterveld, Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate Perry, Salmon and Sussens will retire at the AGM and will offer resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Further information on the service Cookson Group plc 38 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE agreements of the executive Directors, including Mr Salmon, is For the Groups UK defined benefit and defined contribution given on page 45.
The non-executive Directors, including Messrs plans a Trustee board exists comprising employees, former Oosterveld, Perry and Sussens, do not have such agreements.
employees and an independent trustee.
With effect from 1 January 2008, the board comprises six trustee directors, of whom two are Legal matters member nominated.
The administration of each plan is outsourced.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group The Company is mindful of its obligations under the Pensions Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure in place for Act 2004 and of the need to comply with the guidance issued by Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent the Pensions Regulator.
Regular dialogue is maintained between legal advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
the Company and the Trustee board of the UK plans to ensure that both Company and Trustee are apprised of the same Directors indemnities financial and other information about the Group and the plans The Companys Directors are indemnified under the Companys which is pertinent to each being able to contribute to the Articles of Association.
effective functioning of the plans.
The Company currently has in place a schedule of contributions, agreed with the Trustee board, Employment policies which aims to reduce to zero the deficit existing on the UK A fundamental concept embodied in the Companys Code of defined benefit plan as at 31 December 2005 within five years Conduct is that Cooksons goals can only be met through the from that date.
The adequacy of this schedule of contributions efforts of its employees.
Cookson recognises that job satisfaction will be monitored over time, so as to assess the need for it to be requires working environments that motivate employees to be modified in the light of changes in the deficit position.
productive and innovative and provide opportunities for All US retirement plan assets are held in trust for the exclusive employee training and development to maximise personal benefit of plan participants and their beneficiaries.
An potential and develop careers within the Group.
independent financial institution acts as the trustee.
The trust Cookson is managed on a decentralised basis and within each assets are protected by law and by Federal Government Regulation division it is the responsibility of the relevant divisional Chief and are subject to annual audit by an independent accountant, the Executive to adopt employment policies and practices that best Internal Revenue Service and the Department of Labor.
suit the size, style and geographical location of their operations.
Further details of pension arrangements are given in note 37 This allows the Groups operations to respond competitively to on pages 89 to 95. changes in the marketplace and to develop and retain a strong sense of identity whilst benefiting from being a part of a major Donations international group.
Cookson values the involvement of its Donations in the UK for charitable purposes were 0.1m 2006: employees and keeps them informed on matters affecting them as 0.1m : and donations throughout the Group were 0.1m 2006: employees and factors relevant to the performance of the Group.
In accordance with Company policy, no political donations It is established policy throughout Cookson that decisions on were made in either 2007 or 2006. recruitment, career development, training, promotion and other employment-related issues are made solely on grounds of Creditor payment policy individual ability, achievement, expertise and conduct.
These Each operating company in the Group is responsible for agreeing principles are operated on a non-discriminatory basis.
Cookson the terms and conditions under which business transactions with gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment their suppliers are conducted.
It is Group policy that payments to from disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled suppliers are made in accordance with these terms, provided that during their employment with Cookson, every effort is made to the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and enable them to continue their service with the Group.
In the Company-only accounts of Cookson Group plc as at 31 December 2007, the number of days purchases Pensions outstanding was 9 2006: 22 days.
In each country in which the Group operates, the pension arrangements in place are considered to be consistent with good Significant agreements employment practice in that particular area.
Independent A change of control of the Company following a takeover bid advisers are used to ensure that the plans are operated in may cause a number of agreements to which the Company and accordance with local legislation and the rules of each plan.
its subsidiaries are party, such as funding arrangements, to alter Group policy prohibits direct investment of pension fund assets in or terminate.
Non-compliance with the change of control clauses its own businesses.
Outside the UK and the US, the majority of in the Groups funding arrangements, or failure to reach pension plans in the Group are of a defined contribution nature.
agreement with the parties on revised terms, would require the The Groups UK defined benefit plan and main US defined acquirer to put in place replacement facilities.
In addition, the benefit plans are closed to new entrants and, during the first Groups share incentive plans would similarly be affected upon a quarter of 2007, the Groups two largest US defined benefit pension change of control.
plans ceased providing future benefit accrual, with members instead being provided with a broadly equivalent benefit through a Share capital defined contribution plan.
Benefit accrual under the Groups UK As at the date of this report, the Company has an issued share defined benefit pension plan continues for those employees who capital of 212,582,043 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The total joined prior to the closure of the plan to new entrants.
Defined number of Cookson Group plc shares with voting rights is therefore contribution plans exist for new employees in the UK and the US.
The Company currently has only one class of shares.
Cookson Group plc 39 Annual Report 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Details of movements in the Companys issued share capital The Companys Articles specify that, subject to the during the year are given in note 30 on pages 81 and 82. authorisation of an appropriate resolution passed by a general On 11 October 2007, the Company made a non pre-emptive meeting of the Company, Directors can allot relevant securities placing of 18,583,519 new ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The under Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, up to the aggregate placing was carried out to part finance a recommended cash offer nominal amount specified by the Act.
In addition, the Articles by Cookson for the entire issued and to be issued share capital of state that the Directors can seek the authority of shareholders in Foseco plc.
The placing shares represented approximately 9.6 per general meeting to allot equity securities for cash without first cent.
of the Companys issued share capital.
They were credited as being required to offer such shares to existing ordinary fully paid and rank pari passu in all respects with the existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings in issued ordinary shares in the Company, including the right to connection with a rights issue and in other circumstances up to receive all dividends and other distributions declared.
an aggregate nominal amount as specified in Section 89 1 of the The Company operates a number of share-based share Companies Act 1985. incentive plans further details about these are given in the Directors Remuneration Report.
For the majority of these plans Transfer of Shares the Company can satisfy entitlements either by the acquisition of All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be existing shares or by the issue of new shares.
Existing shares are effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in held in an employee share ownership trust ESOP.
The trustees any other form acceptable to the Directors and may be under of the ESOP purchase shares in the open market as required, to hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on enable the Company to meet liabilities for the provision of behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid existing shares to satisfy awards that vest.
The trustees do not shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall register votes in respect of these shares.
remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the Since the year end, 19,194 ordinary shares have been issued transferee is entered in the Register in respect thereof.
All as a result of exercises of options granted under the Companys instruments of transfer which are registered may be retained by share option schemes.
Resolutions giving the Directors the the Company.
Provided that the Directors may dispense with the authority to allot further shares and make allotments of shares to execution of the instrument of transfer by the transferee in any persons other than existing shareholders in certain circumstances case in which they think fit in their discretion to do so.
All will again be proposed at the AGM.
transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
Additional information for shareholders The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it is in Companys current Articles and applicable English law concerning respect of only one class of share and is lodged duly stamped if companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act required at the Transfer Office accompanied by the relevant 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only share certificate s and such other evidence as the Directors may and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the should be consulted if further information is required.
Certain transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some amendments will be proposed to the Articles at the Companys other person on his or her behalf, the authority of that person so AGM to be held on 15 May 2008 to be effective immediately, with to do.
further amendments to be effective 1 October 2008, as explained The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in the Notice of the AGM.
A copy of the Companys current in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, Articles, together with a copy marked up to show the proposed refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully-paid amendments, are available by application to the Group Secretary shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in at the Registered Office.
such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also Authority for purchase of own shares refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether Subject to the provisions of company law and any other fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the applicable regulations, the Company may purchase its own Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares shares.
However, it may not purchase or enter into a contract to they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of purchase any convertible shares, unless the terms of issue of allotment or instrument of transfer was lodged with the Company such convertible shares include provisions permitting the send to the allottee or transferee notice of the refusal.
Company to purchase its own equity shares or providing for A shareholder does not generally need to obtain the approval adjustment to the conversion terms upon such a purchase: or the of the Company or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, purchase, or the contract, has first been approved by an for a transfer to take place.
extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of the The Articles contain certain restrictions that give the holders of such convertible shares.
Directors the ability to limit the number of US persons who hold At the 2007 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed shares in the Company.
The application of these restrictions authority to make market purchases of up to a maximum of 10% enabled the Company to suspend its obligations under the US at that time of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
As at Securities Exchange Act of 1934. the date of this report, the Company has made no such purchases under this authority.
The Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of this authority at each AGM.
Cookson Group plc 40 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE Voting Rights served with a notice to provide the Company with information Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or under Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has failed to restrictions attached to any class of shares, at a shareholders do so within 14 days, then unless the Directors otherwise meeting every shareholder who is present in person and every determine the member shall not for so long as the default duly appointed proxy shall have one vote on a show of hands, and continues be entitled to attend or vote either personally or by on a poll every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right shall have one vote for every ordinary share of which he or she is conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior holder who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, Appointment and replacement of Directors shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint The Company shall have no less than five and no more than holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the fifteen Directors.
The Company may, by ordinary resolution from order in which the names stand in the share register.
A shareholder time to time, vary the minimum number and or maximum number entitled to attend and vote at a shareholders meeting is entitled of Directors.
At each AGM all those Directors who were elected or to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise all or any of his rights to last re-elected at or before the AGM held in the third calendar attend and speak and vote in his or her place.
A shareholder may year before the current year shall retire from office by rotation.
appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting A retiring Director shall be eligible for re-election.
The Board may provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number attached to a different share or shares by the shareholder.
of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Proxies need not be shareholders of the Company.
For the Any such Director shall only hold office until the next AGM and purposes of determining which persons are entitled to attend or shall then be eligible for election.
vote at a meeting and how many votes such a person may cast, the Company may specify in the notice of meeting a time, not Amendment of Articles of Association more than 48 hours before the time fixed for the meeting, by The Company may make amendments to the Articles of the which a person must be entered on the share register in order to Company by way of special resolution in accordance with the have the right to attend or vote at the meeting.
Restrictions on shares Interests in the Companys shares The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of dividends As at the date of this report, the Company has been notified in or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from accordance with DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules a person with a 0.25 percent interest or more in the Company if of the following interests in its issued ordinary shares: such person has been served with a notice after failure to provide % the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Standard Life Group 11.18 Goldman Sachs Group, Inc 8.92 Variation of rights Aviva plc 5.46 Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any JPMorgan Chase & Co 4.95 class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 4.02 holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the Axa S. A 3.86 issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general The interests of Directors and their connected persons in the meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing ordinary shares of the Company, all of which are beneficial, as by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares disclosed in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing of the class.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares Authority are as set out on page 46 and details of the Directors shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights long-term incentive awards are set out on page 47. attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
By Order of the Board Restrictions on voting No shareholder shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him or her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to Richard M H Malthouse shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable Group Secretary by him or her to the Company in respect of that share remains 11 March 2008 unpaid.
In addition, if any member, or any other person appearing to be interested in shares held by such member, has been duly Cookson Group plc 41 Annual Report 2007
