BOARD OF DIRECTORS Robert Beeston Nick Salmon Mike Butterworth John Sussens Jeff Hewitt Jan Oosterveld Barry Perry Richard Malthouse Cookson Group plc 30 Annual Report 2007 OUR GOVERNANCE Robert Beeston Nick Salmon Chairman c, d Chief Executive c, d, f Joined the Cookson Board in April 2003 and was appointed Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Chairman at the Companys Annual General Meeting later that Prior to joining Cookson, Nick was Executive Vice President month.
Previously he was the Chief Executive Officer at Bob was the Chief Executive Officer of FKI plc from 1992 to Babcock International Group plc and earlier held positions with 2002 and prior to that was Managing Director of BTR Valve GEC and China Light and Power.
Nick is the Senior Independent Group.
He is also Chairman of Elementis plc and Senior Director of United Utilities plc.
Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of DS Smith plc.
Mike Butterworth John Sussens Group Finance Director d, f Non-executive Director a, b, e Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and assumed the Appointed to the Cookson Board in May 2004 and is Chairman of role of Group Finance Director in August 2005. the Remuneration Committee and Senior Independent Director.
Prior to joining Cookson, Mike was Group Finance Director of John was previously Managing Director of Misys plc.
He previously spent five years as Group currently Senior non-executive Director and Chairman of the Financial Controller at BBA Group plc.
Remuneration Committee of Admiral Group plc.
He is also a nonexecutive director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of Phoenix IT Group plc and a non-executive director of Anglo & Overseas plc.
Jeff Hewitt Jan Oosterveld Non-executive Director a, b Non-executive Director a, b Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2005 and is Chairman Appointed to the Cookson Board in June 2004. of the Audit Committee.
Jan spent the majority of his career at Royal Philips Jeff was previously Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Electronics, latterly serving as a member of the Group Director of Electrocomponents plc.
He is Senior Independent Management Committee.
He is Chairman of the Supervisory Director of TDG plc and Chairman of Regenersis plc.
He is also a Board of Crucell N. V. and a non-executive director of Continental non-executive director of Whatman plc, and the external AG, Barco N. V. and Atos Origin S. A.. Jan is also a Professor at Chairman of the Audit Committee of John Lewis Partnership.
IESE Business School in Barcelona.
Barry W Perry Richard Malthouse Non-executive Director a, b Group Secretary f, g Appointed to the Cookson Board in January 2002.
Barry was formerly Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Richard was previously the Group Secretary of Del Monte Engelhard Corporation, a US-based surface and materials Foods International.
He has held the equivalent or senior science company.
Prior to that he held senior executive positions company secretarial positions in pharmaceutical, engineering with Rhone-Poulenc and with General Electric Co. Barry is a nonand automobile manufacturing companies.
executive director of Arrow Electronics, Inc and Ashland Inc. a Member of the Audit Committee b Member of the Remuneration Committee c Member of the Nominations Committee: the membership also includes any three non-executive Directors d Member of the Finance Committee e Senior Independent Director f Member of the Executive Committee g Not a member of the Board Cookson Group plc 31 Annual Report 2007
