Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED BUSINESS OVERVIEW INTERNATIONAL ASIA INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGY CENTER Financial results Cash flow Revenue for the year was 131.0m 2006: 122.5m, an increase of Cash flow generated from operations was 50.7m 2006: 54.8m 7%.
Underlying revenue, excluding the adverse impact of exchange as the impact of improved trading was offset by increased working rates, was up 10% on 2006. capital, primarily trade receivables and inventories.
Gross profit increased by 11% to 84.5m 2006: 75.8m, representing Capital expenditure cash payments amounted to 37.2m a gross margin of 64.5% of turnover 2006: 61.9%.
increase was partly due to the previously announced closure of the At the year end, the Group had net cash of 13.7m 2006: 26.9m.
small low margin fluorides business.
Margin also benefited from an The Group renewed its committed bank facility of 40m, all of which increased Invibio contribution with the Group gross margin excluding was undrawn at the year end.
This facility expires in September 2012. the fluorides business increasing to 65.0% from 64.1% in 2006.
Operational review Sales, marketing and administrative expenses increased by 8% to Markets 33.2m 2006: 30.7m, primarily reflecting ongoing investment in Sales volume for the year grew by 7% to 2,508 tonnes 2006: 2,339 product and application development.
Second half sales volume of 1,222 tonnes was in line with As expected, exchange rates have had an adverse impact of 2.0m the previous second half 1,226 tonnes but 5% down on the first half on profit before tax, compared to 2006, due to the strengthening of 1,286 tonnes.
However, Group sales volume in August and September Sterling against our key trading currencies Yen, Euro and US Dollar.
increased to levels similar to those achieved in the first half.
Resulting profit before tax was 52.0m, 13% up on 2006 46.1m.
Of our three principal market segments, industrial sales volume was Underlying profit before tax excluding this currency impact was up 16% at 885 tonnes 2006: 761 tonnes, largely due to increased 54.0m, an increase of 17% over 2006. demand from oil and gas and chemical processing customers.
The Basic earnings per share were up 14% at 44.9p 2006: 39.4p.
strong first half performance 439 tonnes was maintained in the Underlying earnings per share, excluding the adverse currency impact, second half 446 tonnes.
At 658 tonnes, transport sales volume was up 6% on 2006 The overall effective tax rate including deferred tax was 30% 619 tonnes principally as a result of increased commercial aerospace 2006: 31%.
We also saw increased automotive sales in the United States and Japan partially offset by marginally lower sales in Europe.
Second half Dividend sales volume of 324 tonnes was in line with the first half of 334 tonnes.
In recognition of another year of strong performance, the Directors are recommending a final dividend of 12.6p 2006: 10.2p per ordinary Electronics sales volume for the year was down 2% at 645 tonnes share, making a total of 17.3p 2006: 14.4p per ordinary share for the 2006: 658 tonnes as a result of a decrease in second half sales which, year, an increase of 20% over last year.
This represents dividend cover at 292 tonnes, were 17% below the record first half of 353 tonnes.
This was largely due to reduced demand from European processors for use in Asia-Pacific applications.
Regionally, United States sales volume of 791 tonnes was 9% up on the previous year 724 tonnes largely due to growth in the automotive, commercial aerospace and oil and gas segments, partially offset by reduced semiconductor sales.
Second half volume was 402 tonnes compared with 389 tonnes for the first half.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 INNOVATION APTIV FILM In a direct response to customer and market demands Victrex has launched APTIV film, a range of high performance film products made from VICTREX PEEK polymer, making it one of the most versatile and high performing films available.
APTIV film is produced at a newly-constructed film As part of the Companys continuing drive to meet customer extrusion plant located at Victrexs UK requirements in Asia, Victrex opened its Asia Innovation headquarters in Thornton Cleveleys.
and Technology Center AITC in Shanghai in 2006.
The 5m state-of-the-art facility The facility provides customers with expertise and support is the worlds first high-volume film in material specification, testing, research and application production facility dedicated to development.
The state-of-the-art facility addresses the producing VICTREX PEEK film and specific needs of customers in the region, notably is supported by a dedicated global performance, quality and speed.
Local language staff, team of technical, product and including chemical analysis and engineering materials application experts.
specialists, support customers seeking to successfully develop and launch VICTREX PEEK based products.
Asia-Pacific sales volume of 474 tonnes was up 13% on 2006 Product and market development 419 tonnes.
This was mainly due to transport and electronics growth.
We continued to make excellent progress in product and market Second half sales volume of 233 tonnes compared well with the record development activities in 2007.
A record number of new applications first half performance of 241 tonnes.
were commercialised while we continued to broaden our product offering and, as a result, our penetration into new industries.
At 1,243 tonnes, European sales volume was 4% up on the previous year 1,196 tonnes although second half sales volume of 587 tonnes During the year we commercialised a record 580 new applications was 11% down on the strong first half of this year 656 tonnes.
2006: 517 having an estimated mature annualised volume MAV of As noted above, this was principally due to reduced electronics sales.
At the year end, the pipeline contained 2,411 developments 2006: 1,764 with an estimated MAV of 2,949 Invibio tonnes 2006: 2,754 tonnes if all of the developments were Invibio, our biomaterials business, enjoyed a record year with turnover successfully commercialised.
Underlying revenue was up 27% on 2006 excluding the adverse impact of The launch of Victrex APTIV film, following the completion of our exchange rates.
This reflects continued sales growth to our existing film manufacturing facility, marked a major milestone as we introduced customers, coupled with successful development of new business one of the highest performing and versatile films on the market.
across a broad range of end use markets.
Our demonstrated ability to manufacture to unprecedented tolerances and thicknesses is opening up new opportunities in aerospace and During the year we entered into a record 44 additional PEEK-OPTIMA electronics.
Commercial sales have already commenced in these polymer long-term supply assurance agreements with implantable industries, as they seek improved performance and lower weight in medical device manufacturers.
We continued to make good progress applications such as thermal and electrical insulation.
APTIV films in further developing strategic markets including arthroscopy, dental, unparalleled acoustic and mechanical properties have resulted in orthopaedic and neurostimulation, while ongoing success in the spinal specification at a number of leading speaker manufacturers in market continued with developments in new areas of this rapidly applications ranging from mobile phones to high end home sound growing market segment.
In addition, interest in APTIV film has opened the doors to Invibio established a Scientific Advisory Board to maximise our external new potential end users worldwide for other products in our portfolio.
technical and surgical perspective by working closely with leading Our new range of VICOTE Coatings was commercialised in a number of scientific and medical experts.
industries as customers validated the properties of improved durability We have opened our new Invibio Global Technology Centre in the UK.
In high performance applications, such as needle roller This state-of-the-art research and technology facility expands our bearings for motorcycles, VICOTE Coatings was able to replace capabilities and includes Class 10,000 clean room processing facilities high cost metallic coatings at a fraction of the cost and still deliver ensuring contaminant free manufacturing capabilities for research and the required performance.
Elsewhere, VICOTE Coatings replaced other development grades and prototype materials.
The Centre will enable polymeric coatings to significantly extend the lifetime of release Invibio to provide further knowledge based biomaterial solutions and coatings on tyre and shoe moulds, reducing downtime and enhancing expertise to our end users, while accelerating research and productivity in these highly competitive industries.
development efforts for the commercialisation of novel PEEK-OPTIMA based biomaterials.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED INNOVATION VICTREX APPLIED TECHNOLOGY CENTRE Victrex has opened an Applied Technology Centre VATC at its UK headquarters in Thornton Cleveleys.
The new facility is an expansion of the Companys existing product development facilities that will provide customers with additional expertise and support with new product and application development.
The facility will also provide extensive material specification and testing services.
The VATC also houses proprietary processing and testing equipment developed by Victrex to support customers with the development and commercialisation of the next generation of VICTREX PEEK applications.
We continued to expand our product range to open up new application We continue to see increased demand from oil and gas companies TM areas.
VICTREX T-Series polymers, introduced last year, have already who require higher performing systems as further exploration takes gained specifications in high performance sealing applications in the them to more extreme temperature and chemical environments.
Wire ever more demanding oil and gas exploration market.
This year, we insulation, connectors and electronics encapsulation are examples of TM launched our newest product family, VICTREX MAX-Series polymers, applications in which VICTREX PEEK materials help provide reliability which is a blend of VICTREX PEEK and Extem UH thermoplastic and performance which are essential to productivity.
polyimide TPI from SABIC Innovative Plastics.
MAX-Series is focused Supply chain and capital expenditure on applications which demand the chemical resistance and We have completed the construction of our second VICTREX PEEK processability of VICTREX PEEK, yet also require extreme temperature polymer powder plant on our main UK site, at a capital cost of resistance with improved dimensional stability.
We have commenced approximately 32m, which will be depreciated over its estimated a number of sampling programmes in the electronics and oil and gas useful life of 30 years.
The plant has the capacity to support a further segments.
Finally, a new range of electrostatic dissipative ESD grades 1,450 tonnes per annum of VICTREX PEEK sales in addition to the first were commercialised into various application areas in semiconductor plants existing capacity of 2,800 tonnes and is expected to be fully manufacturing.
operational by the end of the year.
Our global market development teams continued to develop record The uprate of the BDF supply chain to support this additional polymer numbers of new applications in our traditional markets.
In automotive, capacity is ongoing with completion expected in autumn 2008 at an VICTREX PEEK is a key material for integral components in new estimated capital cost of 23m.
We have also commenced an uprate of transmission, fuel injection and braking systems in the latest cars our melt filtration plant to increase production capacity of our purified, from leading car companies in the United States, Europe and Asia.
granular product from 1,800 to 3,450 tonnes per annum.
This uprate In addition, the proliferation of tyre pressure monitoring systems has is due for completion in autumn 2008 at an estimated capital cost led to the specification of VICTREX PEEK in these devices to ensure the of 8m.
systems could survive the extremes of environment and mechanical stresses during the lifetime of a car.
Total fixed asset additions amounted to 34.3m for the year 2006: 25.0m.
The additions principally related to the construction of the The new generation of commercial aircraft being developed demands polymer powder plant and the BDF uprate.
Other items included the significantly lower weight to gain fuel efficiency.
As a result, VICTREX Invibio Global Technology Centre, the film manufacturing facility and PEEK is providing solutions for customers such as Boeing in many the melt filtration plant uprate.
We expect capital expenditure for components of their next generation airliners.
Applications in electrical 2008 to amount to approximately 25m, subject to phasing of projects.
systems, insulation and interiors are helping them meet weight, This will be funded from the Groups cash resources and committed structural and flammability requirements without sacrificing other borrowing facility.
In electronics, VICTREX PEEK is being specified in new generations of high speed printers as performance requirements for gears and other critical components increase.
In consumer electronics, higher power levels in applications such as digital light projectors and LED systems are driving an increased interest in VICTREX PEEK for improved device safety, performance and lifetime.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 INVESTMENT COATINGS FACILITY Victrex has established a new range of high performance coatings products made using VICTREX PEEK polymer, launched under the brand name of VICOTE Coatings.
The range of products includes powders and aqueous based dispersions made by Victrex, at its new coating facility at its UK headquarters in Thornton Cleveleys.
This new product line offers coatings with high temperature performance for strength and durability and makes the VICOTE Coatings range the ideal choice for automotive, industrial, electronics and food processing coating applications, and is supported by a dedicated global team of technical, product and application experts.
Outlook Risks and uncertainties Sales volume Victrexs business and share price may be affected by a number of risks, Since the year end, sales volume has been sustained at levels similar to not all of which are in our control.
The process Victrex has in place for the increased volumes we achieved in August and September.
While it identifying, assessing and managing risks is set out in the Corporate is too early to predict the outcome for the year as a whole, we remain Governance Report on page 23. confident in the underlying growth potential for the business.
Sections of this Annual Report contain forward-looking statements, Currency impact including statements relating to: future demand and markets for the As previously reported, trading results for 2008 will be adversely Groups products and services: research and development relating to affected by the strengthening of Sterling against our key trading new products and services, and liquidity and capital resources.
Based on our forecast sales volume, forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties because current hedging already in place and spot exchange rates as at they relate to events that may or may not occur in the future.
30 November 2007, we currently estimate the following average The specific principal risks which could impact the Groups revenues, rates will apply: profits and reputation and relevant mitigating factors, as currently identified by Victrexs risk management process, are described below.
Year to Six months Six months to Year to 30 September to 31 March 30 September 30 September However, other risks may also adversely affect the Group.
Accordingly, 2007 2008 2008 2008 actual results may differ materially from anticipated results because of a Actual Estimate Estimate Estimate variety of risk factors, including: changes in interest and exchange rates: US Dollar 1.83 1.97 2.00 1.99 changes in global, political, economic, business, competitive and Euro 1.45 1.46 1.44 1.45 Yen 202 221 226 223 market forces: changes to legislation and tax rates: future business combinations or disposals: relations with customers and customer By way of illustration, if the estimated 2008 rates had applied in 2007, credit risk: events affecting international security, including global this would have had an adverse impact of 4.1m on profits.
health issues and terrorism: changes in regulatory environment, and the outcome of litigation.
The future As we look ahead, we are excited, not only by the potential of all Technological change of our developments, but also by the growing awareness of our Victrexs business is dependent on manufacturing and selling high expanding product portfolio by more end users.
We will continue quality products into advanced applications.
Demand for these to address our customers requirements so that we can provide applications and, consequently, for our products could be impacted new solutions and will continue to invest in our people and our as new technologies and materials are developed.
infrastructure to meet our customers needs.
This, in turn, will To address this, we employ specialists covering the major market provide the basis for further business growth.
segments for VICTREX PEEK to maintain and advance our skills and knowledge.
This enables us to develop new applications for VICTREX PEEK, so that we maintain our position as a leading solutions provider to designers and engineers at our customers and end users.
Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 14 ANNUAL BUSINESS REVIEW CONTINUED Invibiohas opened a state-of-the-art INVESTMENT Global Technology Centre in Thornton INVIBIO Cleveleys to accommodate technical and support staff, medically-dedicated Victrexs business is dependent on processing facilities and materials INSPECTION manufacturing and selling high quality testing laboratories.
To further enhance A QUALITY PRODUCT products into advanced applications.
quality control procedures and To address this, we employ specialists standards, the new facility also houses covering the major market segments a Class 10,000 clean room, ensuring for VICTREX PEEK to maintain and contaminant free manufacturing advance our skills and knowledge.
capabilities for research and development grades as well as VICTREX PEEK is manufactured prototype materials.
in conformance with a quality management system certified to ISO The Global Technology Centre enables 9001:2000.
Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA Invibio to further provide knowledge polymer is additionally manufactured based biomaterial solutions and in conformance with the requirements expertise while accelerating research of ISO 13485:2003, a quality and development efforts for the management system used in the commercialisation of novel PEEKmedical device industry which OPTIMA based biomaterials.
embraces the principles of current good manufacturing practice used in the manufacture of medical devices.
Operational disruption Product specifications The Groups business is dependent on the ongoing operation of our The Groups products are used in highly demanding end use various manufacturing facilities.
Any failure to supply products in accordance with their could adversely affect our ability to make and supply products.
specifications could lead to loss of business and, potentially, a product liability claim.
As a result, we have implemented policies and procedures to safely manage all our operations and maintain our supply of VICTREX PEEK to To mitigate this risk, VICTREX PEEK is manufactured within a quality customers.
In particular, we employ a dedicated and empowered Safety, management system approved to ISO 9001:2000.
Invibio PEEK-OPTIMA Health and Environment SHE department to assist line management polymer is additionally manufactured within the requirements of ISO and to provide expert guidance.
Further information on SHE matters is 13485:2003, a system of good manufacturing practice often used by set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 15. the pharmaceutical industry and by medical companies.
We hold significant stocks of raw materials and finished goods which Competitor activity should enable us to maintain supplies during any short-term disruption.
Victrex operates in competitive markets, both in terms of competitors Furthermore, the second VICTREX PEEK manufacturing plant will be offering directly comparable materials other polyaryletherketone able to operate independently from the existing plant, thereby reducing products and alternative materials.
Failure to compete successfully the impact of any operational disruption on our ability to continue could negatively impact the business.
Accordingly, we are continuing to work closely with our customers to Insufficient capacity provide high quality products as required and to invest in resources to Our customers businesses depend on maintaining a consistent supply bring cost effective, high quality application solutions to our customers.
Any unexpected upsurge in demand could Currency exposure lead to insufficient capacity to fulfil customers needs: additionally any Currently, the Group exports 97% of sales from the UK.
Primarily these delays in the implementation of major capital expenditure programmes sales are denominated in US Dollar, Euro and Yen.
Fluctuations in could create a capacity shortage, leading to customers seeking exchange rates between Sterling and these other currencies could alternative products.
cause profit and balance sheet volatility.
To mitigate this risk, our stocks of finished goods enable us to supply The Group hedging policy to mitigate this risk is set out in the any short-term surge in demand from our customers.
Additionally, it is Corporate Governance Report on page 23. our policy to keep capacity well ahead of demand, by investing in our supply chain, so that our customers can be confident that we can meet their requirements.
