Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Members of Vodafone Group Plc We have audited managements assessment, included in the accompanying In our opinion, managements assessment that the Group maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2007 is Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that Vodafone Group Plc together with its subsidiaries and applicable joint fairly stated, in all material respects, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of ventures the Group maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Also in our opinion, the Group maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
financial reporting as of 31 March 2007, based on the criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of As described in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
Reporting, management excluded from its assessment the internal control over financial reporting at Vodafone Telekomunikasyon A. S. Vodafone We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States, the consolidated Turkey, which was acquired on 24 May 2006 and whose financial statements constitute 0.2 percent and 0.6 percent of net and total assets, financial statements as of and for the year ended 31 March 2007 of the Group and our report dated 29 May 2007 expressed an unqualified opinion respectively, 2.2 percent of revenues, and 1.3 percent profit of net loss of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended on those financial statements and included an explanatory paragraph relating to the nature and effect of differences between International 31 March 2007.
As also described in Managements Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, management excluded from its Financial Reporting Standards and accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
assessment the Internal Controls over Financial Reporting at Vodacom Group Pty Limited Vodacom, as the Group does not have the ability to dictate, modify or assess the controls at this entity.
Vodacom constitutes, 0.7 percent and 0.9 percent of net and total assets, respectively, 4.8 percent of revenues, and 4.6 percent profit of net loss of the consolidated financial statement amounts as of and for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Accordingly, our audit did not include the internal control over financial reporting at Vodafone Turkey or Vodacom.
The Groups management is Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors L responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial ondon reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over United Kingdom financial reporting.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on 29 May 2007 managements assessment and an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating managements assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
A companys internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the companys board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that 1 pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: 2 provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorisations of management and directors of the company: and 3 provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.
Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 89 Governance Contents Page Page Report of the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Company Financial Statements of Vodafone Group Plc at 31 March 143 Members of Vodafone Group Plc 91 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 144 Consolidated Financial Statements 1.
Basis of preparation 144 Consolidated Income Statement for the years ended 31 March 92 2.
Significant accounting policies 144 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Income 3.
Fixed assets 145 and Expense for the years ended 31 March 92 4.
Debtors 145 Consolidated Balance Sheet at 31 March 93 5.
Creditors 146 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement for the years ended 31 March 94 6.
Share capital 146 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements: 95 7.
Reserves and reconciliation of movements in equity 2.
Significant accounting policies 95 shareholders funds 147 3.
Investment income and financing costs 103 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Vodafone Group Plc 149 6.
Movements in accumulated other recognised income and expense 120 23.
Reconciliation of net cash flows to operating activities 135 33.
Directors and key management compensation 135 34.
Financial information of joint ventures and associated undertakings 137 38.
New accounting standards 142 90 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm to the Members of Vodafone Group Plc We have audited the Consolidated Financial Statements of Vodafone Group Statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Plc which comprise the consolidated balance sheet at 31 March 2007 and Groups circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
2006, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated statement of recognised income and expenses We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and for each of the three years in the period ended 31 March 2007 and the explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with related notes numbered 1 to 39.
These Consolidated Financial Statements sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the Consolidated have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have Financial Statements and the part of the directors remuneration report also audited the information in the directors remuneration report that is described as having been audited are free from material misstatement, described as having been audited.
whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in We have reported separately on the individual Company Financial Statements the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors of Vodafone Group Plc for the year ended 31 March 2007. remuneration report described as having been audited.
Respective Responsibilities of Directors and Auditors Opinions The directors responsibilities for preparing the annual report, the directors UK opinion remuneration report and the Consolidated Financial Statements in In our opinion: accordance with applicable law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union are set out in the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in the statement of directors responsibilities.
accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its loss for the year Our responsibility is to audit the Consolidated Financial Statements and the then ended: part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited in accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and regulatory the Consolidated Financial Statements and the part of the directors requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
remuneration report described as having been audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the We report to you our opinion as to whether the Consolidated Financial IAS Regulation: and Statements give a true and fair view in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework and whether the Consolidated Financial Statements the information given in the directors report is consistent with the and the part of the directors remuneration report described as having been Consolidated Financial Statements.
audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We report to you whether in our As explained in note 1 of the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Group, opinion the information given in the directors report is consistent with the in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRS as Consolidated Financial Statements.
We also report to you if we have not adopted for use in the European Union, has also complied with the IFRS as received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
Accordingly, in our information specified by law regarding directors transactions with the opinion the Consolidated Financial Statements give a true and fair view, in Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
accordance with IFRS, of the state of the Groups affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its loss for the year then ended.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified US opinion for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These In our opinion the Consolidated Financial Statements present fairly, in all comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group at information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes, and 31 March 2007 and 2006 and the consolidated results of its operations and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended 31 March 2007 in extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
conformity with IFRS as adopted for use in the European Union and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the 2003 FRC Combined IFRS vary in significant respects from the accounting principles generally Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services accepted in the United States of America.
Information relating to the nature Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider and effect of such differences is presented in note 38 to the Consolidated whether the boards statement on internal control covers all risks and Financial Statements.
controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Oversight Board United States, the effectiveness of the Groups We read the directors report and the other information contained in the internal control over financial reporting as of 31 March 2007, based on the annual report for the above year as described in the contents section criteria established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by including the unaudited part of the directors remuneration report and we the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.
consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent Our report including our opinions on managements assessment of the misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Consolidated Groups internal control over financial reporting and on the effectiveness of Financial Statements.
the Groups internal control over financial reporting is set out on page 90.
Basis of Audit Opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board and with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board United States.
Deloitte & Touche LLP An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors part of the directors remuneration report described as having been audited.
It London also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements United Kingdom made by the directors in the preparation of the Consolidated Financial 29 May 2007 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 91 Financials
