Delivering on Our Strategic Objectives tariffs, prepaid to contract migrations regional scale.
Key initiatives have Revenue stimulation and cost reduction in Europe focused on the outsourcing and and targeted promotions, with a key The Groups strategy is to drive Vodafones customers only using their focus also on leveraging Vodafones centralisation of certain activities, as additional usage and revenue from mobiles for approximately 140 well as network sharing arrangements market leading presence across Europe core mobile voice and messaging minutes on average per month.
This in the business segment, which with other operators.
services, which represents around provides a significant opportunity to represents around 25% of service 80% of revenue in Europe today, and drive greater voice usage onto mobile.
Vodafones unique presence Summer promotions driving to reduce its cost base.
also allows it to offer Pan-European usage in Ital y The Group has launched a number of products and services such as Vodafone Over 3 million customers benefited Today, around one third of voice traffic initiatives to achieve this through Passport for roaming customers.
from successful summer promotions is carried over mobile networks, with larger minute bundles, innovative Whilst usage growth in the year was in Italy which stimulated voice and strong, pricing pressure continues to messaging usage and revenue.
For a Outgoing voice revenue % change be high and the Groups key focus is monthly fee and per call set up 2007 to improve the overall price charge, customers were able to make elasticity of its offerings in the calls and send messages for free to 14 market place.
Customers Average customer growth 8 2 Outgoing voice usage growth in the voice promotion generated 22% per customer The Group has established several core more ARPU than before and 9% more Change in effective cost reduction programmes, in the messaging promotion.
outgoing price per minute -17 leveraging the benefits of its local and Outgoing voice revenue growth Innovate and deliver on our customers total communications needs The communications environment is Vodafone is already delivering Total communications initiatives share of Group revenue, % constantly evolving and Vodafone is broadband and data services to at the forefront of this change.
customers and, together with Customers are increasingly looking industry leading partners, will for one supplier to address all their shortly be driving new revenue needs, whether that is for mobile or streams from opening up the 10% 20% fixed services.
internet to the mobile and from mobile advertising.
The Group is increasingly targeting its propositions on replacing In total, the Group expects its total 2007 2010 traditional fixed line providers in the communications initiatives to Total communications initiatives principally include revenue home or office, as well as developing represent approximately 20% of from data, fixed location services, DSL and advertising.
new and innovative ways Group revenue in three years time, for customers to enjoy the benefits increasing from approximately 10% of mobility.
Egypt, Romania and South Africa, Vodafone will continue to seek Deliver strong growth in emerging markets with Turkey performing ahead of the selective opportunities to increase The Groups focus is to build on its Turkey, with a population of 70 million, business plan at the time of the its emerging markets footprint as strong track record of creating value and in India, with a population of acquisition.
well as taking opportunities to in emerging markets where average 1.1 billion, adding to the Groups increase its stakes in existing market penetration is relatively low, existing emerging market presence in As a result of the Groups increased markets, with a view to gaining offering significant customer and parts of the Middle East, Africa and presence in emerging markets, the control over time.
proportion of Group EBITDA from the EMAPA region is expected to Romania: Market leader In the last 12 months, Vodafone has During the 2007 financial year, the increase from 19% this year to for business services gained control of businesses in Group saw strong performances in around 33% in five years time.
Vodafone extended its leadership in the business segment in Romania during the year, with 38% growth in business customers giving a market EMAPA region annual growth for 2007 Reported Organic share of 42%.
Key to success has been its integrated mobile and fixed Closing customers 55% 27% communications solution which delivered over 50% revenue growth in the year and now represents one Revenue 41% 21% third of business revenues.
Where applicable, growth percentages are stated on local currency and are calculated by applying the Groups current equity interest to the whole of the 2007 and 2006 financial years.
8 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Innovative tariffs delivering market the year by around 4 percentage summer 2005.
Around 50% of all Outsourcing Vodaf leading performance in Spain points to 46%.
Key success factors roaming minutes in Europe are now one can realise the benefits The Vitamina tariff in Spain offers a have been customer focused on Vodafone Passport.
of outsourcing certain functions, such single, any network, any time price for propositions, in particular tariffs for as IT applications, to industry leading prepaid and contract customers, small and medium sized businesses, Cost reduction partners for a lower cost than keeping together with attractive add-on as well as mobile data products such Network sharing with other operators is the operations within the Group.
options, such as talking for 60 minutes as 3G broadband USB modems and generally intended to reduce the but only paying for one and half price mobile connect data cards where number of base stations that each Purchasing SMS, that target different customer Vodafone has 55% market share, operator owns and maintains whilst Vodafone has centralised the bulk and mobile email solutions such as needs.
Over 50% of the Vodafone retaining an independent high quality purchasing of handsets and key Spain customer base is now on a BlackBerry from Vodafone.
Sharing network components for many years Vitamina tariff, driving an increase in arrangements have been announced for to generate purchasing efficiencies.
voice usage of around 30% and 13% Vodafone Passport rural areas in Spain and a memorandum More recently, the Group extended growth in revenue in local currency.
Over 11 million customers now of understanding has been agreed to this activity by centralising all benefit from lower roaming pricing share across the UK.
These activities are purchasing activities for its networks, Market leader in business through Vodafone Passport since it expected to lead to savings in operating IT and service platforms to realise services in the UK was first launched in 2005, helping expenses and capital expenditure over further savings.
time, as well as reducing Vodafones Vodafone is the clear market leader Vodafone to reduce the average cost for business services in the UK, of voice roaming in Europe for its impact on the environment.
increasing its market share during customers by 40% compared to The internet on your mobile partnered with some of the most Delivering DSL The internet is becoming significant internet companies to Arcor is the leading alternative fixed increasingly important for mobilise their services in a way that line provider in Germany, with 2.1 customers, with rising numbers of is seamless to customers.
million DSL customers and revenue users and increasing amount and growth of 10% for the year.
Arcor is frequency of use.
Customers spend Driving usage in the home also enabling Vodafone Germany a significant proportion of their time The Vodafone Zuhause range of to offer DSL services to its mobile communicating online, either products in Germany offers a customers as well as providing a through traditional email and instant competitively priced alternative to centre of excellence for DSL for messaging or through the relatively fixed line pricing by recognising the Group.
new phenomena of social when a customer is within the home networking and file sharing.
Vodafone Zuhause customers have reached 2.4 million, Part of the Groups total with significant increases in communications strategy is to household usage and improvements develop products and services that in customer spend per household.
enable customers to use the internet on their mobiles in much the same way as they use it on their PC.
In order to do this, the Group has Egypt: Improved customer South Africa: Driving growth India 1.1 billion people and mobile value with Super Dardasha in non-voice revenue Vodafone has gained control of a penetration of only around 14%, the Lower prepaid prices in Egypt with Non-voice revenue increased by leading operator in the attractive and opportunity for future growth is the Super Dardasha tariff launched in 33% this year, driven by both fast growing Indian mobile market, significant.
July 2006 has led to a significant messaging and data services, and with already over 27 million increase in the number of prepaid now represents over 8% of service customers and nationwide market customers and their usage, driving a revenue.
Increasing 3G and HSDPA share of around 16%.
In a market of 25% rise in prepaid ARPU this year network coverage is enabling a and 85% growth in prepaid revenue.
wider data offering to customers, Revenue growth 75% of prepaid customers are now such as the Vodafone Mobile on the Super Dardasha tariff.
Connect card and the Vodafone Romania 28% Mobile Connect USB modem, and Turkey: Successful delivering a fast and reliable mobile Egypt 41% rebranding to Vodafone alternative to fixed-line connectivity The transition to the Vodafone brand in South Africa where fixed line Turkey 37% was successfully completed ahead of services are available to only 10% of plan in Turkey in March 2007, after a the population.
South Africa 22% period of necessary investment in the network and customer services India 50% following completion of the acquisition in May 2006.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 9 Strategy
