Directors Statement of Responsibility Company law of England and Wales requires the directors to prepare financial Any internal control framework, no matter how well designed, has inherent statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state limitations, including the possibility of human error and the circumvention of affairs of the Company and the Group as at the end of the financial year or overriding of the controls and procedures, and may not prevent or detect and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future financial statements, the directors are required to: periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or because the degree of compliance with select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Management has assessed the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting as at 31 March 2007 based on the Internal Control state whether the Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared Integrated Framework, issued by the Committee of Sponsoring in accordance with IFRS as adopted for use in the EU: Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO.
The assessment excluded the internal controls over financial reporting relating to Vodafone for the Company Financial Statements, state whether applicable UK Telekomunikasyon A. S. Vodafone Turkey because the entity was accounting standards have been followed: and acquired on 24 May 2006, as described in note 28 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in Management has not evaluated the internal controls of Vodacom Group business.
Pty Limited Vodacom, which is accounted for using proportionate consolidation.
The conclusion regarding the effectiveness of internal The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which control over financial reporting does not extend to the internal controls of disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Vodacom.
Management is unable to assess the effectiveness of internal Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial control at Vodacom due to the fact that it does not have the ability to statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the EU dictate or modify its controls and does not have the ability, in practice, to IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, assess those controls.
for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and, hence, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other Key sub-totals that result from the consolidation of Vodafone Turkey and irregularities.
the proportionate consolidation of Vodacom, whose internal controls have not been assessed, are set out below.
Vodafone Disclosure of Information to Auditors Turkey Vodacom Having made the requisite enquiries, so far as the directors are aware, there 2007 2007 m m is no relevant audit information as defined by Section 234ZA of the Total assets 607 1,008 Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and the Net assets 150 477 directors have taken all the steps they ought to have taken to make Revenue 698 1,478 themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that Profit for the financial year 71 242 the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Management is not required to evaluate the internal controls of entities Going Concern accounted for under the equity method.
Accordingly, the internal controls After reviewing the Groups and Companys budget for the next financial of these entities, which contributed a net profit of 2,728 million to the loss year, and other longer term plans, the directors are satisfied that, at the time for the financial year, have not been assessed, except relating to controls of approving the financial statements, it is appropriate to adopt the going over the recording of amounts relating to the investments that are recorded concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
in the Groups consolidated financial statement.
Based on managements assessment, management has concluded that the Managements Report on Internal Control over internal control over financial reporting was effective as at 31 March 2007.
Financial Reporting Managements assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over As required by section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, management financial reporting, as at 31 March 2007, has been audited by Deloitte & is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, who also over financial reporting for the Group.
audit the Groups Consolidated Financial Statements.
Their audit report on The Companys internal control over financial reporting includes policies internal control over financial reporting is on page 89. and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial By Order of the Board reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with IFRS, including the reconciliations to US GAAP, and that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorisation of management and the directors of the Company: and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of Stephen Scott unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Companys assets that Secretary could have a material effect on the financial statements.
29 May 2007 88 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
