Key Performance Indicators The Board and the Executive Committee monitor the Where We Operate on page 13.
Groups progress against its strategic objectives and the Churn financial performance of the Groups operations on a Churn represents the disconnection rate of customers in each of the Groups regular basis.
Performance is assessed against the mobile operations.
It is calculated as the total gross customer disconnections strategy, budgets and forecasts using financial and in the period divided by the average total customers in the period.
Churn rates stated in this Annual Report are calculated for the entire financial year.
Customer delight The following section details the most significant Key The Group uses a proprietary customer delight system to track customer Performance Indicators KPIs used by the Group, satisfaction across its controlled markets and jointly controlled market in describing their purpose, the basis of calculation and Italy.
More information on the benefits of the system are provided in the source of the underlying data.
Definitions of the Business Overview How We Deliver Our Services on page 17. key terms are provided on page 159.
Customer delight is measured by an index based on the results of surveys performed by an external research company which cover all aspects of Financial service provided by Vodafone and incorporates the results of the relative The Group uses the following primary measures to assess the performance satisfaction of the competitors customers.
An overall index for the Group is of the Group and its individual businesses.
A number of these measures at a calculated by weighting the results for each of the Groups operations based Group level are presented on an organic basis, which provides an on service revenue.
assessment of underlying growth excluding the effect of business acquisitions and disposals and changes in exchange rates.
Financial Increased customer expectations are putting a downward pressure on measures presented on an organic basis are non-GAAP financial measures.
customer satisfaction for the Group and many of its competitors.
Despite For more information on these measures and the basis of calculation of this trend, the Group outperformed its target for customer delight in the organic growth see Performance Non-GAAP Information on page 62.
2007 financial year and the index was broadly stable compared to the previous financial year.
Revenue Revenue and its growth for the Group, and its regions, covering the 2007, Revenue based measures 2006 and 2005 financial years, is reviewed in Performance Operating Management believes that revenue based measures provide useful Results on pages 34 to 51. information for investors regarding trends in customer revenue derived from mobile communications services and the extent to which customers use Revenue and revenue growth are used for internal performance analysis and mobile services.
by investors to assess progress against outlook statements provided externally by the Group.
The data used to calculate these KPIs is derived from a number of sources.
Financial information, such as service revenue, is extracted from the Groups Adjusted operating profit financial systems, whilst operational information, including customer and Adjusted operating profit is used by the Group for internal performance usage metrics, is derived from the customer relationship management and analysis as it represents the underlying operating profitability of the Groups billing systems of each of the Groups operations.
The measure is presented both for the Group and its regions, covering the 2007, 2006 and 2005 financial years, in Performance Average revenue per user ARPU Operating Results on pages 34 to 51.
The basis of calculation, along with ARPU represents the average revenue by customers over a period and is an analysis of why the Group believes it is a useful measure, is provided in calculated as service revenue, being total revenue excluding equipment the section titled Performance Non-GAAP Information on page 62. revenue and connection fees, divided by the weighted average number of customers during the period.
ARPU disclosed in this Annual Report is Free cash flow presented on a monthly basis and represents the total ARPU for the Free cash flow provides an evaluation of the Groups liquidity and the cash financial year divided by twelve.
generated by the Groups operations.
The calculation of free cash flow, along with an analysis of why the Group believes it is a useful measure, is Voice usage provided in the section titled Performance Non-GAAP Information on Voice usage is the total number of minutes of voice use on the Groups page 62.
The Group has provided an outlook for free cash flow in the 2008 mobile networks, including calls made by the Groups customers, often financial year on page 59. referred to as outgoing usage, and calls received by the Groups customers, often referred to as incoming usage.
Operational Certain operational measures relating to customers and revenue for the Messaging and data revenue Group and its regions, covering the 2007, 2006 and 2005 financial years, are Messaging and data revenue represent the non-voice element of service provided in Performance Operating Results on pages 34 to 51, with the revenue.
In recent years, these revenues have grown at a faster rate than voice exception of customer delight.
These measures are commonly used in the revenue as customers increasingly use these services and new products and mobile communications industry.
As competition has intensified in many of the markets in which the Group operates and penetration rates have increased, Customers the ability of the Group to grow messaging and data revenue has become an The Group highly values its customers and strives to delight them.
As a result, increasingly important factor, internally and for investors.
customer based KPIs are important measures for internal performance analysis.
Management also believes that some of these measures provide Costs useful information for investors regarding the success of the Groups Europe targets customer acquisition and retention activities.
For customer numbers and The Group has set targets in respect of revenue market share, operating churn, the data used to calculate the KPIs is derived from the customer expenses and capitalised fixed asset additions.
Progress against the revenue relationship management systems of each of the Groups operations.
market share target is measured by tracking performance in Germany, Italy, Spain and the UK against their principal competitors.
The operating expense Customer numbers and capitalised fixed asset additions targets relate to the Europe region and The Group prepares customer numbers on a venture, proportionate and common functions in aggregate.
These targets are discussed in more detail controlled or jointly controlled basis for its mobile operations.
A summary of on pages 38 to 39. the customer numbers on all bases is presented in Business Overview Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 33 Performance
