Summary of Group products and services How We Deliver Our Services The following table summarises the availability of the Groups most significant products and services as at 31 March 2007 in the markets in which Products and services are available directly to both they are available.
consumer and business customers in the majority of markets under the Vodafone brand.
In the 2007 financial year, the Group continued to focus on social products with the establishment of a new social investment fund, which has been formed to provide resources for initiatives that can demonstrate high social values.
Subsidiaries Germany Distribution Spain The Group distributes its products and services through a wide variety of UK direct and indirect channels, with different approaches used in the consumer Albania and business sectors.
Main developments in distribution are within the area of Australia IT resellers, distributors and MVNOs.
Czech Egypt Over 1,100 stores are directly owned and managed by Vodafone, with an Greece Hungary additional 5,500 Vodafone branded stores.
In addition, local websites offer Ireland products and services online, local sales forces are in place to discuss terms Malta with business customers and call centres are available to support customers.
Netherlands New Zealand The extent of indirect distribution varies between markets but may include Portugal using third party service providers, independent dealers, distributors and Romania retailers.
Turkey Joint Ventures Vodafones engagement with IT resellers and distributors continued to grow Fiji throughout the 2007 financial year.
The partner marketing programme has Italy South Africa attracted over 5,000 resellers across eight countries, providing sales support Subtotal 17 14 4 14 17 12 13 1 4 2 5 and training.
This engagement with the IT channel enables Vodafone to sell Associate to small and medium enterprises as well as providing a key platform to France support the sales of the built-in 3G broadband connectivity notebooks from Partner Markets our PC partners, including Acer, Dell, HP and Lenovo.
Austria Bahrain The last few years have seen the growth of MVNOs who buy access to Belgium existing networks and re-sell that access to customers under a different brand Bulgaria name and proposition.
Where appropriate, Vodafone seeks to enter mutually Croatia profitable relationships with MVNO partners as an additional route to market.
Cyprus Denmark Estonia Vodafone Global Enterprise Finland Vodafones Global Enterprise unit, previously the multinational corporate Hong Kong business unit, is now entering its third year of operation and continues to Iceland build its capability, providing global enterprises with consistent levels of Indonesia service, support and commercial terms worldwide.
Vodafone has enjoyed Kuwait continued success with these customers and delivered strong growth in this Latvia segment.
Lithuania Luxembourg During the last year, this business unit has developed a number of services Malaysia Norway and solutions specifically for global enterprises.
The device portfolio offers a Singapore consistent range of mobile devices at different price points across multiple Slovenia markets.
Mobile Spend Management is an analysis and reporting tool which Sri Lanka allows global administrators to track and control their mobile Sweden communications spend.
The master services agreement has been simplified Switzerland and is now available across 12 countries.
Total 28 21 8 33 36 14 17 1 5 2 5 Key: To ensure the Group is best placed to continually meet the needs of this Available throughout the 2007 financial year customer segment, Vodafone has brought full ownership and control for the Launched in the 2007 financial year management of these customers to the business unit.
Handsets Vodafone pushed 3G into the mass market with the support of one exclusive mobile phone per high value brand supplier: the Nokia 6234, Samsung ZV40, SEMC V630i and Motorola V1100 in the consumer segment and the Palm Treo 750v for the business market.
Approximately one third of the Vodafone live!
sales volume was driven by devices that are exclusively available through Vodafone.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 17 Vodafone live!
with 3G Vodafone Mobile Connect GPRS data card Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card BlackBerry from Vodafone Vodafone Push Email Vodafone Wireless Office Vodafone Passport Vodafone Consumer Push Email Vodafone At Home Zonal Vodafone AT Home fixed line telephony Vodafone At Home DSL Business Business Overview continued The launch of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes F1 team was supported with Customer strategy and management three special edition Vodafone McLaren branded phones.
Vodafone continues to use a customer management system called customer delight to measure customer satisfaction in the Groups controlled Vodafone is also leading the way into 3G broadband, with six HSDPA handsets markets at a local and global level.
This is a proprietary diagnostic system launched.
3G Broadband PC connectivity was supported by a full range of which tracks customer satisfaction across all the points of interaction with data card products and by 3G modules that embed 3G connectivity in the Vodafone and identifies the drivers of customer delight and their relative laptops of several leading Original Equipment Manufacturers.
This information is used to identify any areas for improvement and highlight which areas to focus on.
In October 2006, the VF 710, the first own branded 3G consumer phone, was launched in all European markets and since then over half a million units Social products have been sold.
Vodafone has continued making mobile services more accessible to people with special communication needs and has undertaken significant research Vodafone has also announced several collaboration and partnership to better understand the levels of exclusion relating to use of mobile agreements with the objective to consolidate the software platforms for technology, which is helping to inform relevant areas of the business.
mobile devices around three major platforms Nokia S60, Microsoft Windows Mobile and a new Linux platform that is anticipated to be developed through One of the initiatives that has benefited from the social investment fund is Mthe LiMo Foundation with NTT DoCoMo, Motorola, NEC, Panasonic, Samsung PESA, an innovative mobile micro-finance service now on trial in Kenya.
This and Vodafone as founding members.
This strategic programme is expected to service, run in conjunction with a local bank and Vodafones Kenyan joint deliver long term cost savings and improve the time to market for new venture, Safaricom, enables customers to move money in and out of service innovations to be integrated on a mobile device.
accounts, between other customers and to withdraw cash, all using secure mobile messaging.
For further information on this see the Governance Marketing and brand Corporate Responsibility and Environmental Issues section on pages 75 Brand and customer communications to 77.
Vodafone has continued to focus on delivering a superior, consistent and differentiated customer experience through its brand and communications Content standards activities.
The Vodafone operating companies in Romania and Turkey Vodafone has continued the rollout of the off-net content filter.
The access migrated to a single Vodafone brand during the year, and Iceland was the first control programme demonstrates Vodafone's commitment to deliver franchise partner market to move to a single Vodafone brand.
content responsibly and provides the capability for parents to restrict access to content that may be inappropriate for younger users.
Ensuring that the Vodafones brand purpose of 'helping our customers make the most of their mobile needs of parents and their children are satisfied will remain a priority time' has been embedded in the organisation via the ongoing brand during the 2008 financial year.
engagement programme which brings the brand to life for Vodafone employees, ensuring that they can do the same for customers.
Externally, As new media channels evolve, a number of Vodafone initiatives are designed the brand idea has been introduced to customers through the launch of the to ensure protection for our customers from inappropriate content, contact Make the Most of Now communications campaign in all 18 of Vodafones and commercialism.
These include providing supporting guidelines around branded markets.
the marketing of content to customers, social networking Web 2.0 services, mobile advertising and the continued development of parental controls Sponsorships requirements to meet new technological requirements.
Vodafones global sponsorship strategy has evolved in the past year to better support the changing needs of consumers and the competitive business environment.
The majority of global sponsorship investment continues to focus on Formula 1 and football because these sports are best positioned to meet Vodafones specific business needs.
In July 2006, Vodafone's three year sponsorship of the UEFA Champions League commenced.
This sponsorship enables Vodafone to build a credible association with the world's most popular sport in a manner which is relevant to the business and brand objectives.
In January 2007, Vodafone became the title partner of the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula 1 team.
Vodafone will be able to use the partnership to deliver opportunities which will engage customers and project a consistent brand positioning to a global audience.
Globally, Vodafones sponsorships build brand awareness, differentiate Vodafone from the competition and deliver revenue, driving opportunities through both business and consumer channels.
The Groups individual operating countries benefit from a variety of marketing propositions which are delivered through all aspects of their marketing mix.
Music continues to play an important role in our business.
Many of the local Vodafone operating companies already deliver highly successful music sponsorships.
18 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
