Critical Accounting Estimates The Group prepares its Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance value of the reporting unit and the fair value of the net assets of the with IFRS, the application of which often requires judgements to be made reporting unit.
by management when formulating the Groups financial position and results.
Under IFRS, the directors are required to adopt those accounting The carrying value of the Groups mobile operations in Germany at policies most appropriate to the Groups circumstances for the purpose of 31 January 2007, the date of the Groups annual impairment test, was more presenting fairly the Groups financial position, financial performance and than 25 billion, significantly in excess of its fair value, estimated using cash flows.
The Group also prepares a reconciliation of the Groups revenue, discounted cash flows.
However, in accordance with SFAS No.
144, net profit or loss and shareholders equity between IFRS and US GAAP.
Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, no impairment has been recognised as the estimated undiscounted cash flows In determining and applying accounting policies, judgement is often are in excess of the carrying value.
At 31 January 2007, a 16.0% reduction in required in respect of items where the choice of specific policy, accounting the undiscounted cash flows would eliminate this excess and result in a estimate or assumption to be followed could materially affect the reported material impairment loss under US GAAP.
Any impairment loss would be results or net asset position of the Group should it later be determined that measured by comparing the carrying value of the Groups mobile operations a different choice would be more appropriate.
in Germany with its respective fair value, estimated using discounted cash flows.
Management considers the accounting estimates and assumptions discussed below to be its critical accounting estimates and, accordingly, Assumptions provides an explanation of each below.
Where it is considered that the There are a number of assumptions and estimates involved in calculating Groups US GAAP accounting policies differ materially from the IFRS the net present value of future cash flows from the Groups businesses, accounting policy, a separate explanation is provided.
including managements expectations of: The discussion below should also be read in conjunction with the Groups growth in EBITDA, calculated as adjusted operating profit before disclosure of significant IFRS accounting policies, which is provided in note depreciation and amortisation: 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Significant accounting policies and with the US GAAP information provided in note 38 to the timing and quantum of future capital expenditure: Consolidated Financial Statements.
uncertainty of future technological developments: Management has discussed its critical accounting estimates and associated disclosures with the Companys Audit Committee.
long term growth rates: and the selection of discount rates to reflect the risks involved.
Impairment Reviews Asset recoverability is an area involving management judgement, requiring The Group prepares and internally approves formal ten-year plans for its assessment as to whether the carrying value of assets can be supported by businesses and uses these as the basis for its impairment reviews.
the net present value of future cash flows derived from such assets using Management uses the initial five years of the plans, except in markets which cash flow projections which have been discounted at an appropriate rate.
are forecast to grow ahead of the long term growth rate for the market.
In In calculating the net present value of the future cash flows, certain such cases, further years will be used until the forecast growth rate trends assumptions are required to be made in respect of highly uncertain matters, towards the long term growth rate, up to a maximum of ten years.
For mobile businesses where the first five years of the ten year IFRS requires management to undertake an annual test for impairment of management plan are used for the Groups value in use calculations, a long indefinite lived assets and, for finite lived assets, to test for impairment if term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
Group management currently undertakes the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and an annual impairment test covering goodwill and other indefinite lived assets and also reviews finite lived assets and investments in associated the long term compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years six to ten undertakings at least annually to consider whether a full impairment review of the management plan.
In the year to 31 March 2007, the Group has recognised impairment losses amounting to 11,600 million relating to the Groups For mobile businesses where the full ten year management plans are used operations in Germany and Italy.
for the Groups value in use calculations, a long term growth rate into perpetuity has been determined as the lower of: US GAAP Under US GAAP, the requirements for testing the recoverability of intangible the nominal GDP rates for the country of operation: and assets and property, plant and equipment differ from IFRS.
US GAAP requires the carrying value of such assets with finite lives to be compared to the compound annual growth rate in EBITDA in years nine to ten of the undiscounted future cash flows over the remaining useful life of the primary management plan.
asset of the asset group being tested for impairment, to determine if the asset or asset group is recoverable.
If the carrying value exceeds the For non-mobile businesses, no growth is expected beyond managements undiscounted cash flows, the carrying value is not recoverable and the asset plans for the initial five year period.
or asset group is written down to the net present value of future cash flows derived in a manner similar to IFRS.
Changing the assumptions selected by management, in particular the discount rate and growth rate assumptions used in the cash flow For purposes of goodwill impairment testing under US GAAP, the fair value projections, could significantly affect the Groups impairment evaluation of a reporting unit including goodwill is compared to its carrying value.
the fair value of a reporting unit is lower than its carrying value, the fair value of the goodwill within that reporting unit is compared with its The Groups review includes the key assumptions related to sensitivity in the respective carrying value, with any excess carrying value written off as an cash flow projections.
The fair value of the goodwill is the difference between the fair 30 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 The following changes to the assumptions used in the impairment review acquired other than licences the residual was allocated to licences, as would have increased decreased the combined impairment loss opposed to goodwill.
However, subsequent to this date and due to the recognised in the year ended 31 March 2007 in respect of the Groups prohibition of this method of accounting following the issuance of EITF mobile operations in Germany and Italy: Topic D-108, licences are valued using a direct valuation approach, with the residual being allocated to goodwill.
For acquisitions preceding this date, 1 1 Increase by 2% Decrease by 2% the residual has been and will continue to be allocated to goodwill.
bn bn Discount rate 1.4 1.5 1 Budgeted EBITDA 0.8 0.8 Intangible Assets, Excluding Goodwill 2 Capital expenditure 0.1 0.1 Other intangible assets include the Groups aggregate amounts spent on Long term growth rate 1.7 1.5 the acquisition of 2G and 3G licences, customer bases, brands, computer Notes: software and development costs.
These assets arise from both separate 1 Represents the compound annual growth rate for the initial five years of the Groups approved purchases and from acquisition as part of business combinations.
2 Represents capital expenditure as a percentage of revenue in the initial five years of the Groups approved plans.
The relative size of the Groups intangible assets, excluding goodwill, makes the judgements surrounding the estimated useful lives and basis of These assumption changes in isolation would not have resulted in an amortisation critical to the Groups financial position and performance.
impairment loss in any other of the Groups continuing operations.
At 31 March 2007, intangible assets, excluding goodwill, amounted to US GAAP 15,705 million 2006: 16,512 million and represented 14.3% Under US GAAP, the assumptions and estimates involved in reviewing for 2006: 13.0% of the Groups total assets.
impairment are similar to IFRS, with the exception of the requirement to determine the primary asset of an asset group.
For asset groups represented Estimation of useful life by the Groups operating companies, the primary asset is determined as the The useful life used to amortise intangible assets relates to the future 3G licence, except for operating companies where no 3G licence has been performance of the assets acquired and managements judgement of the acquired, in which case the 2G licence is the primary asset.
If the primary period over which economic benefit will be derived from the asset.
The asset of the Groups mobile operations in Germany were the 2G rather than basis for determining the useful life for the most significant categories of the 3G licence, the carrying value would exceed the undiscounted cash intangible assets is as follows: flows and result in a significant impairment loss.
Licences and spectrum fees The estimated useful life is, generally, the term of the licence, unless there Business Combinations is a presumption of renewal at negligible cost.
Using the licence term Goodwill only arises in business combinations.
The amount of goodwill reflects the period over which the Group will receive economic benefit.
For initially recognised is dependent on the allocation of the purchase price to technology specific licences with a presumption of renewal at negligible the fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
cost, the estimated useful economic life reflects the Groups expectation of The determination of the fair value of the assets and liabilities is based, to a the period over which the Group will continue to receive economic benefit considerable extent, on managements judgement.
The economic lives are periodically reviewed, taking into consideration such factors as changes in technology.
Historically, any Allocation of the purchase price affects the results of the Group as finite changes to economic lives have not been material following these reviews.
lived intangible assets are amortised, whereas indefinite lived intangible assets, including goodwill, are not amortised and could result in differing Customer bases amortisation charges based on the allocation to indefinite lived and finite The estimated useful life principally reflects managements view of the lived intangible assets.
average economic life of the customer base and is assessed by reference to customer churn rates.
An increase in churn rates may lead to a reduction in On the acquisition of mobile network operators, the identifiable intangible the estimated useful life and an increase in the amortisation charge.
assets may include licences, customer bases and brands.
The fair value of Historically, changes to the estimated useful lives have not had a significant these assets is determined by discounting estimated future net cash flows impact on the Groups results and financial position.
generated by the asset, assuming no active market for the assets exist.
The use of different assumptions for the expectations of future cash flows and Capitalised software the discount rate would change the valuation of the intangible assets.
The useful life is determined by management at the time the software is acquired and brought into use and is regularly reviewed for appropriateness.
IFRS For computer software licences, the useful life represents managements On transition to IFRS, the Group elected not to apply IFRS 3, Business view of expected benefits over which the Group will receive benefits from Combinations, retrospectively as the difficulty in applying these the software, but not exceeding the licence term.
For unique software requirements to the large number of business combinations completed by products controlled by the Group, the life is based on historical experience the Group from incorporation through to 1 April 2004 exceeded any with similar products as well as anticipation of future events, which may potential benefits.
Goodwill arising before the date of transition to IFRS, impact their life, such as changes in technology.
after adjusting for items including the impact of proportionate consolidation of joint ventures, amounted to 78,753 million.
Historically, changes in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to the Groups amortisation charge.
If the Group had elected to apply the accounting for business combinations retrospectively, it may have led to an increase or decrease in goodwill and increase in licences, customer bases, brands and related deferred tax Property, Plant and Equipment liabilities recognised on acquisition.
Property, plant and equipment also represent a significant proportion of the asset base of the Group, being 12.3% 2006: 10.8% of the Groups total US GAAP assets.
Therefore, the estimates and assumptions made to determine their For acquisitions prior to 29 September 2004, the key difference from IFRS carrying value and related depreciation are critical to the Groups financial was that for the acquisition of mobile network businesses, the excess of position and performance.
purchase price over the fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 31 Performance Critical Accounting Estimates continued Estimation of useful life Recognition of deferred tax assets The charge in respect of periodic depreciation is derived after determining an The recognition of deferred tax assets is based upon whether it is more estimate of an assets expected useful life and the expected residual value at likely than not that sufficient and suitable taxable profits will be available in the end of its life.
Increasing an assets expected life or its residual value would the future, against which the reversal of temporary differences can be result in a reduced depreciation charge in the Groups income statement.
Recognition, therefore, involves judgement regarding the future financial performance of the particular legal entity or tax group in which the The useful lives of Group assets are determined by management at the time deferred tax asset has been recognised.
the asset is acquired and reviewed annually for appropriateness.
The lives are based on historical experience with similar assets as well as anticipation Historical differences between forecast and actual taxable profits have not of future events, which may impact their life, such as changes in resulted in material adjustments to the recognition of deferred tax assets.
Furthermore, network infrastructure is only depreciated over a period that extends beyond the expiry of the associated licence under which the operator provides telecommunications services, if there is a Revenue Recognition and Presentation reasonable expectation of renewal or an alternative future use for the asset.
Revenue from mobile telecommunications comprises amounts charged to customers in respect of monthly access charges, airtime charges, Historically, changes in useful lives have not resulted in material changes to messaging, the provision of other mobile telecommunications services, the Groups depreciation charge.
including data services and information provision, fees for connecting users of other fixed line and mobile networks to the Groups network, revenue Cost capitalisation from the sale of equipment, including handsets, and revenue arising from Cost includes the total purchase price and labour costs associated with the the Groups Partner Network agreements.
Groups own employees to the extent that they are directly attributable to construction costs, or where they comprise a proportion of a department Arrangements with multiple deliverables directly engaged in the purchase or installation of a fixed asset.
In revenue arrangements including more than one deliverable, the Management judgement is involved in determining the appropriate internal arrangement consideration is allocated to each deliverable based on the fair costs to capitalise and the amounts involved.
For the year ended 31 March value of the individual element.
The Group generally determines the fair 2007, internal costs capitalised represented approximately 6% 2006: 7% of value of individual elements based on prices at which the deliverable is expenditure on property, plant and equipment and computer software and regularly sold on a standalone basis.
approximately 1% 2006: 1% of total operating expenses.
Deferral period Customer connection fees, when combined with related equipment Taxation revenue, in excess of the fair value of the equipment are deferred and The Groups tax charge on ordinary activities is the sum of the total current recognised over the expected life of the customer relationship.
The life is and deferred tax charges.
The calculation of the Groups total tax charge determined by reference to historical customer churn rates.
An increase in necessarily involves a degree of estimation and judgement in respect of churn rates would reduce the expected customer relationship life and certain items whose tax treatment cannot be finally determined until accelerate revenue recognition.
Historically, changes to the expected resolution has been reached with the relevant tax authority or, as customer relationship lives have not had a significant impact on the Groups appropriate, through a formal legal process.
The final resolution of some of results and financial position.
these items may give rise to material profit and loss and or cash flow variances.
See Performance Financial Position and Resources.
Any excess upgrade or tariff migration fees over the fair value of equipment provided are deferred over the average upgrade or tariff migration period as The growth in complexity of the Groups structure following its rapid appropriate.
This time period is calculated based on historical activity of expansion geographically has made the degree of estimation and customers who upgrade or change tariffs.
An increase in the time period judgement more challenging.
The resolution of issues is not always within would extend the period over which revenue is recognised.
the control of the Group and it is often dependent on the efficiency of the legal processes in the relevant taxing jurisdictions in which the Group Presentation operates.
Issues can, and often do, take many years to resolve.
Payments in When deciding the most appropriate basis for presenting revenue or costs respect of tax liabilities for an accounting period result from payments on of revenue, both the legal form and substance of the agreement between account and on the final resolution of open items.
As a result, there can be the Group and its business partners are reviewed to determine each partys substantial differences between the tax charge in the income statement respective role in the transaction.
Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of principal, revenue is Significant items on which the Group has exercised accounting judgement recognised on a gross basis.
This requires revenue to comprise the gross include a provision in respect of an enquiry from UK HM Revenue and value of the transaction billed to the customer, after trade discounts, with Customs with regard to the Controlled Foreign Companies tax legislation any related expenditure charged as an operating cost.
see note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, legal proceedings to recover VAT in relation to 3G licence fees see page 53 and potential tax Where the Groups role in a transaction is that of an agent, revenue is losses in respect of a write down in the value of investments in Germany recognised on a net basis, with revenue representing the margin earned.
see note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The amounts recognised in the Consolidated Financial Statements in respect of each matter are derived from the Groups best estimation and judgement, as described above.
However, the inherent uncertainty regarding the outcome of these items means eventual resolution could differ from the accounting estimates and therefore impact the Groups results and cash flows.
32 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
