Our Technology and Resources Mobile network infrastructure Network infrastructure is fundamental to the Group being able to provide Vodafones key technologies and resources encompass mobile services.
The mobile network enables the Groups customers to place and receive voice calls and allows the Group to provide other services, the telecommunication licences it holds, the related such as text messaging.
mobile network infrastructure and the approximately 66,000 people Vodafone employs worldwide.
These When a voice call or data transmission is made on a mobile device, voice or key technologies and resources enable the Group to data is sent from the device and transmitted by low powered radio signals to the nearest base station, which in turn is connected to the Groups network.
operate mobile networks in 21 controlled and jointly Each base station provides coverage over a given geographic area, often controlled markets around the world.
Cells can be as small as an individual building or as large as 20 miles across.
Each cell is equipped with its own radio transmitter Licences and receiver antenna.
This network of cells provides, within certain The Group is dependent on the licences it holds to operate mobile limitations, coverage over the service area.
When a customer using a mobile telecommunications services.
Further detail on the issue and regulation of device approaches the boundary of one cell, the mobile network senses licences can be found in Business Regulation.
The table below that the signal is becoming weak and automatically hands over the call to summarises the significant licences held by the Groups mobile operating the transmission unit in the next cell into which the device is moving.
subsidiaries and the Groups joint venture in Italy at 31 March 2007.
If the voice call or data transmission is intended for delivery to another Country by Licence Licence expiry Date of commencement device which is not on the Vodafone network, the information is delivered 1 region type date of commercial service through a public or private fixed line telephone network or the internet.
Europe 2 Germany 2G December 2009 June 1992 In a second generation 2G network, each cell contains a base station 3G December 2020 February 2004 using a number of radio frequencies or channels.
A group of base stations is Italy 2G January 2015 December 1995 connected to a base station controller, which in turn is connected to a 3G December 2021 February 2004 mobile switching centre and then via a gateway support node for access to 3 Spain 2G July 2023 October 1995 a fixed line network or the internet.
3G April 2020 February 2004 4 UK 2G See note December 1991 In a 3G network, voice or data traffic is passed through a node B, being 3G December 2021 February 2004 similar to a base station in a 2G network, to a radio network controller which Albania 2G June 2016 August 2001 is then connected to a mobile switching centre, similar to a 2G network.
Greece 2G September 2012 July 1993 3G August 2021 July 2004 Base stations and node Bs form a critical element of a mobile network and 5 Ireland 2G May 2011 March 1993 an insufficient number of base stations can result in loss of service for 3G October 2022 May 2003 customers.
In addition, the correct deployment of the right base stations is Malta 2G September 2010 July 1997 instrumental in achieving the network quality and coverage that are crucial 3G August 2020 August 2006 to customer satisfaction.
Netherlands 2G March 2013 September 1995 3G December 2016 February 2004 2G Portugal 2G October 2021 October 1992 Vodafone operates 2G networks in all its mobile operating subsidiaries, 6 3G January 2016 February 2004 through GSM networks, offering customers services such as voice, text EMAPA messaging and basic data services.
In addition, all of the Groups controlled 7 Australia 2G See note September 1993 networks operate GPRS, often referred to as 2.5G.
GPRS allows mobile 3G October 2017 October 2005 devices to be used for sending and receiving data over an internet protocol Czech 2G January 2021 March 2000 IP based network, enabling wireless access to data networks like the 8 Republic 3G February 2025 See note internet.
9 Egypt 2G January 2022 November 1998 3G January 2022 May 2007 The GPRS data service offering includes internet and e-mail access, allowing 10 Hungary 2G July 2014 November 1999 the customer to be always connected at download speeds slightly below a 3G December 2019 December 2005 dial-up modem.
Vodafone also offers a great variety of services on its 11 New Zealand 2G See note July 1993 Vodafone live!
portal, such as picture and video messaging, download of 11 3G March 2021 August 2005 ringtones, news and many other services.
Romania 2G December 2011 April 1997 3G March 2020 April 2005 3G Turkey 2G April 2023 April 1998 Vodafones 3G networks, operating the W-CDMA standard, provide Notes: customers with mobile broadband data access allowing data download 1 All 2G networks are of a GSM GPRS network type.
All 3G networks are of a W-CDMA network type.
speeds of up to 384 kilobits per second kbps, which is up to seven times 2 On 15 May 2007, the Group secured a seven year extension of its GSM licence in Germany to December 2016. faster than a dial-up modem.
Vodafone has expanded its service offering on 3 Date relates to 1800MHz spectrum licence.
Vodafone Spain also has a separate 900MHz 3G networks with high speed internet and e-mail access, video telephony, spectrum licence which expires in February 2020. full track music downloads, mobile TV and other data services, in addition to 4 Indefinite licence with a one year notice of revocation.
Vodafone Ireland also has a separate 1800MHz spectrum existing voice and data services.
licence which expires in December 2015.
6 Portugal launched the Vodafone Mobile Connect 3G GPRS data card in February 2004 and The Group has secured 3G licences in all jurisdictions in which it operates the launch of 3G voice services took place in May 2005.
7 Refers to a 900MHz spectrum rolling five year licence.
Various licences are held for 1800MHz through its subsidiary undertakings and in which such licences have been licences, which are issued by specific regional regulators.
The earliest expires in June 2013 awarded to date, as well as in Italy through its joint venture.
Vodafone and the latest in March 2015. expects to participate in additional 3G licence allocation procedures in 8 Launch date to be determined.
9 Egypt extended its 2G licence for a further nine years in January 2007. other jurisdictions in which it operates where this is commercially viable.
No 10 There is an option to extend this licence for seven years.
assurances can be given that the Group will be successful in obtaining any 11 Vodafone New Zealand owns three GSM 900 licences 2x21MHz and one GSM1800 licence 3G licences for which it intends to apply or bid.
The GSM900 licences expire in November 2011, July 2012 and September 2021.
The GSM1800 licence expires in March 2022.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 19 Business Business Overview continued Roll out of the 3G network infrastructure has continued throughout the The employer brand programme continues to deliver the desired change in 2007 financial year across the Groups mobile operations, including culture of the Group to one that inspires the behaviour of employees in their approximately 625 million expenditure on 3G network infrastructure.
By interactions with customers and other stakeholders.
Employee engagement the end of March 2007, over 41,000 node Bs were in operation in the with the brand is measured through a survey tool, with October 2006 results Groups controlled operations and the Groups joint venture in Italy.
In many demonstrating 79% awareness of the brands importance to Vodafones of the Groups markets, Vodafone has achieved the leading position on 3G success.
coverage and quality of service.
The Board places a high priority on effective employee communications to High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA create a dialogue with the Groups employees.
In addition to the more HSDPA is a wireless technology enabling data transmission speeds of up to traditional channels, the Group increasingly uses its own products and 3.6 megabits per second in the first phase.
It allows increased mobile data services, such as SMS and audio based messaging, and this year has seen traffic, and improves the customer experience through the availability of the use of Vodafone TV for broader communications, including financial enhanced mobile broadband services and significantly shorter download results and product launch communications to employees, with very times.
In later phases, peak speeds up to 7.2Mbps will be available in hotspots first, The Chief Executive and other members of the executive management with up to 14.4 Mbps achievable with later releases.
This is expected to team continue to host the Talkabout programme, which aims to visit each provide customers with faster access speeds than experienced on existing of the Groups local operating companies every year.
The performance figures quoted are theoretical peak rates sessions, the executive team use the opportunity to discuss the Groups deliverable by the technology in ideal radio conditions with no customer strategic goals with as wide an audience of Vodafone employees as contention for resources.
possible, listening to their views and talking about the issues that matter most to them, as well as exchanging ideas about how Vodafone can serve HSDPA is enabled through the deployment of new software in the 3G radio its customers.
network and expanding the processing capabilities of the node B.
Significant performance benefits are achieved by using mechanisms that use the radio Vodafones success is driven by the passion and effort of the Groups interface more effectively and are further adapted to bursty packet based employees.
In return, Vodafone values employees opinions on improving data traffic using IP.
Vodafone Mobile Connect data cards which support the performance of the Group.
Within European subsidiaries, employee HSDPA are available commercially, and compatible Vodafone live!
handsets representatives meet annually with members of the executive management were launched in the summer of 2006. team in the Vodafone European Employee Consultative Council to discuss the performance and prospects of the Group and significant trans-national HSDPA was launched commercially in many of the major mobile markets of issues.
the Group during the 2007 financial year.
All markets are considering upgrades to serve higher bandwidths for customers as each market In October 2007, Vodafone plans to carry out its third global all employee situation justifies.
In addition, the Group now conducts half yearly interim surveys on a representative sample of employees across its organisation to While HSDPA focuses on downlink network to mobile, Vodafone is also continue to track employee engagement on a more regular basis.
improving the data speeds in the uplink mobile to network to achieve speeds of up to 384kbps.
HSUPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access is In 2006, the Group conducted two interim surveys in April and October expected to further enhance the uplink speed beyond 1 megabit covering all operating companies.
The results showed that employees per second.
continue to be highly engaged with Vodafone.
In particular, the results showed that employees now have a greater understanding of what is Employees expected of them and receive better coaching support to improve their Vodafone employs approximately 66,000 people worldwide, with a goal to performance.
Again, the overwhelming majority of employees are proud to recruit, develop and retain the most talented, motivated people that are work for Vodafone, understand the importance of Vodafones values, know well aligned with the Vodafone brand essence.
The Company aims to do this the results expected of them in their jobs and have a good understanding of by providing a productive, safe working environment, treating people with Vodafones strategic goals and priorities.
respect and offering attractive performance based incentives and opportunities.
Training and development programmes help employees to Vodafone is focused on continually improving and, as a result, continues to develop their skills and experience and to reach their full potential, focus on some previously identified areas that need to be addressed benefiting themselves and the Company.
through co-ordinated global and local action: Employee involvement To improve the Groups understanding of the underlying customer focus The Boards aim is to ensure that employees understand the Groups issues in each market and identify improvements in the service offered.
strategic goals and the mutual obligations of working in a high performing, Meeting customers requirements remains at the heart of the business values-based organisation.
and will continue to differentiate Vodafone from our competition: and Vodafones values continue to provide a common way of behaving and are To continue to develop practical global frameworks and guidelines to help implicit in all that the Group does for and with its shareholders, customers employees effectively manage change within the business.
During the year, Vodafone has built further on its employee engagement initiative through embedding the Vodafone brand, Red, Rock Solid, Restless, into the business through all of its people practices.
This has been supported by the development of a Vodafone People Strategy that provides a common goal for the experience all employees receive when joining and working for Vodafone.
20 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 In addition, Vodafone has added another specific area of focus this year: Supply chain management Handsets, network equipment, marketing and IT services account for the To create an environment where people are attracted to work for majority of Vodafones purchases, with the bulk of these purchases from Vodafone and are truly engaged to grow and deliver their best efforts.
The Groups Global Supply Chain Management GSCM goal is supported by the rollout of the Vodafone People Strategy.
During team is responsible for managing most of the Groups relationships with the 2008 financial year the Vodafone People Strategy will be these suppliers.
communicated to all employees, with the ultimate goal that employee engagement levels will be in the top quartile in every market in which the The ongoing transformation of the supply chain organisation under one Group operates.
leadership and global material strategies has enabled savings across all operating companies.
This is supported by a uniform savings methodology Employment policies applied across all operating companies.
Enablers such as eAuctions and The Groups employment policies are consistent with the principles of the seamless B2B applications form a vital part in leveraging the Groups United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the International scale further.
Labour Organisation Core Conventions and are developed to reflect local legal, cultural and employment requirements.
High standards are Vodafones eSourcing programme continues to drive and create significant maintained wherever the Group operates, as Vodafone aims to ensure that benefits for the entire organisation.
Amongst its successes in the 2007 the Group is recognised as an employer of choice.
Employees at all levels financial year, the programme has established world class benchmark prices and in all companies are encouraged to make the greatest possible in hardware procurement.
contribution to the Groups success.
The Group considers its employee relations to be good.
GSCM continues to implement best practices across the Groups mobile operations with the aim of harmonising business processes, which will bring Equal opportunities the benefits of further reducing procurement costs and reducing time to Vodafone does not condone unfair treatment of any kind and operates an market.
equal opportunities policy for all aspects of employment and advancement, regardless of race, nationality, sex, age, marital status, disability or religious Global suppliers are required to comply with the Groups Code of Ethical or political belief.
In practice, this means that the Group is able to select the Purchasing which sets out the labour and environmental standards the best people available for positions on the basis of merit and capability, Group expects suppliers to meet.
The Code is based on the Groups values making the most effective use of the talents and experience of people in and international standards, including the Universal Declaration of Human the business and providing them with the opportunity to develop and Rights and the International Labour Organisation Conventions on Labour realise their potential.
GSCM has implemented a consistent supplier performance management process that ensures that key suppliers are evaluated across The disabled six areas, covering aspects of financial stability, technological and Vodafone is conscious of the difficulties experienced by people with commercial criteria, delivery and quality management requirements and disabilities.
Every effort is made to ensure ready access to the Groups corporate responsibility.
facilities and services and a range of products has been developed for people with special needs.
In addition, disabled people are assured of full Consistent with GSCMs pro-active approach to strategic sourcing, Vodafone and fair consideration for all vacancies for which they offer themselves as launched the China Sourcing Centre based in Beijing in March 2007, which suitable candidates and efforts are made to meet their special needs, will act as the GSCM competency centre for low cost sourcing and emerging particularly in relation to access and mobility.
to workplaces are made to provide access and, therefore, job opportunities for the disabled.
Every effort is made to continue the employment of people It is the Groups policy to agree terms of transactions, including payment who become disabled via the provision of additional facilities, job design terms, with suppliers and it is the Groups normal practice that payment is and the provision of appropriate training.
The number of days outstanding between receipt of invoices and date of payment, calculated by reference to the amount owed to Health, safety and wellbeing suppliers at the year end as a proportion of the amounts invoiced by suppliers The health, safety and wellbeing of the Groups customers, employees and during the year, was 34 days 2006: 36 days in aggregate for the Group.
others who could be affected by its activities are of paramount importance to Vodafone and the Group applies rigorous standards to all its operations.
Research and Development R&D The Group R&D function comprises an international and multicultural team The health and safety management in each operating company is audited for applied research in mobile and internet communications and their annually and the results are submitted in a report for discussion by the applications.
The majority of the work of the Groups R&D function is Board.
The Groups annual global health and safety audit has been recently undertaken through the Groups research centres, located in Newbury, upgraded in line with the new health and safety management system.
This Maastricht, Munich, California and Madrid, and in an associate centre in Paris online system provides improved detailed assessment and management belonging to Vodafones associated undertaking in France, SFR.
The system, which includes global policies, standards and best financial year, the R&D centre in Milan was re-absorbed into the Italian practice samples, provides easy to access guidance and supports operation and ceased to engage in research and development for the Group.
governance requirements, particularly for Vodafone businesses in developing markets.
Governance is provided by the Group R&D Board, which is chaired by the Group R&D Director and consists of the chief technology officers from six of The Vodafone People Strategy includes health, safety and wellbeing as a the operating subsidiaries in Europe, the heads of Business Strategy and central part, with employee wellbeing a major focus as the business moves Global Terminals and a representative from EMAPA.
The 2008 financial year will see Vodafone health, safety and wellbeing professionals focusing on three key initiatives to support this strategy: implementation of employee wellbeing initiatives, emphasis on communication and implementation of updated mobile phone and driving policy requirements and the continued development of group standards for the selection and evaluation of appropriately trained and qualified contractors and service providers.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 21 Business Business Overview continued Group R&D works beyond the traditional established markets of Vodafone in The R&D programme provides the Group with long term technical policy, search of technology based business opportunities.
It delivers a systematic strategy and leadership, as well as providing technical underpinning for the programme of demand inspired research and development in wireless and Groups public policies and government relations, and is shared with all internet communications that is positioned between basic research and subsidiaries of the Company and Group functions.
They are able to commercial product development.
It directs Vodafones work with technical influence the programme through working relationships that are designed standards bodies and its intellectual property activities.
to allow delivery of the results of the programme directly into the business units where they are needed.
Typically, Group R&D works on developments that are expected to be introduced into the business in three to five years time.
This horizon covers some significant business developments that can already be anticipated How We Developed for example, the transition of traditional telecommunications protocols to the internet protocol, the emergence of the internet as a personal The Company was incorporated under English law in communications platform and the introduction of wireless technology 1984 and through a series of business transactions, beyond our current generation including disruptive radio technologies for including the merger with AirTouch Communications, mobilising the internet.
Inc. in 1999 and the acquisition of Mannesmann AG in The emphasis of the Group R&D work programme is on providing 2000, has become a world leader in providing voice technology analysis and a vision that can contribute directly to business and data communications for both consumer and decisions, enabling new applications of mobile communications, using new enterprise customers.
technology for new services and research for improving operational efficiency and quality of the Groups networks.
This is done by pioneering The Group has continued to execute on its strategy of the adoption of new technologies, business opportunities and innovations actively managing its portfolio to maximise returns, through technology analysis, trials, invention and prototypes: by making Vodafone aware of market opportunities or threats posed by new with recent acquisitions in the high growth markets of technologies and business models, and helping the Company to exploit or Romania, the Czech Republic, Turkey and India.
resist them: by providing technology leadership by working with the industry to define and standardise the technology Vodafone uses: and by Vodafone began in July 1984 when it was incorporated as Racal Strategic securing intellectual property and greater technology ownership for the Radio Limited registered number 1833679.
After various name changes, Company.
20% of Racal Telecom Plc capital was offered to the public in October 1988.
The Company was fully demerged from Racal Electronics Plc and became The work of Group R&D is delivered through a portfolio of programmes and an independent company in September 1991, at which time it changed its cross industry activities with a substantial number of trials, demonstrations name to Vodafone Group Plc.
All work is set in a business and social context.
There is growing emphasis on work that secures intellectual property rights or can Between 1991 and 2004 the Group entered into various transactions which otherwise lead to Vodafone having stronger influence on the technology it consolidated the Groups position in the United Kingdom and enhanced its will deploy in the future.
In addition, Group R&D provides leadership for international presence.
The most significant of these transactions were as funding research into health and safety aspects of mobile communications follows: and technical leadership for the Groups spectrum strategy.
The merger with AirTouch Communications, Inc. AirTouch, which The main themes currently being researched are mobile technologies completed on 30 June 1999.
The Company changed its name to Vodafone beyond the current generation, the internet as a communications platform, AirTouch Plc in June 1999.
The company reverted to its former name, mobile TV and media and service enabler technology like near field Vodafone Group Plc, on 28 July 2000. communications.
A number of significant wireless technology trials are underway and several internet based services have been prototyped and The acquisition of Mannesmann AG Mannesmann, which completed on demonstrated within the Vodafone community.
Through this transaction the Group acquired subsidiaries in communications to intelligent transport systems and the digital home are two of Europes most important markets, Germany and Italy, and increased also being researched.
the Groups indirect holding in SFR, a French mobile telecommunications operator.
Much of the work of Group R&D is done in collaboration with others, both within the Group and externally.
The Group has established R&D Over a period from June 1999 to October 2001 the Group acquired an collaboration with all of its traditional suppliers and is now extending this to effective interest of 69.76% in J-Phone Co. Limited.
During the 2004 other companies in the communications, media and internet industries.
financial year, after various name changes and business transactions, the There is a programme of work with academic institutions, which includes Group held a 69.7% interest in Vodafone K. K. and a 66.7% interest in student placements in Vodafone laboratories during summer vacations, and Vodafone Holdings K. K. the Group is developing new ways in which to use the internet as a platform for research and innovation at the forefront of this is Vodafone etavine, a research space on the internet.
There is also a programme to capture innovation from start-up companies, particularly those based in Silicon Valley, USA, and many of those companies were introduced to the Vodafone Executive Committee and operating company CEOs at a specially hosted event in September 2006.
Group R&D also continues to develop relationships with a number of universities.
These relationships include sponsoring research students, collaboration in European research activities, funding specialised research centres and working with Vodafone funded chairs and research publications.
This year, Group R&D again hosted an academic conference where it brought together its academic partners to consolidate its academic research programme.
22 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Summary of transactions since 31 March 2004 24 May 2006 Turkey: Telsim Mobil Telekomunikasyon Telsim was 25 May 2004 Japan: Increased effective stake in Vodafone K. K. to 98.2% acquired for $4.67 billion 2.6 billion.
and stake in Vodafone Holdings K. K. to 96.1% for 2.4 billion.
29 June 2006 Greece: Since Vodafone Greece announced a public offer 1 October 2004 Japan: Merger of Vodafone K. K. and Vodafone Holdings for all remaining shares not held by the Group on 1 December 2003, the K. K. completed.
The Groups stake in the merged company was 97.7%.
Group increased its effective interest in Vodafone Greece to 99.8% at 31 March 2006.
Between 1 and 29 June 2006, the Group acquired a 12 January 2005 Hungary: Vodafone Hungary became a wholly owned further 0.1% interest in Vodafone Greece through private transactions at a subsidiary of the Group following various transactions throughout the price equal to the price paid in the public offer, leading to an interest 2005 financial year.
26 January 2005 Egypt: Disposed of 16.9% of Vodafone Egypt reducing 3 November 2006 Belgium: Disposed of 25% interest in Belgacom the Groups effective interest to 50.1%.
Mobile SA for ?2.0 billion 1.3 billion.
11 May 2005 France: The Groups effective shareholding in Neuf Cegetel 25 November 2006 Netherlands: Groups shareholdings increased to became 12.4% after a transaction completed by the Groups associated 100.0% following a compulsory acquisition of outstanding shares.
3 December 2006 Egypt: Acquired an additional 4.8% stake in Vodafone 31 May 2005 Czech Republic and Romania: 79.0% of the share capital Egypt bringing the Groups interest to 54.9%.
of MobiFon S. A. MobiFon in Romania, and 99.9% of the share capital of Oskar Mobil a. s. Oskar in the Czech Republic were acquired for 20 December 2006 Switzerland: Disposed of 25% interest in Swisscom $3.5 billion 1.9 billion.
In addition, the Group assumed approximately Mobile AG for CHF4.25 billion 1.8 billion.
$1.0 billion 0.6 billion of net debt.
8 May 2007 India: Acquired companies with interests in Hutchison Essar 18 November 2005 India: Acquired a 5.61% interest in Bharti and on for $10.9 billion 5.5 billion, following which the Group controls 22 December 2005 acquired a further 4.39% interest in Bharti.
Total Hutchison Essar see note 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
consideration for the combined 10.0% stake was Rs.
9 May 2007 India: A Bharti group company irrevocably agreed to purchase the Groups 5.60% direct shareholding in Bharti Airtel see note 5 January 2006 Sweden: Sold Vodafone Sweden for ?970 million 35 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
20 April 2006 South Africa: Increased stake in Vodacom Group Pty Limited Vodacom by 15.0% to 50.0% for a consideration of ZAR15.8 billion 1.5 billion.
27 April 2006 Japan: Disposed of 97.7% stake in Vodafone Japan for 1.42 trillion 6.9 billion including the repayment of intercompany debt of 0.16 0.8 billion to SoftBank.
The Group also received non-cash consideration with a fair value of approximately 0.23 trillion 1.1 billion, comprised of preferred equity and a subordinated loan.
SoftBank also assumed debt of approximately 0.13 trillion 0.6 billion.
Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 23 Business
