Regulation The Groups operating companies are generally subject and the inclusion of functional separation as a possible regulatory remedy.
The impact of the review will depend on the changes actually adopted by to regulation governing the operation of their business the EU, the manner in which revised directives are subsequently activities.
Such regulation typically takes the form of implemented in Member States and how the revised regulatory framework industry-specific law and regulation covering will be applied by the respective NRAs.
telecommunications services and general competition Under the EU Framework, regulation can only be applied to undertakings anti-trust law applicable to all activities.
Some with significant market power SMP, either individually or collectively, in regulation implements commitments made by the relevant markets, subject to the Commissions consent.
SMP under the Governments under the Basic Telecommunications EU Framework accords with the concept of dominance under existing EU Accord of the World Trade Organisation to facilitate competition law.
For individual dominance, this generally implies a market share of at least 40%, although other factors may also be taken into market entry and establish regulatory frameworks.
The Commission published SMP Guidelines in July 2002, which set out principles for use by NRAs in the analysis of markets to The following section describes the regulatory determine if undertakings have SMP under the EU Framework.
framework and the key regulatory developments in the EU and selected countries in which the Group has significant interests.
Many of the regulatory Spectrum In February 2007, the Commission published a Communication on its plans developments reported in the following section involve to introduce greater flexibility in the use of spectrum in selected bands, ongoing proceedings or consideration of potential including 2G and 3G bands, through the use of Decisions agreed with the proceedings that have not reached a conclusion.
Radio Spectrum Committee an EU level committee comprising the Accordingly, the Group is unable to attach a specific Commission and Member States.
These reforms are expected to take place in advance of the review, which is proposing full service and technology level of financial risk to the Groups performance from neutrality as the general principle in spectrum management, spectrum such matters.
trading and greater coordination among Member States.
The first proposed measure is a replacement of the GSM Directive by a decision to allow the deployment of UMTS services using 900 MHz and 1800 MHz spectrum.
European Union Although all Member States of the EU Member States have now The Commission and the RSPG Radio Spectrum Policy Group are implemented the EU Regulatory Framework for the communications sector analysing the various options for the use of the spectrum that will be the EU Framework, which was adopted in 2002, there remain both released after the analogue broadcasting switch-off, the so called digital ongoing and new infringement proceedings against a number of Member dividend.
The Commission has sent a mandate to the European Conference States for late or inadequate implementation.
of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations CEPT to verify the technical feasibility of using part of the digital dividend for mobile services.
The EU Framework consists of four principal Directives outlining matters such as the objectives to be pursued by national regulatory authorities NRAs, the way in which telecommunications operators are to be International Roaming licensed, measures to be taken to protect consumers and ensure universal In February 2006, the Commission proposed new legislation by way of a provision of certain telecommunications services and the terms and basis regulation the roaming regulation under Article 95 of the EU Treaty upon which operators interconnect and provide access to each other.
which would have immediate effect to reduce what it considers to be excessive prices charged by mobile network operators for international The EU Framework seeks to align the techniques for defining where sector roaming services.
These proposals have been amended and adopted by the specific regulation may be applied, and the threshold for when such European Parliament on 23 May 2007.
They are expected to be adopted by regulation can be applied, with those already employed in EU competition the European Council and Commission in early June 2007, and to come into law.
It is also intended to ensure consistency of approach amongst NRAs force in late June 2007.
The regulation adopted by the Parliament requires within the Member States.
All NRAs are required to take utmost account of a mobile operators to offer, within 1 month of the regulation coming into list of markets which are specified by the European Commission the force, a Euro-tariff under which the cost of making calls within the EU is Commission in a Recommendation when deciding which markets to capped at 49 eurocents and the cost of receiving calls within the EU is investigate.
The first such Recommendation was published by the capped at 24 eurocents.
Customers who have not otherwise already opted Commission in February 2003 and includes markets at a wholesale level for for another roaming tariff such as Vodafone Passport must be voice call termination on individual mobile networks the call termination automatically opted onto the Euro-tariff within three months of the market, the wholesale national market for international roaming the regulation coming into force.
The regulation also requires that wholesale roaming market and the wholesale market for access and call origination roaming charges within the EU are capped at an average rate of 30 the access market on public mobile networks together the relevant eurocents per minute within 2 months of the regulation coming into force markets.
NRAs may, with the Commissions consent, also propose markets and that operators provide certain tariff transparency services to customers not included in the Recommendation.
The level of the retail and wholesale caps will fall further 12 and 24 months following the application of the regulation.
The roaming The Commission is currently reviewing the Framework and the regulation will terminate after 3 years.
Recommendation the review and a revised list of markets is expected to come into force during 2007.
This review may lead to an increase or a Anti-trust proceedings in relation to international roaming continue.
In July decrease in the number and scope of markets subject to sector specific 2004, the Commission issued a statement of objections, a document regulation.
Changes to the Recommendation are expected to become detailing its proposed findings following its investigation into the UK market effective in late 2007 or early 2008, while any changes to the EU Framework for wholesale international roaming and, in January 2005, the Commission would become effective following their transposition into national law from issued a statement of objections following its investigation of the German around 2010 onwards.
The Commission currently proposes changes to the market.
In both cases the statement of objections was addressed to both way spectrum is managed in Europe to increase flexibility, a change to the the national mobile operating subsidiaries and to the Company and, in both institutional framework aimed at greater consistency and harmonisation 24 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 cases, Vodafone has responded in writing and in oral proceedings to both A new law announced in January 2007 has prohibited the application of statements of objections, as subsequently amended.
fees or other charges in addition to airtime for prepaid services and has also introduced transparency measures to enable consumers to terminate The Commissions proposed findings are that Vodafone has monopoly subscription contracts without penalties.
power over its wholesale customers in both the UK and Germany.
Vodafone UK and Vodafone Germany are alleged to have engaged in excessive or Spain unfair pricing.
The Commission alleges that the abuse occurred from 1997 In 2006, the Spanish NRA found all mobile network operators to have SMP to at least September 2003 in the UK and from 2000 to December 2003 in in the call termination market and imposed obligations including non Germany.
In the event the Commission finds that there has been a breach of discrimination, cost orientation and accounting separation on Vodafone competition law, it may impose a fine on any addressee who had committed Spain.
Vodafone Spain expects to reduce rates from 10.48 eurocents to the breach.
7 eurocents in six monthly reductions up to April 2009.
Separately, the roaming market is one of the relevant markets in the In February 2006, the NRA found that all three mobile network operators Recommendation.
In view of the proposed roaming regulation the held a position of joint SMP in the access markets.
This decision was Commission has proposed that this market be removed from the list during reviewed by the European Commission and the NRA was allowed to the review.
The NRA has the power to impose wholesale network access terms facilitating the entry of firms including MVNOs, although it has not done so to date.
Vodafone has appealed against the decision of the NRA to find Regulation in Vodafones Markets Vodafone as holding SMP in the Spanish courts and has appealed the decision of the European Commission to allow the NRA to proceed to the Europe Court of First Instance at Luxembourg.
Germany Vodafone Germany has been found to have SMP in the call termination United Kingdom market and the NRA has set Vodafones termination rate at 8.79 eurocents The NRA found that all mobile network operators have SMP in the call per minute.
In April 2007, an administrative court ruled that the NRA termination market in respect of calls conveyed over both 2G and 3G decision is invalid insofar as it provides for ex ante regulation as a networks.
Vodafones average termination rate is set at 5.7p per minute for consequence of the SMP decision.
This decision is under appeal.
the financial year ending 31 March 2008.
Rates then decline by 3.2% below the retail price index in the 2009 financial year and 2.5% below the retail The NRA has recently notified to the European Commission its findings that price index in the 2010 and 2011 financial years.
The NRA is considering a no operator had SMP in the access market.
modification to the charge controls on mobile termination rates to remove the effect of number portability on effective termination rates.
The NRA has concluded that it will harmonise the expiry of all 2G licences in 2016 and on 15 May 2007 extended Vodafones licence accordingly.
The The NRA is currently investigating a complaint from BT plc about the level NRA is also consulting on proposals to licence spectrum at 2.6 GHz the 3G of Vodafones termination rates from September 2004. extension band and unused spectrum at 1.8 GHz and 2 GHz core 3G band during 2008.
The NRA is assessing whether to liberalise the use of 2G spectrum.
The NRA is proposing to auction the so called 3G extension bands by the end of 2007 In May 2007, the Commission issued a reasoned opinion, which was the and to auction the spectrum released by digital switchover in the second second stage of infringement proceedings against Germany.
This opinion half of 2008. alleged that new provisions in German law could grant Deutsche Telekom an exemption from regulation, in spite of a finding that it had a dominant Albania position in the fixed broadband market.
In March 2006, the NRA issued for consultation to the operators its analysis of the mobile market in Albania, where the NRA proposed to designate the Italy mobile network operators, including Vodafone Albania, as having SMP in The NRA has concluded that all mobile network operators have SMP in the two markets: the call termination market and the market of mobile call termination market and has imposed obligations on Vodafone Italy, services to end users.
As a result, the NRA proposes obligations of including price controls, and the NRA foresees further reductions on both transparency, non-discrimination and access obligations.
The NRA may also 1 July 2007 and 1 July 2008 of 13% below the retail price index from the impose retail price controls.
rate of 11.20 eurocents currently charged.
The NRA has also decided to impose a cost orientation obligation to a competitor, Hutchison Italy, but is Vodafone Albania has submitted its comments and objections on the NRAs still considering at what level and over what time period.
In April 2007, the NRA decided to extend Vodafone Albanias SMP status to October 2007.
Vodafone Albania is evaluating the The NRA concluded its review of the access market in February 2006 and decision.
In addition, the Competition Authority commenced an found that no operator had SMP but has said it will keep the market under investigation and has reached the preliminary conclusion that during the review and has indicated that it will commence a further market review.
In period from 2000 to 2005 Vodafone Albania was dominant in the mobile addition, the NRA sought to find SMP in the market for wholesale access to market and abused the dominant position by charging unfair and or premium rate and non-geographic services but subsequently withdrew this excessive prices.
Vodafone Albania will respond in a hearing set for proposal.
In March 2005, the National Competition Authority NCA in Italy June 2007.
In the event the decision is confirmed, Vodafone Albania faces conducted unannounced inspections of the offices of mobile network the risk of a fine.
operators in Italy, including Vodafone Italy, seeking evidence of collusion following complaints by resellers and potential MVNOs about alleged antiGreece competitive conduct.
Vodafone Italy submitted undertakings to the NCA in The NRA has found all firms to have SMP in the call termination market.
2007 which are currently under consideration and which, if accepted, would Vodafone Greece will reduce its rate from 11.74 eurocents to 10.71 resolve the issues without further action.
If the NCA were to decide that eurocents in June 2007. there had been a breach of competition law, it would be able to impose a fine on any operator who had committed the breach.
In March 2006, the three largest mobile network operators were found by the NRA to have colluded in the setting of retail SMS prices and were fined Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 25 Business Regulation continued The NRAs analysis of the access market is expected to take place in 2007.
Vodafone Greece has filed an administrative appeal and a hearing has been held.
Vodafone Portugal has had its 2G licence renewed for a period of 15 years In January 2007, Vodafone Greece was fined 76 million by the from October 2006 with terms which remain essentially unchanged from those which previously applied.
Administrative Authority for Secrecy of Communications ADAE having been made aware of a security issue in its network.
Software foreign to the In October 2006, the NRA approved a change to the terms of Vodafone network and capable of intercepting calls had been installed without Vodafones knowledge in the network software created, supported and Portugals licence to allow the provision of the Vodafone Casa service.
maintained by an external supplier.
The foreign software was removed without delay and the Greek authorities were promptly informed.
Vodafone EMAPA Australia Greece has paid the fine but is appealing against the decision.
Due to the interception incident, the NRA has required Vodafone Greece to give its Vodafone Australias appeal of the NCAs decision requiring Vodafone Australias mobile termination rates to fall from 21 Australian cents per views on any breach of the Greek electronic communications legislation, including breach of privacy and secrecy of communication.
minute to 12 Australian cents per minute for the period 2005 to 2007 was rejected by the Australian Competition Tribunal.
The NRA is now in the Ireland process of setting rates for the period July 2007 to June 2009.
In its review of the call termination market, the NRA has found that all mobile network operators have SMP.
The NRA has imposed obligations of Czech Republic In February 2005, Vodafone Czech Republic was awarded a 3G licence.
The cost orientation and non-discrimination on all operators and obligations of accounting separation and transparency on Vodafone and O. Vodafone EU investigated a complaint but concluded in December 2006 that the 2 award did not breach EU competition law.
Ireland has agreed to reduce its rates by 11% below the retail price index per annum for the 24 months commencing January 2006.
In its review of the call termination market, the NRA has proposed that all The NRA is conducting a second review of the access market.
The previous mobile network operators have SMP and has imposed obligations of cost orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
joint SMP designation of Vodafone and O was annulled on appeal.
2 Vodafone Czech Republic complied with a requirement to reduce its call termination rates from July 2006 by 4% from CZK 3.11 per minute to CZK The fixed incumbent, eircom, which also owns Meteor, Irelands third largest mobile operator, was awarded the fourth 3G licence in March 2007.
In its review of the access market, the NRA found that no mobile network operator had SMP.
Malta Egypt In the call termination market, the NRA has found both mobile network operators as having SMP and has imposed obligations on Vodafone Malta of In July 2006, the Government awarded a third mobile licence to Etisalat, which enables both 2G and 3G services, and awarded a 3G mobile licence to cost orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
Vodafone Malta reduced its mobile termination rates from Vodafone Egypt in January 2007.
Mobile number portability and national roaming are expected to be implemented in Egypt in 2007 and are the 4.65 Maltese cents per minute in January 2006 to 4.39 Maltese cents and will further reduce the rates to 4.13 Maltese cents in January 2008.
The NRA subject of continuing discussions with the NRA.
has found Vodafone and Go Mobile, the two Maltese mobile network operators, as having joint SMP in the access market and proposes to impose Fiji During 2006, the Fijian Government proceeded with proposals to remove an obligation to offer cost based access to MVNOs.
exclusive rights and began a process of consultation with Vodafone Fiji regarding potential compensation for the loss of exclusivity.
In December The Netherlands The NRA had proposed that all operators have SMP and proposed remedies 2006, the Government was removed and the interim Government is considering how best to proceed with telecommunications reform.
of cost orientation, non-discrimination and transparency.
The NRAs proposal was appealed and its proposal was rejected by the court.
The NRA Hungary is currently rerunning its review of the call termination market and proposes that Vodafone Netherlands reduce its rates to 0.07 by 1 July 2009 from In its second review of the call termination market, the NRA has proposed that all mobile network operators have SMP and has imposed obligations of 0.11 currently with the cuts phased over two years from 1 July 2007. cost orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
Vodafone Hungary had appealed similar findings following the In March 2007, the Government decided to extend the 2G 900 MHz licences which expire in 2010.
The Vodafone Netherlands licence will be extended first review.
In May 2005, Vodafone Hungary complied with a requirement following the first review to reduce its call termination rates by 16%.
for three years at a total price of 36.5 million, to be paid in yearly instalments from March 2010.
Subsequently the NRA has required Vodafone to reduce its rates in a series of steps to 16.84 HUF by 1 January 2009.
Vodafone Hungary has appealed The deadline to comply with 3G licence coverage obligations has been these decisions.
postponed from January 2007 to September 2007.
A consultation is expected before then on the interpretation of the roll-out obligations.
India In April 2007, the Department of Telecommunications DoT completed The Ministry is consulting on proposals to licence 3G extension band the tender process to issue subsidies from the universal service fund for provision of infrastructure and mobile services in specified rural and remote spectrum at 2.6 GHz.
Portugal Following its review of the call termination market, the NRA found all three In April 2007, the NRA also submitted Recommendations on Infrastructure Sharing to the DoT, which recommended that licensees be permitted to mobile network operators as having SMP and has imposed obligations on Vodafone Portugal including cost orientation, non-discrimination, commercially agree active infrastructure sharing arrangements.
This would include Node Bs, Radio Access Networks, and backhaul between Base accounting separation and transparency.
In October 2006, Vodafone Portugal reduced its mobile termination rates in the final step of the Transceiver Stations and the Base Station Controller, but not spectrum.
The DoT is considering the NRAs Recommendations.
26 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 From 1 April 2007, a new Access Deficit Charge ADC regime became May 2007 and to further reduce it in three annual steps to 0.2162 PLN by effective, which will result in a 38% reduction of the total ADC paid by May 2010. operators in the 2008 financial year.
It is proposed that the ADC be removed by the 2009 financial year.
Romania The NRA in Romania is implementing market reviews as required by the EU In February 2007, the NRA set price controls on national roaming retail Framework following Romanias entry to the EU in January 2007. tariffs, which will result in up to 56% reduction of tariffs.
In December 2006, the DoT rejected the NRAs recommendation that mobile number In its review of the call termination market, the NRA has proposed that all portability should be implemented.
mobile network operators have SMP and has imposed obligations of cost orientation, non-discrimination and accounting separation.
In September The DoT is expected to announce its plans to allocate and license 3G and 2006, the NRA reduced termination rates to 7.21 eurocents.
In January WiMAX spectrum in 2007.
2008, rates are to reduce to 6.40 eurocents and in January 2009 to 5.03 eurocents.
Vodafone Romania has appealed this decision.
Kenya In March 2006, the Kenyan Government issued a new Information and Regulations mandating the introduction of number portability were Communications Bill for public comment.
There have been no further adopted in March 2007. developments.
The Romanian Competition Authority is investigating the termination rates In February 2007, the NRA reduced Safaricoms and Celtels mobile call charged by Vodafone Romania to international carriers.
If Vodafone termination rates from Ksh 8.12 per minute to Ksh 6.28 per minute from Romania is found to have infringed the competition law, it could be subject 1 March 2007.
This followed a previous reduction of Safaricoms mobile call to a fine.
termination rate from Ksh 10 per minute in October 2006.
The NRA undertook to carry out a review at the end of 2007 before introducing new South Africa interconnection rates for January 2008.
The NRA also imposed a Ksh 30 per The Electronic Communications Act became effective in July 2006, minute retail price cap that will be imposed on mobile off-net voice calls replacing previous telecommunications and broadcasting legislation.
Act introduces a new licence regime, which all existing licences are required to be converted prior to July 2007 but, to date, the NRA has not issued the In September 2006, Safaricom obtained a one year 3G trial licence.
process by which this would occur.
New Zealand An Information Communication Technologies Black Economic The NRA released a report proposing regulation of mobile termination rates Empowerment Sector Code the Sector Code is expected to be finalised for fixed to mobile calls, including a rate reduction of 44% from 27 New in 2007.
The Sector Code will set targets to evaluate a companys Zealand cents per minute to 15 New Zealand cents per minute and contribution to Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment, under which is reducing further to 12 New Zealand cents per minute by the 2011 financial the Government policy to increase economic empowerment of historically year.
These proposals were submitted to the Minister for approval, who disadvantaged individuals in South Africa.
requested the NRA to reconsider them.
The NRA did so and published a further position in which its key findings remain essentially unchanged.
Separately, in January 2007, the NRA issued proposals to declare Vodacom, These were resubmitted to the Minister for reconsideration in the context of MTN and Cell C as having SMP in the wholesale mobile call termination new offers by the two mobile operators to reduce mobile termination rates market and the imposition of regulation, including LRIC-based Long Run voluntarily and, where relevant, to pass through savings from reduced rates Average Incremental Cost price controls, on Vodacom and MTN.
A final to end users of fixed to mobile calling.
The Minister decided to reject the decision is expected before the end of 2007.
NRA decision in favour of the industry solution.
The NRA is also investigating regulation of national roaming and co-location and Vodafone In May 2006, the Government submitted the Regulation of Interception of has tabled an undertaking for these services.
Following feedback from the Communications and Provision of  Information NRA, Vodafone has tabled a revised undertaking which will be taken into Amendment Bill Bill to Parliament.
The Bill requires mobile operators to account by the NRA in producing its draft report.
register all existing pre-pay subscribers within 12 months and that all subscribers not registered by this date must be disconnected.
Vodacom and During 2006, Vodafone New Zealand was successful in obtaining a other mobile operators have been engaged with the Government, law determination from the NRA in support of local interconnection services enforcement agencies and Parliament to extend the registration period and with the fixed incumbent, Telecom New Zealand.
Local and mobile number agree the information to be registered.
The Bill is expected to be finalised by portability was introduced on 1 April 2007.
The Government has determined the process for the renewal of 900 MHz Mobile number portability was implemented in November 2006.
2G licences which expire in the 2012 financial year, ensuring that a quarter of the spectrum passes into the hands of a new entrant.
Although currently Turkey used for 2G services this spectrum may be used for the provision of UMTS The Turkish Government is considering enacting a new Communications services.
The price to Vodafone for renewal of the remaining spectrum is yet Law as part of a broader harmonisation of domestic law and regulation with to be determined.
During 2006, the Government intervened to regulate local loop unbundling The NRA determined as of January 2006 that all three operators were and the operational separation of Telecom New Zealand.
dominant in relation to mobile termination on their own networks.
In June and July 2006, the NRA determined historic interconnection disputes Poland between Telsim and Turk Telecom and Telsim and Avea.
The NRA also The NRA, in its review of the call termination market, has found that all announced on 2 June 2006 forward-looking interconnection reference mobile network operators including Vodafones joint venture, Polkomtel rates, which it proposes as a reference point for resolving any further have SMP and it has imposed obligations of cost orientation, transparency interconnection disputes between operators.
These rates were YTL 0.152 and non-discrimination.
In April 2007, the NRA issued a decision in which it for Vodafone Turkey, YTL 0.14 for Turkcell and YTL 0.175 for Avea.
Vodafone proposes to require Polkomtel to reduce its termination rate to 0.40 PLN in Turkey has appealed these decisions and has agreed rates with Turkcell for Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 27 Business Regulation continued three years which are significantly higher than the NRAs proposals.
For France Vodafone Turkey, rates of YTL 0.1737 for the 2007 financial year, YTL 0.165 In its review of the call termination market, the NRA concluded that all for the 2008 financial year and YTL 0.16 for the 2009 financial year were mobile network operators have SMP and imposed obligations of cost agreed and, for Turkcell, a rate of YTL 0.16 until the 2009 financial year was orientation, non-discrimination, accounting separation and transparency.
The NRA announced further rates which it intends to apply from has set a price cap for Vodafones associated undertaking, SFR, of 1 March 2007, being YTL 0.145 for Vodafone Turkey, YTL 0.136 for Turkcell 7.5 eurocents per minute from 1 January 2007. and YTL 0.167 for Avea.
The NRA has found all mobile network operators to have SMP in a new The Turkish Government has stopped the conduct of an auction of 3G market, the market for wholesale SMS termination, and has imposed a price mobile licences, originally intended for 25 May 2007. cap for wholesale termination of no greater than 3 eurocents per minute for SFR and Orange and 3.5 eurocents for Bouygues.
US The Federal Communications Commission FCC, the United States NRA, In March 2007, the Minister responsible for electronic communications commenced a Notice of Inquiry in 2004 into the level of termination rates launched a call for tenders for a fourth 3G licence.
The deadline for charged by foreign mobile network operators to US international operators.
The fourth licence will contain a right for the The FCC sought inputs on the status of foreign mobile termination rates, licensee to request some 2G spectrum.
This could have an impact on the including actions taken to date by foreign regulators to address the issue.
timing of refarming as current 2G spectrum assignments may need to be This proceeding remains pending.
China The timing and terms of 3G licence awards, and related changes to the telecommunications regulatory framework, are currently under review by the Chinese Government.
28 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
