The Group has a controlling interest in a fixed line telecommunications Contents service provider in Germany, with fixed line services in other markets typically provided using wholesale relationships with infrastructure Page providers.
Business Overview 10 Who We Are 10 During the year the Group was ranked number one in the 2006 Global Where We Operate 10 Accountability Rating, which measures how companies have built What We Offer Our Customers 14 responsible business practices, emphasising Vodafones commitment to How We Deliver Our Services 17 Corporate and Social Responsibility.
Our Technology and Resources 19 The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange How We Developed 22 and the Companys ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange Regulation 24 NYSE.
The Company had a total market capitalisation of approximately 80 billion at 25 May 2007, making it the third largest company in the Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 FTSE 100 index and the twenty Business Overview second largest company in the world based on market capitalisation at that date.
Who We Are Vodafone is a world leader in providing voice and data Where We Operate communications services for both consumer and The Group is managed and organised through two enterprise customers, with a significant presence in geographic regions Europe and EMAPA Eastern Europe, the Middle East, Africa, Asia, Pacific and the Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia, Pacific and United States.
The Group is structured into two regions Affiliates with the objective of aligning operations to address the different business challenges inherent with the Groups strategy and focusing the Groups in them.
businesses according to different market and customer At 31 March 2007, based on the registered customers requirements.
of mobile communications ventures in which it had In addition, there are a number of central functions, equity interests at that date, the Group had which are referred to as Common Functions, which approximately 206.4 million proportionate customers.
provide services to the Groups operations and allow the Group to leverage its scale and scope and manage The Company has equity interests in 25 countries, through its subsidiary undertakings, joint ventures, associated undertakings and investments.
Partner Market arrangements extend the Groups footprint to a further 38 countries.
Europe Europe includes the Groups principal mobile subsidiaries, located in The table on page 13 sets out a summary of the Groups worldwide mobile Germany, Spain and the UK, its joint venture in Italy, as well as the Groups operations at 31 March 2007 and venture customer growth, being growth 73.7% controlling interest in a fixed line telecommunications business in based on 100% of the operations customer base, in the year then ended Germany.
Other businesses in the European region comprise the Groups the 2007 financial year.
other subsidiaries in this geographic area, being Albania, Greece, Ireland, Malta, Netherlands and Portugal.
Through its mobile businesses, the Group provides a wide range of mobile communications services, including voice, text messages SMS, picture The Groups mobile subsidiaries in Europe and joint venture in Italy operate messages MMS and other data services, and is continually developing under the brand name Vodafone.
The Groups fixed line subsidiary and enhancing service offerings, particularly through third generation 3G operates as Arcor.
Arcor is the second largest fixed line telecommunications mobile technology which has been deployed in the majority of the Groups provider in Germany and offers its customers a range of services for voice operations.
Services are provided to both consumers and corporate and data transfer, based on its own Germany-wide networks, with a focus on customers, through a variety of both prepaid and contract tariff direct access based broadband and internet protocol enabled virtual private arrangements.
The Groups mobile services are currently offered over a Global System for The mobile market share of the Groups operators in its principal markets, Mobile Communications GSM network, on which a General Packet Radio based on publicly available information, is estimated as follows: Service GPRS is also provided and, in certain operations, over a Wideband Code Division Multiple Access W-CDMA 3G network.
Where 3G licences have been issued, the Group has secured such licences in jurisdictions in Customer market share % which it operates through its subsidiary undertakings.
Vodafone offered 3G At 31 December 2006 services in 14 of its controlled operations at 31 March 2007.
Germany 36 In line with the Groups strategy, the Group is increasingly focusing on Italy 33 developing total communications solutions for customers, making use of the evolving technological changes which provide a far greater choice in Spain 31 services, whilst maintaining a mobile centric approach, focusing on the core UK 26 benefits to customers of mobility and personalisation.
As part of these 0 10 20 30 40 offerings, the Group now offers fixed broadband connectivity as part of the total communications solution in a number of markets in which it operates.
10 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
