Board of Directors and Group Management 1 23 4 5 67 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 Directors and Senior Management 3.
Vittorio Colao, Deputy Chief Executive, joined the Board in October 2006.
The business of the Company is managed by its board of directors the He spent the early part of his career as a Partner in the Milan office of Board.
Biographical details of the directors and senior management at the McKinsey & Co working on media, telecommunications and industrial goods date of this report are as follows: and was responsible for recruitment.
In 1996, he joined Omnitel Pronto Italia, which subsequently became Vodafone Italy, and he was appointed Chief Executive in 1999.
He was then appointed Regional Chief Executive Directors Officer, Southern Europe for Vodafone Group Plc in 2001, became a Chairman member of the Board in 2002 and was appointed to the role of Regional 1.
Sir John Bond became Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc in July 2006 Chief Executive Officer for Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa for having previously served as a non-executive director of the Board, and is Vodafone in 2003.
In 2004, he left Vodafone to join RCS MediaGroup, the Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Sir John is a leading Italian publishing company, where he was Chief Executive until he non-executive director of Ford Motor Company, USA and a director of Shui rejoined Vodafone.
On Land Limited Hong Kong SAR.
He retired from the position of Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in May 2006, after 45 years of service.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, joined the Board in July 2005.
Andy previous roles include Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and director of The Hong joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, the UK Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation and HSBC North America Holdings operating company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for Inc.
Previous non-executive directorships include the London Stock Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa Region.
In 2002, he was Exchange, Orange plc, British Steel plc and the Court of the Bank of appointed Chief Financial Officer of Verizon Wireless in the US and is England.
currently a member of the Board of Representatives of the Verizon Wireless partnership.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Group Finance Director at East Executive Directors Midlands Electricity Plc.
Andy holds a bachelors degree in Industrial 2.
Arun Sarin, Chief Executive, became a member of the Board in June Economics from Nottingham University and is a Fellow of the Institute of 1999.
He was appointed Chief Executive in July 2003 and is a member of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
the Nominations and Governance Committee.
Arun joined Pacific Telesis Group in San Francisco in 1984 and has served in many executive positions in his 20 year career in telecommunications.
He was a director of AirTouch Communications, Inc. from July 1995 and was President and Chief Operating Officer from February 1997 to June 1999.
He was Chief Executive Officer for the Vodafone United States and Asia Pacific region until 15 April 2000, when he became a non-executive director.
He has served as a director of The Gap, Inc.
The Charles Schwab Corporation and Cisco Systems, Inc. and is a non-executive director of the Court of the Bank of England.
64 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 Deputy Chairman and senior independent director 2001.
She started her professional career in 1983 in the iron and steel 5.
John Buchanan became Deputy Chairman and senior independent industry and in 1990 she was named Adviser for Economic International director in July 2006 and has been a member of the Board since April 2003.
Affairs at the French Presidency and Deputy Chief of its Staff in 1991.
In He is a member of the Nominations and Governance Committee and the 1995, she became a Partner of Lazard Frres & Cie, subsequently joining Audit Committee and, solely for the purposes of relevant legislation, is the Alcatel Telecom as Senior Executive Vice President in March 1997.
She was Boards appointed financial expert on that Committee.
He retired from the responsible for international activities and the groups industrial board of directors of BP Plc in 2002 after six years as Group Chief Financial shareholdings in the energy and nuclear fields.
In 1999, she was appointed Officer and executive director, following a wide-ranging career with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of COGEMA.
Anne is currently also company.
He was a member of the United Kingdom Accounting Standards Vice Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Safran and a non-executive Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc, a director of Total and Suez.
non-executive director of AstraZeneca PLC and senior independent director of BHP Billiton Plc.
Professor Jrgen Schrempp has been a member of the Board since May 2000 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Non-executive directors Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is a former Chairman of the 6.
Dr Michael Boskin became a member of the Board in June 1999 on Board of Management of DaimlerChrysler and one of the principal completion of the merger with AirTouch Communications, Inc. and is architects of Daimler-Benzs merger with Chrysler in 1998.
He became Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration Chairman of Daimler-Benz in 1995.
Jrgen continues to hold the position of Committee.
He was a director of AirTouch from August 1996 to June 1999.
Non-Executive Chairman of DaimlerChrysler South Africa Limited and is a He has been a Professor of Economics at Stanford University since 1971 and non-executive director of the South African Coal, Oil and Gas Corporation was Chairman of the Presidents Council of Economic Advisers from SASOL, Compagnie Financire Richemont SA, Switzerland and South February 1989 until January 1993.
Michael is President and Chief Executive African Airways.
Jrgen is Chairman Emeritus of the Global Business Officer of Boskin & Co. an economic consulting company, and is also a Coalition on HIV AIDS and holds South Africas highest civilian award, the director of Exxon Mobil Corporation, Shinsei Bank Limited and Oracle Order of Good Hope, conferred upon him by President Nelson Mandela.
Luc Vandevelde joined the Board in September 2003 and is Chairman 7.
Lord Broers joined the Board in January 1998 and is a member of the of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nominations and Audit Committee and the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is a director of Socit Gnrale.
He is the President of the Royal Academy of Engineering until 2006 and is a former Founder and Managing Director of Change Capital Partners LLP, a private Vice-Chancellor of Cambridge University.
He spent many years with IBM, in equity fund.
Luc was formerly Chairman of the Supervisory Board of senior roles within the research and development function, and is a Fellow of Carrefour SA, Chairman of Marks & Spencer Group Plc and Chief Executive the Royal Society, the Institute of Electrical Engineers and the Institute of Officer of Promodes, and he has held senior European and international Physics.
Lord Broers is also a Foreign Associate of the US National Academy roles with Kraft General Foods.
of Engineering, a trustee of the British Museum and Chairman of the House of Lords Science and Technology Select Committee.
Anthony Watson was appointed to the Board in May 2006 and is a Companys UK pension trustee company.
Lord Broers will retire from the member of the Remuneration Committee.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he was Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 24 July 2007.
Chief Executive of Hermes Pensions Management Limited, a position he had held since 2002.
Previously he was Hermes Chief Investment Officer, having 8.
Alan Jebson joined the Board in December 2006.
He retired in May 2006 been Managing Director of AMP Asset Management and the Chief from his role as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings Plc, a International Investment Officer of Citicorp Investment Management from position which included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
During a 1991 until joining Hermes in 1998.
He is Chairman of Marks & Spencer long career with HSBC, Alan held various positions in IT, including the Pension Trust Ltd, the Strategic Investment Board in Northern Ireland and position of Group Chief Information Officer.
His roles included responsibility the Asian Infrastructure Fund.
He is also a non-executive director of for the groups international systems, including the consolidation of HSBC Hammerson Group Plc and Witan Investment Trust Plc and a member of the and Midland systems following the acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
originally joined HSBC as Head of IT Audit in 1978 where, building upon his qualification as a chartered accountant, he built an international audit team 14.
Philip Yea became a member of the Board in September 2005 and is a and implemented controls in the groups application systems.
He is also a member of the Remuneration Committee.
He is the Chief Executive Officer non-executive director of Experian Group plc and McDonald Dettweiler in of 3i Group plc, having been appointed to that role in July 2004.
joining 3i, he was Managing Director of Investcorp and, from 1997 to 1999, the Group Finance Director of Diageo plc following the merger of Guinness 9.
Nick Land joined the Board in December 2006 and is a member of the plc, where he was Finance Director, and Grand Metropolitan plc.
In June 2006, he retired as Chairman of Ernst & Young previously held non-executive roles at HBOS plc and Manchester United plc.
LLP after a distinguished career spanning 36 years with the firm.
He became an audit partner in 1978 and held a number of management appointments Appointed since 31 March 2007 before becoming Managing Partner in 1992.
He was appointed Chairman Simon Murray has been appointed to the Board with effect from 1 July and joined the Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young Global LLP in 1995.
His career has been largely based in Asia, where he has held positions He is a non-executive director of Royal Dutch Shell, BBA Aviation and the with Jardine Matheson, Deutsche Bank and Hutchison Whampoa where, as Ashmore Group.
He also sits on the Advisory Boards of Three Delta and the Group Managing Director, he oversaw the development and launch of Cambridge Judge Business School, is a member of the National Gallerys mobile telecommunications networks in many parts of the world.
He Finance and Audit Committees and is Chairman of the Practices Advisory remains on the Boards of Cheung Kong Holdings Limited, Compagnie Board of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Financire Richemont SA, Macquarie HK Limited and Orient Overseas International Limited and is an Advisory Board Member of the China 10.
Anne Lauvergeon joined the Board in November 2005 and is a member National Offshore Oil Corporation.
He also sits on the Advisory Board of of the Audit Committee.
She is Chief Executive Officer of AREVA group, the Imperial College in London.
leading French energy company, having been appointed to that role in July Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007 65 Go Gov vernanc ernance e Board of Directors and Group Management continued Senior Management Frank Rovekamp, Global Chief Marketing Officer, was appointed to this Members of the Executive Committee who are not also executive directors position and joined the Executive Committee in May 2006.
He joined are regarded as senior managers of the Company.
Vodafone in 2002 as Marketing Director and a member of the Management Board of Vodafone Netherlands and later moved to Vodafone Germany as Executive Committee Chief Marketing Officer and a member of the Management Board.
Before Chaired by Arun Sarin, this committee focuses on the Groups strategy, joining Vodafone, he held roles as President and Chief Executive Officer of financial structure and planning, succession planning, organisational Beyoo and Chief Marketing Officer with KLM Royal Dutch Airlines.
The Executive Committee membership comprises the Executive Directors, details of whom are shown Stephen Scott, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, was on page 64, and the senior managers who are listed below: appointed to this position in 1991, prior to which he was employed in the Racal Group legal department, which he joined in 1980 from private law Paul Donovan, Chief Executive Officer, EMAPA Eastern Europe, Middle East, practice in London.
He is a director of the Companys UK pension trustee Africa, Asia, Pacific and Affiliates was appointed to this position in May company and of ShareGift the Orr Mackintosh Foundation Limited and is a 2006.
He joined Vodafone in 1999 as Managing Director Commercial, was director and trustee of LawWorks the Solicitors Pro Bono Group Limited.
appointed Chief Executive of Vodafone Ireland in 2001 and became Chief Executive Officer, Other Vodafone Subsidiaries, in January 2005, managing Strategy Board 15 markets in which Vodafone operates.
He has over 15 years experience in The Strategy Board meets three times each year to discuss strategy.
This is the telecommunications and IT industries and has held senior roles at BT, attended by Executive Committee members and the Chief Executive One2One, Optus Communications, Apple Computer and, prior to that, Officers of the major operating companies and other selected individuals marketing roles at the Mars Group, Coca Cola and Schweppes Beverages.
based on Strategy Board topics.
Warren Finegold, Chief Executive, Global Business Development, was Other Board and Executive Committee members appointed to this position and joined the Executive Committee in April The following members also served on the Board or the Executive 2006.
He was previously a Managing Director of UBS Investment Bank and Committee during the 2007 financial year: head of its technology team in Europe.
He is responsible for Business Development, Mergers and Acquisitions and Partner Networks.
Lord MacLaurin of Knebworth, DL, was Chairman of the Board and Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee until the Alan Harper, Group Strategy and New Business Director, was appointed to conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006. this position in July 2000.
He is responsible for overall strategy and new business development, the Group Public Policy activities, Research and Paul Hazen was the Deputy Chairman and senior independent director of Development, and Fraud, Risk and Security.
He is also a member of the the Board and a member of Nominations and Governance Committee until Investment Board of Vodafone Ventures, has been a Trustee of the Vodafone the conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006.
UK Foundation since July 2002 and was appointed Chairman of the Trustees in March 2004.
Prior to taking up his current post, Alan was Managing Sir Julian Horn-Smith was Deputy Chief Executive of the Company until Director of Vodafone Limited, the UK network operator.
He is also a Board the conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006. member of the GSM Association.
Prior to joining Vodafone in 1995, Alan was Strategy Director of Unitel PCN which became One2One and subsequently Thomas Geitner was an executive director until 31 December 2006.
T-Mobile UK and held senior roles with BBC Enterprises, Infotec, Mercury Communications and STC Communications.
Penny Hughes was a non-executive director and a member of the Audit Committee until the conclusion of the AGM on 25 July 2006.
Terry Kramer, Group Human Resources Director and Chief of Staff, joined Vodafone in January 2005 as Chief of Staff and was appointed Group Human Brian Clark was Group Human Resources Director and was a member of the Resources Director in December 2006.
Prior to his appointment, he was Executive Committee until 31 December 2006.
Chief Executive Officer of Q Comm International, a publicly traded provider of transaction processing services for the telecommunications industry.
He Pietro Guindani, Chief Executive, Vodafone Italy, was a member of the also worked for 12 years at PacTel AirTouch Communications in a variety of Executive Committee until 1 May 2006. roles including President AirTouch Paging, Vice President Human Resources-AirTouch Communications, Vice President Business Fritz Joussen, Chief Executive, Vodafone Germany, was a member of the Development-AirTouch Europe and Vice President & General ManagerExecutive Committee until 1 May 2006.
Prior to that, he was an Associate with Booz Allen & Hamilton, a management consulting firm.
Tim Miles, was Global Chief Technology Officer and a member of the Executive Committee until 1 September 2006.
Simon Lewis, Group Corporate Affairs Director, joined Vodafone in November 2004.
He previously held senior roles at Centrica Plc including Managing Bill Morrow was Chief Executive Officer, Europe and a member of the Director, Europe, and Group Director of Communications and Public Policy.
Prior to that, he was Director of Corporate Affairs at NatWest Group and the Head of Public Relations at S. G. Warburg plc.
He was President of the Institute Shiro Tsuda was Executive Chairman and Chairman of the Board, Vodafone of Public Relations in 1997 and is a Visiting Professor at the Cardiff School of K. K. and a member of the Executive Committee until 27 April 2006.
In 1998, he was seconded to Buckingham Palace for two years as the first Communications Secretary to The Queen.
He is a Fulbright Commissioner and a trustee of The Vodafone Group Foundation.
Stephen Pusey, Chief Technology Officer, joined Vodafone Group Plc in September 2006 and is responsible for all aspects of Vodafones networks, IT capability and supply chain management.
Prior to joining Vodafone, he held the positions of Executive Vice President, and President, Nortel EMEA, having joined Nortel in 1982, gaining a wealth of international experience across both the wireline and wireless industries and in enterprise applications and solutions.
Prior to Nortel, he spent several years with British Telecom.
66 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2007
