BOaRD Of DiREctORs at 31 MaRch 2007 Baroness Blackstone Michael Jeffries Simon Tarrant Admiral the Lord Andrew Given Non-executive Chairman, age 62 Executive Director, Michael Boyce Non-executive Director, age 54 Non-executive Director, age 59 age 64 Director, age 64 Baroness Blackstone Previously Chief Joined the group as After a long and Retired as Deputy Chief joined the board of Executive Officer of a Graduate Trainee distinguished career Executive of Logica VT in January 00.
WS Atkins plc from in 7 and has held in the Royal Navy, plc in December 00 After an academic to 00 and various positions culminating in his having previously been career culminating in Chairman from 00 within the group.
appointment as its Finance Director her appointment as to 00.
Currently He was appointed First Sea Lord in since 0.
Prior to Master of Birkbeck Chairman of Wembley to the board in.
8, Lord Boyce that he held roles in the College, London National Stadium He is a non-executive was subsequently telecommunications 87 7, Baroness Limited and Wyless plc Director of the Business appointed Chief of industry.
He is also a Blackstone served in and a non-executive Services Association.
Defence Staff in 00. non-executive director the Labour Government director of fide La Rue Mr Tarrant retired He retired from the of Spectris plc.
Appointed as a from the board on latter role in May 00 He was appointed to of State for Education non-executive director March 007. and was appointed the VT Group Board and Employment in May 00 and Lord Warden and in September 00.
7 00 and became chairman on Admiral of the Cinque Minister of State for the July 00.
She He is non-executive has now retired from chairman of Tricolom active politics and has Limited and g7 returned to the higher Limited and a noneducation sector as executive director Vice Chancellor of the of W S Atkins plc.
He is Vice Chairman She is a non-executive of the White Ensign director of Mott Association and the MacDonald and chairs RNLI, an Elder Brother the RIBA Trust.
of Trinity House and a Trustee of the National Maritime Museum.
He was appointed to the VT Group board in Chairman of July 00.
Audit Committee and member of Member of Member of Remuneration Remuneration Remuneration and Nomination Committee and Member of Nomination Committee and Committees.
member of Nomination Senior independent Committee.
8 Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 David Barclay David Thorpe Chris Cundy Chris Rickard, Paul Lester Non-executive Non-executive Commercial Director, Finance Director, Chief Executive, Director, age 53 Director, age 57 age 46 age 50 age 57 Vice-Chairman of In April 00, Has worked for Joined the group on Became Chief Dresdner Kleinwort Mr Thorpe retired VT Group since.
July 00 as Finance Executive of VT Group Wasserstein until as President of EDS He became Group Director.
Previously in July 00 having March 00 and a Europe having been Finance Director in 7 Group Finance Director been a non-executive former corporate with that organisation following the successful of The Weir Group PLC board member since finance adviser to the since and prior to award of partnering and prior to that Group 8.
Previously he group since flotation that he held roles in the contracts between Finance Director of was Group Managing in 88.
He is nonIT sector and IT BPO the Warship Support Meggitt PLC and Director of Balfour executive deputy outsourttcing sector.
Agency and FSL and Director of Group Beatty plc.
A graduate chairman of John Lewis He is a non-executive the Naval Recruiting Financial Planning with Mechanical Engineer, Partnership plc and a chairman of Tunstall and Training Agency the Morgan Crucible he has held a number non-executive director Ltd and CAS Services and Flagship.
of board or senior of Wessex Water Ltd, a non-executive Graduated with first management positions In January 00, Services Limited.
He director of Isoft plc, class honours in in engineering and Chris was appointed was appointed to the The Innovation Group History from Kings support services Group Commercial board on May 00. plc and Morgan College London and companies in both Director where he Chambers plc.
He is worked in New Zealand the UK and US.
He is is responsible for also Chairman of for two years with also currently a nonsteering the company the Racecourse .
executive Director of through an intense Association Ltd He has no other Civica plc and High negotiating period on and a director of directorships.
Integrity Solutions major PFI opportunities.
the British Horse Mr Rickard resigned Limited.
He is filling the role Racing Board and the from the board on of Finance Director Horseracing Betting April 007. during the search for a and Levy Board.
was appointed to the VT Group board in He has an Economics January 00. and Accounting degree and is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Prior to working for VT, he was based at KPMGs Brussels office Chairman of with responsibility Remuneration for their multinational Committee and clients.
Member of Member of Audit Remuneration, Audit and Nomination and Nomination Committees.
