BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects Financial performance Business division operating review continued Resources, risks and relationships VT Education and Skills EDUCATION AND SkILLS CONTINUES TO GROW WITH TURNOVER UP 18%, ALTHOUGH HIGH BID ACTIVITY IN THE PERIOD ON BSF AND RESTRUCTURING COSTS OF 1M HELD BACk OPERATING PROFIT.
simon Withey ManagingDirector Significant progress has been made on and supply chain which will deliver the VT Education & Skills Highlights the Building Schools for the Future BSF major refurbishment or renewal of 12 programme, the Government initiative to secondary schools in the Borough.
This A Double success in Building rebuild, refurbish and re-equip all secondary will involve construction and the provision Schools for the Future schools across England over the next 15 of support services including ICT and A Integration of last years years.
Following VT Education and Skills facilities management, both of which will acquisitions completed selection as Preferred Bidder by the London be the responsibility of VT Education and Borough of Greenwich in May 2006, we Skills.
Initial capital expenditure on school A Established position on Train proceeded to contract signature in November refurbishment and rebuilding is expected to to Gain programme when we were appointed as Greenwichs be in the region of 210 million.
The project is Strategic Partnering Organisation.
The expected to reach financial close in 2007.
A Developing position in the Further Greenwich programme covers three waves Education sector The two vocational training businesses, of secondary school regeneration to include HCTC and Touchstone, acquired in early 13 secondary schools, with a capital value 2006, are now fully integrated into our Financial Highlights in excess of 290 million.
VT Education existing training company, VT Training.
and Skills support to the Local Education 007 00 This process has proved to be more m m Authority includes project management, challenging than expected but we now have design management and procurement of Group Revenue 112.1. a single administrative and management the schemes supply chain.
We will also be system in place.
VT Education and Skills is Underlying a major shareholder in the Special Purpose also addressing the Further Education sector, operating profit 3.8.
Companies established to construct and complementing our work based learning and maintain the schools.
Also on BSF, Learning21, our joint venture VT Education and Skills has secured Train with Costain plc, was selected as Preferred to Gain contracts in seven regions across Bidder for the Lewisham schools programme.
Train to Gain is the new government Learning21 will manage the procurement Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 CUSTOMER PERSPECTIVE: Name: John Cain Job Role: Headteacher, Reigate School, Surrey Working in partnership with VT Education and Skills helped the school to be judged as Outstanding by Ofsted in 007. initiative to provide training for older members of the have transferred from Connexions to local authorities as workforce.
We are also looking to expand our activities part of the Childrens Services organisation.
We into additional sectors and geographical areas with are liaising closely with current and prospective several large proposals under consideration.
customer authorities to ascertain their procurement and delivery plans.
We broadly welcome the findings of the Leitch Review of Skills published in December 2006, whose VT Four S our alliance with Surrey County Council recommendations include doubling the number continues to provide a high quality service to schools of apprenticeships to 500,000 a year, substantially across the County in this pathfinder public-private increasing adult skills at all levels.
We have grown our external business to would provide significant opportunities for VT Training.
nearly 25% of turnover this year, having supported several other local authorities and secured further national Our careers business has delivered well against all of our contracts from the Department for Education and Skills.
Connexions and Learning and Skills Council contracts.
In addition to our Higher Level Teaching Assistants and There will be a significant change to the structure of Excellent Advanced Skills Teachers contracts, we now Young Peoples Information, Advice and Guidance IAG deliver training and accreditation in Personal Health and services from April 2008, by which time responsibility will Social Education for teachers on a national basis.
