CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Governance Still passionate about people SERVICES ARE PROVIDED BY PEOPLE, OUR EMPLOYEES ARE THE KEY DRIVERS Of PROfITABILITY AND GROWTH.
Jo Robbins GroupHRDirector This year we have published and communicated Delivering on last years employee survey, the Similarly our discussions with BAE Systems the VT People Strategy which provides the business unit Value Champions appointed regarding formation of a shipbuilding joint framework for future action.
In 2006 the HR employee representatives committed to venture is being taken forward in full and open conference brought together teams from across embedding the values within the organisation consultation with our employees and their the business to facilitate implementation.
met with the specialist company People in trades union representatives.
Business to understand how we can develop VT Group requires that managers are trained Human rights and the VT employer brand.
in the application of HR policies, and that decent labour conditions documentation is readily accessible to all, Communication and integration Overall VT Group has less than 300 local including provision in alternative formats.
The growth of the group-wide intranet employees in non-OECD countries.
Where We have begun an audit process initially Evolution and an extranet will ensure access local legislation is weak or non-existent, UK of Equality & Diversity, Code of Ethics, to group and business unit information, legislation is followed.
In general, staff have Disciplinary and Grievance policies to ensure policies and guidelines by all employees and a mirror of the benefits given to UK staff, that all business unit policies are legally also facilitate the exchange of knowledge and with alternative compensation where this is compliant, follow best practice, and are development of best practices.
not possible such as in the case of share regularly reviewed.
Pay reviews consider local Change management conditions but follow UK processes, including Responding to employees VT Group recognises that the management bonus schemes.
embedding the group values of change is a key competence in the delivery Although it is sometimes We recognise that if our people can identify of our business strategy.
In 2006 the group difficult to mirror all schemes strongly with the groups values then we acquired a number of businesses from the exactly, we always identify will create a much stronger unified culture.
Integration was complex a scheme that will This concept, often referred to as employer and roadshows took place enabling work outside the UK.
brand, is being actively developed by a joint face-to-face briefing for all employees and Karen Hinnigan marketing and HR team, and we look forward business leaders.
HR Director, VT Communications to reporting progress next year.
34 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 FSL Flagship VT Group Services VT Communications VT Shipbuilding VT Education and Skills VT Support Services VT Griffin Services Inc PEOPLE IN VT COUNTRIES OF OPERATION VT Services Inc. 28% UK 66% VT Support Services 24% USA 28% VT Education and Skills 19% Australasia 1.5% VT Shipbuilding 11% Europe 0.5% VT Communications 6% Middle East 3% VT Group Services 1% Asia-Pacific 0.5% FSL 5% Other 1% Flagship 6% 4000 People In The VT Group Male Female Male Female Total 3000 2005 8,360 average 2000 2006 9,098 3,937 11,538 at 31 Mar including 50% of JVs 1000 2007 9,201 3,699 12,900 at 31 Mar including 50% of JVs 0 We have built on the introduction of our HR information software, yielding more robust group-wide data this year.
We will further improve our central monitoring and reporting during the next period.
Training in the VT Group In the last 12 months the group invested in over thirty thousand days of training about 2.5 days per employee.
Figure restated from last years report.
H eadcount figures include our acquisitions Milcom and Lex, and half of the headcount of our 50:50 JVs, Flagship and FSL.
35 Headcount CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Continued Community Health and safety Environment Governance Building skills and nurturing talent YOUR POTENTIAL fOR OUR fUTURE... DURING THE PAST YEAR WE HAVE fOCUSED ON PUTTING IN PLACE THE SKILLS AND TOOLS NEEDED TO ALLOW ALL Of OUR PEOPLE TO DEVELOP THEIR fULL POTENTIAL IN THE VT GROUP.
Establishing a coaching culture within the organisation, we recognise that the Over the next year a uniform executive This year has marked the start of a major challenge is transferring the learning appraisal system will be introduced stepchange in the way VT managers into the day-to-day workplace.
across the group, facilitating performance lead and develop their people to achieve management by objective and behaviours Michael Staunton, Executive Development and both company goals and their full personal linked to our values.
These will be linked to Succession Planning Director, will continue to potential.
In support of our core values of bonus payments.
drive the key programmes: People, Performance and Partnering we are Coaching for Performance Project management establishing a coaching culture throughout Project management is a key organisational the group.
30 senior managers and directors Talent Management competence.
A group project management have already completed the Henley Senior Project Management conference in September 2006 brought Accredited Coach Programme, and over together 80 project managers from the the next 12 months some 120 managers will Talent management businesses.
A project management steering complete a coaching programme at Roffey The transfer of knowledge and capability is group continues to drive improvement Park, building over time a rich and productive accelerated by employees moving around and work towards defining a VT project coaching culture in the group.
the group, and while it is not always easy in management process.
Coaching will enable VT to enhance a diverse workplace such as VT the benefits The Project Management Training Initiative has personal responsibility and autonomy, to both the company and the employee delivered skills training to 212 employees of driving the achievement of business goals are clear.
which 50 went on to qualify as Association of through the development of our people.
We have built, piloted and rolled out the Project Management practitioners.
Michael Staunton, VT Talent Management Process for senior Executive Development Director managers across most business units with High-level cross-business project teams have all others including our US operations now defined our required competences for scheduled to be completed by the autumn.
Whilst traditional training and This process informs the VT executive team development will continue to embed these on succession planning opportunities.
36 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Graduate Paul Bates, who drove through the achievement of ISO14001 by VT four S A sustainable achievement Paul Bates Since joining the VT Group Graduate Scheme in September 2006, I have been able to embrace a wealth of opportunities in my first of four placements.
I have been actively encouraged to pursue Continuing Professional Development and gained a qualification in Project Management.
With responsibilities such as designing and implementing a new customer service system, my project management and inter-personal skills have improved significantly.
I am particularly grateful to VT four S for allowing me to pursue my interest in the environmental impacts of the business by being challenged to research, plan, and project manage the achievement of certification to ISO14001, the international standard for Environmental Management.
for VT four S the certification strengthens their bid submissions and has resulted in a significant reduction in the environmental load from the business as well as delivering cost savings.
Graduate Training Scheme through basic training for National Tests at Levels 1 Over the next five years we will seek to improve both the and 2 in numeracy and literacy, including Level 2 ICT, quality and quantity of our graduate intake into VT and gaining the Business in the Community Big Tick Award are working on the development of an attractive and for the second successive year.
Every graduate joining VT VT Education and Skills have apprentice training as a benefits from a full support network including dedicated core business offering.
Last year, three young chefs graduate manager, mentor and buddy.
Sarah Herrick, Joanna Thompson and Jeanette The success of the graduate scheme is starting to prove Jowsey received Apprentice Awards.
itself with all graduates that joined since the new scheme launch in 2004 successfully achieving management roles Welders wanted within the group.
faced with a skills shortage in a critical area, VT Shipbuilding joined with the GMB union and headed Addressing a skills shortage for Poland.
Over 50 applicants were interviewed yielding VT continues to support the modern apprenticeship 11 successful candidates to join the Portsmouth route for developing skills and employability, with many workforce at pay rates equivalent to those offered to excellent examples of achievement this year.
A full support package, including advice on settling into the UK was provided, together with At the Institute of the Motor Industry awards, language training.
VT Emergency Services apprentice Ben Betterton received the National Apprentice of the Year Award VT Shipbuilding has to ensure that it has a skill base in Body Repair.
for the future and a Welding School is now being established on the Portsmouth site.
The training is This year, at the Portsmouth Learning Centre, being delivered by VT Shipbuilding and VT Training in VT Shipbuilding have guided more than 100 people conjunction with the Train to Gain programme.
37 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Continued Community Health and safety Environment Governance Sharing and celebrating success HIGH PERfORMANCE SHOULD BE REWARDED AND WE AIM TO ENSURE THAT fAIR, OPEN AND APPROPRIATE REWARD MECHANISMS ARE IN PLACE TO MOTIVATE EMPLOYEES.
We are continually reviewing our reward packages to Share Incentive Plan ensure we share success fairly and appropriately across The Share Incentive Plan is now entering its third year and the group.
The flexible Benefits Scheme for 2007 has we are pleased that so many employees have decided been refreshed following feedback from employees and to take a personal stake in the group.
Over 4,500 UK resulted in improved uptake.
The range of benefits on employees have signed up to the plan.
offer addresses lifestyle and wellness and includes the Employee Assistance Programme buying selling of leave, childcare vouchers, health dental Our Employee Assistance Programme benefits all travel insurance and gym membership.
Right Corecare managed Pensions 261 calls to the confidential free-phone helpline on behalf The group continues to support pension schemes of VT employees and their dependants.
We receive for its employees full details of which are given in the regular information on the numbers and types of calls financial statements.
received, which allows us to understand if there are areas where we can improve our working environment and support to employees.
38 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Celebrating Success The Winners These awards recognise those people who embody the groups vision and values and who go the extra mile for our stakeholders.
The awards were presented at a gala dinner on 3 May 2007.
PartneringWith Exceptional Commitment  Performance ToPeople TheChairmansAward  ThePeterUsherAward WINNER:LenReed WINNER:NickEarl WINNER:JohnBirchmore VT Communications VT Support Services VT Shipbuilding Head of Programmes Business Development Manager Health, Safety and Environment Manager Living the VT Values in terms of Delivering measurable commercial Partnering with our Customers and success through dedication Engaging the whole establishment Suppliers, and delivering success to the organisation and to the and the Trades Unions to combat by partnering with a key supplier to achievement of objectives at great the serious risks from hand-arm deliver new transmission equipment personal expense, demonstrating vibration and noise, winning support vital to the newly won Deutsche drive, initiative and respect for and praise from the Health & Safety Welle contract.
A true professional and an Executive for this initiative.
39 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Governance Being a part of the local community VT GROUP COMMITS TO BEING A RESPONSIBLE CONTRIBUTOR TO ITS LOCAL COMMUNITIES THROUGH THE INVESTMENT Of TIME, MONEY AND RESOURCES IN A WAY WHICH BOTH PROMOTES THE GROUPS VISION AND VALUES, AND WHICH MAKES A DIffERENCE TO THOSE COMMUNITIES.
Communities Charitable giving We continue to contribute to the development In response to employee nominations, of the communities in which we operate.
some 38 charities received support from Sponsoring career choice As part of VTs membership of Business in the VT Group Services charities committee.
VT Training is a lead the Community Paul Lester, chief executive, The largest donation was to Southampton sponsor for the Springboard currently chairs the Solent Leadership Team Hospital for the refurbishment of the family Charitable Trusts UK which is developing a strategy to tackle low room in the Special Care Baby Unit, which futurechef competition.
skills and aspiration levels in disadvantaged offers families some home comforts while futurechef attracts over 7,000 communities.
being able to stay near their baby at an entrants aged 12-16 from anxious time.
The group also became a founder member of around six hundred schools.
the Safer London foundation which aims to Total charitable donations for the group Our sponsorship means reduce crime, promote community cohesion amounted to 93,000 2006: 112,000. that we are able to interact and develop safer neighbourhoods.
directly with the schools and We are reviewing our approach to community with those young people interaction and charitable giving.
At group who have shown an interest level, our aim is to move towards more long in cooking, helping them to term partnering with fewer charities, while turn hobbies into rewarding still maintaining autonomy at local level in the careers.
VT has enjoyed many business units.
In this way we hope to ensure years of partnership activities maximum benefit to our partners, and to the with Springboard enabling us communities in which we operate.
to extend our geographical reach to school leavers and excluded groups.
40 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 VT Shipbuilding growing Britains skills in SSAFA Forces Help partnership with the trades unions, education VT Group has become a Corporate friend of the and the community Soldiers, Sailors, Airmen and families Association During the last 12 months our schools liaison forces Help.
SSAfA was established in 1885 programme delivered master classes in graphic to help and support serving and ex-Service design, materials, mathematics, procurement and personnel and their families who are in need, design processes to 169 pupils, and we further suffering or distress.
The breadth of service encourage interest in engineering with the VT Young provided by SSAfA fits well with our business Graduate Scheme, run in partnership with The values and directly supports our customer base.
The charity is also important to our employees as many are either spouses of serving military In partnership with the Confederated Shipbuilding personnel or are ex-military themselves.
and Engineering Union, VT Shipbuilding has offered training and work experience to 12 jobseekers Donation matching is used to encourage as part of the Interwork Programme.
Those employees who fund-raise for SSAfA as well as an completing the course successfully will be offered initiative to make a donation for each completed the opportunity to move onto the VT adult training Customer Satisfaction survey form returned.
programme, leading to recognised qualifications An outstanding example of fundraising is and a possible first step on the employment ladder.
demonstrated by Steve Tyers of VT Land, who has An Adult Training Programme, in partnership with raised tens of thousands of pounds over many the Trades Unions, leads to NVQ Level 3 craft years for SSAfA, with 2,200 added recently qualifications.
Those completing the course become from a sponsored cycle ride.
Previous fund-raising recognised tradespersons, without the necessity to efforts range from running marathons to a gruelling complete an apprenticeship and may immediately Himalayan trek with Chris Ryan of SAS fame.
apply for skilled positions with any employer.
