BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects Financial performance Business division operating review continued Resources, risks and relationships VT Shipbuilding TURNOVER WAS SIMILAR TO THE PREVIOUS YEAR, WITH THE BENEFIT OF CONTRACT WINS IN OMAN AND TRINIDAD AND TOBAGO NOT ExPECTED UNTIL 2008.
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT, ExCLUDING NON-RECURRING COSTS ON THE RESTRUCTURING OF VT HALMATIC, IMPROVED DUE TO PROGRESS ON THE TYPE 45 PROGRAMME.
geoff smith ManagingDirector HMS Clyde was launched in late summer standard has been excellent and this project 2006 and entered service in January 2007. has exceeded all the planned productivity This ship represents an evolution from the improvements.
three River Class vessels and the design, The contract award for Ocean Patrol Vessels which includes a helicopter deck, will be of for the Oman Navy was granted in January interest to other navies around the world.
This was a great achievement for Work on the SuperVita Fast Attack Craft VT Shipbuilding and the culmination of four A Contracts secured with Oman has progressed well during the year.
The teams are in place and Trinidad and Tobago Three vessels have been in service with and the programme is on target with steel the Hellenic Navy with a further two in build.
cutting planned for late Summer 2007.
A HMS Clyde now in service We are working with our partners, Elefsis In April 2007, we announced that VT A Aircraft Carrier CVF progressing Shipbuilding, to quote for ships six and had been contracted through the Uk to manufacturing stage seven in the class.
Government to build and manage three A Bow sections for Type ships two The Aircraft Carrier CVF project has OPVs, including associated training and longand three delivered, production of matured with all members of the Alliance term maintenance support, for Trinidad and ships four, five and six in progress working towards Main Gate Approval.
The programme, which was part of VT has produced plans for a Super block a proposal from the Uk Government and VT and Upper block to be manufactured in the Group to the Government of Trinidad and Financial Highlights Portsmouth facility.
Good progress continues Tobago, is valued at more than 150 million.
to be made on the VT work allocation of the 007 00 The cumulative effect of existing contracts m m design contract.
and new awards has justified a further Group Revenue 164.0.
This has been a very busy year for the investment of 10m in the Portsmouth facility.
We have now delivered An extension to our halls will be complete by Underlying the bow sections for ships two and three December 2007, providing capacity for future operating profit 13.2. with sections of ships four, five and six all export orders as well as Aircraft Margin 8.0% 7.0% in progress.
The progress on the delivery Carrier CVF blocks.
Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 CUSTOMER PERSPECTIVE: Name: Khalifa Bin Hamed Al-Qasmi Job Role: Commander, Royal Navy of Oman The new Ocean Patrol Vessels continue the long and successful relationship between VT and the Royal Navy of Oman.
Through working together, these vessels will be amongst the most advanced of their type in the world.
Within VT Halmatic we undertook a strategic review Contracts have recently been secured for the repair of which resulted in the decision to exit from low margin MoD small boats and a contract has been awarded by commercial boat building activities.
the French Navy for a new range of Special Forces boats.
The remaining military business will be relocated to VT Halmatic enters the new financial year with a Portsmouth Naval Base, releasing some 20 acres of land refocused team and a significant number of overseas for sale within the next 2 years.
This strategic review has military opportunities, some of which we expect to resulted in a non-recurring charge of 6m which includes translate into further orders in the current year.
the cost of asset write-offs and associated redundancy costs.
Of the total non-recurring cost, 3.5m was cash.
A further charge of up to 1m is anticipated for the 2007 08 year.
