BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects financial performance Business division operating review Resources, risks and relationships Business Key Performance indicators group financial performance The board has assessed that the following kPIs are the most effective measures of progress towards achieving 2007 00 the groups strategies and as such towards fulfilling the m m groups objectives.
Revenues including group share of joint ventures 1,004.6 8 7.
Profit before taxation, intangible amortisation and exceptional items Profit before taxation excluding non-recurring charges 59.8.
Order intake level Non-recurring charges 6.0 Discontinued operations 0.
Cash generation from operating activities Total profit before tax 53.8.
7 Underlying earnings per share Order book 3,685, Performance against kPIs is discussed in the financial report.
Business unit kPIs are reported in the Business Division Operating Review on pages 14 to 25.
Revenue growth continued with group revenue up by Our markets 19% to 1,005m, revenue from wholly owned operations The groups principal subsidiaries and countries of up by 20% and the groups share of revenue from equity operation are listed on pages 118 to 119.
While our accounted investments up by 10%.
main business units are based either in the United Profit before taxation, excluding one-off charges, kingdom or United States of America, our businesses increased by 8% to 59.8m 2006: 55.5m.
group incurred one-off charges of 6m relating to the restructuring of the small boats business.
8 Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 One of the 4500 vehicles that VT Critical Services provides to British Airways.
The group uses underlying profit before taxation i. e. profit The order book increased to 3.7bn 2006: 2.4bn.
before taxation, amortisation of intangibles arising from Order intake for the year was over 1bn, excluding business combinations, JV taxation and non-recurring potential contracts where we are already preferred bidder charges as a key measure of performance.
The increase including FSTA, Uk MFTS and Trinidad and Tobago.
The effective tax rate on reported profit before taxation from continuing activities was 14.3% 2006: 23.6%.
If the IFRS presentation relating to taxation on joint 2007 00 Increase m m % venture profits was shown as taxation rather than share of post tax earnings of joint ventures, the effective rate Profit before taxation would have been 23.7% 2006: 29.3%.
The decrease was as reported 53.8. caused by the finalisation of prior year tax computations Amortisation of intangible and the release of associated provisions.
It is expected assets arising from business combinations 7.7. that the future effective tax rate, on the same basis, will be around 25%.
Underlying earnings per share before amortisation of Non-recurring charges 6.0 intangibles arising from business combinations and Underlying profit 74.2. non-recurring charges were 30.87p 2006: 24.66p an increase of 25%.
The proposed final dividend of 8.6p per share, which Net finance costs have increased to 8.3m 2006: 7.0m coupled with the interim dividend of 3.25p per share as a result of higher average levels of debt, largely due to paid in January 2007, gives a total dividend for 2007 of the Lex business purchase in April 2006.
11.85p 2006: 10.75p, an increase of 10% over the prior As a result of the acquisitions made in both this and the year.
The total dividend is covered 2.7 times by earnings previous financial year, the charge for amortisation of before intangible amortisation and exceptional items intangible assets arising from business combinations 2006: 2.3 times.
The increase was largely attributable to business combinations during the period.
BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects financial performance continued Business division operating review Resources, risks and relationships cashflow Pensions Operating cashflow, before exceptional items, was VT Group has five pension schemes accounted for as 107.4m 2006: 64.1m converting 173% 2006: 102% defined benefit pension schemes with deficits, net of of group operating profit into cash.
related deferred tax assets, of 26.3m 2006: 43.6m included within the consolidated balance sheet.
The net cash outflow from investing activities of 87.3m The decrease in the year is largely due to changes in 2006: inflow of 24.0m reflected acquisitions during the actuarial assumptions applied, predominantly an increase year as well as capital expenditure.
The prior year cash in the discount rate used to calculate scheme liabilities, flows included substantial receipts from the refinancing which is driven by general bond yields.
valuation as at 1 April 2007 is in progress.
The 27.1m net change in cash flows from financing activities is due largely to repayment of assumed debt critical accounting policies on acquisitions.
The groups main accounting policies affecting its results are set out on pages 72 to 77.
Judgements and The overall result is a net decrease in cash and cash assumptions have been required by management in equivalents of 35.3m 2006: net increase of 71.4m.
applying the groups accounting policies in certain areas.
Net debt at 31 March 2007 was 71.4m 2006: 15.2m Actual results may differ from the estimates calculated and can be analysed as follows: using these judgements and assumptions.
The following policies are considered to be the groups 2007 00 critical accounting policies as the judgements and m m assumptions made could have significant impact on its results and financial condition.
0 Bank loans and overdrafts 54.7 8.7 Retirement benefits Accounting for pensions and other post-retirement Asset finance 39.9 8.7 benefits involves judgement about certain events, Other loans 17.4.
8 including estimated retirement dates, salary levels at Loan notes 13.6.
0 retirement, mortality rates, rates of return on plan assets and determination of discount rates for measuring 50.4.
Determination of the projected benefit Non-recourse debt on PFI projects 21.0.
0 obligations for the groups defined benefit pension plans 71.4. impacts on the recorded amounts for such obligations on Non-recourse debt is excluded from the groups banking facility covenants but is presented as a liability in the groups balance sheet.
0 Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 VT Trainings Steve Reid and Craig Dear an apprentice at Weland Ltd. VT Training is responsible for delivering both his NVq and key Skills training.
the balance sheet and to the amount of benefit expense capital structure and treasury in the income statement.
The assumptions used may Treasury policies vary from year to year, which will affect future results.
The groups treasury function is responsible for Any differences between these assumptions and the managing the groups exposure to finance risks actual outcome also affect future results.
and operates in line with policies set by the board.
The primary objectives are to: Pension benefit assumptions are discussed and agreed with independent actuaries in March each year.
Manage interest rate and foreign currency exposure These assumptions are used to determine the projected Provide cash management benefit obligation at the year end and hence the deficits recorded on the groups balance sheet, and pension Ensure the availability of cost-effective facilities to finance expense for the following year.
new investment, working capital and guarantees.
Taxation The board has a conservative policy towards the Provisions for tax contingencies require management investment of cash.
Treasury instruments are used only to make judgements and estimates in relation to tax to reduce risk.
Amounts provided are based The group finances its activities with a combination on managements interpretation of country specific law of bank loans, loan notes, finance leases and cash.
and the likelihood of settlement.
Tax benefits are not Other financial assets and liabilities, such as trade recognised unless the tax positions are probable of debtors and trade creditors, arise directly from the being sustained.
The group also enters into Goodwill and other intangible assets derivative transactions, including principally interest rate The group has capitalised goodwill included on the swaps and foreign currency contracts.
The purpose is balance sheet of 201m at 31 March 2007.
Goodwill to manage the interest rate and currency risks arising is required to be tested for impairment at least annually from the groups operations and its sources of finance.
or more frequently if changes in circumstances or the The main risks associated with the groups financial occurrence of events indicate potential impairment exists.
assets and liabilities are set out below, together with The group uses the present value of future cash flows to the policies agreed by the board for their management.
In calculating the implied fair Foreign currency risk value, significant management judgement is required in The group has invested in operations outside the Uk and forecasting cash flows of the reporting unit, in estimating also buys and sells goods and services denominated terminal growth values and in selecting an appropriate in currencies other than sterling.
As a result the value of discount rate.
If alternative management judgements the groups non-sterling revenues, purchases, financial were adopted then different impairment outcomes assets and liabilities and cash flows can be affected could result.
No impairment resulted from the annual significantly by movements in exchange rates, particularly impairment test in 2007. in the US Dollar and Euro.
BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects financial performance continued Business division operating review Resources, risks and relationships VT Group policy is to finance, so far as practicable, VT Group has no absolute policy towards either fixed rate the costs of acquisition and new business opportunities finance or floating rate finance.
The proportion of interest by matching borrowings in the local currency in order rate exposure that should be fixed and the proportion to eliminate foreign exchange transaction exposure, that should be floating, will be dictated by the nature provided that the benefits are not outweighed by the and terms of the underlying assets and contracts being overall cost of the borrowing.
The exact proportion will be determined by current economic conditions, the currency in which The groups transactional currency exposure arises the debt is denominated and the purposes and from sales or purchases by certain operating units in duration of the debt.
currencies other than its functional currency.
It is the groups policy not to enter into forward contracts for The group does use interest rate swaps agreed with other purchases until there is a high degree of certainty.
parties to generate the desired interest profile, agreeing to In addition, the group treasury policy is to hedge if exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between and when a significant exposure is recognised, through fixed rate and variable interest amounts calculated by the use of foreign exchange instruments to manage the reference to an agreed-upon notional principal.
At the currency exposures on any individual transactions for year end, 16% 2006: 19% of the groups borrowings were which payment is anticipated.
at fixed rates after taking account of interest rate swaps.
Interest rate risk Credit risk The groups policy is to manage its cost of borrowing The risk of financial loss due to a counterpartys failure using a mix of fixed and variable rate debt.
Whilst fixed to honour its obligations arises principally in relation rate interest bearing debt is not exposed to cash flow to transactions where the group provides goods and interest rate risk, there is no opportunity for the group to services on deferred terms, enters into derivative enjoy a reduction in borrowing costs in markets where contracts requiring settlement by the other party rates are falling.
In addition, the fair value risk inherent in and invests or deposits surplus cash.
fixed rate borrowing means that the group is exposed to Group policies are aimed at minimising such losses unplanned costs should debt be restructured or repaid and require that deferred terms are granted only to early.
In contrast, whilst floating rate borrowings are not customers who demonstrate an appropriate payment exposed to changes in fair value, the group is exposed history and satisfy creditworthiness procedures.
to cash flow risk as costs increase if market rates rise.
Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 VT Critical Services handles 150,000 calls per year in support of its contract with the Metropolitan Police see p20 Individual exposures are monitored with customers funding facilities are available to cover authorised capital subject to credit limits to ensure that the groups expenditure commitments and debt due for repayment exposure to bad debts is not significant.
Group policies also restrict the counterparties with which Surplus cash is only invested in high credit rated financial derivative transactions can be contracted and funds may institutions and in financial instruments exposed to be invested to those approved by the treasury team and insignificant risk of changes in market value, with not approved by the board, comprising banks and financial less than 50% of surplus funds available invested with institutions with a high credit rating.
The treasury team maturities of three months or less.
Funds may not be ensures that exposure is spread across a number of invested for periods of greater than one year.
Excess cash used in managing liquidity is only invested Liquidity risk in financial instruments exposed to insignificant risk The group aims to mitigate liquidity risk by managing cash of changes in market value, being placed on interestgeneration by its operations and applying cash collection bearing deposit with maturities fixed at no more than targets throughout the group.
Investment is carefully six months.
Short term flexibility is achieved by controlled, with authorisation limits operating up to overdraft facilities.
Price risk In its funding strategy, the groups objective is to maintain It is, and has been throughout the period under review, a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility the groups policy that no trading in derivative financial through the use of overdrafts, bank loans, loan notes instruments shall be undertaken.
To meet this objective, the groups policy is to ensure that adequate unutilised committed
