CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Chief Executives statement Marketplace Workplace Community Health and safety Environment Governance Growing our relationships THE GROUP CONTINUES TO GROW AND DEVELOP WITH ITS CUSTOMERS AND SUPPLIERS.
A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT Of WORK HAS TAKEN PLACE OVER THE LAST YEAR TO DEEPEN AND STRENGTHEN OUR PARTNERSHIPS.
Partnering with our customers and suppliers We have decided to carry out a comprehensive review We are continuing to develop open and honest long term of our payment terms with our suppliers to ensure that partnerships with our customers.
There is no doubt that we are reflecting best practice.
As part of this exercise VTs focus on partnering behaviours played an important we will be reviewing in depth our creditor days against part in Ascents selection as Preferred Bidder for the UK contracted terms.
Ascent is a 50:50 joint venture between VT Group and Lockheed Martin.
Creditor days at year end During 2006 we began to work more closely with our key 2004 35 suppliers through partnering workshops and a supply 2005 44 chain conference aimed at our top 50 suppliers.
2006 47 We are furthering our strategic relationships through 2007 45 a comprehensive vendor management system with corporate responsibility rating criteria and next year will see the introduction of a set of consolidated Terms and Conditions for use across the group.
We are developing our personnel through the introduction of a professional Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply corporate award scheme.
32 VT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Air Marshal S Dalton taking receipt of his new Toyota Prius the first hybrid car to join the MoD White fleet VT Land: Partnering to ensure customer satisfaction Through its White fleet contract, VT Land provides non-combatant vehicles on a continuous basis and a vehicle rental service to the MoD.
The White fleet contract came under the umbrella of VT Group in 2006 with the acquisition of the Lex business and has already dealt with over a million vehicle rental bookings since the contract began in 2001.
VT Land and Lex formerly Lex Vehicle Leasing worked together to integrate the best aspects of customer service and partnering with the MoD.
The customer satisfaction survey shows that the partnering ethos brings results with 97% of UK White fleet customers rating their overall satisfaction with VT Land as Satisfactory, Good or Excellent.
We have seen a step-change in approach since Lex Defence joined VT the ethos of the VT Group has come through, taking our relationship to a higher level.
Robert Hobbs , MoD VT Careers Management: Partners with the Princes Trust Since 2002 we have been working closely with the Princes Trust, first creating a unique long-term partnership to deliver career guidance services in five boroughs in East London, and more recently supporting a North Yorkshire team comprising the North Yorkshire Police, fire & Rescue Service, the MoD and the Princes Trust.
Team 55 is a 12-week programme of personal development, training and basic skills qualifications that aims to re-engage disadvantaged young people aged 16-25 who are educational under achievers, offenders ex-offenders, unemployed, in or leaving care.
The Team are proud of their track record over 50% of participants move on to learning, or training in voluntary and paid employment, which increases to 70% within three months of finishing the programme.
Recently the North Yorkshire Police, in addition to sponsoring the programme, have made two full time staff secondments.
Both from an organisational perspective for North Yorkshire Police, and on a more personal basis, we have found that the partnership created to deliver the Princes Trust Team programme whilst being challenging to all involved, has delivered tangible outcomes for a significant number of young people.
We are very happy with all the outcomes from Team 55.
