BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects Financial performance Business division operating review continued Resources, risks and relationships VT Support Services TURNOVER GREW BY 55% HELPED BY THE ACqUISITION OF THE LEx BUSINESSES, CONTRIBUTING 175M TO TURNOVER.
UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED BY 37%, HELD BACk BY THE REFINANCING OF THE OPVS WHERE 2.8M OF INTEREST COSTS IN THE PREVIOUS YEAR ARE NOW CATEGORISED AS LEASE COSTS AND DEDUCTED FROM OPERATING PROFIT.
John Davies ManagingDirector Following the Lex acquisition in April 2006 Gloucester, and the facilities received quality VT Support Services Highlights and its successful integration, VT Support approval for fire training from the Atomic Services is now at the forefront of providing Weapons Establishment.
VT Critical Services A Enhancement in breadth and mission critical asset availability and has continued to ensure high availability depth of capability contracting capability of aircraft, vehicles and of all British Airways vehicles at Heathrow, following the successful ships directly reflecting the MoDs DIS.
Gatwick, Birmingham and Manchester and integration of Lex businesses VT Defence continues to support Air Force, is working in partnership to facilitate BAs A Mobilisation of Metropolitan Navy and Army customers both in the Uk smooth transition to Terminal 5.
Police and Army Construction and internationally whilst VT Critical Services During May 2006, VT Defence, as part of vehicles contracts supports the Emergency Services sector the Amey Lex Consortium ALC saw the and major commercial organisations.
A Major contract renewals including successful mobilisation of its C-Vehicle River Class OPVs, Bordon, VT Critical Services has successfully contract providing a construction capability Arborfield and Tucano Support mobilised its contract for the Metropolitan to the British Army utilising over 3,000 Police, now managing the availability of over specialised vehicles.
The project also won A Preferred Bidder on UK MFTS 3,500 police vehicles against demanding Best Private Finance Initiative PFI Deal in and Sea King Integrated key Performance Indicators.
The contract the Uk to achieve financial close in 2006 at Operational Support commencement also saw the successful The Public Private Finance Awards, where completion of two purpose built workshops industry recognises innovation in this field.
in London, representing a 10m investment Service also commenced in July 2006 Financial Highlights by VT.
Both Cardiff Gate and Severn on the 100m contract to provide vehicle 007 00 Park continued their successful delivery management services for 10 years for the m m of fire training to a number of brigades Allenby Connaught Programme.
Group Revenue 436.1 8. including South Wales, Somerset, Avon and Underlying operating profit 44.0.
% 0 Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 CUSTOMER PERSPECTIVE: Name: Geoff Want Job Role: Director of Ground Operations, British Airways The British Airways ground equipment fleet has continued to attain the improved serviceability levels gained in previous years.
With the introduction of 0 items of new ground equipment in preparation for Terminal we look forward to jointly taking serviceability and utilisation to the next level.
BUsinEss REViEW Nature, strategy and prospects Financial performance Business division operating review continued Resources, risks and relationships VT Support Services continued The Bordon and Arborfield contracts, which provide to the River Class vessels: and the award of a 40m training to the British Army, were both extended for a contract to provide a wide range of support services to further two years until March 2009.
The Light Aircraft the Royal Navy of Oman for Ocean Patrol Vessels which Flying Training LAFT PFI programme, which makes will be built by VT Shipbuilding.
available 99 aircraft to provide elementary flying training It has been another successful year for our joint venture to the RAF, successfully reached the delivery of a Flagship.
The company now has a turnover in excess quarter of a million flying hours.
The Tucano programme, of 120m and employs approximately 1,600 people.
delivering basic fast jet training, was extended for a During the year Flagship agreed revisions to its Partnering further 2 years until 2009.
Contract with the MoD which included 120m of new In December 2006, Ascent, the 50 50 joint venture business and an extension to the contract by up to with Lockheed Martin, was announced as the Preferred 2 years to 2013.
Flagship also enhanced its training Bidder for the role of Training System Partner to work with capabilities by taking on more Royal Navy training the MoD to deliver the Uk MFTS.
This 25 year contract to delivery, including a further 300 Royal Navy and MoD design, implement and maintain a training system for all civilian positions.
The company is well positioned for Uk military aircrew is expected to be worth around 6bn.
further growth as it looks to exploit its training and It will secure VT Support Services position as the major integrated support services capabilities in the Uk provider of support for military flying training.
Early 2007 saw a number of further achievements in During the year, our other joint venture FSL delivered a the Defence business: selection as Preferred Bidder strong operational performance and the strengthening of by AgustaWestland to support the Sea king Integrated relationships with other dockyard companies has brought Operational Support SkIOS programme, providing more stability to the ship engineering programme.
support to Search and Rescue Sea king helicopters The first two of three Type 23 Frigates for Chile were across 7 Uk sites and the Falklands: the award of a 5 handed over and substantial reductions in the running year extension for the charter and support of the River costs of the Portsmouth Naval Base were achieved.
Class OPVs: the acceptance of HMS Clyde into service The outcome of the Naval Base review, announced in under a charter and availability based contract similar September 2006, is expected during 2007.
Vt gROUP Plc annUal REPORt & accOUnts 2007 CUSTOMER PERSPECTIVE: Name: Air Cdre Brian Newby CBE AFC RAF Job Role: Director of Flying Training, No Trg Gp, Royal Air Force Working with VT is always a pleasure.
We regularly face difficult challenges together but always find a solution that delivers operational capability in a way that satisfies the needs of the Service and meets the aspirations of the company.
