Directors Report The directors are pleased to present their 114th annual report, Other reports together with the audited financial statements, for the 52 weeks The annual report includes a separate Corporate Governance ended 28 December 2007.
Statement, which is on pages 29 to 31, Audit Committee Report on page 32, Nomination Committee Report on page 33 and Cautionary statement Remuneration Committee Report on pages 34 to 39.
This annual report and financial statements have been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Takeovers Directive The various reports contain forward looking statements that are The information required for shareholders as a result of the subject to risk factors because of the nature of the sector and implementation of the Takeovers Directive into UK law is set out markets in which the Group operates and reflect the knowledge in Shareholder Information on pages 108 to 109 and in this report and information available at the date of the preparation of these under Substantial shareholders.
Directors Statements made in the Chief Executives Review, the Operational Details of the current directors of the Company are set out on Review and the Financial Review in respect of divisional performance pages 22 and 23.
The directors who retire this year by rotation are made on a continuing business basis and operating profits are are Christopher Clarke, Stephen King and Mark Selway.
In stated before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items.
accordance with article 97 of the articles of association of the Operating profit before intangibles amortisation and exceptional Company, Christopher Clarke, Stephen King and Mark Selway items, which is a non-IFRS measure, is the primary performance offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, as he has been a measure used by management as it is felt that the exclusion of these non-executive director for more than nine years, Professor Ian items provides more relevant information to users of the financial Percy is subject to annual re-election.
statements and a more useful indication of the underlying Directors indemnities performance of each of the divisions.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors It is also Group practice to discuss divisional performance in terms in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the of constant exchange rate growth by re-translating the prior years execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors results of overseas subsidiaries at 2007 average exchange rates.
to the extent permitted by the Companies Act and the Company's This removes the effect of currency movements which allows articles of association.
In addition, directors and officers of the us to focus on the increases or decreases which are driven by Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension schemes volume, price and cost levels relative to the prior year.
Therefore, are covered by Directors & Officers liability insurance.
in the Chief Executives Review, the Operational Review and the Share capital Financial Review, growth rates and other comparative data in During the year, options were exercised by participants in the respect of divisional input, revenue and operating profits before Companys share option schemes as a consequence of which intangibles amortisation and exceptional items are given on a 937,966 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were allotted and issued.
Underlying growth on this basis is In addition, under the Group Long Term Incentive Plan the awards a non-IFRS measure because, unlike actual growth, it cannot be granted in 2004 vested during the year.
In order to satisfy the directly derived from the information in the financial statements.
awards, 207,205 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were allotted and Results issued and 427,869 ordinary shares of 12.5p each were transferred The Group profit attributable to members for the 52 weeks, from treasury to satisfy the awards.
Details of the options and awards after taxation, amounted to 174.9m.
outstanding under each of the Companys share schemes at the end of the year are set out in note 28 to the Group financial statements.
Dividends The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 12.35p per At the 2007 annual general meeting, shareholders renewed the share to be paid on 2 June 2008 to ordinary shareholders whose Companys authority to make market purchases of up to 20.8m names are on the Companys register at close of business on 2 May ordinary shares representing 10% of the issued share capital.
Together with the interim ordinary dividend of 4.15p per shares were purchased under this authority during the 52 weeks to share paid on 7 November 2007, this makes the total dividend 28 December 2007 and at the forthcoming annual general meeting for the year 16.5p.
the Board will again seek shareholder approval to renew the annual authority for the Company to make market purchases.
Principal activities and business review The Group's principal activity is the provision of specialised Annual general meeting mechanical engineering solutions for a diversified range of The annual general meeting will be held on 7 May 2008.
A separate industrial and geographic markets.
A review of the Groups letter is being sent to all shareholders containing the Notice of operations and future developments, together with key performance Meeting and the resolutions to be proposed.
indicators can be found in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 3, the Chief Executives Review on pages 6 to 8, the Operational Review on pages 9 to 18, the Financial Review on pages 19 to 21 and the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 40 to 43, which are incorporated into this report by reference, as well as within this report.
24 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Substantial shareholders The Group operates controls as described in the Corporate At 11 March 2008, the following had disclosed an interest in the Governance report to mitigate against these risks.
issued ordinary share capital of the Company in accordance with Economic, political and natural catastrophe risks the requirements of section 5.1.
2 of the UK Listing Authoritys The Group operates in around 40 countries around the world Disclosure and Transparency Rules: including several within Africa, Middle East, Asia and South America.
Date of Percentage While benefiting from the opportunities and growth in these Number disclosure to of issued regions, the Group is exposed to the economic, political and Shareholder of shares Company share capital business risks associated with international operations, such as Baillie Gifford & Co. 12,173,278 17.12.07 5.82% sudden changes in regulation, expropriation of assets, imposition AXA 11,673,950 19.06.07 5.60% of trade barriers and wage controls, limits on the export of currency Barclays Global Investors 10,678,821 18.01.08 5.10% and volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
The Groups diversified Threadneedle Asset Management Ltd 10,450,300 18.10.07 4.996% geographic footprint mitigates against any exposure within any Legal & General Investment Management 8,536,157 20.11.07 4.08% one country in which it operates.
FMR Corp 6,425,000 23.03.07 3.09% The Groups operations are exposed to varying degrees of natural Since the date of disclosure to the Company, the interest of catastrophe risk, such as earthquake and flood, as well as security any person listed above may have increased or decreased.
No risk, in the various manufacturing locations in which it operates.
requirement to notify the Company of any increase or decrease Where cost effective, such risks are mitigated through physical would have arisen unless the holding moved up or down through measures designed to counter the impact of a catastrophe.
The a whole number percentage level.
The percentage level may value of assets and associated profits are also protected by insurance.
increase if the Company cancelled shares pursuant to the power to purchase its own shares or decrease on the issue of new Market cycles shares under any of the Companys share plans.
Almost 90% of the Groups new business comes from the power generation, oil & gas, mining and industrial markets and its Going concern performance may be impacted by market trends across these After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation markets.
The provision of both original equipment and aftermarket that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational sales and services spreads this risk together with the broad existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to geographical diversification of the Group.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Legislative risks Charitable contributions Revision of environmental legislation in various countries takes During the year, Group companies made the following contributions: time and the Group monitors this in order to anticipate the effect charitable being specifically health, heritage, educational and on its business and that of its customers.
Unforeseen legislative community purposes 252,227 2006: 169,218. changes may have an adverse impact on operations and tighter environmental legislation may increase manufacturing costs.
the Group made no political contributions during the period However, it can also provide opportunities to offer customers new 2006: nil.
solutions to meet the more stringent environmental standards.
Audit and auditors Intellectual property So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit The Group operates in a competitive market and constantly information as defined by section 234ZA of the Companies Act has to take steps to prevent misappropriation of its intellectual 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
The Group relies on a combination of patent rights, licensing arrangements and contractual arrangements Each of the directors has taken all of the steps that he ought to to establish and protect those rights, as well as occasionally have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the Companys bringing law suits against third parties.
auditors are aware of that information.
Industry competition The markets for many of the Groups products are fragmented A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys and highly competitive.
The Group competes against large and auditors will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
well established global companies, as well as local companies, Principal risks and low cost replicators of spare parts, on the basis of price, Risk is inherent in our business activities and as a consequence technical expertise, timeliness of delivery, previous installation of operating a sound risk management process the Group has history and reputation for quality and reliability.
To remain identified the following principal risks and uncertainties, which competitive, the Group invests continuously in its manufacturing, it believes could have a materially adverse effect on its business, marketing, customer service support and distribution networks.
turnover, profit, assets, liquidity, resources and reputation.
The diversity of operations reduces the possible effect of action by a single competitor and combined with the application of The nature of risk is such that no list can be comprehensive and Lean manufacturing ensures the Groups competitive advantage it is possible that other risks may arise, or that risks not currently is sustained.
considered material may become so in the future.
Any forwardlooking statements in the annual report or otherwise made by the Group should be considered in light of these risk factors.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 25 Directors Report Continued Product liability claims Acquisitions The Group faces an inherent business risk of exposure to product The Group has made a number of acquisitions in recent years liability and warranty claims in the event that a failure of a product as part of its growth strategy and may make acquisitions in the results in, or is alleged to result in, bodily injury, property damage future.
While the Group identifies expected synergies, cost savings or consequential loss.
The Group maintains insurance coverage and growth opportunities prior to completing any acquisition, for product liability claims where possible.
For warranty claims not these benefits may not always be achieved or within the covered by insurance, warranty costs may be incurred which the anticipated timescale.
Group may not be able to recover.
To mitigate against this, the Group implements a vigorous due Foreign exchange risk diligence process and ensures clear financial targets are in place As a consequence of the Group selling its products in over 100 together with ensuring any acquisition is put through a formal countries and having manufacturing operations in over 15 countries approval process.
The Group also has its internal 100 day plan to two forms of currency exposure, transactional and translational, arise.
ensure that the integration process runs as smoothly as possible.
Transactional currency exposure arises when operating subsidiaries Delivery performance enter into transactions denominated in a currency other than The Groups ability to meet customer delivery schedules is dependent their functional currency.
Foreign exchange transaction exposures on a number of factors including sufficient manufacturing capacity, are identified and managed directly by the Group's operating access to raw materials, inventory control, sufficient trained and subsidiaries, normally by means of foreign exchange forward equipped employees, engineering expertise and the appropriate transactions, within the policies and guidelines established by planning and scheduling of the manufacturing process.
the contracts it enters into require long lead times and therefore Translational currency exposure arises within the income statement contain clauses on on-time delivery.
Failure to deliver in accordance on translation of the profits of overseas subsidiaries into sterling for with customer expectation could subject the Group to financial consolidated reporting purposes and within the balance sheet on penalties, may result in damage to customer relationships and translation of the Group's net investments in overseas subsidiaries.
could impact on the Groups financial performance.
The Group reduces its translational currency exposures by means Employee issues of foreign currency borrowings and derivatives.
Group performance depends on the skills and efforts of its Tax employees and management team across all of its businesses.
The effective rate of tax paid by the Group may be influenced In striving to be an employer of choice, the Group recognises by a number of factors including changes in law and accounting that failing to attract new talent and retain existing expertise, standards and the Groups overall approach to such matters, the knowledge and skills in operations, products and infrastructure results of which could increase or decrease that rate.
The Group areas such as information technology could have a negative seeks to manage its financial structure efficiently to minimise impact on its business.
In addition, the success of Group the overall tax burden on the business where practicable.
The acquisitions will depend on the Groups ability to retain continued ability of the Group to manage its businesses in this management personnel of acquired companies.
way cannot be guaranteed and so could affect the Groups Health & safety financial performance.
The Group operates in a number of demanding environments.
Pensions Safe working practices are extremely important to protect everyone Estimates of the amount and timing of future funding obligations at the Group's locations.
The Group has developed quality and for the Groups pension plans are based on various assumptions safety processes within each of its businesses which are regularly including, among other things, the actual and projected market audited by professional bodies and customers.
The Group performance of the pension plan assets, future long-term operates long established working practices and controls to corporate bond yields, increased longevity of members and minimise damage and injury.
If the Group cannot maintain a statutory requirements.
Whilst the relative improvement in equity safe place for all its employees to work this could result in a markets and increased bond yields, together with the additional number of negative outcomes to the Group including: contributions made by the Group, have enabled the pension plans fines and penalties: to be in surplus in 2007, the Group continually reviews this risk and takes action to mitigate where possible.
For instance, in 2007 loss of key customers: the trustees purchased an insurance policy from Legal & General exclusion from certain market sectors deemed important for Assurance Society to secure the current pensioners liabilities of the future development of the business: and main UK plan and a similar process was also undertaken in Canada.
In addition, while the Group is consulted by the trustees on the damage to reputation.
investment strategies of its pension plans, the Group has no direct control over these matters as the trustees are directly responsible for the strategy.
26 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 2 Group performance Earnings per share - continuing operations The Groups strategy is underpinned by focusing on a number 50 of key performance measures.
The following measures are the 41.4 ones that the Board feel communicate the performance and 40 strength of the Group as a whole.
However, management use 32.4 further performance measures to run and assess the performance 30 of their divisions and the individual companies within each division.
23.5 Up 28% 1 2 Input - continuing operations in 2007 20 1200 1095.3 1081.5 10 1000 878.0 0 800 2005 2006 2007 Up 1% 600 The Group seeks to deliver long-term shareholder value as evidenced in 2007 in part through the growth in underlying earnings per share.
Growth 400 in underlying earnings per share is a key measure in determining the vesting of shares under the Group's incentive schemes.
200 Underlying earnings per share is represented by profit for the 0 period from continuing operations, before intangibles amortisation 2005 2006 2007 and exceptional items, divided by the weighted average number Order input is a key measure used to evaluate market trends, of shares in issue.
establish forward sales and enable the efficient management 2 Dividend and dividend cover - continuing operations of production schedules.
Order input is defined as the expected revenues to be generated from contractually committed 18 3.0 16.5 orders received.
Our ability to sustain such payments is 0 measured against the dividend cover ratio with our current policy 2005 2006 2007 being to sustain dividend cover of at least two times.
Dividend cover is defined as basic earnings per share from continuing One of the Groups key objectives is to continue to improve operations, before intangibles amortisation and exceptional items, business operating margins.
These are monitored on an ongoing divided by the annual dividend per share.
Operating margins are defined as operating profits expressed as a percentage of revenues.
These are calculated Weir Production System implementation before taking account of any intangibles amortisation and The Groups goal is consistently to meet customer demand on exceptional items to focus on underlying trading performance.
time with the least cost method, through implementation of the Weir Production System, adapted from the Toyota Production System.
By eliminating waste, quality is improved and production time and costs are reduced.
The key objective is to embed the appropriate practices across all business processes to produce just what is needed, when it is needed, in the most efficient way.
1 Calculated at 2007 average exchange rates.
2 The figures for 2005 and 2006 are based on the published results and are therefore in respect of continuing operations at that time and do not exclude intangibles amortisation.
The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 27 Margin % Input m Dividend pence Earnings per share pence Dividend cover times Directors Report Continued The Group has adopted the Lean Management philosophy focusing on reduction of the Seven Wastes to improve overall customer value.
These are: transportation motion overproduction scrap inventory waiting time the processing itself.
Due to the importance of ownership in the process, the measurement of performance is by an evaluation across all Group companies comparing their current plant practice against world-class practice and performance.
The evaluation involves an audit of each manufacturing site which results in the site being awarded a Lean Score.
Audits are performed annually by internal peer groups.
The Lean Score for each site is then totalled and expressed as a Group Lean Score.
2 Group Lean Score - continuing operations 119 120 104 100 76 80 Up 14% 60 in 2007 40 20 0 2005 2006 2007 The Group Lean Scores are interpreted as follows: 0-60 means the site needs significant improvement, action is required: 61-99 means relatively good practice, but regular follow up and further improvements are required: 100-150 is world-class practice where process has taken root and needs to be maintained and further improved.
The scores awarded to individual businesses are used to identify improvement actions and set future targets.
By order of the Board Glasgow Alan Mitchelson 11 March 2008 Secretary 28 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Group Lean Score
