The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Our geographic footprint: Our sector leading geographic reach allowed the Group to capitalise on the strong global growth in our core oil & gas, mining and power & industrial markets.
In 2007, we expanded our presence in North America, the Middle East, Africa and China, all areas where the Group sees opportunities for growth.
Map is illustrative of Weirs geographic footprint and is not definitive of all our locations.
4 Our Geographic Footprint The Weir Group Worldwide Our business at a glance: The Weir Group has a strong reputation for Engineering Products engineering excellence in the manufacture of specialist equipment and the delivery of through-life engineering solutions.
The best Minerals manufacturing facilities in the Group deliver Weir Minerals best-in-class products are designed and industry leading performance and every built to reduce downtime and minimise disruption in business has well defined plans to maximise heavy duty, abrasive or corrosive processes.
global supply operation is backed by excellent local engineering support.
Weir employs over 8,800 people worldwide, Facts and figures No.
of people c4,100 focused on our key markets.
of businesses 13 from mining and minerals processing to 2007 order input 491.2m the defence and nuclear industry, from oil & Market size 1.7bn gas exploration to power generation.
In all Market position No.
1 in slurry pumps these areas, we provide solutions that meet the engineering and operational challenges facing our customers.
Clear Liquid Weir Clear Liquid is continuously enhancing and For further information developing its product range to solve the technical about The Weir Group PLC, and operational challenges facing its customers, visit www.
co. uk enabling them to improve performance and compete effectively worldwide.
of businesses 6 2007 order input 191.9m Market size 5.4bn Market position Niche businesses regularly holding No.
1 positions in their sectors and territories.
Valves & Controls Weir Valves & Controls products reflect our state-ofthe-art product development and manufacturing focus.
Our global sales operation and engineering capability enable us to offer whole project and process solutions our customers require.
of businesses 5 2007 order input 77.6m Market size 2.1bn Market position Top 3 for specialist Power Generation valves.
Engineering Services Weir Services is a customer-oriented service provider, delivering practical and innovative engineered solutions from development and successful execution of large turnkey projects to upgrading complex mechanical pressure control and rotating equipment setting new asset management standards.
of countries Global 2007 order input 250.6m Market size 2.5bn Market position Leadership position in Canada, UK, Middle East and in various regional niche businesses.
Defence, Nuclear & Gas Weir Defence, Nuclear & Gas specialist engineering design businesses provide the design and management of complex engineering projects.
Facts and figures The Weir Group remains focused on higher No.
of businesses 2 growth, longer cycle markets and is committed 2007 order input 84.0m Market position No.
1 independent submarine to enhance operational performance and to weapons handling and launch system provider.
invest in new and exciting prospects as a No.
1 marine LPG storage and handling system provider.
strong platform of our future growth.
