48723 MG Annual Report - Front 17 4 08 11:40 Page 34 34| Board of Directors Wellstream Holdings PLC Board of Directors 1.
Patrick M Murray John W Kennedy Christopher Braithwaite Chairman Chief Operating Officer Mr Kennedy, aged 58, joined Wellstream Mr Braithwaite, aged 51, joined in 2003 as Chairman.
Mr Kennedy has Wellstream in August 2004 as Chief over 30 years of experience, holding Operating Officer.
He has over 25 years executive positions in Halliburton, of experience in project management, Brown & Root and Dresser Enterprises.
engineering and manufacturing In 1993, Mr Kennedy received the Sloan businesses in companies including Fellowship, London Business School Halliburton Brown & Root and ABB.
Hons degree in Civil from University College Dublin.
Engineering from the University of Mr. Kennedy is currently a director of the Surrey and a M. Sc.
degree in Business United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority, Administration & Project Management Integra Group, Maxwell Drummond from Cranfield School of Management.
International Ltd, Hydrasun Holdings Ltd, He is chairman of Subsea NE and Bifold Fluid Power Ltd, and also acts as director of NOF Energy, both industry an advisor and a consultant to several bodies.
Chris Gill Gordon Chapman Finance Director Chief Executive Officer Mr Gill, aged 45, joined the Company as Mr Chapman, aged 57, originally joined Finance Director on 7 January 2008.
Wellstream in 1991 and is now the He qualified as a Chartered Accountant Companys Chief Executive Officer having in 1988 with Ernst and Whinney and led the management Buy-out in 2003. has a B. Sc.
in Mining Engineering from He has over 30 years of experience in Newcastle University.
the oil field services sector, including He has over 20 years of financial 15 years with Wellstream.
Prior to joining experience across a diverse range of Wellstream, Mr Chapman worked on businesses, most recently as Finance pipeline projects in South America, India, Director at the Noble Organisation and the Caribbean, Nigeria and the North domnick hunter group plc and prior to Sea.
He is a chartered civil engineer that in Black and Decker Corp.
He is a with a degree in Civil Engineering from non-executive director of Stadium Salford University.
Group plc and a board member of the North of England Industrial Development Board.
48723 MG Annual Report - Front 17 4 08 11:40 Page 35 Wellstream Holdings PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 | 35 5678 9 Sir Graham Hearne Francisco Gros Nils Stoesser Senior Independent Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director Mr Stoesser, aged 33, joined Sir Graham, aged 70, joined Wellstream Francisco R. Gros, age 65, has been Wellstream in 2003 as a nonexecutive in 2003 as an independent nona director of the Company since 2007. director.
He is a director of Candover executive director.
Sir Graham practiced Mr Gros is non-executive Vice Partners Limited, which he joined in law before taking a number of senior Chairman of OGX Petroleo e Gas 1999 from Arthur Andersen, where he executive positions, including Chief Participacoes S. A. a company involved qualified as a chartered accountant.
Sir Graham in the exploration of oil and gas Mr Stoesser also holds non-executive is currently non-executive Chairman reserves in Brazil.
Previously Mr Gros directorships with Qioptiq and Linos of Braemer Shipping Services Group was President and Chief Executive AG groups.
Mr Stoesser has a PLC, Catlin Group Limited and Stratic Officer of Fosfertil from 2003 to 2007.
M. Eng Hons degree in Mechanical Energy Corporation.
He is a In addition, Mr Gros was President and Engineering from Newcastle upon non-executive director of N. M. Chief Executive Officer of Petrleo Tyne University.
Rothschild & Sons Ltd and Rowan Brasileiro S. A. from January 2002 to Patrick M Murray Companies, Inc. December 2002, and President and Independent Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer of the Brazilian Neil Gaskell Director Development Bank from 2000 to Independent Non-Executive Patrick Murray, aged 65, joined December 2001.
Previously, Mr Gros Director Wellstream in July 2007 as an was also a Managing Director of Mr Gaskell, aged 59, joined Wellstream independent non-executive director.
Morgan Stanley from 1993 to 2000, in 2007 as an independent nonMr Murray has 25 years of experience and was Governor of the Central executive director.
Mr. Gaskell has 25 in senior management positions, most Bank on two occasions, in 1987 and years of experience in senior recently as Chairman of the Board from 1991 to 1992.
Mr Gros is also management roles at various Shell and CEO of Dresser, Inc. Mr Murray the Chairman of the Board for Wilson companies including from 2000 to holds a B. S. degree in Accounting and Sons Ltd. and serves on the Boards of 2003 as Group Treasurer, responsible a Master of Business Administration Globex Utilidades S. A. EDP-Energias for all financing policies, funding and from Seton Hall University.
Mr Murray do Brasil S. A. Lojas Renner, Fosfertil, risk management.
Mr Gaskell is is on the Board of Directors of Harvest and Agco Corp. Mr Gros has a B.
A. currently a non-executive director of Natural Resources, Inc.
Precision cum laude from the Woodrow Wilson several companies including Integra Drilling Corporation, Rancher Energy School of Public and International Group and Aberdeen All Asia Corp. the Maguire Energy Institute, Affairs at Princeton University.
Investment Trust PLC and others in the World Affairs Council of the oil and gas industry.
Mr Gaskell Dallas Fort Worth, and the Board of is a fellow of the Association of Regents of Seton Hall University.
Chartered Certified Accountants and has a B.
A. in Philosophy and Economics from the London School of Economics.
