dirECTOrS rEPOrT The directors of WH Smith PLC the Company present their Environmental, Social and Community matters annual report to shareholders together with the audited on pages 20 to 23 consolidated accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries Pages 25 to 27 inclusive together with the sections of for the year ended 31 August 2007.
The purpose of the the Annual Report incorporated by reference consist of annual report is to provide information to members of the a directors report that has been drawn up and presented Company.
The annual report contains certain forward in accordance with and reliance upon applicable English looking statements with respect to the operations, law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their that report shall be subject to the limitations and nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future restrictions provided by such law.
events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those anticipated.
Nothing in this annual report should be PriNCiPaL aCTiviTy construed as a profit forecast.
The following definitions apply The principal activity of the Group is retailing and associated throughout this report unless the context requires otherwise: activities in the UK.
We are one of the UKs leading retailers of Books, Stationery, Newspapers, Magazines and Company means WH Smith PLC, a public limited company Entertainment products.
incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 5202036.
The Group means the Company and its COmPaNy rESULTS subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings: The profit for the financial year, before taxation, was 76m 2006: 44m and sales fell by 41m to 1,299m, Old WH Smith means the company formerly known as representing a decrease of 3 per cent.
WH Smith PLC, a public limited company incorporated in England and Wales with registered number 471941 and dividENdS which was the holding company of the WH Smith Group The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend prior to the demerger: for the year of 8.1p per ordinary share on 6 February 2008 Smiths News means Smiths News PLC, a public to members on the Register at the close of business on limited company incorporated in England and Wales 11 January 2008. with registered number 5195191 and which became This final dividend, together with the interim dividend the holding company of the WH Smith News business of 3.7p per ordinary share paid on 14 June 2007, makes following the demerger: a total dividend of 11.8p per ordinary share for the year ended 31 August 2007.
WH Smith Group means Old WH Smith and its subsidiaries and subsidiary undertakings: SHarE CaPiTaL WH Smith News means the business carried on by Old The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, WH Smith prior to the demerger and by Smiths News together with details of shares issued during the year, are following the demerger of wholesaling and distributing shown in Note 30 to the Accounts.
newspapers and magazines to retailers and supplying Subject to disenfranchisement in the event of A nonother services to publishers and retailers: and payment of any call or other sum due and payable in respect WH Smith Retail business means the business carried on of any share or B non-compliance with any statutory notice by Old WH Smith prior to the demerger and by the Company requiring the disclosure of certain information in relation to following the demerger of retailing through High Street and the ownership of shares, and subject to any special rights Travel Retail outlets.
or restrictions as to voting from time to time attached to any shares, at general meetings of the Company on a show of bUSiNESS rEviEW hands every member has one vote, and on a poll, every The Companies Act 1985 requires the Company to set member has one vote for each share of which he is a holder.
out in this report a fair review of the business of the Group Subject to the provisions of the Companys Articles of during the financial year ended 31 August 2007 including Association, a holder of shares may receive a dividend in an analysis of the position of the Group at the end of the respect of his shares.
The Board may deduct from any financial year, and a description of the principal risks dividend or other monies payable on a share all such sums and uncertainties facing the Group.
as may be due from him to the Company on account of calls The information that fulfils the Business Review or otherwise in relation to the shares.
requirements can be found in the following sections A liquidator may with the sanction of an extraordinary of the Annual Report which are incorporated into this resolution of the Company and any other sanction required report by reference: by law A divide among members in specie the whole or Chairmans Statement on pages 2 and 3 any part of the assets of the Company, or B vest the whole Chief Executives business review on pages 4 to 13 or any part of the assets in trustees for the benefit of the Financial review on pages 14 to 19 members as the liquidator shall think fit, but no member Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 25 dirECTOrS rEPOrT shall be compelled to accept any assets upon which there PENSiONS is any liability.
The Board may with the authority of an Following extensive consultation, the Company on 2 April ordinary resolution A resolve to capitalise any sum standing 2007 ceased service accruals for active members of the to the credit of any reserve account of the Company WHSmith Pension Trust, replacing this benefit with a including share premium account and capital redemption defined contribution pension benefit.
reserve or any sum standing to the credit of the profit and SigNifiCaNT agrEEmENTS CHaNgE Of CONTrOL loss account not required for the payment of any preferential A change of control of the Company following a takeover dividend and B appropriate that sum as capital to the bid may cause a number of agreements to which the holders of ordinary shares in proportion to the nominal Company or its trading subsidiary, WH Smith Retail amount of the ordinary share capital held by them and allot Limited, is party, such as commercial trading contracts, shares or debentures or otherwise deal with such sum as banking arrangements, property lease and licence directed by the resolution provided that the share premium agreements to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, account and the capital redemption reserve and any sum the directors service agreements and employee share not available for distribution in accordance with applicable plans would be similarly affected on a change of control, law may only be applied in paying up unissued shares to including in the case of the directors, compensation for be allotted credited as fully paid up.
In the context of the Company as a whole, The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving these agreements are not considered to be significant.
any reason for it, refuse to register any transfer of any Details of the change of control clause contained in the certificated share which is not fully paid up but not so as service contracts of the executive directors can be found to prevent dealings in listed shares from taking place and in the Remuneration Report on page 35. on which the Company has a lien as a result of such share not being fully paid up.
The Board may also refuse to register COmPaNyS SHarEHOLdErS any instrument of transfer of a certificated share unless The Company has been notified that as at the date of this it is lodged at the registered office, or such other place as report, the following shareholders own more than 3 per cent the Board may decide, for registration, accompanied by a of the issued share capital of the Company: certificate for the shares to be transferred and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to prove title Nature of the intending transferor.
Holder Number % of Holding On 7 September 2006 the Company completed a reduction Standard Life Direct of its capital in order to create distributable reserves: and Investments Limited 16,605,213 9.07 Indirect the nominal value of each ordinary share in the Company Silchester International was reduced from 195p to 20p.
Investors Limited 10,709,619 5.85 Direct On 15 December 2006, the Company redeemed one Sanderson Asset redeemable preference share of 50,000 at par.
Management Limited 8,116,800 4.44 Direct Legal & General PUrCHaSE Of OWN SHarES Group PLC 5,859,261 3.20 Direct At the Annual General Meeting on 1 February 2007, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, up to Except for the above, the Company is not aware of any 18,292,155 ordinary shares of 20 pence each.
The Company ordinary shareholders with interests of 3 per cent or more did not use this authority to make any purchases of its own in the issued share capital of the Company.
shares during the financial year.
This authority is renewable annually and approval will be sought from shareholders at dirECTOrS the Annual General Meeting in 2008 to renew the authority The directors are responsible for the management of for a further year.
the business of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to applicable legislation dEmErgEr and regulation, the Companys Memorandum and At an Extraordinary General Meeting of Old WH Smith held Articles of Association.
on 2 August 2006, shareholders approved the demerger of the WH Smith Retail business from the WH Smith Group.
The names of the directors as at the date of this report, The demerger became effective on 31 August 2006 with the together with biographical details, are set out on page 24.
Company being admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing All the directors served throughout the period.
Authority and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on The Companys Articles of Association give a power to the 1 September 2006.
Board to appoint directors and where notice is given signed As part of the demerger, the Company paid an additional by all the other directors, remove a director from office.
contribution of 25m to the WHSmith Pension Trust on The Companys Articles of Association themselves may 1 September 2006. be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
WH Smith PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 26 The Companys Articles of Association require that at the The Board believes in creating throughout the Company first three annual general meetings following the demerger, a culture that is free from discrimination and harassment one third of the directors shall retire from office but shall be and will not permit or tolerate discrimination in any form.
At each annual general meeting The Company gives proper consideration to applications thereafter any director then in office who has been appointed for employment when these are received from disabled by the Board since the previous annual general meeting or people and employs disabled people whenever suitable has held office for three years or more since he was vacancies arise.
Should an employee become disabled appointed or last re-appointed by the Company in general when working for the Company, efforts are made to continue meeting shall be eligible for re-appointment.
their employment and retraining is provided if necessary.
Mike Ellis and Kate Swann retire from the Board by rotation CHariTabLE aNd POLiTiCaL dONaTiONS and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Companys support for charitable causes is mainly The Chairman conducted a thorough review with Mike Ellis channelled through the work of the Companys Charitable to assess his contribution to the Board and confirmed that Trust.
Charitable donations during the year ended 31 August he continues to be an effective non-executive director.
In addition, the Company MT Rainey, who has served as a non-executive director since facilitated the sale of charitable products which gave rise 2002, will step down from the Board following the Annual to further donations of 274,807 2006: 334,529 and also General Meeting to be held on 31 January 2008 at which time made donations in kind with an estimated value of 126,455 she will have served two three-year terms on the Board.
Employees are encouraged to give their time and skills for the benefit of a variety of charitable causes.
The interests of the directors and their immediate families in the share capital of the Company, along with details of It is the Companys policy not to make political donations directors share options and awards, are contained in the and no political donations or EU political expenditure were remuneration report on pages 37 to 39. made in the year 2006: nil.
At no time during the year did any of the directors have PaymENT POLiCy fOr SUPPLiErS a material interest in any significant contract with the The Companys policy for the payment of suppliers, which Company or any of its subsidiaries.
complies with the CBI Code of Practice for Buyers, is to The Company maintains directors and officers liability agree the terms of payment in advance in line with normal insurance which gives appropriate cover for any legal action trade practice and, provided a supplier performs in brought against its directors.
The Company has also accordance with the agreement, to abide by such terms.
provided an indemnity for its directors and the Company The Companys trade creditors figure as at the balance sheet Secretary, which is a qualifying third party indemnity date was equivalent to 45 days 2006: 40 days based on provision for the purposes of section 309B of the Companies average daily amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Act 1985. gOiNg CONCErN STaTEmENT aS TO diSCLOSUrE Of iNfOrmaTiON TO aUdiTOrS The directors consider that the Company has adequate Having made the requisite enquiries, as far as each of the resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis as defined by section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 in preparing the accounts.
of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each aUdiTOrS of the directors has taken all steps he should have taken A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit auditors to the Company and to authorise the directors information and to establish that the Companys auditors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the are aware of that information.
EmPLOyEES aNNUaL gENEraL mEETiNg The Group employs approximately 16,000 people throughout The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held the United Kingdom and it is proud of its long history of at the CBI Conference Centre, Centre Point, 103 New Oxford being regarded as a responsible and respected employer.
Street, London WC1A 1DU on 31 January 2008 at 11.30am.
Employees are kept well informed of the performance and The Notice of Annual General Meeting is given, together objectives of the Group through personal briefings and email with explanatory notes, in the booklet which accompanies and the Companys open management style encourages this report.
employees to contribute to the development of the business.
The Company operates a HM Revenue & Customs Approved This report was approved by the Board on 11 October 2007.
Save-As-You-Earn share option scheme Sharesave By Order of the Board Scheme which provides employees with the opportunity Ian Houghton to acquire shares in the Company.
Company Secretary 11 October 2007 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 WH Smith PLC 2
