Directors Report The directors present their Annual Report on the activities of the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors reports, for the 53 weeks ended 1 January 2008.
Principal activities The principal activities of the Group during the period continue to be the operation of licensed betting offices and the provision of telephone and internet betting and online casino and poker services.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group are listed in note 14 to the financial statements.
Business review The Chairmans Statement, the Operating and Financial Review OFR and the Corporate Responsibility Report together provide a fair review of the Groups business during the year, a description of the principal risks and uncertainties it faces, and the position of the Group at the end of the year.
The OFR on pages 4 to 11 has been prepared with reference to the guidance in the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review which following the removal of the statutory requirement for an OFR is considered best practice.
The areas covered within the OFR are as follows: Location in Annual Report Page Principal activities, products and services, objectives and strategy, competition and the markets in which the Group operates OFR 4 Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group OFR 10 Review of the development and performance of the business, for 53 weeks ended 1 January 2008 OFR 6 Financial position of the Group as at 1 January 2008 OFR 11 Key Performance Indicators OFR 9 Future prospects of the business OFR 10 David Allvey Independent non legal liabilities and costs for claims Results and dividends executive director incurred in respect of any act or omission The Groups profit on ordinary activities in the execution of their duties.
after taxation and exceptional items for David Edmonds Independent non the period was 157.4m 52 weeks ended executive director 26 December 2006 - 166.8m.
The Directors proposed for Barry Gibson Senior Independent directors recommend a final dividend of re-election Non Executive 15.5 pence per share to be paid on 5 June Director Messrs Scott and Gibson retire by rotation 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the at the next Annual General Meeting and Register of Members on 2 May 2008 Details of committee membership is set offer themselves for re-election.
which, if approved, together with the out on page 24. interim dividend of 7.75 pence per share Messrs Spearing and Topping, who were Details of the directors interests are set paid on 5 December 2007, makes a total appointed by the Board as directors with out in note 1 to the Parent Company of 23.25 pence per share for the period effect from 17 May 2007, will retire at the Financial Statements.
52 weeks ended 26 December 2006 AGM, and being eligible, offer themselves 21.75 pence per share.
Directors and officers liability Please refer to pages 12 and 13 for Directors insurance biographies of the current directors.
The directors who served during the Pursuant to Article 214 of the Articles of period and up to 27 February 2008 Association and subject to the provisions Supplier payments policy comprise: of the Companies Act, the directors and The Group does not have a formal code officers of the Company shall be Charles Scott Chairman on payment practice but it is the Groups indemnified out of the assets of the policy to settle terms of payment with David Harding Chief Executive Company, against liability in defending suppliers when agreeing the terms of resigned proceedings, whether civil or criminal, in each transaction, ensure that suppliers are 28 September 2007 which judgment is given in his favour or made aware of the terms of payment and in which he is acquitted or in connection Ralph Topping Chief Executive abide by the terms of payment.
Trade with any application in which relief is appointed a director creditors of the Group at 1 January 2008 granted to him by the court from liability on 17 May 2007 were equivalent to 15 days purchases for negligence, default, breach of duty or 26 December 2006 19 days purchases, Simon Lane Group Finance breach of trust in relation to the affairs of based on the average daily amount Director the Company.
In addition the Group has invoiced by suppliers during the period.
purchased and maintains directors and Ian Spearing Executive director officers insurance cover against certain appointed a director on 17 May 2007 14 William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Directors Report Directors Report William Hill PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 William Hill.
The survey was carried out by out in note 34.
Shares held by William Hill Charitable contributions a third party and the responses received PLC Employee Benefit Trust abstain from During the period the Group made were entirely confidential.
charitable donations of 581,000 52 will be carried out during 2008. weeks ended 26 December 2006 - No person has any special rights of 423,000 principally to industry related The Group held a major communications control over the companys share capital charities serving the communities in event in early 2008 the William Hill Expo and all issued shares are fully paid.
which explained to employees how With regard to the appointment and everyone within the Group can make a replacement of directors, the Company is significant contribution to understanding Substantial shareholdings governed by its Articles of Association, the and delivering the Groups business goals.
Combined Code, the Companies Acts and On 27 February 2008, the Company had The Company operates a SAYE Share related legislation.
The Articles themselves been notified, in accordance with the Option Scheme Scheme which is open may be amended by special resolution of Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the to all eligible employees based on a three, the shareholders.
The powers of directors Financial Services Authority, of the five or seven year monthly savings are described in the Main Board Terms of notifiable interests in the ordinary share contract.
Options under the Scheme are Reference, copies of which are available capital of the Company set out in the granted with an exercise price up to 20% on request, and the Statement of table below: below the prevailing share price.
The Corporate Governance on page 24.
Percentage maximum permissible monthly savings Name of holder shareholding % under the Scheme is 250.
Annual General Meeting MFS Investment The AGM will be held on Thursday 15 May Management 10.84 Authority to purchase own 2008 at Cavendish Conference Centre, 22 Duchess Mews, London W1G 9DT.
The shares Capital notice of the AGM and an explanation of Research and In accordance with the Companys stated the items of non-routine business are set Management 9.63 policy of maintaining the optimum capital out in the explanatory circular that structure, and pursuant to the Companys Scottish Widows accompanies this annual report.
on-going authority from shareholders to Investment Partnership 6.67 make market purchases of its own shares, Legal & General 3.95 the Company purchased and Auditors and disclosure of subsequently cancelled 7,912,494 ordinary Barclays 3.74 information to auditors shares during the year.
These shares had Each of the directors in office at the date an aggregate nominal value of when this report was approved confirms 791,249.40 and were purchased for an Disabled employees that: aggregate cost of 46.0m including Applications for employment by disabled commission and stamp duty at prices So far as the director is aware, there is persons are always fully and fairly between 6.50 and 4.82 per ordinary no relevant audit information of considered, bearing in mind the aptitude share.
which the Companys auditors are and ability of the applicant concerned.
In unaware: and This authority to purchase own shares the event of members of staff becoming remains valid until the forthcoming The director has taken all the steps disabled every effort is made to ensure Annual General Meeting, when it is that he ought to have taken as a that their employment within the Group intended that a resolution will be put director in order to make himself continues and that appropriate training is forward to shareholders to review.
aware of any relevant audit arranged.
It continues to be the policy of information and to establish that the the Group that the training, career Companys auditors are aware of that development and promotion of disabled Capital Structure information.
persons should as far as is feasible be Details of the authorised and issued share The confirmation should be interpreted in identical to that of other employees.
capital, together with details of the accordance with Section 234ZA of the movements in the companys issued share Companies Act 1985. capital during the year are shown in note Employee consultation 24.
The company has one class of ordinary A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & The Group places considerable value on shares which carry no right to fixed Touche LLP as the Companys auditors will the involvement of its employees and has income.
Each share carries the right to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual continued to keep them informed on one vote at general meetings of the General Meeting.
matters affecting them as employees and company.
on the various factors affecting the By Order of the Board performance of the Group.
This is There are no specific restrictions on the Thomas Murphy achieved through formal and informal size of a holding nor on the transfer of General Counsel & Company Secretary meetings and the Group magazine shares, which are both governed by the 27 February 2008 Will2win.
Employee representatives are general provisions of the Articles of consulted regularly on a wide range of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Registered Office matters affecting their current and future directors are not aware of any agreements Greenside House interests.
During the period a Group-wide between holders of the companys shares 50 Station Road employee engagement survey was that may result in restrictions on the Wood Green implemented which provided employees transfer of securities or on voting rights.
London with an opportunity to express their views N22 7TP Details of employee share schemes are set on how they feel about working for 15
