02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 11 4 07 10:37 am Page 21 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 21 Directors report The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report and the The Group recognises a number of trades unions and has a Groups audited financial statements for the 53 weeks ended partnership agreement with the Union of Shop, Distributive 4 February 2007. and Allied Workers USDAW.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Group is the The Group encourages employee involvement in the financial operation of retail supermarket stores and associated activities.
performance of the business through profit share and savings related share option schemes.
Business Review The principal companies within the Morrisons group the Group for the period under review are Wm Morrison Equal opportunities Equal opportunities are offered to all, regardless Supermarkets PLC and its principal subsidiaries as disclosed in of race, colour, nationality, religion, sex, marital status, disability note 30.
A fair review of the business and its position at the period or age.
All applicants and employees are treated equally in respect end is required to be laid out in the Directors report, as well as a of recruitment, promotion, training, pay and other employment review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
All decisions are based on merit.
Reasonable Chief Executives operating review pages 4 to 14 covers the market adjustments will be made to accommodate those with special needs.
backdrop, review of the period and delivery against the Optimisation Under no circumstances will discrimination against any individual or Plan, plus the outcome of a business review which highlights the group be tolerated.
All employees have access to confidential plans for profit recovery and positioning for future growth and counselling provided by trained counsellors as part of our special outlook.
The Directors are satisfied that risks to the business are complaints procedure and occupational health team.
Within the Chief Executives The Group is conscious of its responsibility to society and to the operating review and the Financial review pages 18 to 20, key local community in particular and we aim to provide employment market and financial risk are described.
A formal framework of risk opportunities which are compatible with work and family is part of the improving governance framework and is scheduled for responsibilities.
Management is required to apply all of the Groups completion during 2007 08.
The developments in governance during policies fully and diligently to ensure that the highest standards the period are covered in the Corporate governance report.
report is supported by additional commentary in the Chairmans statement pages 2 to 3 and Financial review.
Disability The Group gives full and fair consideration to applications for employment made by people with disabilities.
Where an employee The Directors report is prepared for the members of the Company becomes disabled whilst in employment, every effort will be made and should not be relied upon by any other party or for any other to look at appropriate and reasonable adjustments and to offer purpose.
Where the Directors report including all the statements and suitable employment together with assistance in retraining.
reports mentioned above includes forward-looking statements, these The Companys policy is to offer equal opportunity to all disabled are made by the Directors in good faith based on the information applicants and employees who have a disability or who become available to them at the time of their approval of this report.
disabled during the course of their employment in respect of Consequently such statements should be treated with caution due to recruitment, career development, promotion, training, pay and the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk other employment policies and conditions.
factors, underlying such forward-looking statements and information.
Auditors In accordance with Sections 385 and 390A of the Result and dividend The profit for the period after taxation Companies Act 1985, a resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as amounted to 247.6m.
The Directors have declared and auditors and to authorise the Directors to set their remuneration is recommended the following dividends: to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM.
m Annual General Meeting The notice of the 2007 AGM of Paid interim dividend of 0.625p per share 2006: 0.625p 16.7 the Company to be held at the Companys headquarters at Gain Lane Recommended final dividend of 3.375p per share 2006: 3.075p 90.3 in Bradford on 24 May 2007 is sent to shareholders with the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement with an accompanying The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the Annual General explanatory letter from the Chairman.
The Directors believe each Meeting, is to be paid on 29 May 2007 to ordinary shareholders on of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM is in the best interests the register of members at close of business on 27 April 2007.
If the of the Group and recommend shareholders to vote in favour of each final dividend is approved by shareholders, the total ordinary dividend of them.
for the year will be 4p per share.
Share capital The authorised and called up share capital of the Employment policy The Groups comprehensive employment Company, together with details of shares allotted during the year, policies cover recruitment, selection, retention, remuneration, is shown in note 21 of the Financial Statements.
The harmonisation of these policies throughout the Group has progressed well and remains At the AGM of the Company held in 2006, a special resolution was a priority.
passed to authorise the purchase by the Company of up to 151,900,000 ordinary shares and 50,379 preference shares Employment involvement Employees are kept as fully informed as representing approximately 5.7% and 10% of the issued share capital possible about the activities of the business.
This is achieved through of each class of shares respectively at that time.
This authority internal publications, communications programmes, notice boards, remained valid on 4 February 2007.
The Company has not purchased briefings, local, regional and national consultative committees any of its own shares pursuant to that authority which will expire at and forums.
02 Report 2007 16-39. qxp 16 4 07 2:48 pm Page 22 22 Morrisons annual report and financial statements 2007 Directors report continued During the period, a total of 137,947 preference shares were Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who converted into 463,501 ordinary shares on the basis of 336 ordinary held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm shares for every 100 nominal amount of preference shares in that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit accordance with the terms of issue of the preference shares.
information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each In addition, 3,022,299 ordinary shares were issued during the period director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as to employees exercising share options.
a director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware Borrowing powers The Articles of Association of the Company of that information.
restrict the borrowings of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to a maximum amount equal to twice the share capital Going concern After reviewing the Groups funding arrangements, and consolidated reserves.
Optimisation Plan and other medium term plans, the Directors are confident that the Company and the Group have adequate financial Substantial shareholdings As at 14 March 2007 the Company resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable was aware that the following shareholders excluding Directors had future.
The going concern basis has continued to be adopted in the interests in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company: preparation of the financial statements.
Ordinary shares As at 14 March 2007 the Company had been notified Payment to creditors Supplier credit is an important factor of the following notifiable interests in its ordinary shares: in the success of the business.
The Company will, as previously Number % of acknowledged, work within the spirit and letter of the supermarkets of shares holding code of practice.
The Company will continue with its policy to ensure Brandes Investment Partners LLC 316,176,906 11.8% all payments are made within mutually agreed credit terms.
Where Ameriprise Financial Inc 173,736,469 6.5% disputes arise the Company attempts to sort these out promptly Walter Scott & Partners Ltd 107,775,155 4.0% and amicably to ensure delays in payment are kept to a minimum.
Legal & General Group Plc 96,866,199 3.6% Creditor days outstanding for the Company at 4 February 2007 were Zurich Financial Services 81,286,130 3.0% 27 2006: 37, and for the Group creditor days were 31 2006: 33.
In addition, Mr A R Wilson has an interest in 232,186,234 ordinary Health and safety policy It is the Groups intention, so far shares 8.67% of which he has a beneficial interest in 13,893 ordinary as is reasonably practicable, to ensure the health, safety and welfare shares.
His interest in the remaining 232,172,341 ordinary shares is of all its employees, customers and visitors to its premises.
In order purely as a trustee and includes 11,989,701 ordinary shares shown to achieve this, a comprehensive health and safety manual is in place under the beneficial holding of Sir Kenneth Morrison.
for each division of the Company and subsidiary companies within the Group.
Each health and safety manual contains the policy and Sir Kenneth Morrison is interested as a trustee in 158,542,368 of procedures for complying with the Health and Safety at Work Act the ordinary shares held by Mr A R Wilson as a trustee.
1974, including the provision, based on risk assessment, of safe Directors The current Directors of the Group and their biographies working practices for all work activities across the Group.
The Groups are shown on pages 16 and 17. health and safety policy is approved by the Executive Board.
The Group has adopted the national targets set by the Health and David Jones retired from the Board on 30 June 2006, Robert Stott Safety Commission for the reduction of workplace accidents and retired on 29 September 2006 and Marie Melnyk resigned from the work-related ill health, and is on course to meet or exceed these Board on 6 December 2006. targets.
Health and safety performance is monitored to ensure Roger Owen aged 58 retires by rotation and Marc Bolland aged 47 continuous improvement in all areas.
and Martyn Jones aged 48 retire at the first AGM following their appointments.
All of them have service contracts with a rolling 12 month notice period.
All of them, being eligible, offer themselves for By the order of the Board re-election at the AGM.
Jonathan Burke Company Secretary The interests of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the 14 March 2007 Company and their immediate families in the shares of the Company, along with share options, are contained in the Directors remuneration report set out on pages 29 to 35.
At no time during the year did any of the Directors have a material interest in any significant contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Political and charitable donations During the period the Group made charitable donations amounting to 0.3m.
In addition the Group sponsored various charities and in the year over 0.9m was raised by customers and staff.
No political donations were made, which is Group policy.
