Directors Report Business Review Our Resources The Directors are pleased to present Woolworths Group plc is principally their report and the consolidated financial a UK general retailer and entertainment statements of the Company and its distributor focused on the home and subsidiaries for the financial year ended family.
The Group is comprised of two 3 February 2007. main divisions: Retail, and Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing.
The key assets of these divisions are reviewed over the next four pages.
Retail Since opening its first store in 1909, Woolworths has become Stores a familiar feature on the UKs high streets.
Over four million people shop in our stores each week.
There are today 801 Mainchain stores located in small towns and city suburbs, targeted at meeting basic everyday shopping requirements, as well as larger stores located on prime shopping streets in major regional shopping centres.
The product offer covers Toys, Childrens Clothing, Events, Confectionery, Home and Entertainment.
In Woolworths out-of-town stores, a wider selection of Toys, Outdoor goods, kids bedroom ranges and Entertainment products can be found.
With its rich and well-loved heritage, Woolworths continues to refresh its store formats and the shopping environment to meet its customers requirements.
Mainchain Out-of town Total Number of stores: 801 17 818 Average sq ft: 8,462 54,941 9,428 The quality of Woolworths colleagues, in-store, in our distribution Colleagues centres and at Head Office is vital to the Groups success.
Employing around 30,000 people, we place an emphasis on high standards of customer care and service, so our colleagues development and training is a priority.
We encourage and enable our people to develop their knowledge, skills and career options across all facets of our business.
We offer high quality business education and practical training in specific skills.
Woolworths offers a leadership programme for graduates Woolworths Group Leadership Programme.
WGLP is a development framework for people with potential to become future business leaders.
It develops people within chosen functional areas, including Business Development, Marketing, Commercial, Retail, Supply Chain and Distribution, Finance, Human Resources or Management Information Systems.
For more information on a career at Woolworths, go to www.
Directors Report Business Review Our Resources Ladybird Dating back to the 1950s, Ladybird-branded Brands Childrens clothing is now synonymous with Woolworths, which secured exclusive rights to the brand in 1984.
Ladybird clothes are popular, modern and continue to appeal to todays parents and their children.
Chad Valley the Chad Valley brand first appeared on toys in around 1920 and was acquired by Woolworths in 1988.
Today it comprises an extensive range of high quality, value-for-money toys and games suitable for all children.
Licences Through our focus on Kids and Celebrations, Woolworths strives to be the natural partner of choice for leading Childrens brands from around the world.
By developing bespoke strategies with licensors, Woolworths has created exclusive branded promotions and products which offer a clear point of difference to customers.
Before products can reach our stores, they must be sourced, Supply Chain purchased, transported and stored.
As a general merchandise retailer, this is a complex business involving buying and logistics teams located at Head Office and at Woolworths Group Asia Limited, our Hong Kong based buying facility.
Separate buying teams are in place for each product category and include category planners, buyers, merchandisers, marketeers and supply chain specialists.
Our strategy is to reduce costs by buying directly from suppliers or from low cost manufacturers in Asia, Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
In addition, this means that new product innovation can be delivered more quickly through closer cooperation with manufacturers.
Woolworths distribution network principally consists of three core distribution centres through which merchandise is distributed to the individual stores.
Castleton Warehouse Bedford Warehouse Swindon Warehouse Directors Report Business Review Our Resources Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing Through Entertainment UK, Total Home Entertainment and Broad Market Reach Bertram Group, we have leading positions in UK Entertainment TOTAL HOME ENTERTAINMENT and Books wholesale distribution.
THE As intermediaries between suppliers and retailers we aggregate entertainment hardware, software and books from the worlds leading publishers and manufacturers into a single store shipment for our customers.
We add value through managing the retailers inventory Value Added Services and, using our detailed know-how and market research, assist our customers in determining the best range of product required.
We then source this product, receive stock at our distribution sites, pick and aggregate orders and packages for individual customers.
We offer sale or exchange rights to customers, marketing or promotional management, store fixtures and point of sale design, in-store merchandising and dedicated call centres dealing with customer queries.
We also provide technical support and fulfilment to online retailers and digital distribution solutions to support their multichannel strategies.
We value our long-standing and trusted relationships with Customer and Supplier Relationships the music, film, books and games publishing communities.
We make it our business to understand their market, products and priorities and strive to bring vision and innovation to the retail supply chain.
All of our customers are important to us and we are structuring EUK, THE and Bertram to meet the varied needs of independent stores, major entertainment and bookselling chains along with the supermarket sector.
We are proud to include Sainsburys, Virgin, Tesco and Waterstones amongst our customers.
Directors Report Business Review Our Resources Entertainment Wholesale and Publishing 2entertain is a music and video publishing joint venture BBC Worldwides Partner of Choice between Woolworths Group and BBC Worldwide Limited, the consumer commercial arm of the BBC.
The Group 2 Entertain | holds a 40 per cent share in the venture.
2entertain Video, is the UKs largest independent video publisher distributor, a dynamic player in the UK market championing British programmes and talent both at home and internationally.
The video division has a key licensing agreement with BBC Worldwide.
In addition, the business enjoys many existing relationships with other key major talent and content providers in the entertainment industry.
2entertain specialises in acquiring DVD publishing rights Expertise in Packaged Media to core BBC productions along with those of the leading independent production houses.
Through Demon Music Group, and Banana Split Productions, the venture also has leading positions in recorded music and video production respectively.
With extensive experience in packaged media, and as the UKs largest independent video publisher distributor, 2entertain brings industry leading expertise to the process of producing, selling, marketing and merchandising some of the UKs best loved programming to retail.
