Directors Report Business Review Other Information Principal Activities The Group trades principally as a UK-based General Merchandise retailer and Entertainment wholesaler and publisher.
Review of Activities A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chief Executives Report on pages 8 to 13.
Results and Dividends The profit from continuing operations of the Group before taxation amounted to 16.0 million 2006: profit of 61.5 million and the profit from continuing operations after taxation amounted to 13.6 million 2006: profit of 41.3 million.
During the year the Company paid the prior year final dividend of 1.34 pence per share.
The interim dividend for the current year of 0.43 pence per ordinary share was paid on 12 December 2006, making a total paid for the year of 1.77 pence per ordinary share.
This has absorbed 25.6 million of shareholders funds.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the current year of 1.34 pence per share.
This will be paid on 21 June 2007, to shareholders on the register at close of business on 10 April 2007 subject to shareholder approval.
Hence, it is not recognised in these financial statements.
The Company provides a Dividend Reinvestment Plan enabling shareholders to apply their cash dividends to purchase additional ordinary shares in the market at competitive dealing rates.
Full details can be obtained from the Registrar.
If you have previously completed a mandate form to join the Plan you need take no further action.
Directors The Directors of the Company are shown on page 20.
The following have been Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 3 February 2007: Andrew Beeson, Trevor Bish-Jones, Gerald Corbett, Stephen East, Fru Hazlitt, Roger Jones, Prue Leith OBE, Steve Lewis, Richard North, Tony Page, David Simons CBE and Lloyd Wigglesworth.
Directors Interests The Directors interests in shares of the Company are shown within the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 35.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
No Director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his her service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Re-election of Directors The Articles of Association require one-third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation to retire and submit themselves for re-election each year.
Trevor Bish-Jones and Steve Lewis will retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
The Articles of Association also require any Directors appointed by the Board to retire at the next Annual General Meeting.
Any such Director may, if willing to act, be re-elected.
Accordingly, Andrew Beeson, Roger Jones, Richard North and Tony Page hold office until the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Details of Directors submitting themselves for re-election are shown on page 20.
Directors Remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors needed to run the Group successfully.
The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages 27 to 35.
Annual General Meeting Details of the Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting are set out in a separate circular that has been sent to all shareholders with the Annual Report and Accounts.
Employee Involvement The Board seeks to instill high standards of customer care and service in each subsidiary company and the commitment of every employee to this business requirement is considered to be critical.
Accordingly, the Corporate Centre has established a communication framework for employees concerning Group-wide business performance, community involvement, company benefits, people and innovation.
Each subsidiary company has, in addition, its own communication strategies concerning their brands, company performance and people issues.
Training and links with the educational sector reinforce the Groups commitment to employee involvement and development.
The Woolworths Group Leadership Programme WGLP is the development framework for managers at all levels of seniority who have the potential to be our future leaders.
A brochure describing the programme and a micro site specifically for graduates have been produced.
Employees are represented on the Trustee Board of the Groups pension schemes.
Over 4,000 colleagues in the Group participate in the Woolworths Group ShareSave Scheme.
Equal Opportunities The Group is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to ensuring that no applicant or employee receives less favourable treatment on the grounds of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, HIV status, disability, sexuality, or unrelated criminal convictions and without arbitrary restrictions in respect of age, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
The Group applies employment policies which are fair and equitable and which ensure entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria, personal ability and competency.
The Group gives full and fair consideration to the possibility of employing disabled persons wherever suitable opportunities exist.
Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Other Information 25 Directors Report Business Review Other Information Supplier Payment Policy The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to negotiate its terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transactions, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any universal code or standard on payment practice but subsidiary companies are expected to establish payment terms consistent with local procedures, custom and practice.
Woolworths Group plc, the parent company, has no trade creditors.
It is therefore not appropriate to provide creditor day statistics for the Company.
However the number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group at the year-end was 45 2006: 47.
Political Contributions During the year the Company made no political contributions 2006: nil.
Charitable Donations During the year the Group has contributed 119,000 2006: 151,000 to communities in the UK.
Major Shareholders As at 27 March 2007, the Company had been notified of the following interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys shares.
Number of ordinary shares Voting interest Unity Investments ehf 146,000,000 10.01% Resolution Asset Management Limited 98,870,257 6.78% AXA S. A.
71,333,490 4.89% Cantor Fitzgerald Europe 56,550,604 3.88% Legal & General Investment Management Limited 51,534,518 3.53% ABN AMRO Bank NV 48,966,000 3.36% Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 14 June 2006, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 18,211,702.52 nominal value of its ordinary shares in the market.
This authority, which has not been used, expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2007 and a resolution will be put to that meeting to provide a similar authority for a further year.
Disclosure of Information to the Auditors Each of the Directors has confirmed that, so far as he or she is aware, as at 27 March 2007, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware and that the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and will be put to the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Jonathan Bloom Company Secretary 27 March 2007 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Business Review Other Information 26
