How were rewarded Compensation Committee report Key elements of shortand long-term remuneration Objective Participation Performance Conditions Change of Control period Short term 1 Base salary To maintain package All employees.
n a Salary levels are n a competitiveness determined by taking at all levels within the Group.
a number of relevant factors into account, including individual and business unit performance, level of experience, scope of responsibility and the competitiveness of total remuneration.
Cash bonus To incentivise delivery of value Approximately 10% 1 year Achievement of Not applicable in relation to the cash bonuses of executive at all levels within the Group.
of employees are challenging performance directors.
eligible to receive a goals financial and nonperformance bonus.
financial at the individual and business unit level.
Performance To incentivise delivery of value Key operating 1 year Achievement of See note for Restricted Stock Plan.
share and to align with interests of company executives.
challenging performance 2 awards share owners.
goals financial and nonfinancial at operating company level.
Executive To incentivise delivery of value Key parent company 1 year Achievement of challenging See note for Restricted Stock Plan.
share and to align with interests of executives and individual annual bonus 2 awards share owners.
Long term Worldwide To develop a stronger Employees with n a 3-year vesting period Options may be exercised within one month or a longer Ownership ownership culture.
at least two years period if the Compensation Committee permits of the 3 Plan employment.
Not Compensation Committees noti cation of the change offered to those of control.
participating in other The number of shares or ADRs is pro-rated down share programs or to in accordance with the change of control date.
The Compensation Committee may determine that outstanding awards are unaffected by the change of control.
Renewed To incentivise long-term Participation offered 5 years Relative TSR performance On a change of control, the Investment Period for all LEAP performance by comparing only to those key against a group of outstanding awards ends, the number of vesting shares 4 WPPs TSR against the TSR executives currently no key communication are determined at that date and any other rights cease.
of key comparators and to more than 20 people services comparator The number of shares that vest may be reduced to maximise alignment with whose contributions companies, subject prevent adverse US tax provisions applying.
share owner interests through transcend their dayto a fairness review The Compensation Committee may determine that a high level of personal to-day role, including by the Compensation outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent awards.
Restricted To encourage a share Directors and senior n a Typically 3-year retention The vesting period for all outstanding awards is deemed Stock Plan ownership culture and longexecutives of the period.
term retention as well as operating companies The Compensation Committee may determine that supporting recruitment.
and senior executives outstanding awards are exchanged for equivalent awards of the parent company.
or that outstanding awards are unaffected by the change of control.
Executive To provide a tool to promote Occasional use only 3 years Conditions are Options may be exercised within one month or a longer Stock retention and recruitment.
to deal with special determined at the time period if the Compensation Committee permits of the Option Plan situations.
Compensation Committees noti cation of the change of control.
The number of shares or ADRs is pro-rated down in accordance with the change of control date.
Notes 1 Base salary is the only pensionable element of remuneration.
2 Awards are granted under the Restricted Stock Plan.
3 Since its first adoption in 1997, grants have been made annually under the Worldwide Ownership Plan WWOP and as at 31 December 2007 options under this plan had been granted to approximately 64,000 employees for over 30 million ordinary shares of the Company.
4 Total Shareholder Return TSR is the return on investment that share owners receive over time and takes into account the share price appreciation depreciation and dividends received.
132 How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007
