Operating & financial review Review of operations for debt repayment, acquisitions, share buybacks and In 2006 the Group implemented a funding strategy dividends was therefore 698 million.
This free cash ow under which our objective is to fully eliminate the fide cit for was absorbed by 675 million in net acquisition payments funded schemes by 31 December 2010.
Employer contributions and investments, share repurchases and cancellations of in 2007 were 47.0 million 2006: 48.6 million and are 415 million and dividends of 139 million.
This resulted expected to be 39.4 million in 2008. in a net out ow of 531 million.
Your Board continues to examine ways of deploying Fu Fut tu ur re e p pr ro os sp pe ec ct ts s its EBITDA and substantial cash ow to enhance share owner value.
In 2007 headline EBITDA was almost 1.1 billion Including associates, the Group had over 110,000 full-time over $2 billion and free cash ow was 698 million almost people in over 2,000 of ces in 106 countries at 31 December $1.4 billion.
As necessary capital expenditure, spent mainly 2007.
It services over 340 of the Fortune Global 500 on information technology and property, is expected to companies, over one-half of the NASDAQ 100 and over remain approximately equal to the depreciation charge in 30 of the Fortune e-50.
Over 600 clients are served in three the long-term, the Company has concentrated on examining distinct disciplines.
More than 370 clients are served in potential acquisitions and on returning excess capital to share four disciplines and these clients account for 58% of Group owners in the form of dividends and or share buy-backs.
The Group also works with over 270 clients in Consistent with the objective, announced in 2006, of six or more countries.
increasing the share buy-back program to 4-5% of the These statistics re ect the increasing opportunities for Groups share capital in 2007 and 2008, 59.19 million ordinary developing client relationships between activities nationally, shares, equivalent to 4.7% of the share capital, were internationally and by function.
The Group estimates that over purchased at an average price of 7.03 per share and total 35% of new assignments in the year were generated through cost of 415.4 million.
Of these shares, 57.19 million were the joint development of opportunities by two or more Group purchased in the market and subsequently cancelled.
New integration mechanisms, sensitive to global annual rolling share repurchases are believed to have a more and local opportunities, including WPP Global Client Leaders signi cant impact in improving share owner value than and Country Managers, continue to be developed.
an increasing number of major client creative and integration As noted above, your Board has also decided to increase opportunities at a Group level.
2007 saw, for instance, the the final dividend by 20% to 9.13p per share, taking the full development of a new agency, in successful competition against year dividend to 13.45p per share.
all our major competitors, speci cally to address the objectives As at 31 December 2007, net assets of 4,095 million of one high technology client.
Despite the recent financial crisis, the world economy continued to grow in 2007, after the recovery in both 2003 P Pe ensions nsions funding funding and 2004, driven by the US, Asia Paci c, Latin America, the Middle East, Russia and the other CIS countries.
As a result, T he Groups pension fide cit was 133.6 million as at your Company has performed again at record levels.
In 31 December 2007, compared to 186.6 million as at addition, Africa also showed signi cant signs of growth, no 31 December 2006.
The pension fide cit decrease is primarily doubt stimulated by Chinese interest and investment and is due to increases in the discount rate in the US, UK and increasingly becoming a continent of opportunity.
World Cup in South Africa in 2010 will have a signi cant Most of the Groups pension scheme assets are held by impact in focusing further attention on the African continent.
its schemes in the UK and North America.
In the UK, the Whilst like-for-like revenues have grown beyond market forecasted weighted average return on assets increased from expectations, like-for-like average headcount has grown less.
5.6% as at 31 December 2006 to 5.8% as at 31 December Following this productivity improvement, the Groups 2007, and in North America, the forecasted weighted average operating margin at post-incentive levels has improved.
return decreased from 6.8% to 6.7%, broadly in line with the In addition, given improved levels of operating pro t and yields available in both markets.
margin, incentive pools and variable staff costs are now Contributions to funded schemes are determined in line at around the highest levels.
This will improve operational with local conditions and practices.
Certain contributions gearing and exibility in 2008 and beyond.
in respect of unfunded schemes are paid as they fall due.
149 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Operating & financial review Operating & financial review Review of operations As usual, the budgets for 2008 have been prepared on In the short term, growth in advertising and marketing a prudent basis, largely excluding new business, particularly services expenditure may remain in low to medium single in Advertising and Media Investment Management.
They digit territory, given the historically low in ationary predict improvements in like-for-like revenues at even higher environment and the fear of in ation growing, concentrating levels than at this time in 2007 which were around 4.0% distribution and consequent lack of pricing power.
In this to 4.5%, with balanced growth in the first and second half climate, procurement pressure continues but less so in new of the year.
They also indicate marketing services revenues media and the signi cant proportion of fee remuneration growing faster than Advertising and Media Investment dampens revenue growth on cyclical upturns and moderates Management.
In the first quarter of 2008 like-for-like on downturns.
However, there continues to be signi cant revenues were up 4.8%.
On the basis of these data, opportunities in the area of outsourcing clients marketing 2008 should be at least as good as 2007. activities, consolidating clients budgets and capitalising on Despite the severe financial crisis, the real economy competitive weaknesses.
continues to grow and our clients continue to expand, In addition, spending amongst the packaged goods, particularly in the BRICs and the Next 11 markets, pharmaceutical, oil and energy, government the government addressing the twin opportunities of geographical expansion continues to be one of the largest advertisers in the UK and technological change.
market and price-value retail sectors, which remained However, it seems inevitable that the real world will relatively resilient in the recession of 2001 and 2002, have at some point in time be affected by the private equity, been buttressed by increased activity in previously recessionsub-prime, insurance monoline, and housing market crises, affected sectors like technology, financial services, media that we have seen.
This may result in a reduction of and entertainment and telecommunications.
marketing budgets and revenues, and or impair the collection In the long term, the outlook appears very favourable.
of amounts owing from some clients.
In our view, this seems Overcapacity of production in most sectors and the shortage more likely to be in 2009, when a slow-down not a recession of human capital, the developments in new technologies and in the US will be hard to avoid.
The decoupling theories media, the growth in importance of internal communications, will also be challenged, as China may pause a little, after the the need to in uence distribution, and the new focus on stimulation of the Beijing Olympics, and the world continues corporate responsibility issues such as climate change, to catch cold when America sneezes if not in uenza, as it underpin the need for our clients to continue to differentiate used to be.
their products and services both tangibly and intangibly.
2010 may be a different story, however, with the Moreover, the continuing growth of the BRICs Brazil, FIFA World Cup in South Africa, the Winter Olympics Russia, India and China, Next 11 and other faster-growing in Vancouver and the mid-term Congressional elections geographical markets, will add signi cant opportunities in in the US, stimulating economic activity.
Asia Paci c, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East and Concerns remain over the Middle East, oil and commodity Central and Eastern Europe.
Advertising and marketing prices, the twin fide cits of the US economy and in ation in services expenditure as a proportion of gross national product general.
Despite signi cant increases in prices of raw material should resume its growth and burst through the cyclical high inputs, clients, particularly FMCG or packaged goods established in 2000. companies, have been able to pass on cost increases Given these short term and long term trends, your so far in the form of price increases, as in ation quickens.
Company has three strategic priorities.
In the short term, Worldwide advertising and marketing services spending is to continue to capitalise on the 2004 to 2007 up-turn and set to rise by at least 4% in 2008, with your company well deal with any slow-downs: in the medium term, to continue positioned to take market share.
Although growth in the to successfully integrate acquired companies: and nally, world economy continues to be led by Asia Paci c, Latin in the long term, to continue to develop its businesses America, Africa and the Middle East, Eastern and Central in the faster-growing geographical areas of Asia Paci c, Europe, even Western Continental Europe may show some Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, and Central and improvement.
Eastern Europe and in the faster-growing functional areas of 2008 should also bene t from the build-up to the US marketing services, particularly direct, internet, interactive presidential elections and the Beijing Olympics, which, as and market research.
a maxi-quadrennial year, should be a good one, buoyed by heavy US political advertising as the multiple candidates slug it out and by the European Football Championships.
150 Operating & financial review WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Operating & financial review Review of operations Incentive plans for 2008 will again focus more on Forward looking statements operating pro t growth than historically, in order to stimulate top-line growth, particularly in information, insight and In connection with the provisions of the Private Securities consultancy, although objectives will continue to include Litigation Reform Act of 1995 the Reform Act, the operating margin improvement, improvement in staff costs Company may include forward-looking statements as fide ned to revenue ratios and qualitative Group objectives, including in the Reform Act in oral or written public statements issued co-ordination, talent management and succession planning.
by or on behalf of the Company.
These forward-looking statements may include, among other things, plans, objectives, Paul Richardson projections and anticipated future economic performance Group finance director based on assumptions and the like that are subject to risks and uncertainties.
As such, actual results or outcomes may differ materially from those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Important factors which may cause actual results to differ include but are not limited to: the unanticipated loss of a material client or key personnel, delays or reductions in client advertising budgets, shifts in industry rates of compensation, government compliance costs or litigation, natural disasters or acts of terrorism, the Companys exposure to changes in the values of other major currencies because a substantial portion of its revenues are derived and costs incurred outside of the UK and the overall level of economic activity in the Companys major markets which varies depending on, among other things, regional, national and international political and economic conditions and government regulations in the worlds advertising markets.
In light of these and other uncertainties, the forward-looking statements included in this document should not be regarded as a representation by the Company that the Companys plans and objectives will be achieved.
The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any such forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Information in this section should be read in conjunction with and as part of the management report set out in the section headed Directors report on pages 111 to 127.
151 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Operating & financial review
