How were rewarded Compensation Committee report E Elle em me en nt ts s of r of re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n The table below shows how the objectives for the Group chief executive are aligned with the overall objectives of WPP, The principal elements of WPP executive remuneration as outlined on pages 22 to 25. currently comprise the following: base salaries xed : Performance measure Relevance Performance in 2007 to WPP annual cash incentives variable : and objective share plans variable.
1 3 Group financial results: Objectives Margin improvement in line Pension contributions, life assurance, health and disability, Absolute financial 1, 2 & 5 with target headline PBIT performance.
margin up 0.5% and and other bene ts are also provided.
operating pro t growth above target Reported operating pro t up 8.5%.
Base salary The Compensation Committee believes that base salary is 1 3 Strategic objectives: relative Objectives Strong relative performance financial performance of WPP in both TSR and margin only one element of compensation and therefore should only 1, 2, 3 & 5 against its peer group.
be reviewed in the context of the total compensation being 1 3 Key business objectives Objectives Continued leadership in key provided to an executive.
growth markets e. g. BRIC, amongst others : 4, 5 & 6 practice areas e. g. media Development of the As noted in last years Report and Accounts Sir Martin investment management, Group in fast-growing technologies e. g. digital Sorrells base salary was increased from 840,000 to geographies and practice media and client service areas, attracting and 1,000,000 on 1 January 2007.
This is the first increase initiatives e. g. superretaining talent and agency global solutions : to Sir Martins base salary since September 1999. enhancing creative reputation.
strong talent management: growing creative acclaim.
With effect from 1 July 2007 Paul Richardsons base salary was increased from 450,000 to 500,000.
Paul Richardsons As a percentage of base salary, the target, maximum and base salary was last increased in May 2003. actual bonuses for 2007 paid to executive directors were as follows: Annual cash incentives Target Maximum Actual The annual cash bonus is paid under plans established for Sir Martin Sorrell 100 200 165 each operating company as well as the parent company.
Paul Richardson 80 120 96 Challenging performance goals are established and these Mark Read 50 75 70 must be achieved before any bonus becomes payable.
Each executives annual incentive opportunity is fide ned at In some countries an opportunity exists to defer part of the a target level for the full achievement of objectives.
Awards annual bonus for four years in the form of WPP shares.
At the in excess of the target level may be paid up to a prescribed end of the deferral period a 25% match is applied to the maximum for superior performance.
original shares, subject to continuous employment.
In the case of the Group chief executive and other parent company directors, the annual cash bonus is based on Group Share plans and individual performance: one-third is based on Group financial results: Following the policy review in 2005, the committee continues one-third is based on individual strategic objectives to believe that share plans approved by share owners later determined prospectively by the committee at the that year remain appropriate in terms of grant levels, commencement of each year: and performance criteria and vesting schedules.
None of WPPs one-third is based on the achievement by the individual share awards are pensionable and, other than the stock option director of key business objectives assessed by the committee awards, all will be satis ed out of one of the Companys at the end of each year.
ESOPs or WPP shares held in treasury.
Where appropriate, performance objectives relating to environmental, social and governance issues are measured Renewed Leadership Equity Acquisition Plan in the second and third sections above.
Renewed LEAP 2007 was the fourth year of operation for Renewed LEAP and awards were once again granted to the Groups key executives.
133 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 How were rewarded How were rewarded Compensation Committee report Under Renewed LEAP, which was approved by share TSR results indicated a vesting level of 3.27 matching shares owners in 2004, participants have to commit to acquire and re ecting a ranking between third and fourth place against the retain WPP shares investment shares in order to have the peer group of 13 companies.
The committee then undertook opportunity to earn additional WPP shares matching shares.
its fairness review, the purpose of which was to ensure that The number of matching shares that a participant can receive the TSR ranking accurately re ected the true underlying at the end of the investment and performance period depends performance of the Company and took into account any on the Companys TSR performance measured over five years exceptional circumstances deemed relevant by the committee.
four years in the case of awards made in 2004.
The committee compared WPPs financial performance to Because relative TSR may not always re ect the true that of the peer group.
It was noted that over the investment performance of the Company, the Compensation Committee is and performance period, WPP ranked first on margin required to perform a fairness review on the basis of which it improvement, and between third and fifth on other key may, in exceptional circumstances, decide to vary the number measures such as growth in EBITDA, EBITA, EPS and of matching shares that will vest.
The committee was therefore comfortable that considers in its fairness review of any awards include, amongst the TSR ranking was consistent with WPPs relative others, various measures of the Groups financial performance competitive performance over the period.
such as growth in revenues and in earnings per share and any However, the committee noted two exceptional evidence of distortions in the share price of either WPP or the circumstances that materially affected the TSR performance peer group such as bid price premia.
of WPP relative to that of its peers.
For awards made in respect of LEAP programs First, based on the advice of WPPs broker, the committee commencing in 2005, 2006 and 2007 the vesting schedule concluded that the ending share prices of two of WPPs is as follows: comparator companies Aegis and Ipsos contained an element of bid premium.
The committee concluded that Rank compared to peer group Number of matching shares including these premia did not re ect the underlying 1 5 performance of these companies and therefore adjusted the 2 5 TSR data accordingly.
Removing the bid premia had no effect 3 4.5 on WPPs ranking, but increased the vesting percentage by 4 3.5 moving its TSR closer to that of the company ranked above it.
5 2.5 Second, it was also noted that there had been relatively Median 1.5 large currency swings over the performance period that Below median 0 dampened the TSR performance of comparator stocks denominated in US dollars or Japanese yen.
The committee Notes For actual performance between these positions the match is calculated on a pro determined that this currency factor, which was outside rata basis.
management control, had materially affected WPPs relative TSR ranking and vesting percentage.
The comparator companies for the awards made in 2007 The fairness review took both of these factors into were: Aegis, Arbitron, Dentsu, Gfk, Havas, Interpublic, Ipsos, account, each of which had a different impact on the results.
Omnicom, Publicis and Taylor Nelson Sofres.
The committees judgement was to make an overall net reduction of 0.67 in the number of matching shares vesting Vesting of the 2004-2007 LEAP Award from 3.27 to 2.60.
This implies a ranking between fourth and fifth place against the peer group of 13 companies: the For awards made in respect of the LEAP program committee felt this was a fair re ection of WPPs true relative commencing in 2004 the vesting schedule was as follows: underlying performance over the period in question.
As a Rank compared to peer group Number of matching shares result the number of ordinary matching shares that actually 1 4 vested including additional shares from reinvested dividends 2 4 along with the number at median and maximum, are shown 3 3.6 in the following table.
4 2.8 Median Maximum Actual 5 2 Sir Martin Sorrell 1,238,899 4,129,664 2,823,786 6 1.6 Paul Richardson 37,168 123,892 84,715 Median 1.2 Notes Below median 0 Sir Martin deferred receipt of the shares until November 2011.
Not including additional shares from reinvested dividends.
Notes For actual performance between these positions the match is calculated on a pro rata basis.
134 How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007
