How were rewarded Compensation Committee report Re Remit mit o of f the the Compe Compen ns sa ation tion Commit Committ te ee e The committee receives advice on the following: analysis of competitive compensation practices and Under its terms of reference which are reviewed regularly determination of competitive positioning: the committee is responsible for: base salary levels: reviewing and approving the remuneration and terms annual and long-term incentive plans and awards including of employment including any termination arrangements awards made under Renewed LEAP: of executive directors and senior executives of the Company the policy for employees relating to WPP share ownership: and of directors and senior executives of the operating pensions and executive bene ts: companies: changes in accounting, taxation, legal and regulatory practices: reviewing the Groups incentive policies and compensation governance issues relating to compensation and the role of plans: the committee: and monitoring the vesting of awards under all incentive plans: policies for preventing and addressing employee harassment reviewing systems implemented throughout the Group and discrimination.
to deal with matters such as employee harassment and discrimination: and Pr Priin nc ciip plle es s of r of re em mu un ne er ra at tiio on n appointing and reviewing the performance of external advisors to the committee and to the Company in relation All executive compensation at WPP is governed by three to executive remuneration and human resource activities.
guiding principles: The terms of reference for the Compensation Committee competitiveness: are available on the Companys website and will be on performance: and display as set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
alignment to share owner interests.
Compos Composition ition o of f the the Compe Compen ns sa ation tion Commit Committ te ee e Competitiveness During 2007, the Compensation Committee comprised the Compensation packages for Group executives are reviewed on following: a regular basis on average every 24 months.
When reviewing Jeffrey Rosen chairman of the committee : an executives package the committee usually consults with Esther Dyson: the Group chief executive and the Group chief talent of cer.
Philip Lader: and In making its assessments, the committee considers Christopher Mackenzie, retired on 26 June 2007. individual and business unit performance, level of experience No member of the committee has any personal financial and scope of responsibility.
It also takes into account the interest other than as a share owner as disclosed on page overall package, including both xed and variable elements, 137 in the matters to be decided by the committee, potential and considers both the on target and maximum levels of con icts of interest arising from cross-directorships or dayremuneration.
The competitiveness of this total package is to-day involvement in running the Groups businesses.
then reviewed in relation to the most appropriate benchmarks.
For example, for the Group chief executive three separate Advisor Advisors s t to o the the Compe Compen ns sa ation tion Commit Committ te ee e benchmarks for remuneration opportunities are used: the most senior executive position in the Companys closest The Compensation Committee regularly consults with industry comparators: Group executives, particularly the Group chief executive the CEO position in companies of comparable size and who was not present when matters relating to his own complexity in the UK: and compensation or contracts were discussed and decided, the CEO position in public companies of comparable size the chief talent of cer and the director of compensation and and complexity in the US.
During the year, the committee received material A similar approach is taken for the other senior executives, assistance from Towers Perrin.
Advice was also received from including executive directors.
The Compensation Committee Hammonds solicitors on legal, tax and governance issues considers data from the latest industry surveys covering the relating to compensation and bene ts.
Hammonds provide senior positions in WPPs operating companies.
WPP legal advice on a range of matters to the Group.
participates in the leading global surveys of executive remuneration in the advertising, market research, healthcare, interactive, direct marketing, public relations and public affairs sectors.
In addition, for heads of operating companies the committee considers public disclosures for similar positions in listed companies of comparable size and complexity in the relevant sector.
130 How were rewarded WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007
