Operating & financial review Sector performance 1 Adv Adve er rt tising ising a an nd d Me Media dia In Inv five estme stment nt Ma Manage nagement ment Constant currency revenue by growth % Advertising and Media 07 5.1 In constant currencies, Advertising and Media Investment Investment Management 06 8.5 Management revenue grew by over 5%.
Like-for-like revenue Information, 07 4.5 growth was 4.5%.
On a constant currency basis, the Insight & Consultancy 06 11.2 combined operating margin of this sector is now 16.0%.
Public Relations 07 12.6 In 2007, Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, JWT, Y&R & Public Affairs 06 12.4 Advertising, Grey and United Group generated estimated Branding & Identity, Healthcare 07 14.1 net new billings of 723 million $1.4 billion.
and Specialist Communications 06 14.6 Also in 2007, GroupM, the Groups Media Investment 2 Management company, which includes MindShare, Headline PBIT margins by sector % Mediaedge:cia, MediaCom and MAXUS, generated Advertising and Media 07 16.3 Investment Management 06 15.8 estimated net new billings of 3.686 billion $7.188 billion.
Information, 07 11.5 Insight & Consultancy 06 11.1 I In nfo for rm ma at tiio on n, I In ns siig gh ht & C t & Co on ns su ullt ta an nc cy y Public Relations 07 16.6 & Public Affairs 06 15.0 On a constant currency basis Information, Insight & Consultancy revenues grew over 4%, with like-for-like Branding & Identity, Healthcare 07 14.2 and Specialist Communications 06 14.1 revenues up almost 3%.
Gross margin grew by 4.0% on a like-for-like basis.
Overall margins improved by 0.3 margin Revenue by sector m points to 11.3%.
Strong performances were recorded by Millward Brown Advertising and Media 6,000 MaPS in the US, Canada, Millward Brown and Dynamic Investment Management 5,000 Logic in the UK, Hungary, Italy, Centrum in the Netherlands, Information, Poland, Spain, Turkey, Impact in South Africa, Australia 4,000 Insight & Consultancy ACSR in China, the Philippines, Singapore, Colombia, Brazil 3,000 Public Relations and Mexico : BMRB International in the UK: Mediafax: & Public Affairs 2,000 Research International in the UK, Italy, SIFO in Norway, Branding & Identity, Healthcare South Africa, Mexico, New Zealand, Hong Kong, Malaysia, 1,000 and Specialist Communications Singapore and Thailand : Ziment in the US and All Global 0 in the UK: IMRB in India: Lightspeed Research in the UK: 03 04 05 06 07 Mattson Jack in the US, Icon Added Value in Germany, Spain, Japan: RMS Instore in the UK.
Notes 1 See fide nition on page 190.
2 The calculation of Headline PBIT is set out in note 31 of the financial statements.
143 WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Operating & financial review Operating & financial review Sector performance Germany, the Netherlands, Italy, Switzerland, the Czech P Pu ublic blic Rela Relations tions & & P Public ublic A Af ffair fairs s Republic: AquaOnline in South Africa, Argentina, Brazil, Public Relations & Public Affairs continued its strong growth Mexico, Singapore, Thailand: RMG Connect in the US, with constant currency growth of over 12% and like-for-like Canada, Mexico, Hong Kong, India, Japan and Singapore: growth of over 8%.
Particularly strong were Hill & Knowlton, G2 in direct and digital and interactive marketing in the US: Burson-Marsteller, Ogilvy Public Relations Worldwide, Joshua in the UK, Germany, Russia, Colombia, Chile, Finsbury and Clarion in the UK and Public Strategies in the US.
China, Hong Kong, Japan, Korea and Taiwan.
Operating margins continued to improve and are now in Specialist Communications Bridge, VML and over 16.5% on a constant currency basis, an improvement The Geppetto Group in the US: Metro Group, The Farm, of 1.5 margin points over the previous year.
Spafax and Headcount in the UK.
Bran Brand diin ng g & & I Id den ent tiit ty y, H He eal alt th hc ca are re an and d Ma Manufact nufactur uring ing Special Specialiist st C Co omm mmun unica icat tiio ons ns Revenues and pro ts at Wire & Plastic Products, the original The Groups Branding & Identity, Healthcare and Specialist manufacturing company on which WPP was founded and Communications revenues rose by over 14%.
Like-for-like which now accounts for less than 1% of the Groups revenue, revenues rose by over 6%.
Operating margins were down were at.
The Groups direct, internet and interactive businesses showed particularly strong revenue growth.
Several companies performed particularly well: in Branding & Identity Landor Associates in New York and Chicago in the US, the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Dubai, Hong Kong and Australia: The Brand Union formerly Enterprise IG in the US, France, Germany, Ireland, Spain, South Africa, China, Hong Kong, Japan, Singapore and Ray & Keshavan in India: Addison and The Partners in the UK: FITCH in the UK, Peclers in France, Norway and Dubai.
in Healthcare Communications Sudler & Hennessey in the UK, France, Germany, Italy, Sydney in Australia, China and India: Grey Healthcare Group in Catalyst online, Innovative Customer Solutions, BrandEdge and Insight Medical Communications in the US: WG Consulting and Grey Healthcare in the UK, Australia and Japan: Ogilvy Healthworld in the US, Canada, the UK, France, the Netherlands, Spain, Switzerland and Turkey.
in promotion and direct marketing OgilvyOne Global Strategies, Eicoff, The Lacek Group, Leopard, San Francisco and Neo@Ogilvy in the US: Neo@Ogilvy in Canada: Neo@Ogilvy and OgilvyOne in the UK, Ireland, Denmark, France, Portugal, Italy, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Poland, Russia, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore : 141 Worldwide: Wunderman in San Francisco, Seattle: RTC, KBM, Fortelligent, Studiocom and ZAAZ in the US and Canada: Burrows, GT and iMpact in the UK, Belgium, Denmark, 144 Operating & financial review WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2007
