OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Segmental performance Highways and Transportation PERFORMANCE IN 2007 contract to provide transport consultancy and highways Our Highways and Transportation segment had a good year management services for Cambridgeshire County Council.
with growth in all parts of the business, despite a slow start.
We have been granted a seven-month extension to our Operating profit increased by 2.2m 20% as margins grew Northamptonshire contract to March 2008. to 5.3% 2006: 5.1% due to the strong demand for our Whilst capital funding remains relatively strong there is higher margin design activities.
The business continues to continuing downward pressure on revenue budgets for local offer a broad range of services in highways management, authorities.
This is leading to longer term, more complex transport planning and design.
Over 90% of revenue service contracts where quality and certainty of service comes from public sector clients, both central government outcome are as important as price.
Our technical expertise and agencies.
in these areas was an important factor in securing our Gloucestershire and Cambridgeshire contract awards.
Our transport design business, which delivers all aspects For the second year running weve of design of highway infrastructure and transport technology, received a top award for our safety performed well.
The results in the year benefited from the management systems Hackney M11 Link Road and Transport Direct Portal projects together with Dubai Metro where a substantial and technically The highways services business, which represents around complex contribution was made to the design of the viaducts 65% of this segment, is engaged in operating, maintaining by our UK teams.
Delivery of this project required the input of and improving highways and motorways on behalf of the over 50 staff in Highways and Transportation and represents Highways Agency and local authorities.
This years results an excellent example of collaborative working across included the first year of our five-year Gloucestershire County segments and geographical regions.
Council contract, which commenced in April 2006, and the During the year we were awarded a new contract by first seven months of our up to ten-year 250m integrated the Highways Agency to provide design and maintenance KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2007 2006 CHANGE IN YEAR FINANCIAL METRICS REVENUE 250.5M 215.4 M 16% OPERATING PROFIT 13.2M 11.0 M 20% OPERATING MARGIN 5.3% 5.1% 0.2%PTS SHARE OF POST-TAX JV PROFITS 0.6M 0.7 M -0.1 M WORK IN HAND 77% 75% 2%PTS PEOPLE 1 HEADCOUNT AT 31 MARCH 3,095 2,891 7% 1 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT 3,067 2,834 8% 1.
Headcount is shown on a full-time equivalent basis, including agency staff.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE TWENTY OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED management services for the Highways Agency technology OUTLOOK systems in the north-west of England in partnership with The outlook for the Highways and Transportation segment Telent.
This 30m five-year contract commenced in December remains strong with good medium term prospects from 2006.
We were granted a two-year extension on a similar local authorities and the Highways Agency.
Our order book contract in the West Midlands.
increased to 77% of work for 2007 08 2006: 75%, as full Our transport planning business performed well with year revenue from Cambridgeshire County Council more than improved margins.
A highlight of the year was the completion compensates for the loss of the Highways Agency Area 10 of a research and evaluation study for the Department for contract that concludes in the second half of 2007 08.
Transport on the Local Transport Plan that considers options During the next 12 months we will be working on a number for future local transport planning policy beyond 2011. of important bids and rebids including for Northamptonshire There were also significant new contract awards from the County Council and several Highways Agency contracts.
Department for Transport, Slough Borough Council and There are good opportunities to increase the volume Transport for London.
of high-level advisory work we undertake, especially in Safety is a vitally important operational aspect of our the south-east of England through the period leading up Highways and Transportation segment.
We have improved our to the London Olympics in 2012.
We will also continue to investigations into root causes of incidents and accidents and be active in the area of advanced driver information and have commenced a regime of audits that focus on behaviours traffic control systems, which has shown strong growth and attitudes towards safety.
For the second year running over the past five years.
we have achieved a gold award from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA for our safety management systems.
WHAT WE DO BY TURNOVER APPROX % 65% 25% 10% Highways Services Transport Solutions Transport Planning CLIENT TYPE BY SECTOR BY TURNOVER APPROX % Local Authorities 55% Highways Agency 30% Other 10% Regional Bodies 5% WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE TWENTY-ONE
