OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Segmental performance Design and Engineering Solutions PERFORMANCE IN 2007 of their major aircraft development programmes.
We provide Design and Engineering Solutions had a good year with independent structural stress analysis and certification on growth in revenue of 52.9m 18% and an increase in the A380 wings, design and analysis services for the wings operating profit of 4.7m 20%.
Our core markets remain of the military A400M and we are incorporating the use of strong and the focus on strengthening relationships with key composite materials in the design of the developmental A350 clients has enabled us to increase operating margins.
We extra wide body aircraft.
have successfully added 695 staff during the year: 70% of Our architecture and design business in the UK works on this growth was organic, with the remaining staff joining the significant public and private sector projects both in the UK Group as a result of the two acquisitions made in the year.
as well as non-UK locations: examples include the design of During the year our nuclear business grew strongly and we a new 400-unit residential tower in Swansea: the Regatta now have over 440 employees working in this market, up from Jakarta, a major new design project in Indonesia: and concept 320 last year.
We provide a range of engineering services in proposals for a mixed-use development in central Islamabad, the design of new facilities and infrastructure, in extending which will boast Pakistans tallest building.
the operational life of existing nuclear facilities and in The Ministry of Defence MoD continues to change decommissioning.
Our clients include AWE where we continue the way that it procures large capital projects by using to grow our design house services under a three-year contract independent systems houses such as Atkins to manage its to 2008, and British Energy, with whom we have been working capital programmes.
Our success on the Future Rapid Effect under a three-year contract to 2008.
This year we have also set System FRES programme has continued and will provide up a Nuclear Training Academy supported by the University further work for our defence business.
The acquisition of of Surrey, focused on training suitably qualified engineers to Advantage in March 2007 brought through-life capability satisfy the industry requirements for working in the nuclear management expertise to the Group, complementing our sector.
Forty staff have graduated from the academy to date.
existing skills in defence systems engineering and enabling Our aerospace business performed well this year with increased access to the defence market.
significant growth from Airbus where we are supporting three Our oil and gas business has seen significant growth to KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2007 2006 % CHANGE IN YEAR FINANCIAL METRICS REVENUE 339.2M 286.3 M 18% 1 OPERATING PROFIT 28.1M 23.4 M 20% 1 OPERATING MARGIN 8.3% 8.2% 0.1%PTS WORK IN HAND 42% 44% -2%PTS PEOPLE 2 HEADCOUNT AT 31 MARCH 4,721 4,026 17% 2 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT 4,306 3,679 17% 1.
Headcount is shown on a full-time equivalent basis, including agency staff.
STAFF LOCATION APPROX % CLIENT TYPE BY SECTOR BY TURNOVER APPROX % United Kingdom 90% Regulated Sector 40% Europe excluding UK 5% Private Sector 30% Middle East 5% Public Sector 30% Staff excluding agency, calculated as full-time equivalents WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE EIGHTEEN OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED more than 260 staff: an increase of more than 100 compared challenge of accommodating population growth without with last year.
The integration of both MSL and Boreas, building on green belt or other open spaces.
which were acquired in March 2006 and December 2006 OUTLOOK respectively, has gone well and contributed to a 60% growth The outlook for Design and Engineering Solutions is positive in revenue.
These acquisitions brought complementary safety with good medium-term prospects in each of our targeted and reliability skills to the Group and help our clients extend sectors.
We have secured 42% of our budgeted revenue for the life of oil and gas fields by managing the integrity of 2007 08, slightly down from 44% last year.
Prospects for the their infrastructure.
year ahead are good and our diverse range of complementary Our work for UK water companies continues to grow technical skills that can be applied in several markets enables significantly.
During the year, our contract with United us to be confident in the future.
Utilities grew substantially, and we are working with them in We are increasingly hiring front-office engineering integrated work streams covering design and commissioning professionals in our offices in Bangalore India and Sharjah work as part of their five-year investment programme.
We UAE to service our clients.
The number of people working were also the only consultancy to be appointed to each one in Bangalore and Sharjah for Design and Engineering of the six four-year framework contracts awarded by Scottish Solutions is now over 200 and we expect this to increase Water and have won outsourcing contracts issued under significantly next year and beyond.
Southern Waters five-year master framework agreement.
Revenue from environment and planning services accounted for nearly 20% of the segments revenue this year.
Our involvement in the London Olympic Park regeneration project continues to grow and complements our wider regeneration activities in the Thames Gateway.
We are assisting with the creation of sustainable communities of mixed-use developments within the region, which faces the WHAT WE DO BY TURNOVER APPROX % 45% 20% 20% 15% Civil, Structural and Mechanical Engineering Consultancy Environmental and Planning Consultancy Project and Programme Management Building Design and Architectural Services MARKETS WE PERFORM IN BY TURNOVER APPROX % Utilities 25% Other 18% Environment & Planning 18% Nuclear 9% Oil & Gas 8% Defence 8% Education 8% Aerospace 6% WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE NINETEEN
