ATKINS BUSINESS SEGMENTS Atkins business segments Revenue breakdown Design and Engineering Solutions Design and Engineering Solutions 27% Highways and Transportation 20% Revenue 339m Rail 19% We deliver high value engineering and innovative design to Management and Project Services 15% a wide range of clients in the public, regulated and private Middle East and China 8% sectors.
Our areas of operation include water and environment, Equity Investments 7% nuclear and power, aerospace and defence, oil and gas and Asset Management 4% infrastructure design.
Overall we have the largest market share 1 in the UK engineering and design consultancy market.
Management and Project Services Middle East and China Revenue 194m Revenue 108m We provide management and IT consultancy and programme, In the Middle East, we provide design, engineering and project project and cost management services.
We are one of the management services for buildings, transportation and other 2 largest project managers and cost consultants worldwide infrastructure, through our seven offices in the Gulf and India.
and one of the 20 largest management consultants operating In China we provide planning, urban design, architectural and 3 in the UK.
engineering services to the mainland market and Hong Kong.
New Civil Engineer Consultants File, 2007.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FOUR ATKINS BUSINESS SEGMENTS CONTINUED Highways and Transportation Rail Revenue 251m Revenue 237m 1 We are the UKs largest provider of highways and We are the largest rail consultancy operating in the UK.
1 transportation consultancy and related services.
We provide services covering a wide range of engineering Our principal activities are transport planning, design disciplines, including signalling, civils, electrification and of new roads and road improvements, development specialist services in strategic planning, safety, systems of intelligent transport systems, management of road integration and asset management.
maintenance and integrated road network management.
Equity Investments Asset Management Revenue 84m Revenue 51m The Equity Investments segment comprised Lambert Smith We provide independent property asset management services, Hampton and our interest in PPP PFI Joint Ventures.
Our largest focusing on delivery of top quality facilities management Joint Venture is Metronet, the consortium responsible for services to selected public and private sector clients.
upgrading, maintaining and running two-thirds of the London Underground network.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FIVE OUR PEOPLE Camilla Osuji Structural Engineer Design and Engineering Solutions 1 year with Atkins Ludwig Tewksbury Senior Landscape Architect and Urban Designer Design and Engineering Solutions 2 years with Atkins Philip Rowbourne Director of Client Services Management Consultancy 18 years with Atkins WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE SIX
