BOARD OF DIRECTORS Board of directors 1 Ed Wallis, chairman and Safety Committee and chair of the National Platform High Level Ed Wallis 67 was appointed a director in September 2004, taking up Steering Group for Construction Excellence.
He is also an advisory the post of chairman in January 2005.
He board member of the Built Environment Innovation Centre at Imperial was the founding chief executive of Powergen where he also held the College, London, a member of the Supporters at Large Group for position of chairman before retiring in 2003.
Prior to this he gained Open House, a member of the National Employment Panel and patron more than 30 years of experience working for the Central Electricity of the Environmental Industries Commission.
He is a member of the Generating Board.
He has a wide range of other board-level experience Nomination Committee.
including the chairmanship of Lucas Varity and London Transport.
He 3 Alun Grifths, executive director was invited to become a companion of the British Institute of Alun Grifths 52 was appointed a director in March 2007.
He has Management in 1994 and in 1997 became a fellow of the Royal a background in management consultancy and has led a wide range Academy of Engineering.
In 1996 he was awarded honorary of projects in the areas of restructuring, organisational development doctorates by both Brunel University and Aston University.
He became and privatisation in the UK and internationally.
He is an economics chairman of the Natural Environment Research Council in 2006.
He is graduate and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel and chairman of the Nomination Committee and a member of the Development.
He was appointed Group HR director in February 2003.
Alun was appointed to the UK Government-backed Industry Board 2 Keith Clarke, chief executive of the UK Resource Centre for Women in Science, Engineering and Keith Clarke 55 was appointed a director in October 2003.
He joined the Group from Skanska AB where 4 Robert MacLeod, group finance director he was executive vice president responsible for its activities in the Robert MacLeod 43 was appointed group finance director in June UK, Poland, Czech Republic, India and China.
He joined the Group as group experience in construction and engineering, having previously worked financial controller in March 2003 having previously worked in for the City of New York, Olympia and York, Trafalgar House and a variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
He is chairman of the Construction Industry Councils Health of Cambridge University, he trained at KPMG.
12 3 4 WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-SIX BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED 5 Admiral the Lord Boyce, non-executive director 7 Fiona Clutterbuck, non-executive director Lord Boyce 64 was appointed a non-executive director in May 2004.
Fiona Clutterbuck 49 was appointed a non-executive director He had a distinguished career in the Royal Navy and the Ministry in March 2007.
She is a managing director and head of financial of Defence MoD that culminated in his becoming First Sea Lord, institutions advisory at ABN AMRO.
Fiona has substantial experience professional head of the Royal Navy in 1998: and then Chief of in all areas of corporate finance, including a particular focus on the Defence Staff, professional head of the Armed Forces from 2001 to financial institutions sector, gained during 15 years at Hill Samuel 2003.
He was elevated to the peerage in 2003 and was appointed and HSBC and latterly six years at ABN AMRO.
Fiona has advised Lord Warden and Admiral of the Cinque Ports and Constable of Dover on a wide range of transactions in many countries, including mergers Castle in 2004.
He is a non-executive director of VT Group plc.
He is and take-overs, public company acquisitions and fundraisings and a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
public and private company sales and otations.
Fiona has an LLB Hons from the University of London and qualied as a barrister 6 James Morley, non-executive director in 1980.
She is a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
James Morley 58, a chartered accountant, was appointed a nonexecutive director in 2001.
He is chief operating officer of Primary 8 Sir Peter Williams, non-executive director Group Limited and is also a non-executive director of The Bankers Sir Peter Williams 62 was appointed a non-executive director in May Investment Trust plc and The Innovation Group plc.
He graduated from Cambridge University with an MA and PhD finance director at Cox Insurance Holdings plc, Arjo Wiggins Appleton in physics and initially pursued an academic career at Cambridge plc, Guardian Royal Exchange plc and Avis Europe plc.
He is senior and subsequently at Imperial College, London.
After a period with independent director, chairman of the Audit Committee and VG Instruments Limited he joined Oxford Instruments plc in 1982. a member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
He became its chief executive in 1985 and was chairman from 1991 until his retirement in 1999.
He is chairman of the National Physical Laboratory and a non-executive director of GKN plc.
Sir Peter was elected as fifth chancellor of the University of Leicester on 21 October 2005.
He is chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
5 6 7 8 WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-SEVEN
