OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Segmental performance Equity Investments The Equity Investments segment comprises Lambert Smith METRONET ENTERPRISE Hampton LSH and the Groups interest in PPP PFI Joint The results of the Metronet Enterprise included within the Ventures, principally Metronet.
Groups profit before tax for the year are as follows: BEFORE 2007 2006 LAMBERT SMITH HAMPTON EXCEPTIONAL EXCEPTIONAL TOTAL PERFORMANCE IN 2007 ITEMS ITEMS LSH, which operated independently under its own brand, had M M M M an exceptionally strong year with operating profit of 7.3m METRONET 91.3 91.3 7.5 2006: 3.6m.
The results for the year benefited from some COST OF LETTERS OF CREDIT 1.3 1.3 2.0 significant revenues arising from transactions completed in 1.3 91.3 92.6 5.5 the year.
Two small acquisitions, Poolman Harlow Swansea SUPPLY CHAIN: in April 2006 and Young & Butt Fareham Southampton TRANS4M 1.0 26.0 27.0 1.0 in November 2006, were completed.
BUSINESS SEGMENTS 1.7 4.0 2.3 2.7 The market for commercial property investment remained strong in the year, although rising UK interest rates and METRONET ENTERPRISE 0.6 121.3 121.9 1.8 the increasing commercial prices are reducing yields on investment properties.
METRONET During the year LSH was re-appointed to the BBC and During the year Metronets operating performance was both Hertfordshire and Essex County Councils to provide mixed and while some progress was made on its capital professional estate services for their property portfolio on programme, the stations and certain other programmes contract periods from three years to six years.
Nearly 60% of LSHs revenue is generated from consultancy The Metronet PPP contracts contain provision for an services, reflecting in part the growing level of outsourced Extraordinary Review to protect Metronet against significant work now being performed for UK national and public additional costs or revenue shortfalls arising between the sector clients.
periodic reviews that occur every seven and a half years.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2007 2006 CHANGE IN YEAR FINANCIAL METRICS REVENUE 84.2M 73.8 M 14% OPERATING PROFIT 9.3M 5.0 M 86% OPERATING MARGIN 11.0% 6.8% 4.2%PTS SHARE OF POST-TAX JV LOSS PROFITS 46.1M 8.1 M -54.2 M IMPAIRMENT IN INVESTMENT IN METRONET JV 70.0M -70.0 M PEOPLE 1 HEADCOUNT AT 31 MARCH 956 887 8% 1 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT 947 880 8% 1.
Headcount is shown on a full-time equivalent basis, including agency staff.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE TWENTY-EIGHT OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Any such additional costs or revenue shortfalls qualify for TRANS4M reimbursement by London Underground provided that they Trans4m is primarily responsible for the delivery of have been incurred in an economic and efficient manner, improvements to stations.
The stations programme remains although Metronet is required to bear the first 50m in each behind plan and the costs have risen significantly.
As previously stated, the costs of Metronets capital has recently started awarding station contracts to outside programme are substantially higher than anticipated and as contractors rather than using companies within its tied supply a result on 21 June 2007 Metronet gave notice to London chain.
In the short term, this increases capacity and also Underground of its intention to invite the Arbiter to conduct provides an external benchmark against which it may more an Extraordinary Review on Metronet BCV in July and on easily assess whether the delivery of the station improvements Metronet SSL later in the year.
The review process is likely to has been carried out in an economic and efficient manner.
take at least six to nine months to conduct and it is too early To further address the stations programme, Metronet and its to assess its outcome.
shareholders have recently reached agreement on heads of The Arbiter reported in November 2006 that Metronet was terms for the future early termination of Trans4ms contract.
not wholly economic and efficient in the first three years This agreement is subject to approval by Metronets banks.
of operation, from April 2003 until March 2006, although The cost of delivering stations is significantly higher than he also noted that Metronet was making improvements to originally anticipated and Trans4m bears a contractual share its operations.
There is therefore a risk that some of the of the over-run together with penalties for late delivery of additional costs in excess of the first 50m per infraco will stations into service.
Although Trans4ms liabilities for the cost be borne by Metronet.
over-runs are capped, the Groups results include a loss for As a result of the additional cost being incurred, Metronet the year of 1.0m and an exceptional loss from Trans4m of accelerated the payment of committed equity contributions 26.0m to take account of the expected outturn for Trans4ms from its shareholders.
Atkins injected a total of 18.0m in remaining contract.
the year, bringing our total cash investment in Metronet The cash impact of this is expected to be around 30m, to 50.7m at 31 March 2007.
The Groups remaining the majority of which will be paid by Atkins to Trans4m during equity commitment of 19.3m has also been accelerated.
the financial year ended 31 March 2008.
As at todays date 15.6m of this commitment has been ATKINS SUPPLY CHAIN contributed, with the remainder likely to be contributed in The work that Atkins carries out for Trans4m is primarily the first half of the current year, taking our total investment related to station design.
Given the changes to Trans4ms to 70m.
supply chain noted above, some of the work that Atkins Metronet is currently unable to access its lending facilities.
was originally in line to undertake may now be carried Metronet, its banks and shareholders are in discussion out by other companies.
As a result an exceptional loss about how to ensure that Metronet is able to continue of 4.0m is included in the results for the year to take until the completion of the Extraordinary Review.
Metronets account of expected future losses.
financial structure demands that a resolution of this issue Our supply chain performance is expected to result in is achieved if it is to continue to be able to deliver its a cash outflow of around 35m during the year ending PPP programmes.
31 March 2008, primarily in settlement of previously Given the current uncertainties associated with Metronets accounted-for liabilities.
funding position and the outcome of the Extraordinary Review process, the results for the Group for the year include an OUTLOOK exceptional loss of 91.3m after JV tax.
This reflects the In the short term, the outlook for Metronet is dependent upon total equity investment of 70m plus the reversal of 21.3m reaching agreement with its banks upon its future funding.
of profit recognised in earlier years.
This exceptional loss has Atkins is committed to working with Metronet, its banks no cash impact but reduces the carrying value of the Groups and all its other stakeholders to enable Metronet to reach investment in Metronet to nil.
a successful conclusion to the Extraordinary Review process.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE TWENTY-NINE
