HUMAN RESOURCES REVIEW Our people OVERVIEW universities.
We visit over 40 universities as part of our Our headcount grew by 1,917 to 16,824 full-time equivalent recruitment process and attract applicants from over 60 employees and agency staff as at 31 March 2007.
Our profile as a leading graduate recruiter in are based in a number of locations across the world with the UK continues to improve as evidenced by our improved nearly three-quarters employed in the UK.
The major increases ranking in The Times Top 100 Graduate Employers up to have been in the Middle East where headcount grew by over 59 from 66.
We were also voted the most popular graduate 70% to approximately 2,000. recruiter in the construction sector of the Target National Graduate Recruitment Awards for the second year running.
RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION Recruitment and retention are essential to growing our TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT business.
Our investment over the past few years in building Investment in training and development increased during a strong recruitment capability has enabled us to recruit the year, reflecting the high priority we give to developing effectively in a highly competitive market.
During the year, the skills and capabilities of our staff.
In total, we now invest our e-recruitment platform was extended to include our China 2.5% of payroll and expect this to rise further to 2.8% business where applicants can now apply in Chinese as well during 2007 8. as English.
We are currently recruiting around 4,000 staff Participation in our core training programmes was high, per annum.
Atkins success depends on our ability to recruit with over 1,800 employees attending courses focused on and retain talented professionals and provide them with an people management, commercial and client management.
environment in which they can excel.
These courses were run in the Middle East and China for the Staff turnover was 13.8% last year, continuing the positive first time.
Many more staff have attended technical training trend seen since 2005. relevant to their professional discipline.
We have seen strong growth in the number of staff A new partnership was formed with Ashridge School employed in Global Design Centres GDCs with headcount now of Management to develop bespoke courses to enhance exceeding 450.
This marks an important shift in our recruitment management capacity.
So far over 200 managers have attended practice as we access significant talent pools outside the UK, masterclasses on leadership and business management.
in particular in India, in response to a growing skills shortage The number of managers attending in-house management in the UK.
Whilst located outside the UK staff employed in the development centres increased by 25% to 257, with a further GDCs are not an outsourced service but an integral part of our 35 managers attending our senior management development established businesses, employing high calibre staff with skills in programme.
engineering, architecture and project management.
We expect This year has also seen the successful implementation of this shift to accelerate over the next few years.
corporate induction events held in the UK, Middle East and This year we recruited over 250 graduates into the Group China, which have been well regarded by more than 2,500 and have close links with a number of UK and non-UK new starters who have attended.
RETENTION United Kingdom 12,501 STAFF TURNOVER Asia Pacific 1,000 2005 15.0% Middle East 2,008 Europe 670 14.1% 2006 North America 645 Group total 16,824 13.8% 2007 Including agency staff as at 31 March 2007.
0% 5% 10% 15% WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE TEN HUMAN RESOURCES REVIEW CONTINUED We have maintained a focus on career mobility by actively proposal to close the scheme to future accrual.
As part of the encouraging staff to take advantage of career development proposed changes, approximately 1,900 staff would in future opportunities in other divisions or geographical regions.
accrue pension via the defined contributions section of the Plan.
In parallel, a cash injection of 140m over four years COMMUNICATION AND EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT is proposed to significantly reduce the actuarial deficit.
The staff response rate to Viewpoint, our employee engagement survey, increased from 71% to 73%.
For the DIVERSITY first time, we were able to make the survey available not only Atkins operates in a changing world.
We recognise that our in English but also in Chinese, Swedish, Danish, Polish and success will in part be determined by our attractiveness as Portuguese.
Our Employee Engagement Index, a measure of an employer to an increasingly diverse population and by our how staff view the Group and how they are contributing to effectiveness in bringing staff from different backgrounds its success, rose from 71% to 72%.
Our profile as a Group together to work on projects.
shows that we perform very well in terms of job clarity, client Whilst we were delighted to be recognised as one of the focus and equipping staff with the skills to do their jobs, but Top 50 Places Where Women Want to Work in The Times less well in areas such as feedback and recognition.
Whilst this inaugural awards, and are proud of the growing diversity of profile is typical of organisations in science, engineering and our workforce, we recognise that we have much to achieve technology, we are committed to making Atkins a better place if we are to meet our aspirations as an employer of choice.
in which to work and will be focusing effort to improve our We have established a diversity steering group of business performance in these areas.
representatives drawn from the principal businesses and regions and chaired by the managing director of our REWARD engineering solutions business.
This has a remit to champion It is our policy to reward staff competitively in line with good this issue, to initiate change and to monitor our performance.
practice for the markets in which we operate and we continue Atkins Horizons, a networking group for women in science, to monitor our remuneration practices accordingly.
Over 500 engineering and technology, continues to expand.
This senior staff now participate in our executive bonus scheme provides a forum to discuss a range of issues affecting women which significantly increases remuneration for delivering in the workplace.
We are using our influence in the sector to superior business performance.
Others are able to benefit drive change with Sir Peter Williams and Alun Griffiths sitting from discretionary bonus schemes, with awards made to on the advisory board of the UK Resource Centre for Women approximately 20% of staff during the year.
in Science, Engineering and Technology, the body established The Group operates a number of defined benefit and to support the delivery of the Governments strategy for defined contribution pension schemes in the UK and other women in those disciplines.
In March, the Group began consultation with the members of the principal final salary scheme regarding a 4.
AWARDS 1 TRAINING INVESTMENT 1 One of the UKsTop 20 Best Big Companies to Work For 2 Best Graduate Recruiter in Construction 3 Top 100 Graduate Employers 2.5% 3 Top 50 Places Where Women Want to Work 1.
Percentage of payroll costs 4 Best Places to work in IT Sources: 5.
Target National Graduate Recruitment Awards, 2007 3.
Computer Weekly, 2007 UP TO 72% WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE ELEVEN
