OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Financial performance NET FINANCE INCOME In the year the Group paid a further accelerated contribution Finance income for the year was 2.0m higher than the prior of 25.0m 2006: 20.0m to the Plan, making total year at 9.9m and finance cost 4.5m lower at 6.7m, resulting accelerated contributions over the last three years of in net income of 3.2m 2006: net finance cost 3.3m.
As at 30 June 2006 our actuaries estimated that the The increase in finance income is largely a consequence of deficit had increased to approximately 187m despite the the Groups improving cash position.
The reduction in finance accelerated cash contributions due to changes in discount cost in the year was principally due to a decrease of 4.3m rates, longevity and other assumptions.
Our next actuarial in the net finance cost on retirement benefit liabilities.
valuation, as at 1 April 2007, is currently underway and the results are expected to be available in autumn 2007.
TAXATION The Group is currently in consultation with approximately The Groups income tax expense for the year reduced by 1,900 employees regarding a proposal to close the Plan to 0.2m to 17.7m.
future accrual in conjunction with further additional cash The Groups effective income tax rate after adjusting for the contributions of 140.0m over the next four years: 50.0m impact of exceptional items reduced to 22.6% 2006: 29.6%.
in the next 12 months, followed by 30.0m in each of This reduction comes from HMRCs agreement of our claim for the subsequent three years.
These proposals do not affect three years research and development tax credits 4.1m and members of the Plan whose benefits are protected through the increasing proportion of profits from lower tax regimes, either a contractual obligation or statutory protection.
We anticipate an annual continuing benefit from research Charges and development tax credits, and the increase in profits The Group accounts for pension costs under IAS 19, Employee earned by operations in countries with tax rates lower than benefits.
The total charge to the Income Statement in respect the UK will continue to have a favourable impact on our of defined benefit schemes amounted to 24.9m 2006: effective tax rate.
24.8m, comprising total service cost of 22.5m 2006: 18.1m and net finance cost of 2.4m 2006: 6.7m.
The EARNINGS PER SHARE EPS charge relating to defined contribution schemes amounted Normalised basic EPS before exceptional items was 62.2p to 16.0m 2006: 12.3m and is expected to continue to 2006: 51.1p, reducing to a loss per share of 56.8p after increase as the membership of these schemes grows.
Normalised diluted EPS before exceptional items, which is considered to be a more representative IAS 19 valuation and accounting treatment measure of underlying trading, was 61.5p 2006: 50.1p, The Group assesses pension scheme funding with reference an increase of 23%.
Further details are given in note 11 to actuarial valuations but for reporting purposes uses IAS 19. to the financial statements.
Under IAS 19, the Group recognised a post-tax retirement benefit liability of 175m at 31 March 2007 2006: 210m.
PENSIONS The post-tax actuarial gain recognised through equity Funding amounted to 21.7m for the year ended 31 March 2007 The latest actuarial valuation of the defined benefit Atkins 2006: actuarial loss of 26.4m.
Pension Plan the Plan was carried out as at 1 April 2004 The assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation are detailed and indicated that the Plan had an actuarial deficit of 69.0m.
in note 27 to the financial statements.
A funding programme was agreed with the Trustees at that time but since then, recognising the likely increase in the deficit, the Group has accelerated contributions to the Plan.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Buy-out basis Further details of all these transactions are given in note 39 The deficit on the Atkins Pension Plan measured on a solvency to the financial statements.
buy-out basis is estimated to be 520m, pre-tax.
EVENTS AFTER THE BALANCE SHEET DATE CASH On 25 June 2007 contracts were exchanged for the disposal Net funds at 31 March 2007 were 199.1m 2006: 176.6m, of LSH for an estimated consideration of 46.5m together with which comprised cash balances and current financial assets of earn-out potential for a further 10m depending upon on LSHs 237.3m 2006: 218.2m less bank loans and finance lease performance in the year ending 31 March 2008.
on disposal is estimated to be approximately 20m assuming Cash generated from operations was 106.1m 2006: that no additional payments are made by LSH in relation to the 111.7m.
This is partly driven by a decrease in working performance in the year ending 31 March 2008. capital despite significant revenue growth over the same CAPITAL STRUCTURE period.
Much of the reduction in working capital is driven The Group had 104.5m fully paid ordinary shares in issue by advance cash receipts on large contracts, principally in at 31 March 2007 2006: 104.5m, full details of which the Middle East, and timing differences on our work on the are shown in note 29 to the financial statements.
As at Metronet supply chain.
We anticipate an increase in working 31 March 2007, the Group had a shareholders deficit capital in the coming year driven by a cash outflow of up to of 76.1m 2006: deficit of 36.1m.
65m in relation to the Metronet supply chain, as discussed in the Metronet Enterprise section above.
TREASURY POLICIES AND OBJECTIVES There was a net tax refund of 2.9m 2006 tax paid: The Groups treasury function manages and monitors external 10.9m.
This follows our successful claim for research and funding and investment requirements and financial risks in development tax credits and timing issues associated with support of the Groups corporate objectives.
The Board reviews Metronet consortium tax relief.
and agrees policies and authority levels for treasury activities.
As described in the Metronet Enterprise section above, The Groups financial instruments, other than derivatives, the Group made injections amounting to 18.0m into the comprise borrowings, cash and liquid resources and various Metronet PPP companies during the year 2006: 11.2m.
The items, such as trade receivables and trade payables, that Group is committed to making further loan capital payments arise directly from its operations.
The main purpose of these to the Metronet PPP companies amounting to 19.3m.
financial instruments is to finance the Groups operations.
Net capital expenditure in the year, including the purchase The Group also enters into derivative transactions, principally of computer software licences, amounted to 25.1m 2006: forward foreign currency contracts.
We expect a similar level in the year ahead.
from the Groups financial instruments are interest rate Cash payments relating to acquisitions in the year risk, liquidity risk and foreign currency risk, along with the amounted to 31.5m 2006: 4.9m.
Further details are risks arising from the financing of the Groups activities in given below.
the Public Private Partnership and Private Finance Initiative sectors.
The Groups policies for managing each of these ACQUISITIONS risks are summarised below.
These policies have remained Three acquisitions, adding to the capability and reach of our unchanged during the year.
The Group does not trade in core business, were completed during the year.
Lambert Smith Hampton LSH acquired Poolman Harlow Ltd in April 2006 and Young and Butt Ltd in November 2006.
ACQUISITIONS INITIAL CASH TOTAL COMPANY ACQUIRED SECTOR DATE CONSIDERATION CONSIDERATION MANTIX GROUP LTD MANAGEMENT CONSULTANTS JUNE 06 11.2M 11.2M BOREAS CONSULTANTS LTD OIL & GAS DECEMBER 06 2.9M 3.9M ADVANTAGE BUSINESS GROUP LTD DEFENCE MARCH 07 15.3M 19.5M WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-ONE OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Financial performance Continued Interest rate risk and liquidity risk CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The Group funds its ongoing activities through cash The Groups principal accounting policies are described in note generated from its operations and, where necessary, bank 1 to the financial statements.
The financial statements for the borrowings and finance leases.
The Group has banking year ended 31 March 2007 have been prepared under IFRS: facilities which include cash facilities and bonding lines, however for years prior to 2005 the amounts included within as well as a letter of credit facility in relation to the ongoing the five year record on page 101 are under UK GAAP but are equity obligations of the Groups PPP PFI projects.
The Group presented alongside current figures in IFRS format.
accepts some interest rate risk and any loans drawn under The preparation of financial statements in conformity with the banking facilities are at floating rates.
At 31 March 2007, generally accepted accounting principles requires the use of the amount undrawn under the Groups credit lines was estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts 31.0m 2006: 36.7m.
of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during Foreign currency risk the reporting period.
Although these estimates are based The Group, through its ownership of companies based on managements best knowledge of the amount, event outside the UK, has foreign currency-denominated assets.
or actions, actual results ultimately may differ from those To mitigate the effect of currency exposures arising from estimates.
Material estimates applied across the Groups net investments overseas, it is the Groups policy to businesses and Joint Ventures are reviewed to a common hedge those exposures, where material, using borrowings standard and adjusted where appropriate to ensure that denominated in foreign currency.
At 31 March 2007 the consistent treatment of similar and related issues that require Group had 17.3m 2006: 23.3m of loans denominated judgement is achieved upon consolidation.
Any revisions in foreign currency.
to estimates are recognised prospectively.
The Group also has transactional currency exposures.
These The accounting policies and areas that require the most exposures arise from sales or purchases in currencies other significant estimates and judgements to be used in the than its subsidiaries functional currencies.
It is the Groups preparation of the financial statements are in relation to policy to hedge such risks, where material, using forward contract accounting and defined benefit pension schemes.
At 31 March 2007 the Group had outstanding forward foreign exchange contracts amounting Contract accounting to the equivalent of 12.3m 2006: 6.8m.
Profit is recognised on contracts on a percentage completion The Group accounts for financial instruments in accordance basis, provided the outcome of the project can be reasonably with IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and foreseen.
Full provision is made for estimated losses.
Where a derivative is a designated hedging contracts span more than two accounting periods profit is instrument and is assessed as effective under IAS 39, any not generally recognised until the project is 50% complete.
gain or loss on re-measurement is taken to equity.
In all other The projected outcome of any given contract is necessarily cases the gain or loss is recognised in the income statement.
based on estimates of revenues and costs to completion.
Whilst the assumptions made are based on professional Public Private Partnership PPP and Private Finance judgements, subsequent events may mean that estimates Initiative PFI calculated prove inaccurate, with a consequent effect on The Groups PPP and PFI projects involve the arrangement the reporting of results.
of finance as part of the overall project service.
Individual projects are undertaken by Special Purpose Companies SPCs Defined benefit pension schemes in Joint Ventures with other parties.
These SPCs contract Accounting for pensions involves judgement about uncertain with end users for the provision of serviced facilities and also events in the future such as inflation, salary levels at arrange funding, construction, facilities management services retirement, longevity rates, rates of return on plan assets and, where required, operational support for projects.
Assumptions in respect of pensions for equity commitments, the funding of the SPCs is arranged and post-retirement benefits are set after consultation with without recourse to the rest of the Group.
Management believes the The Groups share of the gross assets and liabilities of assumptions are appropriate.
However, a change in the the SPCs is reflected separately in the Group accounts in assumptions used would impact the Groups results and accordance with the provisions of IAS 31, Interests in net assets.
Any differences between the assumptions and joint ventures.
the actual outcome will affect results in future years.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-TWO OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES Health, safety and environment In order to achieve our business objectives the Group must The Groups business is concerned with the built environment respond effectively to the associated risks.
The Group has and this entails significant health, safety and environmental established risk management procedures, involving the risks.
Should the Groups policy or practice in this area prove identification and monitoring of strategic and operational inadequate, there is a consequent risk to employees, clients, risks at various levels of management.
The Board regularly contractors and third parties.
The Group takes health, safety reviews material risks identified and risk management is and environment issues seriously and ensures that all staff are embedded in our annual budgeting and strategic planning appropriately trained and that procedures are continuously processes.
It is, however, not possible to fully mitigate all reviewed and improved.
We look to take a leadership role risks that the Group enters into.
The principal key risks for on health and safety matters in our sector and we have the Group have been assessed as follows: representation on a number of committees.
Many of our clients insist on the Group attaining appropriate standards Recruitment and retention of sufficient high calibre staff in health and safety and environment.
We are regularly The Groups people are its key resource and the recruitment independently audited by external consultants against these and retention of top quality staff are crucial to our future industry standards.
Failure to do so would constrain the growth of the business and prevent the Group from achieving its potential.
Changes to the contracting environment resulting from The skills needed are in short supply especially within the UK market developments and the Group has to compete with a large number of other The ways in which business is conducted inevitably change organisations to secure the best staff.
The Group expends a over time.
The nature of the contracting environment is great deal of management effort and resource in this area, especially important for companies like Atkins.
The trend and a summary of our approach is shown in the Human remains one where clients increasingly seek to transfer risk to resources review on page 10. consultants: contractors will also seek to share risks.
There is a possibility that, in securing new work, the Group accepts risks Changes in the competitive environment resulting from that are insufficiently understood or evaluated, with ensuing government policy financial loss.
We actively mitigate this risk via a range of Many of the markets in which the Group operates are internal review procedures that enable contract terms to regulated and funded by government bodies.
These markets be subjected to appropriate scrutiny and manageable risks may be altered by government policy in the UK and abroad to be reduced.
in the form of increased or reduced regulation or a change in public sector procurement practices.
There is a risk that any Financial risks associated with the Metronet Enterprise withdrawal of government funding will impact our operations.
Atkins is a 20% shareholder in the Metronet PPP companies The Group seeks to mitigate this risk by working in a diverse and has committed to invest equity and loan capital of 70m.
portfolio of sectors and markets and regularly monitoring Although the Groups liability to Metronet is contractually government spending patterns.
limited to the committed equity and loan capital, there is a reputational risk should Atkins fail to give additional support Competition to Metronet if required.
In common with all companies, the Group faces competition from others in all of our markets.
Some of the markets in Reputation risk which the Group works serve limited clients and barriers to Our reputation for delivering complex projects relies on the entry are high.
In other markets such as architectural design perception of our clients and how this is portrayed in the and environment there are numerous competitors and barriers public arena.
There is a risk that a major failure from poor to entry are lower.
To ensure that the Group continues to win design, poor project management or delivery could impact our work, we work hard to develop long-term relationships with ability to win future work.
We mitigate this risk by ensuring our clients at multiple levels.
A measure of this success is our we have robust cost and project management systems work in hand, which measures our secured workload over linked to our internal quality processes.
These are regularly the next year.
Our overall work in hand is 58%, representing independently audited by external consultants against seven months of 2007 08 revenue that is already industry standards.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-THREE
