DIRECTORS REPORT Directors report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of The Board considers that the performance of those the Company and the Group, together with the financial directors proposed for re-appointment and re-election statements and the independent auditors report, for the year continues to be effective and that they demonstrate a strong ended 31 March 2007.
These will be laid before shareholders commitment to their role.
at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held at 4.30pm DIRECTORS INTERESTS AND INDEMNITIES on Wednesday 5 September 2007.
Directors interests in the Company and the Group are PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES AND BUSINESS REVIEW described in the Remuneration report in Table 5 on page 48.
The Chairmans statement page 7, Our strategy pages Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries 8 to 9, the Human resources review pages 10 to 11, the have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance Operating and financial review pages 16 to 33 and Corporate policy, which provides appropriate cover in respect of legal responsibility pages 34 to 35 report on our principal activities actions brought against its directors.
The Companys practice and performance during the past year and our prospects has always been to indemnify its directors in accordance with for the future.
The statement, reviews and report are the Companys Articles of Association and to the maximum incorporated into this report by reference, together with the extent permitted by law.
Disclosure of such indemnities is list of the principal subsidiary undertakings and the countries required by the Companies Act 1985 the Act.
All directors in which they operate note 40 to the financial statements.
have deeds of indemnity that are in force as at the date of this report.
These indemnities are available for inspection RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS by shareholders at the Companys registered office during The Group loss after tax for the year of 57.3m 2006: profit normal business hours and will be available for inspection 56.9m is shown in the Consolidated Income Statement at the AGM.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnities provide cover The directors recommend a final dividend of 14.0p where the director has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
2006: 11.5p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007, to be paid on 28 September 2007 to ordinary CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND REMUNERATION shareholders on the register on 17 August 2007 if approved, A report on Corporate governance is on pages 41 to 44 and which, together with the interim dividend of 6.0p paid on the Boards report on directors remuneration is on pages 26 January 2007, makes a total dividend of 20.0p for the 45 to 49. year 2006: 16.0p.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS A summary of the Groups corporate responsibility activities Acquisitions and disposals made by the Group are described is contained on pages 34 to 35.
In addition, the Group in notes 5, 16 and 39 to the financial statements on pages 68, produces a separate annual report on corporate responsibility, 78 and 99. which includes detailed information in respect of health and safety, the environment, the community, people and suppliers.
DIRECTORS A copy of that report is sent to all shareholders and is also The composition of the Board and full biographical details available on the Companys website www.
of the Companys directors at the date of this report are given on pages 36 to 37.
EMPLOYEES The Companys Articles of Association require that all The Group communicates financial results and significant directors appointed during the year retire at the AGM business issues to all employees via the use of email, the and may offer themselves for re-appointment.
In addition, Companys intranet and in-house publications.
Feedback one-third of directors must retire at each AGM and may from employees is obtained annually via a confidential survey.
Where appropriate, consultation with employee and union Christopher Kemball retired from the Board on 31 representatives takes place.
Employee share ownership has been encouraged over a Fiona Clutterbuck and Alun Griffiths, who were appointed long period.
UK employees have the opportunity to become by the Board as directors on 13 March 2007, will retire at the shareholders via the Companys Share Incentive Plan.
AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Group is committed to the fair and equitable Robert MacLeod and Sir Peter Williams will retire by treatment of all its employees irrespective of gender, race, rotation at the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves age, religion, disability or sexual orientation.
been implemented across the Group to ensure that this WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-EIGHT DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED commitment is acted on in practice.
The Groups policy and SHARE CAPITAL practice is to encourage the recruitment and subsequent Full details of the Companys authorised and issued share training, career development and promotion of disabled capital, including changes during the year, can be found people on the basis of their aptitude and abilities, and the in note 29 to the financial statements.
retention and re-training of employees who become disabled.
PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES The Company is authorised to purchase its own shares in the BUSINESS CONDUCT POLICY market pursuant to an authorisation given by shareholders at The Board is responsible for the Groups business conduct its AGM held in 2006.
Although no such purchases have been policy.
The Group believes that integrity is a fundamental made, the Company will seek to renew this authority from prerequisite for successful business relationships, both shareholders at its forthcoming AGM.
Any shares purchased internally and externally.
Reputation, trust and confidence pursuant to that authority may be held as treasury shares in are essential elements which we seek to protect and enhance accordance with the Act.
to the benefit of all with whom we have a relationship.
The Group seeks to understand and meet its customers needs, SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS whilst seeking continuous improvement.
Across the Group Until 19 January 2007 the Company maintained a register of there are procedures in place which seek to underpin this substantial shareholdings in accordance with the provisions of approach.
By so doing the Group aims to meet the needs section 211 of the Act.
As at 19 January 2007, the Company of all stakeholders.
had been notified of the following interests in the ordinary SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY share capital of the Company: It is Group policy to agree terms and conditions for its NUMBER OF PERCENTAGE OF ORDINARY ISSUED business transactions with suppliers and endeavour to make NAME OF HOLDER SHARES CAPITAL payment to these terms, subject to the terms and conditions being met by suppliers.
WS Atkins plc, as a holding company, SCHRODERS PLC 12,592,518 12.06% did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors as at STANDARD LIFE INVESTMENTS 4,249,130 4.07% RESOLUTION ASSET MANAGEMENT 4,206,885 4.03% 31 March 2007.
LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC 3,830,384 3.37% CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS During the year the Group made charitable donations of On 20 January 2007 the provisions of the Act in respect 205,813 2006: 97,534.
The principal beneficiaries of of substantial shareholdings were repealed and the Disclosure such donations were the charities RedR, WaterAid and the and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority PSP Association.
For 2007, the Group has chosen to focus its came into force.
As at 26 June 2007, the Company had efforts on local charities serving the communities in which the been notified of the following holdings exceeding the 3% Group operates or charities relevant to the Groups activities.
notification threshold in the total voting rights attaching It is the Groups policy not to make political donations, either to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: in the UK or overseas.
The Group has no intention of making any political NUMBER OF PERCENTAGE OF VOTING TOTAL VOTING donations or incurring such expenditure in the future.
NAME OF HOLDER RIGHTS RIGHTS However, the Act defines EU political organisation widely.
STANDARD LIFE INVESTMENTS 4,962,936 4.75% There is some uncertainty over which organisations are LEGAL & GENERAL GROUP PLC 3,646,794 3.49% covered by the definition and what types of expenditure will be classified as a donation.
The Board will therefore seek authority at the forthcoming AGM for the Company and its STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES main trading subsidiary Atkins Limited to make such political The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, expenditure up to 100,000 in order to prevent inadvertent the remuneration report and the financial statements in breach of the Act.
accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The directors have WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE THIRTY-NINE DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Directors report Continued prepared the Group and Parent Company financial statements GOING CONCERN in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The financial and the Group have adequate resources to continue in statements are required by law to give a true and fair view operational existence for the foreseeable future and therefore of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors AUDITORS are required to: The Companys auditors,  LLP, Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them have expressed their willingness to continue in office and consistently resolutions for their re-appointment and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable at the forthcoming AGM.
and prudent State that the financial statements comply with IFRS Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by as adopted by the European Union State whether applicable accounting standards have been Philip Davis, company secretary followed, and disclose and explain any material departures 26 June 2007 from those standards Prepare the financial statements on a going concern Cautionary statement basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group Under the Companies Act 1985 as amended, a companys directors report will continue in business, in which case there should be is required, among other matters, to contain a fair review by the directors of supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
the Groups business through a balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the Group and the position The directors confirm that they have complied with the above of the Group at the year-end, consistent with the size and complexity of requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting The Directors report set out above, including the Chairmans statement, Our records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the strategy, the Human resources review, the Operating and financial review and Corporate responsibility incorporated into it by reference together, financial position of the Company and the Group and that the Directors report, has been prepared only for the shareholders of the enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Company, as a whole, and its sole purpose and use is to assist shareholders to remuneration report comply with the Act and, as regards the exercise their governance rights.
In particular, the Directors report has not been audited or otherwise independently veried.
The Company and its directors Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
and employees are not responsible for any other purpose or use or to any other They are also responsible for ensuring that an appropriate person in relation to the Directors report.
system of internal control is in operation to provide them The Directors report contains indications of likely future developments and with reasonable assurance that the assets of the Company other forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated and the Group are properly safeguarded and hence for taking with, among other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and business segments in which the reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud Group operates.
These factors include, but are not limited to, those discussed and other irregularities.
under Risks and uncertainties on page 33 in this document.
These and other The directors are responsible for the maintenance and factors could adversely affect the Groups results, strategy and prospects.
Forward-looking statements involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
integrity of the website and legislation in the UK governing They relate to events and or depend on circumstances in the future which the preparation and dissemination of financial statements could cause actual results and outcomes to differ materially from those may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
No obligation is assumed to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION The directors confirm that, as at the date this report was approved, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE FORTY
