OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Segmental performance Middle East and China PERFORMANCE IN 2007 two contracts require 70km of railway line and viaducts and The Middle East and China segment had another year of 44 stations.
significant growth and improving performance.
This growth has Involvement in sustainable building design research been driven by the continuing strong demand in the Middle partnerships with Cardiff University and the British University East region, which now accounts for approximately threein Dubai has enabled the Group to move closer to clients design quarters of the segments revenues.
The Dubai Metro contract, solutions based on the very latest research linked to sustainability.
along with other major commissions, contributed to the 61% We continued to make progress in China and our business increase in revenue in the year to 108.2m.
Whilst the China delivered a small operating profit, reecting our investment business is profitable, the majority of the segments profit for future positioning in this market.
We continue to be highly is derived from the Middle East.
During the year our range selective as the trading conditions become more open.
We won of services in the Middle East continued to expand and now a design competition for a major new high-density residential includes rail engineering, masterplanning and urban building community in one of Chinas developing cities and we have won design.
We also provide project management services in the a number of projects for the concept design of airport terminals.
Middle East under the Faithful Gould brand.
OUTLOOK The Middle East business now employs over 1,700 people, The outlook for this segment remains very good, especially an increase of 70% in the year.
The increasing demand for in the Middle East.
Our work in hand at year end was 64% high-quality residential, leisure, healthcare and education 2006: 78% but increased in absolute terms reecting developments mirrors the maturing local economies.
Our strong improved revenue expectations for the year ahead.
reputation for delivery helped us achieve continued growth.
Prospects in the Middle East are encouraging and numerous During the year we secured the civil design services contract clients are actively seeking and creating development for the Red Line of the Dubai Metro light rail scheme.
This opportunities in response to demand for urban planning complex multidisciplinary project required the mobilisation of and infrastructure design.
up to 400 staff across the Group, and within three months of Capital investment in China continues to accelerate, driven our appointment by the Japan Turkey Metro Joint Venture, we strongly by the urbanisation process that has so far affected delivered the necessary designs to enable the client to commence one-third of the population.
The market offers great potential construction.
A substantial proportion of our design work on and our approach is to concentrate on infrastructure projects the Red Line is now complete and we are also now engaged in Chinas secondary and tertiary cities, which are likely to on the design of a second line, the Green Line.
Together these attract increasing investment.
KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2007 2006 % CHANGE IN YEAR FINANCIAL METRICS REVENUE 108.2M 67.1 M 61% OPERATING PROFIT 7.2M 3.0 M 140% OPERATING MARGIN 6.7% 4.5% 2.2% PTS WORK IN HAND 64% 78% -14% PTS PEOPLE 1 HEADCOUNT AT 31 MARCH 2,602 1,708 52% 1 AVERAGE HEADCOUNT 2,253 1,548 46% 1.
Headcount is shown on a full-time equivalent basis, including agency staff.
WHAT WE DO AND WHERE WE DO IT BY TURNOVER APPROX % MIDDLE EAST Urban Planning and Design & Building Design 30% Rail 20% Project Supervision and Services 15% Other 5% CHINA Urban Planning & Infrastructure Design 30% WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE TWENTY-FOUR OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Kam Singh Environmental Strategy Manager Asset Management Recently joined Atkins Sue Dunstan Client Director Highways and Transportation 20 years with Atkins Wasim Liaqat Regional Resourcing Advisor Middle East 1 year with Atkins WS ATKINS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 PAGE TWENTY-FIVE
