Directors Report The directors have pleasure in presenting their report together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Principal Activity WSP Group plc is an international business supplying specialist management and integrated services in the built and natural environment.
Operational and Financial Review In accordance with the business review requirements of the Companies Act 1985, the operating and financial review on pages 6 to 25 together with the Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 5 provide information about the Groups strategy, its businesses, and financial performance during the year, together with the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group and likely developments.
Results and Dividends The Group profit after tax for the financial year amounted to 26.8m 2006: 19.2m.
The directors propose a final dividend of 8.0p 2006: 6.0p per share, which, together with the interim dividend of 4.0p 2006: 3.0p per share paid in October 2007, would give a total dividend of 12.0p 2006: 9.0p for the year.
If approved at the Annual General Meeting, which is convened for 7 May 2008, the final dividend will be paid on 9 May 2008 to shareholders on the register of members at the close of business on 11 April 2008.
The shares will be ex dividend from 9 April 2008.
In accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the dividend charge in the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 reflects dividends paid during the year, totalling 10.0p 2006: 7.0p per share.
Directors The directors who served throughout the year were: David Turner Chairman Christopher Cole Chief Executive Malcolm Paul Group Finance Director Stuart McLachlan Executive Director Christopher Stephens Senior Independent Non-executive Director Marisa Cassoni Independent Non-executive Director Mark Rollins Independent Non-executive Director Ernest Sheavills Independent Non-executive Director Biographical details of all directors are set out on pages 32 to 33, and details of directors interests in shares and share options are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 44.
The Companys articles of association set out the rules concerning the appointment and replacement of directors.
In accordance with Article 88 of the Companys articles of association David Turner, who has attained the age of seventy one, will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
In doing so, he will satisfy the Combined Code recommendation for annual re-election.
Also at the Annual General Meeting, Christopher Cole will retire by rotation in accordance with Article 89 of the Companys articles of association and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Other than their service contracts, no director had a material interest in any contract of significance to the Groups business.
Christopher Cole is a non-executive director of Ashtead Group plc, David Turner is chairman of the Advisory Board of the City University, London and a director of the Royal Mail Group Property Board.
During the year these businesses have occasionally procured services from the Group, and the Group has procured goods or services from these companies.
These contracts are conducted on an arms length basis, without the involvement of the relevant director.
The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers.
Share Capital As at 31 December 2007, the Companies authorised share capital of the Company was 5m, divided into 100,000,000 shares of 5 pence each.
At that date, 62,700,994 ordinary shares of 5 pence each had been issued, were fully paid up and were quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The table below summarises the movements in share capital during the year.
WSP Annual Report 2007 35 Directors Report continued Share Capital Ordinary 5p Issue Price Shares Issued share capital at 1 January 2007 61,938,105 Shares issued during the year: Lincolne Scott purchase consideration 726.2p 438,934 The WSP 1997 Share Option Plan options exercised 57.6p 314.4p 101,343 The WSP Deferred Bonus Share Plan options exercised 5p 94,824 The WSP Performance Share Plan options exercised 5p 127,788 Issued share capital at 31 December 2007 62,700,994 A further 12,570 new ordinary shares of 5 pence each have been allotted and issued under employee share option plans since the year end and, as at the date of this report, 62,713,564 shares are in issue.
Rights attaching to shares The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are defined in the Companys articles of association.
Shareholders may change the articles of association by approving a special resolution, requiring a three quarters majority, at a general meeting of the Company.
A shareholder whose name appears on the Companys register of members can choose whether their shares are evidenced by share certificates or held in electronic uncertificated form in CREST, the electronic settlement system in the UK.
Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders may attend any general meeting of the Company and, on a show of hands, every shareholder or their representative who is present at a general meeting has one vote on each resolution and, on a poll, every shareholder or their representative who is present has one vote on each resolution for every ordinary share of which they are the registered shareholder.
A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a show of hands unless before, or on the declaration of the result of, a vote on a show of hands, a poll is demanded by the chairman of the meeting, or by at least five shareholders or their representatives present in person and having the right to vote, or by any shareholders or their representatives present in person having at least 10% of the total voting rights of all shareholders, or by any shareholders or their representatives present in person holding ordinary shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid up equal to not less than one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all ordinary shares.
Shareholders can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim dividends on any class of shares of the amounts and on the dates and for the periods they decide provided the distributable profits of the Company justify such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution of the shareholders, direct that dividends may be satisfied in whole or in part by the distribution of specific assets including paid up shares, debentures or other securities of any other company.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for twelve years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then belong to the Company.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed by the shareholders, divide among the shareholders all or any part of the assets of the Company and he can value any assets and determine how the division shall be carried out as between the members or different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the benefit of the members.
No shareholder can be compelled to accept any asset which would give them a liability.
Voting at general meetings Any form of proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form or where an address has been specified for the purpose of receiving electronic communications in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
No shareholder is, unless the Board decide otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by being a shareholder if he or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested person failed to supply the Company with the information requested within 14 days following the date of service of that notice.
The Board may also decide that no dividend is payable in respect of those default shares and that no transfer of any default shares shall be registered.
These restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of a notice of an approved transfer of the shares or all the information required by the relevant section 793 notice, whichever is the earlier.
36 WSP Annual Report 2007 Transfers of shares The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Board accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: and iii is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
The Companys articles of association impose no further limitations on the holding of ordinary shares in the Company.
Change of control Part VII to Schedule 7 of the Companies Act 1985 requires the Company to identify those significant arrangements to which the Company is party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid, and the effects of any such agreements.
The Groups banking facilities include provisions which require that the Company should notify its bankers in the event of a change of control.
Thereafter, the banks may, within 30 days, cancel the Companys banking facilities and request the immediate repayment of all amounts due to them.
Variation of rights If at any time the capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the special rights attaching to any class may only be varied or revoked either: i with the consent in writing of the holders of at least 75% in nominal value of the issued shares of the class: or ii with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of the class.
The Company can issue new shares and attach any rights to them.
If there is no restriction by special rights attaching to existing shares, rights attaching to new shares can take priority over the rights of existing shares, or the new shares and the existing shares can rank equally, or the existing shares can take priority.
However, the rights of existing shares are deemed to be varied unless the rights expressly allow it by a reduction of paid up capital or if another share of that same class is issued and ranks in priority for payment of dividend or in respect of capital or more favourable voting rights.
Repurchase of Shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 1 May 2007 a special resolution was approved to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of its own ordinary shares.
The authority was not used in the period to 7 March 2008 and a similar resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Any purchases of ordinary shares will be by means of market purchases through the London Stock Exchange and any shares so purchased may be cancelled or may be placed into treasury in accordance with the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury but the Regulations allow shares repurchased by the Company to be held as treasury shares that may be subsequently cancelled, sold for cash or used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The directors consider it desirable for these general authorisations to be available to provide flexibility in the management of the Companys capital resources.
Issue of Shares Also at the Annual General Meeting held on 1 May 2007, an ordinary resolution was approved to renew the directors authority to allot relevant securities pursuant to Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,000,000 representing approximately one third of the ordinary shares then in issue.
Additionally, a special resolution was approved to authorise the directors to dis-apply the statutory pre-emption provisions of Section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 in respect of any rights issue and for cash issues up to an aggregate nominal amount of 154,925 representing approximately 5% of the ordinary shares then in issue.
In addition, and in line with best practice, the Company has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued share capital on a non prorated basis over the last three years.
Similar resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
WSP Annual Report 2007 37 Directors Report continued Significant shareholdings At 7 March 2008 the Company had been notified of the following significant holdings in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Number of Shares Percentage JP Morgan Chase & Co 6,335,432 10.1% Black Rock Inc 4,925,588 7.9% Henderson Global Investors 4,309,783 6.9% Aviva plc 3,071,544 4.9% Standard Life Investments Ltd 2,990,387 4.8% Legal & General Group plc 2,599,299 4.1% Financial Instruments Page 25 of the Operating and Financial Review sets out the Groups approach to financial instruments and financial risk management.
Further detail is set out in note 25 of the financial statements.
Corporate Responsibility and Social, Environmental and Ethical Risks The Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 26 to 31.
The directors consider that only by ensuring effective relationships with all the Groups stakeholders can WSP deliver long term value and satisfaction to its shareholders.
Christopher Cole has ultimate responsibility for health and safety and Stuart McLachlan is responsible for environmental matters.
The Group has established systems of corporate governance, in line with the 2006 Combined Code on corporate governance published by the Financial Reporting Council, details of which are set out on pages 40 to 42.
The Board takes account of risk and reviews the Groups systems of internal control on a regular basis.
Those risks include Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE risks and where significant, controls and policies are in place to manage these risks.
Most directors have received training on various aspects of SEE risk.
As outlined in the Remuneration Report on pages 44 to 49, the executive directors are incentivised to ensure sustainability through share schemes and bonus arrangements that have regard to sustainability issues and the longer term performance of the Group.
Donations During the year the Group made charitable donations of 126,184 2006: 89,754 principally to local charities and foundations serving the communities in which the Group operates.
Included in the above was 26,902 2006: 12,232 donated in the UK.
No political donations were made in Europe 2006: Nil.
Political donations amounting to 151 2006: Nil were made in the USA.
Employees The success of the business depends upon maintaining a highly qualified and well motivated work force and every effort is made to achieve a common awareness of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
Regular communication and consultation with employees is essential and this is achieved by formal and informal meetings, through national intranets, the global internet, and through the distribution of in-house magazines.
WSP recognises the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is a committed equal opportunity employer, engaging employees with broad backgrounds and skills.
Within the limitations of its business, the Groups policy is to appoint disabled persons and to provide training, career development and promotion opportunities within standard terms of employment.
It is also WSPs policy to retain and re-train those employees who have become disabled.
The Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 26 to 31 provides further details of employees and employee relationships.
Research and Development To enable WSP to deliver innovative solutions, we maintain research links in many areas that make it possible for us to apply some of the latest technical solutions to the benefit of our clients.
The sharing of knowledge and innovations is encouraged through the use of the Group common databases, the intranet and other staff communication.
Supplier Payment Policy As a service business, WSPs primary cost base is its professional staff who are paid weekly or monthly in arrears.
Many other costs, such as office rents and insurance, are paid in advance.
In addition, and in common with other businesses in the construction sector, sub-consultants who provide support or specialist services on projects operate on a paid when paid basis.
The terms and conditions of payment for the supply of other capital and revenue items are normally agreed with the supplier.
However, subject to regional practices, and in the absence of any such agreement it is our policy to make payment 60 days after the end of the month in which the suppliers invoice was received.
38 WSP Annual Report 2007 The average number of days credit taken by the Company for trade purchases for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 54 days 2006: 50 days.
Statement of Directors responsibilities for preparing financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with the applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have prepared the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements the directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and IFRSs issued by IASB: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions as necessary.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, as regards the Group financial statements, article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the WSP Group plc website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from that applicable in other jurisdictions.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each of the directors who was a member of the Board at the time of approving the Directors Report confirms that, so far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and that each director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken as a director in order to be aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at the registered offices of the Company at 11 a. m. on 7 May 2008.
Details of the business to be conducted at the Annual General Meeting are contained in the explanatory circular and Notice of Meeting issued to shareholders.
By Order of the Board Graham Bisset Company Secretary 7 March 2008 WSP Annual Report 2007 39
