Board of Directors Christopher Cole C eng FCiBSe MAShRAe centre Chief Executive Chris was first appointed to the Board in 1987 at the time of the WSP IPO.
Following initial training and education, Chris spent the first ten years of his career working for a major contracting and subsequently consultancy business.
He joined WSP in 1972 at its inception, becoming Managing Director in 1987 and Chief Executive in 2001.
He chairs the Performance and Strategy Committees and is responsible for both operational control and the strategic direction of the Group.
Chris maintains significant client contact, together with regular liaison with offices around the world.
He is also Chairman of Ashtead Group plc.
Shareholding: 947,477 Malcolm Paul FCA right Group Finance Director Malcolm was first appointed to the Board in 1987 at the time of the WSP IPO.
After qualifying as a chartered accountant, Malcolm worked in both practice and industry before joining Longcrofts, a city accountancy firm as a partner specialising in corporate finance.
He became Group Finance Director of WSP in 1987.
He is a principal member of the performance and strategy committees.
Malcolm maintains links with the Groups professional advisers and is responsible for the financial control of the Group.
Shareholding: 860,276 Stuart Mclachlan MSc left Executive Director Stuart was appointed to the Board in 2006.
Having worked both as a practising Environmental Consultant and a Manager of a London based Environmental and Testing firm, Stuart joined WSP in 1995 to be responsible for the start-up of the Environmental business.
He became Managing Director of WSP Environmental UK in 1997 and, in 2001, he was appointed Managing Director of WSPs global Environment and Energy business.
Stuart has responsibility for the development of the Environment and Energy business while undertaking a wider Group role.
Shareholding: 22,214 32 WSP Annual Report 2007 David Turner FRiCS Non-Executive Chairman centre David was first appointed to the Board in 1997.
He was chief executive of Barclays Property Holdings Limited from 1991 to 1997 and a divisional director of Barclays Bank.
He is also Chairman of the Advisory Board of the City University, London and a director of a number of private companies.
David has a wealth of knowledge of the property industry and has broad business experience.
He was appointed Chairman of the Board in 2003 and he also chairs the Nominations Committee.
Shareholding: 12,762 Christopher Stephens MA Senior Independent Non-Executive Director left Chris was first appointed to the Board in 2003.
He has many years experience in a range of industries including Consumer, High Technology and Business Services.
Until 2004 he was the Group Human Resources Director of Exel plc now DHL, the global logistics company.
He is a Civil Service Commissioner and holds a number of non-executive positions.
Chris chairs the WSP Remuneration Committee.
Shareholding: 9,341 Marisa Cassoni BSc ACA Independent Non-Executive Director Marisa was appointed to the board in 2006.
She is a chartered accountant and Finance Director of the John Lewis Partnership, having formerly been Group Finance Director of the Royal Mail Group.
Marisa is a member of the Accounting Standards Board, and a non-executive director of GFI Group Inc. Marisa chairs the audit committee.
Shareholding: 6,225 Mark Rollins Beng ACA Independent Non-Executive Director left Mark was appointed to the board in 2006 He is a chartered accountant, and has been Group Finance Director of Senior plc since 2000.
With effect from 17 March he will become its Chief Executive.
He was formerly with The Morgan Crucible Company plc and, before that, with BDO Binder Hamlyn.
Shareholding: 5,000 ernest Sheavills FRiCS ACi Arb Independent Non-Executive Director centre Ernest was appointed to the board in 2006.
He is a chartered surveyor who until his recent retirement was with The Royal Bank of Scotland as Director, Property Development and Asset Management, a position that he held since 1992.
He maintains close contact with, and is an adviser to, a number of property organisations including Edinburgh City Centre Management Company where he is Vice Chairman, and Lothbury Property Trust where he serves on the investment board.
Shareholding: 10,000 Graham Bisset BAcc CA Company Secretary right After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG, Graham filled several senior finance roles before joining WSP in 1993.
He has had broad responsibilities throughout the Group for financial management, systems implementation, risk management and corporate governance.
He was appointed Company Secretary in 2005.
