XCHANGING PLC Board of Directors The Xchanging Boards experience closely aligns with Xchangings industry, geographic and sector operating focus.
It comprises three Executive Directors and nine Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors and their expertise are set out below: John Robins, Age: 69 Adele Browne, Age: 39 Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director of Sales and Commercial Joined the Group in 1999 as a Non-Executive Joined the Group in 1999 and appointed to Director and appointed Group Chairman in the Group Board as Executive Director of Sales 2000.
Formerly Group Chief Executive of and Commercial in October 2005.
Formerly Guardian Royal Exchange plc, Group Financial worked in Corporate Finance at Lazard Director of Willis Corroon plc and Chief Brothers, working on a range of mergers and Executive Officer of Bally Group UK Limited.
Adele started her career at John was the Chairman of Austin Reed Group , where she qualified plc and the Actuaries Lane Clark & Peacock.
Adele is responsible John offers a blend of financial and operating for shaping and structuring the commercial experience with a deep insurance sector focus.
aspects of the Groups partner and customer arrangements.
David Andrews, Age: 58 Chief Executive Officer Nigel Rich, Age: 62 Founded Xchanging and has served as Chief Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Executive Officer of the Group since its Joined the Group Board as Non-Executive formation in 1999.
Formerly a board member Deputy Chairman in November 2006.
Nigel of Andersen Worldwide and the Managing chairs the Group Boards Remuneration Partner of Andersen Consulting West Europe.
Committee and is the Senior Independent David is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Director.
He is Chairman of SEGRO plc, Accountants, a William Pitt fellow of Pembroke Vice-Chairman of Asia House, Co-Chairman College, Cambridge and, until April 2007, of the Philippine British Business Council and a Non-Executive Director to the Supervisory Non-Executive Director of Bank of Philippine Board of Deutsche Brse.
Islands Europe, KGR Absolute Return PCC, Matheson & Co. and Pacific Assets Trust.
Richard Houghton, Age: 49 Formerly Nigel was Managing Director of Chief Financial Officer Jardine Matheson and Group Chief Executive Joined the Group in 1999 and appointed to of Trafalgar House.
Nigel is a chartered the Group Board as CFO in February 2005. accountant and was awarded a CBE in 1995.
Formerly worked at Caradon plc where he was Chief Executive Officer of the Industrial John Bramley, Age: 68 Products Division.
He has lived and worked Non-Executive Director in the USA and Australia and began his Joined the Group Board in 1999 as a career at Esso having graduated in Chemical Non-Executive Director.
John was formerly the Engineering from Cambridge University.
Finance Director of BPs Worldwide Exploration Richard completed an MBA at Harvard and and Production group.
John qualified as a subsequently spent five years working in chartered accountant with Ernst & Young.
His career with BP was financially based and encompassed the upstream, downstream and central activities of the company.
36 Board of Directors ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 o Stephen Brenninkmeijer, Age: 51 Dennis Millard, Age: 58 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Group Board in 2000 as a Joined the Group Board in 2005 as a Non-Executive Director.
Stephen has had Non-Executive Director.
Dennis is the considerable experience in the operational and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He was retail sectors, working for C&A in continental Group Finance Director of Cookson Group plc, Europe, Japan and the UK.
He founded the Finance Director of Medeva plc and was Andromeda Fund part of the Entrepreneurs a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of Fund BV, owned by COFRA Holding AG and the Audit Committee of Exel plc.
Dennis is was founding Chairman of Network of currently Chairman of Smiths News plc, Teaching Entrepreneurship UK NFTE UK.
a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of He is Deputy Chairman of Enterprise the Audit Committee of Debenhams plc, a Education Trust.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee of EAG and a David Hodgson, Age: 51 Non-Executive Director of Premier Farnell plc.
Non-Executive Director He is a member of the South African Institute Joined the Group Board in 1999 as a of Chartered Accountants.
David is a Managing Director of General Atlantic LLC and a Tom Tinsley, Age: 54 member of the firms investment and Non-Executive Director executive committees.
David also serves as a Joined the Group Board in 2000 as a director of a number of companies in the Non-Executive Director.
Tom is currently a computer software and services industry, Managing Director of General Atlantic LLC including ADS, Dice Inc. iFormation Group and also serves on the boards of BMC Holdings, InSight Express, Northgate Software, Philanthropic Research Inc and Information Solutions and Trinet.
He has held various executive positions with Baan Company, NV, a leading Johannes Maret, Age: 57 provider of Enterprise Software Solutions, Non-Executive Director including Chairman and Chief Executive of the Joined the Group Board in 2003 as a Management Board.
Prior to joining Baan, Non-Executive Director.
Johannes is Managing Tom was a director at McKinsey.
Director of Maret GmbH and an Adviser and Non-Executive Director of the investment Notes a.
The Group Board was the Board of Xchanging BV, committee of the Triton fund.
Johannes was a the holding company of the Xchanging Group until partner in, and Chief Financial Officer of, Sal.
Admission to the London Stock Exchange on 30 April Oppenheim jr. & Cie. KGaA, where he was 2007.
On and after such date the Group Board has been the Board of Xchanging plc.
responsible for banking and administration b.
The symbols relate to the various Committees as and a member of the supervisory board of follows: European Transaction Bank.
member of the Audit Committee member of the Remuneration Committee member of the Nominations Committee o member of the Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Board of Directors 37
