XCHANGING PLC Explaining Xchanging continued Our partnerships Partnering maximising value together Partnering is Xchangings unique approach to handling large and complex business processes.
We create a jointly owned company with our partner that we call an Enterprise Partnership EP.
The resources and assets from the partners organisation are transferred into the EP as the basis for creating a commercial business processing platform.
Xchanging has day-to-day operational and Board control of the EP and the partner has representation on the EP Board.
Since its inception, Xchanging has established seven EPs.
We are committed to forming long-term Enterprise Partnerships We offer participation in profit and capital upside with our unique Partnering proposition.
Clive Buesnel, Global Partnering Director, Xchanging 8 Explaining Xchanging Growth ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Successful partnerships in action In September 2006 Xchanging and Aon Ltd, a In November 2007, Xchanging assumed leading insurance broking and risk management operational control of Fondsdepot Bank specialist, agreed an Enterprise Partnership with GmbH from Allianz Global Investors.
Based an initial 10 year service contract to provide in Hof, Germany, Fondsdepot Bank has claims processing and accounting and settlement more than 450 employees providing retail services.
The ground-breaking arrangement investment account management services.
Hof, Germany involves the outsourcing of Aons Client The goal of the partnership is to create a Xchangings offices in Hof will be Operations division.
At the same time the neutral provider of retail investment account a platform for further expansion in retail investment account intention is radical improvement of the way Aon management services that can generate management and other services conducts its business in the London insurance third party sales from other members of the in Germany.
market, connecting the value chain from the German asset management community.
broker right through to the underwriter.
Xchanging has started to employ its low Nearly 500 employees transferred from Aon to cost production approach to optimise the Xchanging with minimal disruption.
At start-up, existing processes and deliver productivity the partnership was business as usual for Aon.
This will enhance the Xchanging immediately assumed operational performance of Fondsdepot Banks services to delivery risk, guaranteed savings to Aon and Allianz Global Investors and will provide a costRomford, UK mobilised an improvement programme.
After effective solution for other asset managers.
Xchangings offices in Romford 18 months the programme has implemented provide the cornerstone for our service monitoring, production management, This exciting new Enterprise Partnership broking utility platform.
quality control, transferred over 180 roles to extends Xchangings reach in the European India and consolidated operations into two Financial Markets sector and provides the sites from four.
scale to give customers high quality retail investment account management services in Benefits for Aon through Partnering addition to those offered by Xchanging in Cost savings and efficiencies in the securities processing.
retained organisation Guaranteed service levels with measurable Benefits for Allianz Global Investors improvements through Partnering Building a broker processing partnership Guaranteed cost savings that others can join Clearly defined service targets Future share of the scale benefits from Operational stability during the third party revenues transition phase Exciting new career opportunities and Early mover advantage in consolidation training for transferring employees of asset management value chain Share of benefits from customer growth in the third party market Aon is aligning around our With this partnership we client needs and core areas of are offering exciting future expertise.
By partnering with prospects for both Fondsdepot Xchanging we will improve Bank and the operations in the overall client experience: Hof.
Moreover, we are leading delivering greater levels of the way for the consolidation service and efficiency, while of an essential part of the offering our transferring asset management valueemployees the opportunity added chain.
Dr Thomas Wiesemann, David Mead, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Operating Officer, Allianz Global Investors KAG Aon UK Explaining Xchanging Growth 9
