ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Growth through our full suite of business process offerings and a rigorous sales approach Xchanging is a pure play business process outsourcing company.
Our go to market strategy is to provide a range of offerings to meet the varying needs of customers for outsourced services.
Our unique offering for dealing with complexity and scale is Partnering.
On top of this we provide four offerings Outsourcing, Products, Straight Through Processing and Business Support, for customer flexibility and repeatability.
In short, a distinctive 1 4 Go to Market Strategy.
Partnering Xchanging addresses complex industry-specific business processing and cross-industry processing in human resources, finance and accounting, technology infrastructure and large-scale procurement.
Our Partnering offering is open book with profit sharing so that our interests are aligned with our partners.
Outsourcing Xchanging takes on business processes or categories of spend where we already have platforms proving our capability and credibility.
Through Outsourcing we scale up our platforms and deliver services to an agreed specification and usage charge or cost baseline.
Products Xchanging supports essential parts of the business processing value chain with application software, such as Genius for international insurance carriers.
Our Products are long-term strategic assets that can be tailored for customers specific needs.
Products enable us to extend our reach both geographically and across the value chain.
Straight Through Processing Xchanging extends the scope of the services delivered to customers, reducing the number of interfaces and where possible automating them.
These additional services extend the process flow that Xchanging is already operating and enable us to maximise the efficiency of the whole process as a result.
Business Support Xchanging offers experts to support specific business activities and customer improvement projects.
Through Business Support, customers have access to Xchangings expertise and re-usable assets.
Business Support includes services such as corporate immigration support, resourcing, programme management and process improvement and Six Sigma training and support.
