ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Our business sectors Business Lines Our Business Lines platforms cover crossTechnology infrastructure Business Lines industry processing services in the areas of During 2007, Business Lines has provided Revenue for the sector human resources, procurement, finance and technology infrastructure services to a number 2004 2007 million accounting and technology infrastructure.
of blue-chip customers and has also supported Business Lines primary customers across the real-time electronic processing several industry sectors include BAE Systems, requirements for Insurance and Financial National Australia Group Europe, United Markets.
In 2008, Xchanging will continue to Biscuits and the NHS.
enhance these services to meet the highest standards in data warehousing, network Wide range of services provided support, data centre operations, business Human resources continuity and disaster recovery.
Business Lines provides general human resources and payroll processing services Highlights of 2007 and support to 1.5 million staff and their Bought out BAE Systems minority stakes 2004 2005 2006 2007 dependants across multiple locations and in the HR and procurement businesses countries.
Through the Ferguson Snell and for 57 million Associates acquisition in 2006, Xchanging Completed a five-year extension to our offers corporate immigration services in the contract with SELEX GALILEO for UK including assistance with visas, work HR services permits, residence permits and naturalisation Signed new payroll outsourcing contracts The buy out of the minority to a wide range of FTSE companies.
with eight NHS trusts through our shareholdings in the HR and partnership with UHB, providing services to procurement partnerships Procurement spend management over 130,000 NHS employees by Xchanging validates Xchanging provides spend management Maintained our Investors in People our strategy to look for services for a range of indirect procurement accreditation and was a finalist in the innovation and value in the spend categories.
Xchanging acts either as an category of Partnership at the Scottish way we operate and in the agent between the customer and the supplier Modern Apprenticeship Awards partnerships that we form.
or as the principal with the supplier, selling the Supported the award of a Grade 2 OFSTED We constantly look for ways goods or services directly to the customer.
rating to BAE Systems for the Apprentice to improve our business Training programme that is delivered by operations in all aspects, Finance and accounting Xchanging HR Services both in the front line and We provide procure-to-pay services for Obtained Sarbanes-Oxley SOX certification in administrative support all processing aspects of the procurement for our procure-to-pay platform functions.
We are delighted supply chain.
These include requisitions, Received IS09001, TickIT Quality Standard that the partnerships with purchase orders and invoices, supplier and ISO27001 Information Security Xchanging have been payments, administration of travel and Standard certification for our Data Centre so successful.
expense reports, purchasing cards, and IT Hosting services maintenance of buying data.
Mike Turner, Chief Executive, BAE Systems Footnotes Figures shown include inter sector revenue.
Explaining Xchanging Our business sectors 19 83.7 143.9 176.1 215.8
