XCHANGING PLC Explaining Xchanging continued Offerings Were growing our platforms through Outsourcing... Products... STP... Business Support... Xchanging Claims Services Xchanging provides four distinctive offerings in addition to Partnering.
These offerings drive are an important catalyst for economies of scale, processing breadth, product depth and know-how across our businesses.
change in the Lloyds market.
They play a critical role in The Xchanging offerings of Outsourcing, Products, Straight Through Processing STP and improving claims management Business Support together form a broad portfolio of compelling value propositions for our performance and recruiting partners and customers.
and developing technical claims resource.
Outsourcing delivers our customers better and cheaper processing and procurement spend.
Products supplies customers with improved solutions for business processes and information Kent Chaplin, requirements.
STP extends the scope of existing services to customers and secures additional Head of Claims, Lloyds processing and spend efficiencies for them.
Business Support provides experts and re-useable Franchise Performance assets to support specific improvement activities in a customers processing operations.
Directorate It is this suite of offerings that enables us to be flexible in meeting the changing needs of our customers as they seek to improve the performance of their back office functions.
10 Explaining Xchanging Growth ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Outsourcing guaranteeing sustainable Products delivering the best solution We have worked together for savings Innovative, lasting and cost-effective six years, taking the provision Compelling price for a specified service Xchangings Product offerings support of HR services to a new level.
quality Xchanging provides a range of essential parts of the business processing value With this partnership we have business processing and procurement spend chain.
We strive to be the supplier of choice the ability to deliver an even Outsourcing offerings to customers.
with attractive solutions to maximise value for better level of service to a money to our customers in the sectors and very demanding customer We use our processing platforms, re-useable platforms we cover.
base in what is an incredibly assets and necessary resources transferred from fast-moving business.
the customer to deliver Outsourcing services.
We leverage our expertise, resources and reThis offering swaps a fixed cost of resources useable assets to provide highly cost-effective Darren Bartholomew, for a more variable use of a priced service for and repeatable product solutions.
We supply, HR Manager for Shared non-core functions, business processes and implement and operate a product support Services, SELEX GALILEO specific spend categories.
We offer economies relationship to assure customer satisfaction.
of scale and service quality advantages beyond the reach of the customer internally.
Our offerings include: Genius, Elgar, Brokasure and IRIS to the Xchangings Outsourcing customers include HR commercial insurance sector internationally, outsourcing to SELEX GALILEO: procurement where the installed base is over Xchanging acted like a Outsourcing for United Biscuits and National 100 customers true partner, understanding Australia Group Europe: securities processing Central Price Service, which provides our needs and delivering a Outsourcing for Citi, Sal.
Oppenheim and prices for financial products and derivatives large, complex enterprise Sparda-Banken: and insurance Outsourcing to the German banking and fund manager application that will help services for AIG, Tokio Marine and QBE.
us serve clients in multiple business segments.
For example, in 2007, our Insurance sector successfully implemented its Brokasure Vibhu Sharma, software solution at Collins, one of the worlds Executive Vice President Straight Through Processing largest re-insurance intermediaries.
This is a and Chief Operating Officer, optimising the value chain significant step in establishing Brokasure in the Collins Entrepreneurial spirit that anticipates new US intermediaries market.
requirements Straight Through Processing generates additional value by extending the scope and nature of the services to encompass more of the customers business processes.
IT Services and Telecom Solutions Business Support applying know-how Xchanging invests in mapping processes and for results The staff at Xchanging procedures beyond the existing scope of Operational problem solving and infrastructure have been very proactive services provided to Partnering and Outsourcing enhancement Xchangings Business Support and helpful in all our customers to identify additional process offering delivers technical expertise and reinteractions with them.
These process usable assets to customers.
It includes Their professionalism extensions allow Xchanging to standardise and providing experts for improving activities in the and speed of response optimise more of the process work flow, business processing value chain, as well as make it a pleasure to automate interfaces and reduce costs.
specific technical services on a transaction by deal with them.
Examples include: For example, in Insurance, we are automating policies and insurance claims review Kevin Collaco, the broking and underwriting interfaces to IT implementation support and Senior HR Manager, streamline the insurance value chain.
In programme management Tech Mahindra addition, through our STP offering, we are permanent and temporary recruitment managing procurement of additional UK corporate immigration services.
temporary contract labour to BAE Systems and providing revised taxation reporting services In 2007, providing corporate immigration for Deutsche Bank.
support to Tech Mahindra is a prime example of a Business Support customer success.
