ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Financial Markets Our Financial Markets platforms cover banking European expansion Financial Markets and asset management operations and Xchanging holds a 10% shareholding in CAD Revenue for the sector software.
Processing services are provided IT, a quoted Italian company.
CAD IT software 2004 2007 million both directly to financial institutions and is widely used in retail securities processing in on their behalf to the end customers.
As European regulatory harmonisation Retail securities processing services are gathers pace in the banking sector, we will undertaken by the Xchanging transaction work with CAD IT to open up the Italian bank Xtb, which has a full German Financial banking business processing market, Services Regulatory Authority BaFin banking leveraging Xchanging and CAD IT assets.
Retail investment account management services are undertaken by Highlights of 2007 Xchanging Fondsdepot Bank, which has Entered into an Enterprise Partnership a partial banking licence.
with Allianz Global Investors for retail investment account management services 2004 2005 2006 2007 Strong customer base in Germany Xchangings major institutional customers Completed the renewal of our retail include Deutsche Bank, Sal.
Oppenheim, Citi, securities processing contract with SpardaSparda-Banken and netbank AG and Allianz Banken and netbank AG in Germany Global Investors.
We conduct our business Extended our STP service offering to all processing services in Germany from our core customers processing centres in Frankfurt and Hof Developed a Business Support offering and through locations in Dusseldorf and providing Six Sigma services to a number In a service provider, we Ludwigsburg.
In addition, certain securities of companies in Germany look for competitive and processing services are provided through Moved elements of German securities transparent pricing and our global processing centre in India.
processing work to India industry leading quality for the services provided.
This Mission-critical securities and retail has led to our decision to investment account management extend our contract with processing Xchanging to 2015.
Our retail securities offerings include trade and corporate event processing, regulatory Dr. Laurenz Kohlleppel reporting, tax and other services.
Retail CEO, Association of investment account offerings include the Sparda-Banken investment account management and trailer and netbank AG fee and sales commission administration.
Footnotes Figures shown include inter sector revenue.
Explaining Xchanging Our business sectors 21 63.0 96.8 96.2 102.9
