XCHANGING PLC Explaining Xchanging continued Global Balancing To offer customers the most efficient, tailored solutions possible, Xchanging offers a mix of on-site, near-shore and offshore facilities collectively these facilities are our Global Balancing production asset.
This balanced approach allows Xchanging to retain processes that are critical to the customer on-site, while transferring other processing to near-shore or offshore facilities where we can maximise the benefits of aggregating processes and of arbitrage through lower cost resources.
Low cost production through balancing operations internationally London, UK Our Global Balancing approach to delivery allows customers to share in the efficiency benefits.
Combining London, Chatham and India, we are delivering the most cost-effective service by balancing lower cost locations with critical processing near to the customer.
Steven Beard, Sector Director Commercial Insurance, Xchanging Capacity Scheduling In Romford, we have implemented the first phase of our Capacity Scheduling toolset methods, training, software, rapidly achieving a 10% improvement in operational productivity in the trial areas.
16 Explaining Xchanging Low cost producer ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 As a company, Xchanging is well positioned to deliver significant value to customers with our offshore operational capabilities.
India is very important in the Groups overall growth and low cost producer strategies as it frees up valuable resources onshore.
Nipun Bhatia, Country Managing Director for India, Xchanging Employees in our operations in Gurgaon, India Global Balancing The Global Balancing of our insurance Xchanging supports its Insurance customers processing means that Xchanging can with a globally balanced combination of genuinely offer services that meet best practice processing locations including the City of for low cost production.
We have moved over London, Chatham, Folkestone, Basildon and 50% of our insurance processing to an Romford, in conjunction with offshore facilities electronic basis in 2007 and this is set to rise Lloyds Building in Kuala Lumpur and India.
Our approach is to during 2008.
We can continue to take Xchanging runs operations and transfer workloads over time from customer advantage of Global Balancing for reaching low serves customers from offices premises to one of our processing centres cost producer status in our core processes, by: located in the heart of the London insurance market.
securing the benefits of labour arbitrage by processing workloads in lower Then, as work packages are standardised and cost locations processes optimised we transfer workloads re-deploying spare capacity at onshore offshore to our Indian processing centres.
sites for processing work that cannot Today about 30% of our insurance processing immediately be taken offshore is handled in India.
This processing work introducing Capacity Scheduling and Work includes insurance policy and premium Flow Control to ensure that the service processing, claims handling, software delivery continues to meet and exceed development and broking back office services.
Work Flow Control As insurance administration moves from paper-based to electronic, Xchanging has invested in Standard Work Flow across our onshore UK and offshore India processing centres allowing instantaneous re-routing of work to where there is capacity.
Explaining Xchanging Low cost producer 17
