ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements of the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Xchanging plc acquired the business of Research and development Xchanging BV and its subsidiaries with The Group incurs development costs in effect from 30 April 2007 through an the design of processes and systems that exchange of equity interests.
Xchanging plc substantially improve those already installed concluded its initial public offering and its in the Enterprise Partnerships, which includes shares were listed on the London Stock business process mapping, process Exchange on the same date.
Research and development is discussed further Principal activity and business review in the Group performance on page 28.
The principal activity of the Group is the provision of a range of complex industryThe amount capitalised in the year in respect specific processing services to the insurance of development expenditure was 4,797,000 and financial markets, as well as procurement, 2006: 2,356,000. finance and accounting, human resources and technology infrastructure services to Charitable donations customers across industries.
The principal Donations towards various international, activity and business review is discussed national and local charities amounted to further on pages 6 to 29.
No donations have been made to political parties.
Before 30 April 2007, the holding company of the Group was Xchanging BV, a private Directors and their interests limited liability company incorporated in the Details of changes to the Board during the Netherlands and domiciled in the UK.
year and up to the date of this report are set out on pages 38 to 39. Business review The Chairmans statement, the Chief Details of Directors service contracts are set Executives review and the report and out in the Directors Remuneration Report on performance reviews for the Groups main page 48. businesses on pages 1 to 37 provide detailed information on the Group and its strategy, The interests of the Directors in the shares the operation of its businesses, and the results and share options of the Company are shown and the financial position for the year ended on pages 48 to 52.
These report on the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Significant agreements change of Group, post balance sheet events and likely control future developments.
The information in this Upon a change of control as variously defined review constitutes the business review required in the respective agreements of Xchanging under the Companies Act and forms part of plc, a number of significant agreements take this Directors Report.
effect, alter or terminate as follows: Results and dividends Customer service agreements The profit for the year attributable to equity Under the terms of the following service shareholders was 15,336,000 2006: agreements, the customer may elect to 10,718,000.
The Directors recommend the continue to receive such services, or payment of a dividend of 2.0 pence per share alternatively give notice to terminate the 2006: nil.
contract for no fee: Directors Report 53 XCHANGING PLC Directors Report continued the agreement for the provision of human terms of the shareholders agreement, resource services by Xchanging HR Services entered into between AGI and Ltd to BAE Systems plc, entered into on Xchanging transaction bank GmbH, 19 April 2001 on 21 August 2007. the agreement for the provision of securities transaction services by Revolving credit facility Xchanging transaction bank GmbH to Under the terms of the 35 million revolving Sal.
Oppenheim Partners jr. & Cie. KGaA, credit facility provided by Lloyds TSB Bank plc entered into on 29 December 2004 LTSB to Xchanging UK Ltd, entered into on the agreement for the provision of 1 March 2007, LTSB may elect to continue to sourcing and procure-to-pay services by provide such facility, or alternatively cancel it Xchanging Procurement Services Ltd and require all monies borrowed under such to National Australia Group Europe Ltd, facility to be re-paid.
entered into on 28 June 2006 the agreement for the provision of claims Share schemes handling, payment and settlement services Under the terms of the Xchanging plc 2007 by Xchanging Broking Services Ltd to Aon Performance Share Plan PSP, all PSP awards Limited, entered into on 9 August 2006. will vest, normally pro rata to the period of time from grant compared to three years, and Enterprise Partnership shareholder subject to satisfaction of the performance agreements conditions at that time.
Under the terms of certain Enterprise Partnership shareholders agreements, the Under the terms of the Xchanging BV Enterprise Partner may elect to exercise Approved Share Option Plan, option holders options over the shares in the enterprise may, with the agreement of the acquirer, partnership, for a call value as variously release their rights under option in exchange defined in the respective agreements and for the grant to them of rights to acquire in one case for nominal value and for a shares of equivalent market value of the put value as defined the agreement.
Under the terms of the Xchanging The agreements are as follows: BV Unapproved Share Option Plan and the Deutsche Bank AG DB may elect to Xchanging BV Unapproved G Share Option call Xchangings shares in Xchanging Plan, option holders under each scheme will, transaction bank GmbH under the terms with the agreement of the acquirer, release of the shareholders agreement, entered their rights under option in exchange for the into between DB and Xchanging Holdco grant to them of rights to acquire shares of No.
3 Ltd, on 26 May 2004 equivalent market value in the acquirer.
Aon Ltd Aon may elect to put its own shares to Xchanging, or call Xchangings Under the terms of the Xchanging plc 2007 shares in Xchanging Broking Services Ltd Executive Share Option Plan, early exercise under the terms of the shareholders of options is permitted based on the level agreement, entered into between Aon of performance up to the date of the and Xpanse Ltd, on 9 August 2006 triggering event.
Allianz Global Investors  mbH AGI may elect to call Xchangings shares in Fondsdepot Bank GmbH under the 54 Directors Report ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Statement of Directors responsibilities so far as each of the Directors is aware, in respect of the financial statements there is no relevant audit information and auditors of which the Companys auditors Company law requires the Directors to prepare are unaware financial statements for each financial year, each of the Directors has taken all the which give a true and fair view of the state of steps they ought to have taken individually affairs of the Company and Group as at the as a Director in order to make themselves end of the financial year and of the profit or aware of any relevant audit information loss of the Group for that year.
In preparing and to establish that the Companys those financial statements, the Directors are auditors are aware of that information.
required to: select suitable accounting policies and Directors indemnities then apply them consistently The Companys Articles of Association provide make judgments and estimates that that the Company may pay for Directors are reasonable and prudent indemnities out of its own assets.
The state whether applicable accounting Company has procured directors and officers standards have been followed, subject insurance for this purpose.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts Share capital prepare the financial statements on At the date of this report, 214,854,304 the going concern basis, unless it is ordinary shares of 5 pence each have been inappropriate to presume that the issued and are fully paid up and are admitted Group and the Company will continue to trading on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights and obligations attaching to the The Directors confirm that they have complied Companys ordinary shares, as well as the with the above requirements in preparing the powers of the Companys Directors, are set financial statements.
out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from The Directors are responsible for keeping Companies House or by writing to the proper accounting records which disclose with Company Secretary.
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and There are no general restrictions on the voting to enable them to ensure that the financial rights attaching to the Companys ordinary statements comply with the Companies shares and the times by which proxies must Act 1985.
They are also responsible for be lodged are specified in the Articles of safeguarding the assets of the Company and Association or on the transfer of ordinary the Group and hence for taking reasonable shares.
No person holds ordinary shares in the steps for the prevention and detection of Company carrying special rights with regard to fraud and other irregularities.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of Legislation in the United Kingdom governing ordinary shares that may result in restrictions the preparation and dissemination of financial on voting rights or on the transfer of ordinary statements may differ from legislation in other shares, save for: i the lock-up arrangements jurisdictions.
described in the Prospectus dated 25 April 2007 note: following the sell down of shares In the case of each of the persons who are by General Atlantic LLC in November 2007, Directors of the Company at the date when their lock-up was extended until release of this report was approved: Xchangings preliminary results for year ended Directors Report 55 XCHANGING PLC Directors Report continued 31 December 2007 : and ii as disclosed in Substantial shareholders the Prospectus, the Executive Directors and As at 25 February 2008, the Company had certain members of senior management, who been notified of the following material or purchased shares from Xchanging BV under notifiable interests in its issued share capital the SPP in February 2007 swapped for shares by persons other than the Directors of in Xchanging plc on listing, may not normally the Company: sell, transfer or otherwise dispose of their Number of shares Percentage shares for a period of 18 months from the date of issue of the original Xchanging BV General Atlantic LLC 39,093,080 18.20% shares.
Unless expressly specified to the Fidelity Investment contrary in the Articles of Association of the Services Ltd 25,886,867 12.05% Company, the Companys Articles of Standard Life Association may be amended by special Investments Ltd 13,120,338 6.11% resolution of the Companys shareholders.
AEGON Asset Management 8,726,073 4.06% The Articles of Association contain provisions Pendragon Capital 6,467,031 3.01% governing the appointment, retirement and removal of Directors.
Under the Relationship Minority interests Deed dated 24 April 2007 between General The minority interests in the Groups Atlantic and the Company, General Atlantic subsidiaries at 31 December 2007 are set has the appointment rights described in the out as follows: Prospectus dated 25 April 2007.
Interest in Xchanging Minority interest Group companies The Articles of Association grant the Company 25% interest in Ins-sure power to purchase its own shares subject to Holdings Limited specific authority being granted by the The Corporation 50% interest in Xchanging shareholders.
An authority to purchase of Lloyds Claims Services Limited ordinary shares was granted at the Annual International General Meeting held on 23 April 2007 and a Underwriting 25% interest in Ins-sure resolution to renew this authority will be Association Holdings Limited proposed at the AGM in 2008, details of which 50% interest in Xchanging are given in the notice of meeting.
The current Aon Limited Broking Services Limited authority is described in the Prospectus dated Deutsche 44% interest in 25 April 2007, as are the authorities granted to Bank AG Xchanging etb GmbH the Directors to allot and issue ordinary shares Sal.
Oppenheim 5% interest in which will be replaced by the authorities to be jr. & Cie. KGaA Xchanging etb GmbH proposed at the AGM in 2008, details of which Allianz Global are given in the notice of meeting.
Investors Kapitalanlagege- 49% interest in sellschaft mbH Fondsdepot Bank GmbH Footnotes Percentages have been updated to reflect current number of shares.
GAP W International, L. P. 0.19% : General Atlantic Partners Bermuda, L. P. 10.53% : GAPstar, LLC 0.73% : General Atlantic Partners 55, L. P. 1.43% : GAP-Xchange Partners, LLC, SCA 2.4% : GAP Coinvestment Partners, L. P. 0.88% : GAP Coinvestment Partners II, L. P. 2.06% : GAPCo GmbH & Co. KG 0.0013%.
56 Directors Report ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 The profits of the Xchanging Group Policy on payment of creditors companies in which the minorities have The Company aims to pay suppliers in an interest are not necessarily shared in accordance with the suppliers contract terms.
proportion to the shareholding interest in The Company had an average of 45 days that company as each of the above purchases 2006: nil days outstanding in trade individual Enterprise Partnerships have a payables during 2007.
As the parent company distinct contractual method of profit share.
of the Group in 2006, Xchanging BV had 47 days purchases outstanding in trade payables.
Employee involvement The Group is committed to providing Policy on financial instruments employees with information on matters of The policy with respect to financial concern to them on a regular basis, so that instruments is covered in the accounting the views of employees can be taken into policy note 2 xiii on pages 65 to 66. account when making decisions that are likely to affect their interests.
Auditors The auditors,  LLP, The Group supports employee share have indicated their willingness to continue ownership and, in addition to the share in office, and a resolution that they be and share option incentive plans for senior reappointed will be proposed at the management, during 2007 all eligible staff Annual General Meeting.
received a gift of 200 shares from the Chief Executive Officer as part of the staff share Going concern participation programme.
The Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate Equal opportunities resources to continue in operation for the The Group is committed to employment foreseeable future.
Accordingly the financial policies which follow best practice based statements set out on pages 58 to 111 have on equal opportunities for all employees, been prepared on the going concern basis.
irrespective of gender, race, colour, disability, marital status, age or religion.
All decisions Annual General Meeting relating to employment practices are objective, The Annual General Meeting of the Company free from bias and based upon work criteria will be held at 34 Leadenhall Street, London, and individual merit.
It is the policy of the EC3A 1AX at 11:30am on 22 May 2008.
The Group to offer appropriate training and notice convening the meeting, together with career development to disabled persons details of the business to be considered and as far as possible that are identical to explanatory notes for each resolution, is other employees, in line with best practice.
It is In the event of a member of staff also available on the Companys website.
becoming disabled every effort is made by the Group to continue employment and arrange By order of the Board appropriate retraining and offer opportunities for promotion.
Gary Whitaker Company Secretary 25 February 2008 Directors Report 57
