XCHANGING PLC Explaining Xchanging continued Improving productivity The Xchanging Way is unique.
Coming from a banking back office environment at Citi and Deutsche Bank, it has helped me to raise production performance, increase service delivery quality and absorb new business volume.
Thomas Runge, Production Director, Xchanging Improving productivity the Xchanging Way Radical improvement is at the heart of the Xchanging business proposition.
It requires defining and delivering a high quality of service and at the same time improving the underlying production.
It needs the flexibility to adapt to changes in our customers businesses over time.
Furthermore, it has to be capable of exploiting economies of scale through additional volumes.
The Xchanging Way is our standardised approach to service, productivity improvement, scaling the platform and performance measurement.
Improvement Pipeline The Improvement Pipeline provides visibility over key productivity improvement initiatives.
The Production Directors Committee conducts monthly progress reviews against preset criteria giving a consistent view of how initiatives are progressing.
14 Explaining Xchanging Low cost producer ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Radical improvement Xchanging transaction bank Xtb status.
In particular, Xtb focused on Process We appreciate working with The Xtb partnership officially began in June Flow Optimisation, mapping over 1,000 process Xchanging as we make a 2004.
It embraced the Deutsche Bank flows and running improvement projects.
joint and constant effort to securities processing, undertaken by the Capacity Scheduling and Work Flow Control meet and exceed the European Transaction Bank, a former whollywere introduced to maximise staff resource requirements and high owned subsidiary of Deutsche Bank.
The usage and to re-allocate work among teams.
implementation of the partnership with Xchanging started in early 2004 by baselining Since then, the journey has moved to Dr. Michael Welker, of the costs and outputs, resulting in the continuous improvement with an emphasis on COO Private Wealth Production Definition for resources and Global Balancing.
Work has gradually been Management, Deutsche Bank the Service Definition for customer delivery.
transferred from Germany to India.
Today, over These definitions were the starting point for 170 Xchanging employees in India support a 12 month re-alignment change programme.
Xtb, many of whom are fluent German During this programme: speaking graduates from the Goethe-Institut Six Sigma methodology was introduced in Delhi.
In 2008, our new facility at Hof on with intensive training and a series of the German Czech border will give an added improvement projects dimension to low cost production through The working environment was upgraded Global Balancing for German-speaking to an open plan arrangement allowing processing and service requirements.
consolidation of the 800 staff into one In Xchanging we have found building the Sossenheim office complex In line with the Xchanging objective of an extremely strong strategic The performance hub was established for re-deploying spare capacity, Xchanging has partner.
The flexibility and interactive video-connection with the other invested in selling Xtb business processing good service they provide are Xchanging global processing centres in the services to new customers.
Examples include: critical to us, add value to our UK and India Outsourcing service offering to Citi and business and help strengthen The functional organisation was re-aligned Sal.
Oppenheim for retail securities our position as an integrated into the standard Xchanging performance processing asset management and management functions Service, STP service offerings to Deutsche Bank, investment bank with an Production, Quality, Sales, Relations and such as staff share programme processing international focus.
for institutional customers Central Price Service Product sales to Siegfried Grohs, Following the re-alignment change programme, German banks.
Managing Director, the journey continued with a 24 month Head of Operations and IT, streamlining phase to attain low cost producer Sal.
Oppenheim jr. & Cie. KGaA Standard Work Packages In Germany, Xchanging has documented over 800 work packages across the Financial Markets sector.
Standardisation of these packages is underway, generating efficiencies and cost savings.
Explaining Xchanging Low cost producer 15
