ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Low cost producer through productivity improvement, Global Balancing and performance measurement As a pure play business processor, Xchanging focuses on operational efficiency.
Our production directors work together, generating a constant pipeline of opportunities to lower costs and raise production quality.
We have seven types of production assets for achieving and maintaining best practice across our operations internationally.
In summary, our strategy for low cost production best practice encompasses: Production Definition for baselining productivity We establish the baseline of resources and sources of supply to achieve a given result.
The baseline identifies how the production is delivered and measured, together with the associated cost.
The As-Is baseline is the documented foundation against which productivity improvement opportunities are considered and from which the Should-Be target is agreed.
Optimised Process Flows for reducing cycle times We map the throughput of work at the summary level, then mapping continues at subsequent levels of detail.
The detailed process flows identify non value-added processing and re-work loops, which we gradually eliminate to reach an optimised process flow from the summary to the detailed level.
Standard Work Packages for eliminating duplication We group the multiple tasks in a set of work packages, which have a measurable set of inputs, clearly identified data and tools to complete the tasks, and a measurable set of outputs.
Then we gradually eliminate work package variability across process flows and also within the same process flow.
Capacity Scheduling for maximising resource usage We predict workload, based on historical throughput patterns and estimate resources to handle the required throughput to meet the agreed service time delivery standards.
The capacity schedule plans the future workload throughput, records the actual workload processed, measures the resource utilisation and calculates efficiency.
Work Flow Control for managing throughput effectively We bring the Optimised Process Flows, the associated Standard Work Packages and the planned capacity utilisation together and track the actual volume of work moving through the process.
Work Flow Control predicts bottlenecks, backlogs and re-routes work to avoid service non-compliance and to maximise efficiency.
Global Balancing for driving cost efficiency Strategically, we take advantage of labour cost differentials, high levels of education and the availability of larger pools of relevant skilled people around the world.
Tactically, Global Balancing matches relevant spare capacity with capacity shortfalls to optimise the use of available resources.
Improvement Pipeline for enhancing EBIT We identify and implement productivity improvement opportunities.
The Production Resource Control Committee assesses the cost savings potential and monitors implementation progress.
It measures performance improvements and focuses investment to achieve the greatest EBIT improvement.
Explaining Xchanging Low cost producer 13
