XCHANGING PLC Explaining Xchanging We provide a range of complex industry-specific processing services to the insurance and financial markets, as well as procurement, finance and accounting, human resources and technology infrastructure services to customers across industries.
The following pages illustrate the market opportunity, our plans for growth and our approach as a low cost producer.
These elements work together through our business sectors to ensure we become the worlds leading pure play BPO company.
Our market opportunity Projected worldwide BPO spending US$ billion Sustainable high growth CAGR 2007 2011 14.3% The combined value of the human resources, finance and accounting, and procurement BPO markets globally was estimated to be US$36 billion in 2007.
This is forecast to grow at 14.3% over the next four years.
2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 The BPO opportunity is substantial and IDC predicts a 14.3% market growth rate to 2011.
The economic environment is constraining many companies growth, requiring them to focus more attention and investment on their core business.
At the same time, there is a compelling need to drive down costs and reduce investment in their back office processing against a background of increased regulation.
Many companies have already secured the more easily achievable back office cost savings and their internal economies of scale have peaked.
Outsourcing resolves this conflict through guaranteed cost reductions, investment in shared platforms and improved service quality.
Service provision across geographic or functional boundaries creates economies of scale.
Due to our strong track record and international footprint, Xchanging is one of the few BPO companies able to deliver these benefits to customers.
Footnotes Source: IDC, Worldwide and U. S. Business Process Outsourcing 2007 2011 Forecast: Market Opportunities by Horizontal Business Process, Doc#208290, September 2007.
The graph shows total spend for HR, procurement, and finance and accounting in the Americas, EMEA, and Asia Pacific.
