XCHANGING PLC Our management team The Xchanging Management Board XMB is responsible for developing and delivering the strategy, the three-year plan and the annual budget.
It meets fortnightly to assess revenue and operational performance.
The team brings a wealth of experience of the BPO market, industries and geographies.
Adele Browne Chief Executive Officer Executive Director of Sales and Commercial Founded Xchanging and CEO since inception.
Joined Xchanging in 1999 and is Executive Prior to Xchanging he was the Managing Director of Sales and Commercial, responsible Partner for Accentures West Europe business.
for shaping and structuring the commercial He built up their BPO business.
As such he led aspects of the Groups partnering and the successful accounting outsourcing for British customer arrangements.
Prior to joining Petroleum, the operational outsourcing and Xchanging, Adele worked in Corporate technology replacement for the London Stock Finance at Lazard Brothers, working on a Exchange and the trading systems at Deutsche range of M&A deals.
She started her career at Brse.
David is a Fellow of the Institute of , where she qualified Chartered Accountants, has an MA in Finance as a chartered accountant.
She graduated from Sheffield University and is William Pitt from the University of Bristol in mathematics.
fellow of Pembroke College, Cambridge.
Richard Houghton Sector Director Financial Markets Chief Financial Officer Joined Xchanging in 2000 and is Sector Director Joined Xchanging in 1999 and was appointed of Xchangings Financial Markets, responsible for CFO, with responsibility for Finance, Legal and delivering the sector strategy and financial Group Implementation, in September 2003. performance.
Before joining Xchanging, Mike Before joining Xchanging, Richard was Chief commenced his career in financial services with Executive Officer of the Industrial Products Accenture, spending three years in Russia.
He has lived and He then moved to become European Head worked in the USA and Australia and began of Project Services at Credit Suisse, responsible his career at Esso having graduated in for implementing a series of cross-functional Chemical Engineering from Cambridge projects to improve the banks control University.
He completed an MBA at Harvard environment and cost efficiency.
Mike is a and subsequently spent five years at McKinsey.
chartered management accountant and graduated from the University of Bristol in 1988.
Clive Buesnel Sector Director Commercial Insurance Global Partnering Director Joined Xchanging in 2002 and is currently Joined Xchanging in 2000, he is currently the Sector Director Commercial Insurance, Global Partnering Director responsible for responsible for delivering the sector strategy co-ordinating Xchangings approach to and financial performance.
Steven started his business relations and driving key Enterprise career in finance and has held director level Partnering sales opportunities.
Prior to positions in insurance, technology and venture Xchanging, Clive was Global Head of capital companies.
Prior to joining Xchanging, Marketing IT at British American Tobacco.
Stevens previous roles included Finance He spent seven years at Accenture and was a Director of a division of XL Capital and Business Systems Manager at Mars Inc. Clive Executive Director and CFO of a venture capital holds an engineering degree from Brunel plc.
Steven is a Fellow of the Association of University and completed the General Manager Chartered Certified Accountants.
Programme at Harvard Business School.
Melissa Pitt Sector Director Business Lines Group HR Director Joined Xchanging in 2000 and is Sector Joined Xchanging in 2003.
She is Group HR Director Business Lines, responsible for Director responsible for HR strategy and delivering the sector strategy and financial delivery across the Group.
Prior to Xchanging, David was Xchanging, Melissa was with KPMG Group Purchasing Director at Caradon plc, Vice Consulting in the Mergers and Acquisition President of Global Purchasing, at Smithkline Integration Practice, focusing on training, Beecham and Group Purchasing Director IT cross-cultural re-alignment, communications for National Westminster Bank plc.
She has a degree in English past president of the Chartered Institute of literature from Dundee University.
He has a degree in Business Studies and holds a Diplme Suprieur fide La Chambre fide Commerce fide Paris.
