XCHANGING PLC Explaining Xchanging continued Insurance Insurance Our Insurance platform is one of the leading Highlights of 2007 Revenue for the sector providers of BPO services and software in Achieved the first two sales of our new 2004 2007 million international commercial insurance markets.
Genius for Re-Insurance G4RI product In 2007, the Group handled over four million for Bermudian re-insurers insurance premium and claim transactions Delivered a combined software and between brokers and underwriters operating services processing solution to Lloyds in marine, aviation and non-marine sectors of new Chinese re-insurance business the London insurance market, having a Implemented our first US sale of Brokasure combined value of over 45 billion.
our wholesale broking product to Collins, a significant US domiciled re-insurance broker An evolving market Signed a memorandum of understanding We believe that we are well placed to with partner RI3K to build an end to end capitalise on the transition from paper-based processing platform for Bermudas processing to electronic processing in the re-insurance market 2004 2005 2006 2007 London insurance market.
In 2007, we have Successfully completed the re-alignment added capabilities to continue the momentum of our partnership with Aon for broking for change in 2008, supporting electronic services which we won in September processing in commercial insurance markets 2006.
Already we have added third party internationally.
Xchanging divides its insurance business to this partnership and are products and services into four categories: actively working towards building the complex processing premium processing, international broking processing platform Xchanging Broking Services claims processing and agreement, claims has had a very good year.
agreement for followers, policy checking, They have overcome real signing and sealing service, policy challenges and managed a preparation safe transition from internal market infrastructure market repository, back office to stand-alone messaging, data warehouse service provider.
We very accounting and settlement premium much appreciate all the hard settlement, claim settlement, accounting, work of the management payment team and all the staff who software and related business support have made this successful.
John Cullen, International operations Chief Financial Officer, We provide insurance services from locations Aon UK in the UK, India, the United States and Malaysia.
The offshore operations have grown rapidly over the past two years and currently support the business by handling software development, policy, premium, claims and accounts processing services.
In addition, we have an agreement with a third party supplier for a number of broking related processing services.
Footnotes Figures shown include inter sector revenue.
20 Explaining Xchanging Our business sectors 109.7 116.9 135.7 164.7
