Babcock International Group PLC 24 Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors and Company Secretary Gordon Campbell CBE Chairman Mr Campbell has served on the Board since 10 October 2000 when he was appointed as Group Chief Executive, and from 2001 to August 2003 he was Executive Chairman: with the separation of the roles of Chief Executive and Chairman on 1 August 2003 he became part-time Chairman.
Mr Campbell is Chairman of British Nuclear Fuels plc and Chairman of Jupiter Second Split Trust plc.
He is also a non-executive Director of HSS Hire Service Holdings Ltd, Accsys Technologies plc and Jsst Securities Limited.
He is a former Vice President of the Royal Academy of Engineering.
He is chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Board.
Mr Campbell was last re-appointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2004 and will be retiring and offering himself for reappointment at the companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Age 60 The Rt Hon Lord Alexander Hesketh KBE Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Lord Hesketh joined the Board on 6 October 1993 becoming non-executive Deputy Chairman on 26 April 1996.
He is Chairman of British Mediterranean Airways Limited and is also a Director of a number of other private companies.
He was Government Chief Whip in the House of Lords from 1991 to 1993 and, prior to that, was Industry Minister at the Department of Trade and Industry.
He was reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2006.
Having served for more than nine years, he will, in accordance with the Combined Code, offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in July.
Age 56 Peter Rogers Group Chief Executive officer Mr Rogers joined the group as Chief Operating officer on 1 June 2002 and was appointed to the Board on 13 June 2002.
On 1 August 2003 he became Group Chief Executive officer.
He is a former Director of Courtaulds plc and Acordis BV.
Mr Rogers was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
Age 59 William Tame Group Finance Director Mr Tame joined the Board as Group Finance Director on 25 January 2002.
He is a former Finance Director of Scapa Group PLC and is currently a non-executive director of Carclo PLC.
Mr Tame was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
Age 52 John Rennocks Independent non-executive Director: Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and nominated Senior Independent Director Mr Rennocks joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 13 June 2002.
He is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC and is Chairman of Diploma Plc, Nestor Health Care Group plc and Intelligent Energy Holdings PLC and is a non-executive Director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC, JP Morgan Overseas Investment Trust PLC, Wagon PLC, Inmarsat plc and Gyrus Group PLC.
As well as being Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee, Mr Rennocks is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee.
He was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2005.
Age 61 Dipesh Shah OBE Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Mr Shah joined the Board as a non-executive Director on 15 June 1999.
He is Advisory Chairman of HgCapital Renewable Power Partners Llp and was non executive Chairman of Viridian Group PLC.
He is a former Chief Executive of the United Kingdom Atomic Energy Authority.
He was also formerly a Chief Executive officer of various businesses within BP and was a member of the DTIs Renewable Energy Advisory Committee and UK Panel for European Environmental Awards.
As well as being Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Shah is a member of the companys Audit and Risk, and Nominations Committees.
Age 54 Sir Nigel Essenhigh GCB Independent Non-Executive Director Sir Nigel Essenhigh joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 4 March 2003 and is a member of the companys Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Until his retirement from the Royal Navy in late 2002, he was First Sea Lord and Chief of Naval Staff.
He is a non-executive Director of the Defence Science and Technology Laboratory and acts as an advisor to the Northrop Grumman Corporation.
Sir Nigel was last reappointed as a Director of the company at its Annual General Meeting in July 2006.
Age 62 Justin Crookenden Independent Non-Executive Director Mr Crookenden joined the Board as a non-executive Director with effect from 1 December 2005.
As a qualied Chartered Accountant, he spent 17 years in investment banking, initially with UBS, moving to Barclays fide Zoete Wedd in 1990, which was acquired by Credit Suisse First Boston CSFB.
During his career he headed the teams responsible for International Equity Execution and UK M&A and his last role at CSFB was as Managing Director UK Investment Banking.
Mr Crookenden is a member of the companys Remuneration, Audit and Risk and Nominations Committees.
He was reappointed at the companys Annual General Meeting in July 2006.
Age 44 Albert Dungate Company Secretary Mr Dungate was appointed as Group Company Secretary and General Counsel on 1 February 2002.
A solicitor, he was formerly General Counsel and Company Secretary of Arjo Wiggins Appleton PLC.
Mr Dungate is Secretary to the companys Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
