Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 | 91 Xstrata Technology Services supports the processes involved in mining.
new Isa Convert furnace, following the It comprises Xstrata Technology, based in Brisbane, a specialist technology start-up of their ISASMELT furnace in XTech Technology and solutions provider to the global mining industry: and, since the acquisition 2006.
The Isa Convert furnace is the first Services of Falconbridge in late 2006, Xstrata Process Support, based in Sudbury, of its kind to be constructed and is which provides technological support to Xstratas own operations.
During 2007, Xstrata designed to produce 50,000 tonnes per Process Support has extended its services to third-party customers, in line with its strategy annum of blister copper.
It improves the of becoming a self-sustaining, commercial technology services business unit.
environmental performance of copper smelting, compared with the conventional Xstrata Technology increases the efficiency of mineral grinding Peirce Smith converter technology.
Xstrata Technology continued to experience and processing.
Demand for this product strong demand for its products in 2007, with grew rapidly in 2007 as the IsaMill Jameson Cell revenue increasing by 81% compared to technology moved from niche fine The Jameson Cell is a high-intensity 2006.
Xstrata Technologys results in 2007 grinding to mainstream grinding flotation technology which is used to demonstrate the successful integration of applications in response to market develop more efficient flotation circuits.
the KIDD technologies from Falconbridge demand.
Total installed capacity more Business continued to be strong, with into the product portfolio.
Following the than doubled during 2007.
The orders for coal and increasingly base further integration of Xstrata Process mainstream mineral grinding market metals applications.
The successful Support and the formation of Xstrata offers significant opportunities for a more commissioning of the technology at Technology Services, the business unit is now energy efficient grinding technology such TeckComincos Red Dog mine, an order very well positioned to provide the mining as IsaMill, which is being recognised by from Oxianas Prominent Hill and numerous industry with additional core equipment orders from major mining companies, and promising test programmes have shown choices underpinned by Xstrata Technologys installations across the world include the growing interest by base metals design and operating expertise.
In 2007, Africa, Australasia, central and south east producers for the Jameson Cell.
demand grew for technology packages.
Xstrata Technology is uniquely positioned to Tankhouse Technology ISAPROCESS meet this demand and its order book ISASMELT and KIDD PROCESS remains strong into 2008 and beyond.
In 2007, the copper smelter Buoyant market conditions continued modernisation project at Southern Peru throughout 2007 for both ISA and KIDD Albion Process Copper Corporation SPCC was technology offerings.
The group realised a The Albion Process is a low cost, simple successfully completed, representing the 42% increase in revenue in 2007, the first atmospheric leach process to recover first application of ISASMELT technology full year for the combined ISA and KIDD metals from refractory ores.
Demand for in Latin America.
The furnace replaced technologies, following the Falconbridge the technology grew in 2007, with 21 two reverberatory furnaces and a Teniente acquisition.
There were record cathode work programmes completed and Converter while cutting plant emissions, sales from the Townsville manufacturing numerous studies conducted, for both especially sulphur dioxide, and allowing facility and the Calama site in Chile, where Xstrata businesses and other major mining SPCC to meet new Peruvian cathodes are manufactured under licence.
Licence agreements have been environmental regulations.
The growing signed with Dominica Gold and European acceptance of the technology in the Xstrata Process Support XPS Goldfields, and construction of the first region was confirmed by the signing of an Demand from Xstratas operations continued plant is under way at Las Lagunas in the ISASMELT agreement for Doe Run to be strong for Xstrata Process Supports Dominican Republic to recover refractory Peru's La Oroya smelter.
External customers accounted for gold from tailings.
lead ISASMELT and a copper 10% of total revenue in 2007: this ISASMELT furnace commenced at proportion is expected to increase as Xstrata IsaMill Kazzinc in Kazakhstan, the first site to Process Support continues to commercialise IsaMill Technology is a revolutionary install two furnaces concurrently.
From 1 January 2008, grinding technology that significantly Copper Mines has also agreed to install a Xstrata Process Support financial results will 92 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Operating Review | Technology Services Financial Data Statutory Statutory Year ended Year ended $m 31.12.07 31.12.06 Revenue 217 120 EBITDA 47 26 Depreciation and amortisation 4 4 EBIT 43 22 Capital employed 22 46 Capital expenditure 4 2 This data applies only to Xstrata Technology.
During 2007, Xstrata Process Support was integrated into the newly formed Xstrata Technology Services.
From 1 January 2008, Xstrata Process Support will be accounted for within Xstrata Technology Services.
be included in Xstrata Technology Services gains at the Montcalm operations after Process Control reporting.
Process Mineralogys process survey In 2007, Process Control provided services recommendations were implemented.
in process control development for XPS provides high value technical services mineral and metallurgical processes through four separate groups: Extractive Metallurgy primarily to Xstrata Nickel and Xstrata Extractive Metallurgy provides expert Coppers global operations.
Significant Process Mineralogy pyrometallurgical and hydrometallurgical production gains were achieved at Raglan Process Mineralogy is a mineral processing services to smelters and refineries.
In through the introduction of automatic mill and mineral science group that utilises 2007, Extractive Metallurgys primary feed control and the Sudbury operations quantitative mineralogy, sampling, statistics client was Xstrata Nickel, where key areas achieved optimum throughput.
Electric arc and flotation test work to maximise metal of value creation and risk mitigation were furnace controllers reduced average recoveries to add value to new mine implemented at the Falcondo ferronickel power deviation at the Falcondo nickel projects and existing operations.
Process smelter, the Araguaia laterite project, the smelter and substantial process control Mineralogy helped to increase the net Sudbury smelter and through supporting improvements developed at the Kidd present value of Xstrata Nickels Kabanga the business development group in operations.
The Process Control group project by improving flow sheet Toronto.
Extractive Metallurgy also also provided assistance to the Altonorte development and advancement, supported provided pyrometallurgical assistance to and Mount Isa smelters.
At the Xstrata Copper at Mount Isa and Raglan concentrator, Process Mineralogy hydrometallurgy test work was completed Materials Technology improved metal recoveries through for the Altonorte operation.
Materials Technology provides materials xanthate trials and achieved production of construction selection, equipment construction specifications, quality assurance, plant reliability inspections and A wireless pen-table system at Minera Alumbreras drill core storage facility root cause failure analyses.
Materials Technology makes important ongoing contributions to asset management, plant reliability and safety, particularly for sulphuric acid plants, storage tanks, and process equipment subject to high temperature and wear.
Materials Technology expanded established client bases at Xstratas Canadian and Chilean operations in 2007 to include Mount Isa in Australia and a number of external clients.
