16 | Xstrata plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Business overview From its initial public offering in March 2002, Xstrata has pursued a strategy of acquisition-led and organic growth to become one of the worlds largest mining companies, with a meaningful position in seven major commodity markets, over 56,000 employees including contractors, and operations and projects in 18 countries.
Xstrata plc is listed on the London and Swiss Stock Exchanges and the Group is headquartered in Zug, Switzerland.
At the end of 2007, the Groups market capitalisation had grown to approximately US$68 billion 34 billion.
An overview of Xstratas operations and commodity businesses is provided on the inside cover of this report.
As a FTSE100 diversified mining company, Xstratas key competitors are Anglo American plc, BHP Billiton plc and Rio Tinto plc.
A broader industry peer group is used to benchmark remuneration and other policies.
In addition to the three London-listed peer companies the industry peer group comprises Alcoa Inc, Arch Coal Inc, Coal & Allied Industries Ltd. Elkem ASA, Eramet SA, Grupo Mexico SA fide CV, Korea Zinc Inc, Lonmin plc, Norddeutsche Affinerie AG, Peabody Energy Corp, Teck Cominco Ltd and Umicore SA.
Xstratas activities are organised into five major commodity business units, each of which is fully resourced to function as an autonomous business.
Xstrata also owns an industry-leading metals extraction and minerals processing technology business.
Xstrata differentiates itself from its industry peers by devolving maximum responsibility and authority to its commodity businesses.
Each business unit is accountable for its EBIT and all aspects of its operations from exploration to post-closure remediation and bolt-on acquisitions, within defined authority levels and within the Groups sustainable development and governance framework.
We believe this approach directly benefits our operations by creating a strong sense of local ownership, where entrepreneurial managers are empowered and incentivised to address site-specific challenges and seize opportunities to create value.
Xstratas commodity businesses are supported by a small corporate centre, split between the head office in Zug, Switzerland and the registered office in London, United Kingdom.
Strategy Xstratas primary strategic aim is to create superior shareholder value by growing and managing a diversified portfolio of mining and metals businesses.
Our Mission recognises that, to continue to grow and create value over the long term, we must operate in a responsible, ethical and transparent way, forming mutually beneficial partnerships with our stakeholders.
From its inception through an IPO on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Multiple platforms for growth and value creation Xstrata recognised the value of creating a diversified, growing mining group Corporate centre with a vast array of world-class brownfield and greenfield internal growth Transforming Transactions options and further acquisitive opportunities.
Xstrata has pursued this aggressive growth and diversification strategy through transformational Entry Into New Commodities acquisitions, bolt-on additions and developing new production from the portfolio.
Business units At the Group level, Xstratas strategy remains focused on participating in Bolt-on Acquistions ongoing industry consolidation, through transformation acquisitions and through facilitating the Groups entry into new commodities.
Superior Organic Growth Brownfield Shareholder Value Consolidation is also taking place within each commodity sector and Organic Growth Greenfield Xstratas commodity businesses are well positioned to continue to play an active role in this process, following on from over $6 billion of bolt-on NPV Enhancement and acquisitions completed in 2007 and early 2008.
Xstratas commodity Operational Excellence businesses will also achieve lower risk, higher return organic growth through the ongoing development of the Groups exceptionally
