qxp 11 6 07 12:24 Page 62 Directors reports The Board Bob Scott, Chairman John Condron, Chief Executive Officer John Davis, Chief Financial Officer Bob 65 is currently a non-executive John 57 began his career with Yell, then John Davis 45 has been Chief Financial director of the Royal Bank of Scotland a part of BT, in 1980 as a member of the Officer of Yell Group plc since 2000.
Group plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson marketing team.
He was appointed as He previously held positions within Pearson Group plc, Pension Insurance Corporation Marketing and Sales Controller in 1987 plc, where he was latterly Group Finance Holdings LLP and Crimestoppers Trust.
He and in 1992 took on additional Director of the FT Group, and Emap plc, is also a non-executive director of Swiss responsibility as Managing Director of which he joined in 1989 and where he was Reinsurance Company, Zurich.
Bob retired Yellow Pages Sales Ltd, the wholly-owned Director of Corporate Finance and Treasury as Group Chief Executive of CGNU plc sales subsidiary.
John was appointed between 1995 and 1997.
John is a Chartered now Aviva in 2001, having previously held as Managing Director of the Yellow Pages Accountant, having qualified at the same position with CGU plc and Group in 1994 and continued as CEO of the , and has a General Accident plc, where he had been Yell Group on its sale by BT in 2001.
John is a Masters in Management from the Stanford a director since 1992.
He was also chairman graduate of Queens University, Belfast and Graduate School of Business.
He was of the Association of British Insurers in has served as Chairman of the Directory appointed a non-executive director of 2000 to 2001, having been a board Publishers Association, Chairman of the Informa plc in October 2005. member for four years and he was a Jurors for the EFQMs European Quality member of the Presidents Committee Awards and as a member of the of the CBI from 1998 to 2000.
Governments Advisory Committee on Advertising.
John is also a member of the Nomination Committee.
62 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Directors reports Yell AR07 pp061-p074 UK.
qxp 11 6 07 12:25 Page 63 Directors reports continued John Coghlan Joachim Eberhardt Lyndon Lea John 49 is Chairman of Inchcape Shipping Joachim 43 is currently the Executive Lyndon Lea 38 is a founding partner Services and a non-executive director of Vice President of Global Sales, Marketing of Lion Capital and is responsible for its DX Group, both private equity-owned and Service for DaimlerChrysler Motors LLC management.
Prior to founding Lion businesses.
He is also involved with a in the US.
Until 1 June 2003 he was Capital in 2004 he was a partner of number of other, smaller private President and CEO of DaimlerChrysler Hicks, Muse, Tate & Furst whose European companies and is a director and Hon.
UK Limited, a position he held from business he co-founded in 1998.
Previously, Treasurer of The Freight Transport November 1999. he served at Glenisla, the European affiliate Association in the UK.
of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Co.
Prior to He is currently a non-executive director that, he was an investment banker with John is former Deputy Chief Executive and of a number of DaimlerChrylser owned Schroders in London and also in the Group Finance Director of Exel plc, where subsidiaries.
Joachim holds a Master of Arts mergers and acquisitions department of he spent eleven years.
Prior to Exel Ocean degree from the Academy for Goldman Sachs in New York.
He received Group plc, he spent seven years with Administration and Economics in Stuttgart, his BA from the University of Western Tomkins plc in various financial roles, Germany and an MBA from New York Ontario, Canada in 1990. having joined them after eight years with University Stern School of Business.
Arthur Andersen, where he qualified as a Lyndon currently serves on the boards of Joachim Eberhardt is Chairman of the Chartered Accountant.
John is a graduate Aber Diamond Corporation which is listed Remuneration Committee and also sits of University College Cork.
in Toronto, Weetabix Limited, Wagamama on the Audit Committee.
Group Limited, Orangina B. V. La Senza Ltd, John chairs the Audit Committee and is a Kettle Foods Group and American Safety member of the Nomination Committee.
Lyndon Lea chairs the Nomination Committee and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in November 2005.
Lord Powell of Bayswater Richard Hooper Tim Bunting Lord Powell 65 is Chairman of Louis Richard Hooper 67 has just stepped Tim Bunting 43 is a partner at Benchmark Vuitton Moet Hennessy LVMH in the UK down from being Chairman of Informa plc Capital.
Prior to joining Benchmark, Tim and of Safinvest Limited.
He is a director after nine years on the Board.
He is a was a Partner at Goldman Sachs where of a number of international companies non-executive director of AIM-listed i-mate he spent 18 years.
At Goldman, Tim held including Caterpillar, Textron, LVMH, plc.
From 2002 to 2005 he was deputy various roles including Global Head of Schindler Group, Mandarin Oriental Hotel Chairman of Ofcom and Chairman of its Equity Capital Markets 2002 to 2005 Group and Northern Trust Global Services.
From 2000 to 2004 he and Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs was Chairman of the Radio Authority.
Tim is a He is President of the China-Britain Business Previous directorships include MAI plc, Governor of Wellington College and a Council, Chairman of the Oxford University United News & Media, Superscape plc Trustee of the Rainbow Trust Childrens Business School, Chairman of Atlantic and IMS Group plc.
Tim holds a Master of Arts degree Partnership and a Trustee of the British from Cambridge University.
He is a cross-bench member of Richard Hooper was appointed to the the House of Lords and Chairman of the Audit Committee in May 2007.
Tim was appointed to the Remuneration All Party Parliamentary Group on Committee in May 2007.
Lord Powell is our senior independent Director and a member of the Audit Committee.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 63
