qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 06 Business review CEOs strategic overview Heres to our strategy John Condron Chief Executive Officer 1.
What we aim to achieve Our business Simplicity Yell is a leading international directories company, putting buyers in touch with sellers in the UK, US, Spain and Latin America.
Sellers our advertisers are a relatively stable base of primarily small and medium-sized businesses who view Our products and services are easily and widely understood by our advertisers and classified directory advertising as a highly effective and our users.
Buyers our users are people at home, work or on the move looking for information about goods and services.
Our approach is channel neutral and gives all our customers a choice of media the book, the web and the phone.
Wherever we operate we believe that the simplicity of our strategy is a major strength.
To respond to local market Focus dynamics we use proven local management teams with extensive experience in our industry supported by clear corporate guidance, and we encourage the transfer of best practice from one operation to another.
All our management We understand our customers needs, and teams have a proven track record for delivering against our our products and processes are fully devoted commitments to stakeholders.
Our markets We operate within the classified advertising market where we compete with a range of media, such as other printed and online directories, local and national newspapers, search engines, and providers of business and residential information over the phone.
With the rise of new media technologies, Discipline particularly broadband, search engine marketing is an increasingly attractive medium for advertisers and presents Yell with significant opportunities.
All our products are available 24 hours a day and our We are committed to our strategy of printed products are generally retained for future use.
win, keep and grow and not distracted We believe our products enjoy a real and significant by anything that does not deliver this competitive advantage over other forms of advertising.
strategy and bring together buyers and sellers in the most effective way.
06 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 CEOs strategic overview Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 07 Business review CEOs strategic overview continued 18% 60% 90% Yell UK has an 18% share of the The independent sector of the Yell Publicidad is the largest UK classified advertising market.
US classified directories and publisher in Spain with a local search industry is worth 90% share of the classified $3 billion.
Yellow Book has a directories and local search 60% share.
This market is worth 483 million.
The UK market The US market The total UK advertising market was worth approximately The total US advertising market was worth approximately 17.5 billion in calendar year 2006, having grown by $290 billion in calendar year 2006.
Within this, the classified approximately 1% over the previous year.
As in 2005, growth directories and local search industry was worth $15.9 billion, was driven almost entirely by internet advertising that, as up 4% on the previous year, and we have a 12% share.
The forecast, reached the 2 billion mark for the first time, a sector is expected to grow at 3 to 4% per annum for the next growth of 47%.
two years, driven by independent directory publishers and providers of local online search services and wireless directories.
The UK classified advertising market was worth 4 billion in 2006.
Although classified directory revenues continue to grow, other sectors in classified advertising have suffered in recent The independent sector of the total industry of which years.
This is mainly due to the migration to the internet of Yellow Book USA is a part was worth $3.2 billion in calendar those forms of printed classified advertising that lend year 2006 and we have steadily increased our share of the themselves to this medium, such as recruitment, automotive sector from 23% in 2000 to 60% last year.
Over the next few years this trend is expected to continue and to contribute to a 3 to 4% per annum Although the independent sector is forecast to continue to decline in the overall classified advertising market.
grow we expect strong competition from incumbents publishers with a current or recent tie to a telephone operating company, Our share of the classified advertising market has increased from online publishers and from other independent publishers, to 18% from around 15% in recent years, thanks in part to our including a growing number of new publishers.
It is now fairly own growth and in part to a decline in overall market value.
common to have two or more independent publishers in one market.
Internet advertising growth is expected to continue over the next few years.
Annual growth is expected to be 20 to 30% Spanish and Latin American markets and in calendar year 2007, the online market may well break The total Spanish advertising market was worth 10 billion in the 2.5 billion mark.
Within this, the classified directories and local search market was worth 483 million, up 4% on 2005, and is forecast to grow steadily at 3 to 4% per annum over the next few years.
In this sector, Yell Publicidad is very much the largest publisher with a 90% share.
We operate in three countries in Latin America: Argentina, Chile and Peru.
In these areas we hold strong positions in the classified directories and local search markets, which are forecast to grow between 3 and 5% per annum over the next few years.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 07 Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 08 Business review CEOs strategic overview continued Win Keep Grow We win new customers with We keep our customers by proving The amount our customers spend innovative and attractive that our products work for them with us grows as we help to grow advertising opportunities.
We introduce new Our high-profile brands ensure offering great value for money and products and features to provide Yells products are always delivering more leads, we satisfy our greater choice, and we help to front-of-mind.
customers, encouraging them to prove that their increased return time after time.
Why classified directory advertising is attractive Our strategy Classified directory advertising is a widely used and highly Our approach continues to be one of simplicity, focus and effective form of advertising that offers cost-efficient access discipline.
Simplicity, in that our products and services are to millions of buyers, most of whom have already made a easily understood by all our advertisers and users.
Focus, in decision to buy that we understand our customers needs and ensure that all Compared to many other forms of advertising, classified our products and processes are fully devoted to meeting those directories give advertisers a high return on their investment needs.
Discipline, in that we are committed to our strategy and in terms of exposure and leads generated not distracted by anything that does not bring together buyers Classified directories have a relatively stable base of small and sellers.
and medium-sized businesses which derive significant value from this form of advertising.
This helps make classified Our strategy of winning new customers, keeping existing directories relatively resilient in an economic downturn customers and growing their investment with us win, keep compared to other forms of more cyclical advertising, such and grow continues to drive our business and helps us to as automotive, property and recruitment advertising maintain a leadership position.
We need to win new customers There is future growth potential in the UK as buyers continue as they are tomorrows lifeblood.
We work hard to retain to use print, online and phone-based media to find sellers of existing customers as the core of our offering to users.
Growth is particularly high in online We grow our revenue from our customers by offering them searches higher value advertising or selling them other products in The independent sector in the US continues to grow and our portfolio.
with 74% of the total market in the hands of incumbents, we believe there are significant opportunities for fast-moving We implement new technologies across the Group to enable independent publishers offering higher value at lower cost economies of scale, and we transfer operational best practices The US online market is fragmented, with no dominant between operating companies.
We seek acquisitions at the players and fast-developing user and advertiser right price and integrate them successfully into our existing expectations operations.
As part of our integration strategy, we harmonise In Spain there is much untapped growth potential in directory our approach to reporting and governance, and maintain advertising, coupled with a fast-growing economy that is a responsible approach to all aspects of our operations.
fuelling increasing demand for products and services Latin America is relatively under-served by directory providers and offers opportunities to increase penetration in markets that are growing Technological advances are opening up online markets still further, offering high growth opportunities for new products 08 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 CEOs strategic overview pp p q p g Business review CEOs strategic overview continued 692k 84% 37% Yellow Book unique advertisers.
unique printed product increase in Yell.
com revenue per advertisers retained in Spain.
Yell UK Yellow Book USA We have a re-invigorated growth plan in the UK designed to Yellow Book continues to drive and take advantage of the respond to increasing demand from customers particularly share-shift away from incumbents towards independent in online markets : to increasing competition across all media: directory publishers.
Competition in the independent sector and to the December 2006 findings of the Competition has intensified, but Yellow Book is well positioned to maintain Commission.
We believe that these factors will stimulate growth market leadership, with high brand awareness, a high quality in our markets and provide us with further opportunities.
sales force, operational effectiveness and nearly national Our growth plan focuses on users, who generate more leads coverage.
for our advertisers, and on our advertisers through our win, keep and grow strategy.
As with the rest of the Group, growth will be achieved through our channel-neutral win, keep and grow strategy.
Organic Our organisation structure reflects our channel-neutral growth is our priority, through marketing and sales developments approach to our markets.
We are investing in a major that include rolling out colour to more directories.
This will be advertising campaign, spearheaded by Heres to the people supported by a small number of new launches.
To further behind the numbers, to champion the enterprising people expand our coverage, we continue to consider acquisitions who are the bedrock of our advertiser base.
And we continue where the price is right and where we can leverage value to use proven value statistics to prove to advertisers that our from existing sales or operational infrastructure.
former TransWestern markets we are implementing the second year of our integration plans, with a very clear focus The undertakings that we gave to the OFT in April 2007 on increasing revenue.
will allow us to develop more flexible pricing strategies for customers of Yellow Pages from April 2008 onwards.
We are We are also developing revenue from non-print channels, introducing new products with flexible pricing structures for primarily through Yellowbook.
These factors, and the success Yellowbook.
com the most complete and accurate source for of Yell.
com in growing usage and of 118 24 7 in attracting calls, online business information, supported by our leads for less enable us to target non-traditional customers with products message to advertisers.
A team of experts will transfer best that offer distinct coverage and timing options.
practice from our successful Yell.
com business in the UK to Yellowbook.
We continue to develop our Yell.
com mobile service in anticipation of strong market growth.
We are also reviewing We support usage and brand awareness by extending our the look and feel of our core Yellow Pages product to ensure highly successful TV advertising campaign, starring David its continued relevance to 40 million users in the UK.
Carradine as the Guru, and by leading syndicated usage studies that produce comparative usage statistics for Yellow Book and our competitors.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 09
