Governance and Responsibility pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued Responsibility We are committed to helping manage climate change.
This section summarises our approach to Corporate We expanded our measurement of CO emissions from just 2 Responsibility CR and our achievements during 2007.
Yell UK previously, to parts of our Spanish operations.
Our CO 2 Full details can be found in the Responsibility section of equivalent emissions for these areas were 35,977 tonnes.
Our CR report includes case studies that illustrate our programme.
Workplace People are the foundation of our continued success.
We value CR activity is devolved to functional managers throughout diversity and our aim is to recruit, retain and develop the very the business, but is coordinated by a series of steering groups, best people, and to provide them with a challenging and headed by our Company Secretary.
Our Chief Executive Officer rewarding career.
has overall responsibility for CR.
In 2006 we launched our Code of Ethics to everyone in We receive much recognition for our CR activities including Yell UK and Yellow Book USA to give guidance on the ethical inclusion in the Global 100 list of the worlds most sustainable behaviour required of them, and to support our Guiding companies, listings in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Principles, especially that of Integrity.
In 2007, following and FTSE4Good index and, most recently, our second Queens its acquisition, we rolled out our Code of Ethics to people in Award for Enterprise in recognition of our approach to Yell Publicidad.
Now, everyone in Yell has access to the Yell sustainable development.
Whistleblowing Line that allows them to report, in a secure and confidential manner, any cases of unethical behaviour.
Our Code of Ethics is available in English and Spanish at We manage CR in four areas: www.
Corporate practice In the UK we have maintained our registration to ISO 14001, ISO 9001:2000, OHSAS 18001, ISO IEC 20000-1:2005 formerly BS 15000 and TickIt.
We are recognised as an Investors in People Champion organisation and, as winners of the European Quality award in both 1999 and 2004, we share our business approach and processes with a wide range of European companies.
Environment A responsible approach to the environment is essential for the future sustainability of our business.
We work with our key business partners to ensure our impact on the environment is minimised throughout our operations.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 29
