CEOs strategic overview Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 11 Business review CEOs strategic overview continued Resources 3.
How we encourage strong performance We operate from a sound financial base, with strong Organisation structure cash flows and access to capital that enable us to invest Our corporate structure is designed to allow local management in our products and generate organic growth.
in our three operating divisions Yell UK, Yellow Book USA and Yell Publicidad a high degree of autonomy, but with clear We make significant investments in operating systems, corporate guidance and strong governance.
such as SAP in the UK and DIAD in the US, that are central to understanding and servicing customers.
We outsource We share best practice and expertise throughout the Group, operations such as printing and distribution, allowing us but minimise corporate overheads by operating virtual teams to focus on direct interaction with our customers.
for managing matters such as external reporting, corporate responsibility and risk management.
Investment in our people is vital to our success.
In the UK we are one of only 33 companies ever to be recognised as People an Investors in People Champion Organisation.
In the US, We seek to attract, retain and develop the very best people.
Yellow Book USA was ranked as the fifth largest of The 10 We have a robust incentive and reward framework that takes Largest Sales Forces of the Best-Rated Service Companies account of industry and comparable company practices, and to Sell For.
we pay our people according to their skills and performance.
Our people have access to the training and development they Key relationships need to perform to their capabilities and to unlock their We subcontract all our pre-press, print and distribution potential.
activities to experienced and trusted partners, some of whom we have been working with for more than 25 years.
Leadership Our success is dependent on maintaining excellent Our senior management team set clear objectives for each relationships with our partners and sharing our quality of our operating divisions.
We pride ourselves on the clarity expectations and values.
of our purpose and strategy, and on the effectiveness of the communication processes that ensure they are understood Protecting value by all our people.
The value we create is protected through advanced Risk management processes and controls, including risk evaluation We place particular emphasis on leadership.
As examples, in and mitigation, internal audit and business continuity plans.
the last financial year, we launched a leadership programme Further details can be found in the Governance and for senior managers and the Developing Potential Scheme Responsibility section from page 27. for other managers in Yell UK, and we are recognised under the Investors in People Leadership and Management Model.
In the US, we launched a Leadership Core Competencies Program to clearly define what is expected of our leaders.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 11
