pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued Community Accountability and openness We support the communities in which we operate and Statement of application of principles of the Combined Code encourage our people to get involved in making a difference.
We have applied the principles set out in the 2003 Combined This raises our brand profile and helps develop the wider skills Code during the period 1 April 2006 to 31 March 2007 and of our people.
complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Code during the reporting period, save as where detailed below.
This year, Yell Group invested 1.13 million in its communities, 0.2% of our Group pre-tax profits.
This includes cash The Board donations, our peoples time and in-kind giving.
Our Board comprises of two executive directors and seven non-executive directors.
Six out of the seven non-executive Brand integrity directors are considered independent by the Company.
Our Yells high profile brands and our successful, market-leading Chairman, Bob Scott was independent upon his appointment.
products enable us to attract and retain employees and customers.
Strong branding adds value and profitability Our executive directors are John Condron Chief Executive by enhancing consumer awareness, quality perception and Officer and John Davis Chief Financial Officer.
Lord Powell of Bayswater was the Senior Independent Director Yell actively enforces and defends its intellectual property throughout the reporting period.
All non-executive directors rights which enables us to focus on getting the best from the are available to shareholders who wish to raise issues.
We have audited our registered intellectual property rights including trademarks, designs, and domain With effect from 31 March 2007, Charles Carey resigned from names to ensure we are best positioned to exploit the the Board.
Tim Bunting was appointed to the Board as a opportunities they present.
We continually review and enforce non-executive director with effect from 18 May 2007.
Tim was our database, copyright and other non-registerable rights and a partner in Goldman Sachs, with whom Yell has an ongoing have invested in new technologies to prevent the unauthorised business relationship, until November 2006.
Notwithstanding extraction of data from Yell.
All of these actions are this, the Board considers him to be independent in both complemented by a readiness to defend our rights through character and judgment and therefore, deemed him the Courts.
In reaching its decision, the Board took into account the fact that Tim ceased acting as We train all our sales people to sell fairly and we monitor Yells relationship manager at Goldman Sachs in July 2003 their compliance.
and, also, that Tim stood down from full time employment at Goldman Sachs in November 2005.
Our policy is that all directors stand for re-election or, in the case of newly appointed directors, election each year.
30 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Governance and Responsibility pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued John Condron executive director is a full time director of Company.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters companies within the Yell Group and has no other commitments reserved for its decision which includes the approval of to external companies, and consequently does not receive any financial statements, major acquisitions, Group strategy, other fees.
John Davis is a non-executive director of Informa plc, and governance policies.
The written schedule also sets and his fees from Informa are set out in the Remuneration out the extent of the various delegated authorities granted Report.
Details of our executive directors service contracts and by the Board.
our non-executive directors letters of appointment can also be found in the Remuneration Report at page 66. Letters of Our directors have access to the services of our Company appointment do not set out fixed time commitments since the Secretary, Howard Rubenstein, the removal of whom is a matter schedule of Board and Committee meetings is subject to change reserved for the decision of the Board.
Howard Rubenstein acts according to our requirements.
All our directors are expected to as secretary to all of the Board Committees.
demonstrate their commitment to the work of the Board on an ongoing basis.
Our Company Secretary works with our Chairman to ensure that all our directors receive sufficient information, on a timely Through February and March 2007, our Board conducted a basis, to enable the Board to run efficiently.
A secure website formal evaluation of its overall effectiveness.
The evaluation has been established as an exclusive channel for the directors focused on the collective performance of our Board as well as to share information, receive training material and Board on the performance of individual directors, our Chairman and papers, and generally enhance the administration of Board our Company Secretary.
The exercise was conducted by means business.
of a survey completed by each director and a one-to-one discussion between each director and our Chairman.
During the reporting period, our Board successfully oversaw Following the survey the non-executive directors also met, the acquisition of Telefnica Publicidad e Informacin, SA with and without the Chairman present, to discuss the now renamed as Yell Publicidad, SA.
performance of the Board and of the Chairman.
At various Board meetings throughout the year, our directors This years evaluation process confirmed that our Chairman received presentations by our UK, US, Spanish and Latin and the rest of the Board have been diligent and effective in American senior management teams, highlighting key their duties during the reporting period.
developments in their respective businesses and markets.
Brief biographies of all our directors appear on page 62.
Our directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, at Yells expense, about fulfilling their duties.
Yell has Operation of the Board also arranged appropriate Directors and Officers insurance Our Board has overall responsibility for leading and controlling cover in respect of legal action against the directors.
Yell and is accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance, and for the open and transparent Our Board is scheduled to meet at least six times in any communication of information relevant to this performance.
calendar year: January February, March April, May, July, September and November.
During the reporting period, our Our Board recognises the division in responsibility between Board met seven times and the non-executive directors met our Chairman who ensures the effective working of the once without the executive directors present.
Board and our Chief Executive Officer who runs our Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 31 pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued The following table shows the individual attendance by our directors at the Board and Committee meetings, during the reporting period ending 31 March 2007.
Audit Committee Remuneration Nomination Board meetings meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Attended Absent Bob Scott 7 John Condron 7 1 John Davis 7 Lord Powell of Bayswater 7 2 2 Charles Carey 6 1 4 2 1 John Coghlan 7 4 1 Joachim Eberhardt 7 4 6 Lyndon Lea 6 1 5 1 1 Richard Hooper 7 Committees The following Committees have been established under the overall direction of our Board.
Each Committee has written terms of reference which are published on our website at www.
The chairmanship, membership and terms of reference of each Committee are reviewed on an annual basis.
The following table shows the chairman and members of each Committee.
Committee membership Name Status Audit and role Remuneration Nomination Bob Scott Chairman, Non-Executive Director John Condron CEO, Executive Director John Davis CFO, Executive Director Charles Carey Independent, Non-Executive Director resigned resigned 31 March 07 31 March 07 John Coghlan Independent, Non-Executive Director Chairman Joachim Eberhardt Independent, Non-Executive Director Chairman Lyndon Lea Independent, Non-Executive Director appointed Chairman 4 November 05 Lord Powell of Bayswater Senior Independent, Non-Executive Director Richard Hooper Independent, Non-Executive Director appointed 18 May 07 Tim Bunting Independent, Non-Executive Director appointed 18 May 07 32 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Governance and Responsibility pp p q p g Business review Governance and Responsibility continued Audit Committee The Committee also reviews the independence and objectivity The Audit Committee is chaired by John Coghlan, who we of our external auditors.
Our auditors are also required to consider to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The confirm their independence at least annually.
other members during the year were Lord Powell of Bayswater and Joachim Eberhardt.
With effect from 18 May 2007, Richard The Committee and our Board formally reviewed the Hooper was appointed to the Committee.
The Committee effectiveness of the systems of internal control during the consists entirely of independent non-executive directors.
external auditors and our internal auditor attend all meetings.
Remuneration Committee The Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its duties The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Joachim Eberhardt.
regarding the reporting of financial and non-financial The other members of the Committee were Charles Carey and information to shareholders.
On behalf of the Board, the Audit Lyndon Lea.
Charles Carey resigned from the Committee on Committee examines the effectiveness of the Groups internal 31 March 2007 and was replaced by Tim Bunting with effect from controls and risk management by reviewing evidence of risk 18 May 2007.
Between these dates committee composition was assessment activity.
The Committee agrees the scope of the not in compliance with Combined Code provision B.
2.1. internal audit plan and reviews it following the risk assessment All members of the Committee are non-executive directors, activity.
It reviews the annual and interim financial statements independent of management and free from any business or and the nature and scope of the external audit.
other relationship which could materially interfere with their independent judgement.
The Committee met four times during the reporting period.
The Committee has responsibility for making During the reporting period, the Committee oversaw the recommendations to our Board on the policy for remuneration roll out of the Groups Code of Ethics and international Yell of executive directors and on the process for review of their Whistleblowing Line to our recently acquired businesses in performance.
It also has responsibility for determining specific Spain and Latin America.
The Code of Ethics is available for remuneration packages for each of our directors including downloading at www.
pension rights, any compensation payments and the implementation of executive incentive schemes.
No director The Committee also reviewed our policy for the provision of may participate in discussions relating to their own terms and non-audit services by our external auditors.
It defined the conditions of service or remuneration.
nature of non-audit work which may be undertaken by our auditors and established a financial limit up to 5 million per The Committee met six times during the reporting period.
annum on the amount of this work.
Routine tax compliance and advisory services may be provided by the external During the year, the Committee decided that it was the auditors up to a pre-approved maximum of 1.5 million per appropriate time to carry out an extensive review of annum this is part of, and not additional to, the 5 million per remuneration policy and structures for our executive directors.
All non-audit projects above a financial limit of 250,000 must be approved by the Committee, prior to the As a result of the review and following consultation with our project commencing.
Regular updates are prepared for the major shareholders and the Association of British Insurers Committee on the nature, cumulative costs and extent of ABI, we made changes to the structure of our executive non-audit services provided by our auditors.
These changes are explained in detail in our Remuneration Report at page 66.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 33
