qxp 11 6 07 06:51 Page 12 Business review CEOs strategic overview continued Yellowbook.
com unique visitors million FY04 0.5 1.3 FY05 FY06 2.4 FY07 6.1 Values and culture Input indicators Our Guiding Principles of Excellence, Responsibility, Reliability Customer measures include retention rates for different customer and Integrity apply across the Group and define how we work.
segments, growth in new customer numbers, and customer Our culture is one of continuous improvement, where the satisfaction, which is monitored by third party research.
pursuit of business excellence and the celebration of success go hand-in-hand with accountability for our actions and a Process measures such as error rates and customer service clear focus on delivering our commitments.
efficiency show us the effectiveness of our operations.
Our Code of Ethics defines the ethical behaviour required of Organisation measures such as employee satisfaction, sales all Yell employees, while job profiles and objectives define the people turnover and employee volunteering levels indicate performance levels and behaviours expected.
the effectiveness of people management policies.
How we know we are getting it right Output indicators Our three primary financial outputs are revenue, EBITDA Our management systems ensure that we are able to identify and cash flow.
Other indicators of our success include numbers key business drivers.
of unique advertisers, usage of our printed directories, visitors to our websites, charitable donations and greenhouse Reporting systems gas emissions.
We use scorecards extensively, at all levels of the Group, to track our key performance indicators KPIs.
Monthly reports Awards communicate progress made in key business areas and in Although we do not target external recognition, we view major projects to our executive team and to the Board.
We awards as a useful indicator of our success.
Recent awards use internal and external auditors to confirm the accuracy include our second Queens Award for Enterprise April 2007 and appropriateness of financial and non-financial and our continued inclusion in the Global 100 list of the performance indicators.
worlds most sustainable companies January 2007.
We consider two types of indicators: outputs, through which we measure the success of our activities, and inputs, which we use to predict our outputs.
We report externally on some of our most important measures see page 21 for results.
12 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007
