qxp 11 6 07 12:37 Page 24 Business review Performance review continued Senior management team Our senior management team combines extensive experience in our industry with fresh ideas from other backgrounds.
They share a clear vision, a commitment to best practice across the Group, and a track record of executing our strategy.
John Davis John Condron Ana Garca Fau Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer, Yell Publicidad Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities John ensures we manage shareholder John leads the Yell Group and has built it Ana leads our Yell Publicidad business expectations, while continuing to invest into the leading international directories in Spain and Latin America.
in long term growth with an optimal company that it is today.
Highlight of the year capital structure.
Highlight of the year Ana has worked closely with Yell UK Highlight of the year John led our move into Spain and Latin management on the integration and John has worked very closely with our America with the purchase of Telefnica implementation of a growth strategy CEO on the acquisition of Yell Publicidad Publicidad e Informacin, since renamed for Yell Publicidad.
and is engaged in achieving the integration Yell Publicidad.
He has focused the team on plans.
He also led the refinancing of Group its integration and development via a back debt in the summer.
In addition, John led our team in the Competition Commissions review of UK Classified Directory Advertising Services, which led to a relaxation of the regulatory regime that was introduced ten years ago.
Joe Walsh Howard Rubenstein Chief Executive Officer, Yellow Book USA Company Secretary Responsibilities Responsibilities Joe leads our Yellow Book USA business Howard is our Group Company Secretary and is a key driver of the strategies that and also leads our UK Legal and Corporate have made it the leading independent team.
Highlight of the year Highlight of the year Howards focus has been the acquisition Joe oversaw the integration of of Yell Publicidad, and the implementation TransWestern Publishing, and the growth of our governance and responsibility of Yellow Books footprint and revenues.
approach in Spain and Latin America.
24 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Performance review Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 11 6 07 12:38 Page 25 Business review Performance review continued Phil Barr Steve Chambers Eddie Cheng Head of Human Resources, Yell UK Chief Commercial Officer, Yell UK Chief Development Officer Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Phil leads our Human Resources team in Steve leads the Sales and Customer Service Eddie has taken Yell.
com from its concept the UK and supports the Remuneration teams who deliver our win, keep and grow to the major growth engine it is today.
customer strategy in the UK.
Highlight of the year Highlight of the year Highlight of the year Eddie has recently taken on the role of Phils focus has been on attracting, Under Steves leadership we introduced Chief Development Officer for the Group, retaining and developing the people significant customer service improvements, with responsibility for international business who create and maintain Yells success.
with a corresponding increase in customer development in the non-print markets.
Paul Fry Jim Haddad Jim McCusker Director of Strategy Chief Financial Officer, Yellow Book USA Chief Sales Officer, Yellow Book USA Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Paul is responsible for strategic development Jim is responsible for all financial, treasury Jim leads our 6,000 sales personnel in the US.
and UK planning, and takes a leading role and human resources operations for Highlight of the year in significant corporate changes and Yellow Book.
Jim continued to drive US sales growth acquisitions.
Highlight of the year including new market launches and Highlight of the year Jim led improvements in the acquisitions to further expand Yellow Paul headed our Competition Commission communication of employee benefits, Books national footprint.
review working party in the successful credit approval and finance processes drive for a more flexible regulatory regime.
in line with Sarbanes-Oxley compliance.
He also played a key role in the acquisition of Yell Publicidad and in refocusing it on core products.
Jos Luis Renedo John Satchwell Helen Stevenson Chief Financial Officer, Yell Publicidad Operations Director Chief Marketing Officer, Yell UK Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Jos Luis is responsible for all financial John leads Yell UKs technology development, Helen leads our UK marketing teams operations across Yell Publicidad in Spain directory production, printing, distribution, in the development and support of our and Latin America.
purchasing and order processing teams.
win, keep and grow customer strategy across all channels.
Highlight of the year Highlight of the year Jos Luis has ensured resources were John has been supporting Yellow Book and Highlight of the year reallocated from non-core activities into Yell Publicidad in the development of their Helen launched our new advertising the core business to sustain future growth.
operations and identification of synergies.
campaign and re-aligned our UK marketing teams to better support our customer strategies.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 25
