qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 10 Business review CEOs strategic overview continued Yell Publicidad 2.
What we do to get it right We are applying a back to basics approach in Yell Publicidad.
With many years of experience in classified directory In Spain we are stripping out many of the product and process advertising, our senior management team know and complexities to allow a clear focus on our core products understand the key business drivers that create success.
As in our other markets, our simple win, keep and grow Customers approach will be the foundation for accelerated growth.
We are successful in attracting buyers and sellers to our The percentage of the business population that buy Yell products.
Our business model ensures we focus on our users Publicidad products is low.
To win new customers and keep and, thereby, the leads that our advertisers get.
Proven value existing ones, we aim to make our core products more statistics and usage research continue to show advertisers that attractive to Spanish businesses, in the same way as we have they are getting valuable leads from their directory advertising done in both the UK and the US.
We will grow the average and encourage new customers to advertise.
revenue per advertiser ARPA through better sales management and simpler, targeted pricing.
Investment in our brands, through high profile TV advertising, radio advertising and poster campaigns, supports our Usage of directory products is also low relative to other advertisers by attracting users to our products rather than developed European countries.
We will increase usage those of our competitors.
In the financial year we invested through developments based on a thorough review of 4% of our revenue in promoting our products.
the comprehensiveness, scoping and distribution of print directories.
Here, as in other aspects of Yell Publicidad, Our channel-neutral approach is important in attracting a the transfer of best practice from UK and US management broad range of advertisers and users.
The ability of our highly will be key.
skilled sales force to sell across all media, and their knowledge of our customers businesses, is crucial to our success.
Our operations in Chile, Peru and Argentina are successful, stand-alone businesses and we will continue to manage them through Yell Publicidad.
To support revenue and margin growth throughout Yell Publicidad we will be transferring some of our organisational and corporate practices from the UK and US, particularly in the areas of sales, marketing and production.
10 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007
