CEOs strategic overview Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 11 6 07 06:52 Page 13 Business review CEOs strategic overview continued Yell.
Our strategy in action and how this positions Yellow Book USA us for the future Our US operations delivered another year of strong growth, with total revenues growing 10% to 1,014 million.
We grew UK Yellow Book advertisers by 42%, largely as a result of our We grew our UK business revenue by 3% to 720 million.
acquisition of TransWestern Publishing in July 2005.
Advertiser Growth was driven by a 61% increase in revenue from retention declined slightly from 70% to 69%, reflecting our Yell.
com to 96 million, while revenue from our printed continued focus on integration.
We have now completed the directories, Yellow Pages and Business Pages, decreased integration, with new sales management in place and the 3% to 601 million.
introduction of new sales training and support.
Overall, we have achieved a significant reduction in the turnover We continue to develop Yell.
We now have 196,000 of sales people.
unique searchable advertisers, a 13% increase on the previous year.
Our measure of online advertiser growth revenue In print we achieved 10% organic growth, of which 5% was from per average searchable advertiser increased by 37%, partly same market growth and 3% from new launches.
118 directories as a result of the take-up of local premium links by larger acquired from other publishers were published under the businesses which benefit in particular from leads delivered Yellow Book brand.
We launched 35 new directories in 2007 through keyword searches.
Keyword searching has including our Atlanta, Denver and Phoenix directories.
We also revolutionised the way users search on Yell.
Searches extended our reach to Hawaii.
We now publish directories in can now be made on brands and products unrelated to 47 states and the District of Columbia.
classification, delivering better quality sales leads to advertisers.
We have also introduced an online shopping Yellowbook.
com revenue grew 62% and is an important and price comparison service.
Enriched content, combined with the success of our highly acclaimed TV advertising campaign Visitors to Yell.
com have increased by 12% from March last starring David Carradine, has driven an increase in usage, a year, to 8 million.
rise of 154% in visitors over the previous year.
We launched WebReach, a fully-managed search engine advertising We have capitalised on the developing mobile internet programme, whereby we sell bundled clicks onto search market, launching two new services application-based and engines.
browser-based offering UK mobile internet users the most advanced and feature-rich services of their kind.
The independent syndicated usage survey, of which Yellow Book is a key advocate, has been running for over a year and continues Advertiser numbers in our printed products were down to provide evidence of the strength of our brand and market slightly at 450,000 compared to 462,000 the previous year, position.
Yellow Book receives on average more than 34% of due to the very competitive market.
Despite this, we stabilised usage in the markets studied.
Further evidence of the retention at 75% and, once again, acquired more than strength of our brand is that Yellow Book has been chosen 100,000 new advertisers.
by the American Brands Council as one of Americas Greatest Brands.
Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 13 Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 7 6 07 10:31 am Page 14 Business review CEOs strategic overview continued Yell Publicidad Regulation On 31 July 2006 we completed the acquisition of TPI, the December 2006 saw the long-awaited outcome of the leading provider of directory services in Spain and holder of Competition Commissions review of Classified Directory significant positions in Chile, Argentina and Peru.
We have Advertising Services in the UK.
The outcome was good, renamed TPI Yell Publicidad and have made good progress representing a shift in the Competition Commissions thinking on their integration into the Group, focusing on the core and giving us considerable future flexibility.
In the eight months since acquisition we have we can increase prices of our Yellow Pages products by headline consolidated revenue of 341 million.
retail price inflation RPI, rather than the current RPI-6%.
This will enable us to offer our customers more precisely tailored discounts.
We can also introduce guides and other locally Key to our strategy is a back to basics approach that aims to targeted printed products.
We believe the outcome of this strip unnecessary complexity out of the sales operation and review has left a clear signal that the OFT should review the very products.
We have appointed three of Yell UKs sales and existence of price controls in three years time, and we continue marketing managers to support the Yell Publicidad team in to maintain that there is no further need for restrictions in the achieving this, combining local knowledge with proven very competitive and rapidly evolving UK market.
best practice from the UK.
During our first year we have rationalised our product offerings from sixteen to seven.
Outlook In January 2007 we signed new contracts for printing and We are confident of delivering further growth with high paper suppliers, leveraging our international buying power margins and strong cash flows in the 2008 financial year.
and paving the way for future efficiencies.
We have made good progress towards rationalising our pre-press activities In the UK, we expect to sustain the rate of revenue and and directory distribution.
margin growth, driven by continued rapid online growth, with the benefit of relaxed regulation in the following year.
At Yell Publicidad, we will continue our back to basics In April 2007 we bought Argentinas telephone directory approach and we expect to make good progress towards business, Publicom, from Telecom Argentina.
This acquisition achieving the full benefit of revenue and margin expansion consolidates our leading position in Argentina and builds on in the following year.
In the US, we will rise to the challenge our success with Paginas Doradas.
We also sold TPI Brazil of heightened competition and take advantage of any future in March 2007. shake-out in the market.
Overall, we are well positioned to take advantage of the continued opportunities in all our markets and we will maintain our win, keep and grow strategy and the investment in our brands and our business.
John Condron Chief Executive Officer 14 Yell Group plc Annual and Corporate Responsibility Reports 2007 Performance review Yell AR07 pp001-p026 UK.
qxp 11 6 07 06:37 Page 15 Heres to managing our performance The following pages review our operational and financial performance in 2007.
2 Business review Performance review CFOs review 16 Three year financial summary 21 Key performance indicators 22 Senior management team 24 Our people 26
