Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Corporate governance Board of directors The Board 12 3 4 5 6 Chairman Executive directors Non-executive directors 3, 4 4 2, 3 1.
Phil Carroll Dick Olver was appointed as Phil Carroll is a former chairman Chief Executive Chief Operating Officer, UK Chairman in 2004.
A civil Mike Turner was appointed as and chief executive of Fluor and Rest of World engineer, Dick Olver joined BP Corporation and a former Chief Executive in 2002, having Appointed to the Board on in 1973 where he held a variety been a Chief Operating Officer president and chief executive of 1 January 2007, Ian King was of senior positions culminating in Shell Oil Company Inc.
He is a non-executive previously Group Managing his appointment to the board of director of Lazard Limited and a appointed by the US Department Director of the Companys BP p. l. c. as CEO of Exploration of Defense in 2003 to serve as former non-executive director of Customer Solutions & Support and Production in 1998.
He was Babcock International Group Plc the first Senior Adviser to the business and, prior to that, Group subsequently appointed deputy Iraqi Ministry of Oil.
He is a former and The Peninsular and Oriental Strategy and Planning Director.
group chief executive of BP in Steam Navigation Company P&O.
non-executive director of Scottish Immediately prior to the BAe MES 2003, stepping down from that Power plc.
Appointed: 1994 Age: 59 merger he was Chief Executive of position when he assumed the Appointed: 2005 Age: 70 Alenia Marconi Systems, having 4 chairmanship of BAE Systems.
Walt Havenstein previously served as Finance 1 Dick Olver chairs the Boards 7.
Michael Hartnall Chief Operating Officer, President Director of Marconi Electronic Nominations Committee and the Systems.
He is a non-executive Michael Hartnall is a former and CEO, BAE Systems, Inc. Non-Executive Directors Fees finance director of Rexam plc, prior director of Rotork plc.
Appointed to the Board on Committee.
He is a non-executive to which he held senior positions 2 January 2007, Walt Havenstein Appointed: 2007 Age: 51 director of Reuters Group plc, with a number of manufacturing is President and CEO of a Fellow of the Royal Academy companies.
He is a non-executive BAE Systems, Inc.
George Rose of Engineering and a member of director of Lonmin plc and a previously President of the Group Finance Director the Royal Academy Council and former non-executive director of Companys US-based Electronics George Rose was appointed Group the Trilateral Commission.
Michael Hartnall & Integrated Solutions business.
Prior to Appointed: 2004 Age: 61 chairs the Boards Audit He was President of the Sanders joining the Company in 1992, he Committee.
He is a Fellow of the defence electronics business held senior positions in the Rover Institute of Chartered Accountants prior to it being acquired by the Group and Leyland DAF.
He is a in England and Wales.
Company from Lockheed Martin non-executive director of Saab AB Appointed: 2003 Age: 65 in 2000.
A graduate of the US and National Grid Transco plc, Naval Academy, he served 12 and a member of the Financial years in the US Marine Corps.
He is a Appointed: 2007 Age: 58 Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Appointed: 1998 Age: 55 1 member of the Audit Committee 2 member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee 3 member of the Nominations Committee 4 member of the Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee 5 member of the Remuneration Committee 54 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information 78 9 10 11 12 2 1, 5 2, 5 Each of the seven non-executive 8.
Peter Weinberg Appointed to the BAE Systems Roberto Quarta is a partner in the Peter Weinberg is a partner at directors listed above is considered to be independent for Board on 13 June 2007, Andy private equity firm Clayton, Dubilier Perella Weinberg Partners, a Inglis is a director of BP p. l. c. He & Rice, in connection with which financial services firm.
He was the purposes of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
is a member of the BP executive he serves as chairman of Rexel previously chief executive officer management team, and is also SA and Italtel.
He was previously of Goldman Sachs International chief executive of BPs Exploration chairman and chief executive where he was co-head of the & Production business.
He is a of BBA Group plc, an executive Partnership Committee, and prior Company Secretary Fellow of the Royal Academy of director of BTR plc and a nonto that was co-head of the Global David Parkes Engineering and a Fellow of the executive director of PowerGen plc Investment Banking Division.
He Institute of Mechanical Engineers.
joined Goldman Sachs in 1988 and became a partner in 1992.
Appointed: 2007 Age: 48 Appointed: 2005 Age: 58 Peter Weinberg chairs the Boards 1, 3 2, 5 Corporate Responsibility 9.
Sir Nigel Rudd Sir Peter Mason is the nonSir Nigel Rudd is currently Committee.
executive chairman of Thames chairman of BAA Limited and Appointed: 2005 Age: 50 Water and a non-executive director Pendragon plc and deputy of Acergy S. A.
He was formerly chairman of Barclays PLC.
He chief executive of AMEC plc, was formerly chairman of Alliance executive director of BICC plc, Boots Group PLC and Pilkington chairman and chief executive plc.
He also holds a number of of Balfour Beatty Limited and other public appointments, chief executive of Norwest Holst including chairman of the CBIs Group PLC.
Sir Peter has been Boardroom Issues Group.
Sir Nigel nominated the Boards Senior chairs the Boards Remuneration Independent Director.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Appointed: 2003 Age: 61 in England and Wales.
Appointed: 2006 Age: 61 BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 55
