Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Business group reviews continued The International Businesses business group, 1 with 15,300 employees, comprises the Groups businesses in Saudi Arabia and Australia, together with a 37.5% interest in the pan-European MBDA joint venture and a 20.5% interest in Saab of Sweden.
2 International Businesses During 2007, International Businesses achieved EBITA of 435m 1 2006 415m on sales of 3,359m 2006 3,428m and generated 3 an operating cash inflow of 678m 2006 171m.
1 Sales increased by 1%, net of 2006 Atlas disposal 1 2 Sales and EBITA in 2006 included 99m and 2m respectively for Return on sales increased to 13.0% the Atlas Elektronik business that was disposed of in August 2006.
3 Cash flow generation of 678m, including Saudi CS&S International Typhoon milestones 4 4 BAE Systems has a major presence in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Restated Restated 2007 2006 2005 where it acts as prime contractor for the UK  1 defence agreement.
Over the last two decades the programme has Sales 3,359m 3,428m 3,138m included the provision of aircraft, associated hardware, support, 2 EBITA 435m 415m 400m infrastructure and manpower training for the Royal Saudi Air Force Return on sales 13.0% 12.1% 12.7% RSAF and Royal Saudi Naval Forces RSNF.
Progress is being made 3 on modernising the Saudi armed forces in line with the Understanding Cash inflow 678m 171m 711m Document signed on 21 December 2005 between the UK and Saudi 1 Order intake 3,876m 3,854m 3,235m Arabian governments.
Under the terms of the signed document, 1 Order book 7.9bn 7.1bn 6.7bn Typhoon aircraft will replace Tornado Air Defence Variant aircraft and others currently in service with the RSAF.
A contract for the delivery 5 2,6 of 72 Typhoon aircraft was agreed in the year with delivery of the first Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA 27% 21% aircraft scheduled for June 2009.
Discussions are ongoing with the RSAF to define and agree the support and training solutions to enable their entry into service during 2009.
Around 4,300 people are employed by the Group in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, of whom approximately half are Saudi nationals.
The business is continuing to develop its presence in Saudi Arabia, including the relocation of staff from the UK, and is helping to develop a greater indigenous capability in the Kingdom.
The security of employees is the highest priority and progress is well Key points advanced on new residential and office facilities as well as increased security measures.
Employees are in occupation at the first new Saudi Typhoon contract secured residential compound and office facility.
Investment in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia continues Through the core Saudi support programme, the business continues Down-selection for the provision of vehicles for the Australian Defence Force to provide significant support to both the RSAF and RSNF operations Proposed acquisition of Tenix Defence announced in January 2008 and their operational capability.
In particular, steps are being taken with the RSAF to maintain the capability of the Tornado aircraft while Looking forward extending its operational life.
BAE Systems investment and support for infrastructure development The Group seeks to sustain its long-term presence in the Kingdom of Saudi in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia includes the creation of training and Arabia through delivering on current support and investment commitments, youth welfare programmes.
and developing new business, and to reinforce its business in Australia as through-life capability partner to the Australian Defence Force, including land In December 2007, the first 22 RSAF Tornado Technicians to undertake sector support.
a new multi-skilled training programme, graduated.
The programme, In January 2008 the Group announced its proposed acquisition of Tenix Defence designed in partnership with the RSAF, is aimed at producing multiwhich will, on completion, be integrated with BAE Systems Australian operations.
skilled, rather than single-skilled, aircraft technicians.
BAE Systems also makes valuable contributions to the communities in Saudi Arabia.
Youth sports partnership activities between Saudi Arabia and the United Kingdom began in 1987 with a formal Memorandum of Understanding on sports exchange.
Since that time, 1,000 Saudi coaches have successfully undertaken Sports Coach UK qualification 1 including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 restated following changes to the Groups organisational structure 5 before elimination of intra-group sales 6 excluding HQ & Other Businesses 34 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information mounted displays, from the Royal Australian Navy for combat and fire control management systems, from Tenix Marine for combat management systems on Australian Navys landing helicopter dock class ships and from the Royal Netherlands Army for a Mobile Battalion Combat Training Centre.
Saabs order book at the end of the year was SEK47.3bn 3.7bn which included a reduction for the Pakistan airborne surveillance system being re-negotiated to supply fewer systems than was originally recorded in 2006.
MBDA 37.5% interest MBDA continued to maintain strong deliveries across a number of key programmes.
Key domestic deliveries included the Brimstone airlaunched anti-armour weapon, Mica air-to-air missile, Storm Shadow, SCALP and Taurus cruise missiles.
In the export market, key deliveries Land 121 Project included air weapons packages to Greece and UAE and Aster and BAE Systems has been selected by the Rapier short-range air defence missiles.
Australian government as the preferred bidder for the next generation of medium and Development programmes also progressed well.
The six-nation heavy tactical trucks and modular payloads.
Meteor beyond visual range air-to-air missile continues to meet its development milestones with the successful completion of the four key development milestones and a continuing active firing campaign.
In addition, national team training camps in a range of sports The Principal Anti-Air Missile System PAAMS programme for the have taken place annually in both Saudi Arabia and the UK.
Royal Navy is now entering firing trials in preparation for qualification while the tri-national MEADS area defence system is preparing for the Australia critical design review phase.
BAE Systems Australia continues to reinforce its position as a throughlife capability partner to the Australian Defence Force ADF.
Work has MBDA is leading negotiations towards the Team Complex commenced on the Electronic Support Measures mid-life upgrade on Weapons strategic partnering agreement under the UK's Defence the AP-3C aircraft, and continues under the second five-year support Industrial Strategy.
contract for the Australian Hawk Lead-In Fighter aircraft.
During 2007 MBDA acquired the German rocket motor company A five-year support contract, with two five-year options, has been Bayern Chemie GmbH, supplier of the ramjet for the Meteor missile.
agreed with the ADF for the ongoing upgrade, operation and support of the Jindalee over-the-horizon radar.
The Nulka active missile decoy has received export approval in principle from both the US and Australian authorities.
To date the Nulka active missile decoy has been fitted to over 100 ships across the Australian, Canadian and US navies.
BAE Systems has recently been down-selected by the Australian Government to provide medium heavy capability vehicles to replace the Armys wheeled tactical logistic vehicle fleet.
The business is a subcontractor to Boeing on the Wedgetail airborne, early warning and control system for the Royal Australian Air Force.
The programme is behind schedule and BAE Systems is engaged jointly with Boeing and the customer to re-baseline the programme.
Saab 20.5% shareholding Sales rose by 9.5% to SEK23bn 1.7bn, with export sales accounting for 65%.
Operating income rose to SEK2,607m 193m, including non-recurring items of SEK453m 34m, producing an operating margin of 11.3%.
Although reduced in comparison with 2006, order intake remained strong at SEK20.8bn 1.5bn.
This included orders from FMV to upgrade 31 Gripen fighters and helmet Multi-skilled training for Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF A new training programme has commenced that will produce the first multi-skilled Tornado aircraft technicians for the RSAF.
