Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Business group reviews continued The Electronics, Intelligence & Support business 1 group, with 30,600 employees and its headquarters in the US, is a provider of defence and aerospace systems, sub-systems and services.
It comprises two operating groups: Electronics & Integrated Solutions and Customer Solutions.
2 Electronics, Intelligence & Support During 2007, Electronics, Intelligence & Support achieved EBITA 1 of 429m 2006 429m on sales of 3,916m 2006 4,007m 3 and generated operating cash inflow of 302m 2006 273m.
1 Like-for-like organic sales growth of 7% over 2006 In 2006, the return on sales benefited from a 61m pension-related Return on sales improved to 11% accounting gain.
1 2 In 2007, US$ translations decreased sales and EBITA when compared with 2006 by 296m and 35m respectively.
2007 2006 2005 1 In August, BAE Systems completed the sale of its Inertial Products Sales 3,916m 4,007m 3,697m business for $140m 70m.
In December, the Group agreed to sell 2 EBITA 429m 429m 324m its Surveillance and Attack business in Lansdale, Pensylvannia for Return on sales 11.0% 10.7% 8.8% a cash consideration of $240m 121m.
Also in December, the 3 Group announced the proposed $448m 225m acquisition of MTC Cash inflow 302m 273m 323m Technologies, Inc. a company providing technical and professional 1 Order intake 4,178m 4,311m 3,659m services, and equipment integration and modernisation for the US 1 Order book 3.5bn 3.4bn 3.5bn military and intelligence agencies.
Electronics & Integrated Solutions E&IS 5 2,6 Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA E&IS designs, develops and produces electronic systems and 24% 26% sub-systems for a wide range of military and commercial applications.
The operating group is focused on four primary capabilities: electronic warfare, commercial and military avionics, flight and engine controls, and tactical and national network systems.
During 2007, E&IS delivered its 100th F-22A electronic warfare EW system, the first F-35 Lightning II Joint Strike Fighter EW system and its 1,000th Common Missile Warning System to protect US Army helicopters and aircraft from heat-seeking missiles.
E&IS continued its role with the US Department of Homeland Security to develop Key points a commercial version of BAE Systems Directed Infrared Countermeasures DIRCM system, JETEYE, which seeks Continued leadership in the provision of electronic warfare systems to defeat the threat of shoulder-fired anti-aircraft missiles.
New markets developing for the HybriDrive propulsion systems The Thermal Weapon Sight TWS programme achieved a production Stable demand for ship repair services rate of more than 1,500 units per month, surpassing 18,000 total deliveries by the year end.
The microbolometer technology that Looking forward underpins TWS was also used to secure important night vision goggle and remote weapon stations contracts.
2008 should see continued organic growth with an anticipated part-year E&IS received a contract for the production of 50 fire fielding units of contribution from the proposed acquisition of MTC Technologies.
the Terminal High Altitude Area Defense THAAD missile, supporting Profitable growth is anticipated in the electronic warfare and other defence the transition to production of this ballistic missile defence system.
and aerospace electronics activities, based on the business strong legacy technology and services positions, combined with its continued investments in 4 Building on its strong legacy in C4ISR systems, E&IS has begun initial key capabilities.
Ship repair activity is expected to remain stable.
Growth in the TM deployment of its First InterComm system, which enables emergency IT and services businesses is dependent on the near-term priorities of the US services first responders to communicate more effectively using their Department of Defense.
The business received an order to build more than 1,000 helmet assemblies for Typhoon and introduced new helmet-mounted, heads-up display technology.
BAE Systems commercial hybrid propulsion business continues to grow and reveal new opportunities.
HybriDrivepropulsion technology 1 including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 Command, Control, Communications, Computing, Intelligence, Surveillance and Reconnaissance 5 before elimination of intra-group sales 6 excluding HQ & Other Businesses 28 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information E&IS awarded new multi-year thermal weapon sight contract by US Army E&ISs thermal imaging technology enables soldiers to see deep into the battlefield in all weather conditions, both day and night.
Helmet development BAE Systems has developed new helmetmounted display technology, the Q-Sight family of helmet displays and tracking products, that addresses a critical warfighter need for enhanced situational awareness.
is in daily service on more than 1,100 transit buses in the United States and Canada, and ten prototypes are scheduled to enter the London bus fleet in 2008.
Orders were received for an additional 1,500 systems in 2007 from New York City, Toronto, Ottawa and Houston.
As part of its initiative to integrate commercial and defence capabilities, E&IS demonstrated the first hybrid electric drive system for ground combat vehicles as part of the US Armys Future Combat Systems FCS programme and has developed and demonstrated a common modular power system to meet the increasing electric power demand onboard military vehicles.
E&IS continues to focus on through-life product and logistics support for the US military through its Readiness & Sustainment efforts.
An on-site presence at Warner Robins Air Force Base and Tobyhanna Army Depot provides a first-hand perspective to forecast and and US Navy communications station operations and maintenance develop upgrades.
TSS expanded into adjacent markets by supporting the US Army with critical personnel for the global war on terror and by obtaining Customer Solutions the integrator role for the new US Air Force Battle Control System.
Customer Solutions comprises three lines of business: BAE Systems Information Technology IT : Technology Solutions and Services TSS : BAE Systems Ship Repair secured a five-year, multi-ship multi-option and BAE Systems Ship Repair.
contract from the US Navy to maintain and repair all Arleigh Burke-class destroyers homeported or visiting San Diego, with a total potential value Customer Solutions integrates communications systems, builds and in excess of $150m 75m.
Ship Repair also secured a three-year maintains precision tracking radars, and is one of the largest service contract from the US Navy for work on three newly commissioned San providers to the US Navy.
The business is also a leader in US air and Antonio-class amphibious transport dock ships and a contract from the missile defence systems.
US Navy for modernisation of the Ticonderoga-class guided missile BAE Systems IT capabilities include enterprise-wide managed IT cruiser USS Bunker Hill.
operations, mission-critical application development and lifecycle information assurance solutions and analytical services.
TSS provides services and solutions, system and sub-system integration, equipment sustainment, and operations and maintenance.
BAE Systems Ship Repair is the leading non-nuclear ship repair company in the US providing conversion and modernisation services principally in the home ports of the US Navy.
BAE Systems IT operates within the large US government information technology market and continues to deliver mission-enabling support to its customers.
BAE Systems ranked sixth in Computerworlds Best Places to Work in IT for 2007.
Contract successes include an award as a prime contractor for the General Services Administration GSA Alliant government-wide acquisition contract, a ten-year, $50bn 25bn multiple award indefinite-delivery indefinite-quantity IDIQ programme designed to provide full IT lifecycle support services in support of the US defence, intelligence and civilian government markets.
The business was also awarded a competitive $120m 60m, five-year contract to develop applications for the US Department of Labor.
A variety of contracts were secured by winning re-competes and new business to provide key services such as network implementation and operation, and lifecycle software development engineering to the US government.
In 2007, TSS won more than 98% of its re-competes, including technical support to the US Missile Defense Agency and Federal agencies, US Air Force range radar depot and engineering support work, BAE Systems Ship Repair With continued success in winning and delivering on its US Navy contracts and mix of other government and commercial work, BAE Systems Ship Repair is building on its market leading position in US non-nuclear ship repair, conversion and modernisation.
