Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Strategic overview A strategy that delivers growth Our Group strategy is to deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence and aerospace company.
We deliver this through our Group strategic objectives, business portfolio actions and integrated business plans.
The six Group strategic objectives are championed by the Executive Committee and apply across all of our businesses, while the business portfolio actions are championed by the relevant Executive Committee member and are delivered by the businesses either separately or jointly.
Both are underpinned by our integrated business plans.
Group Strategy To deliver sustainable growth in shareholder value by being the premier global defence and aerospace company Group Strategic Objectives Continue to embed a high-performance culture across the Company Further enhance our programme execution capabilities Increase sharing of expertise, technology and best practice between our global businesses Develop a partnering approach to meet our customer requirements Develop our capabilities in existing and new home markets Establish security businesses in our home markets Business Portfolio Actions Establish in the Grow our business Implement the home Grow our global land Grow our export Grow our global UK sustainably in the United States market strategy and systems business business from our support, solutions profitable through-life both organically grow in the Kingdom home markets and services businesses in and via acquisitions of Saudi Arabia businesses Air, Land and Sea Integrated Business Plans 12 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The following three case studies demonstrate examples of how we are implementing our strategy.
Strategy Key Performance Indicators KPIs p12 p25 Group strategic objectives The Group delivers its strategy through the Group strategic objectives Each year the Group strategic objectives are reviewed and refined to detailed opposite, business portfolio actions and integrated business ensure that they remain relevant.
For 2008 we have clarified the intent plans.
The strategy is also supported by ten short-term objectives of the objective Develop our capabilities in emerging growth markets agreed annually by the Executive Committee see page 11 which and separated it into two: address the key challenges in delivering the strategy in the year ahead.
The objectives are directly underpinned by a set of financial Develop our capabilities in existing and new home markets, focuses and non-financial performance indicators that are regularly reported on developing the Groups multi-home market strategy: and to the Board and linked to executive remuneration.
These KPIs are Establish security businesses in our home markets, highlights the detailed on pages 25 and 26 and provide a succinct and meaningful importance of this adjacent market opportunity.
measurement system to assess enterprise performance and continuous improvement in line with our strategy.
Continue to embed a high-performance culture across the Company Having a high-performance culture underpins our ability to achieve our strategy.
This means setting challenging targets and reviewing Risks our performance so that we deliver against our commitments.
This p44 is underlined by demonstrating high standards of business conduct in line with our ethical principles.
Effective management of risk and opportunity is essential to the Further enhance our programme execution capabilities delivery of the Groups objectives and achievement of sustainable Excellence in programme execution remains at the core of the shareholder value.
The Groups approach to risk management is to successful delivery of our strategy, both in terms of executing on remove or reduce the likelihood and effect of risks before they occur, our existing contracts and winning new business.
Being recognised by our customers as their reliable partner of choice to deliver to their and deal effectively with problems if they do.
expectations on time and budget will ensure we deliver continuing Further information on the risk management processes and performance and growth of our business.
procedures, and the committees involved in the management of risk, Increase sharing of expertise, technology and best practice between is given on pages 44 and 45. our global businesses As our customers requirements increasingly demand the ability to offer through-life and capability solutions, we are committed to finding ways Resources p51 to increasingly collaborate across our business and project boundaries to deliver these solutions.
We need to continue to build on our ability to work across the lines of business that span our six home markets.
The key resources and arrangements the Group uses to achieve its Develop a partnering approach to meet our customer requirements strategic objectives include: Mutually beneficial trust-based partnering relationships with our the people it employs: customers are increasingly important to the long-term future and relationships with its customers, subcontractors and other suppliers: stability of our business.
Many of our customers are recognising the research and development: long-term nature and strategic importance of defence procurements.
intellectual property: and We are responding to this by building our partnering capabilities in its capital structure.
ways such as working in integrated project teams and embedding Each of these is discussed further on pages 51 and 52, with the our activities alongside customers.
exception of the Groups capital structure which is explained on Develop our capabilities in existing and new home markets page 22 in the Financial review.
We continue to evaluate ways in which we can develop our in-country presence, both in our six existing home markets and in potential new home markets.
Establish security businesses in our home markets In 2007, we evaluated opportunities to grow into related new market segments, providing we could lever our core technologies and capabilities appropriately.
We decided to focus on establishing security businesses in our home markets.
