Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Implementing our strategy Case study one A global leader in land systems US military vehicles Business portfolio actions addressed in this case study Strategic acquisitions in both the wheeled and tracked vehicle sectors have resulted in BAE Systems leadership positions in these key growth areas.
Grow UK Grow US Grow in the Grow land Grow export Grow global Further convergence of these two sectors will continue to create growth through-life business Kingdom of systems business support businesses Saudi Arabia opportunities for the Group as it begins to focus on the development of light wheeled vehicles.
2005 acquisition of United Defense established Total US military vehicle fleet % BAE Systems strong position in the tracked combat 255,000 military vehicles 2006 inventory vehicle sector 13 2007 acquisition of Armor Holdings positioned BAE Systems as a leader in the growing military wheeled vehicle sector Acquisition of Acquisition of Further convergence of such tracked combat and wheeled United Defense Armor Holdings 87 vehicle technology will present future growth opportunities for the Group BAE Systems is today a leader in military land systems with sales of US tracked vehicles % US wheeled vehicles % $7.1bn in 2007 and principal operations in the US, UK, Sweden and Primarily combat Primarily support South Africa.
This large global presence has been established over a short period.
The Group embarked on a distinct and cohesive Bradley Light M1 Abrams Combat and strategy to enter both the tracked and wheeled vehicle sectors, and M2 M3 tank Heavy the convergence of these capabilities is now providing significant 20 13 25 growth opportunities.
Prior to 2004 BAE Systems involvement in the land systems 52 sector was limited to its RO Defence activities in the UK.
In 2004 12 35 BAE Systems acquired Alvis plc, recognising the opportunity to Fire 43 address the market for through-life support of the UK armoured M113 Medium support armoured Fighting Vehicle fleet and to better address the opportunity to platforms personnel carrier participate in the UKs largest projected land systems programme, the Future Rapid Effect System FRES.
Alvis included not only the BAE Systems BAE Systems major participation principal constituents of the UK armoured vehicle capability but also Others BAE Systems some participation Others the Swedish Hgglunds business and OMC in South Africa.
With its newly expanded land sector presence and its strategy Figure 1 to grow in the US market, BAE Systems targeted the good growth prospects for support and reset work in the large armoured vehicle The growth of insurgency and the terrorist threat, including the use fleets in the US.
Reset is the process of taking worn vehicles out of mines and improvised explosive devices has led to a demand for a of service and refurbishing them to an as-new condition for return new class of utility vehicle.
These more sophisticated utility vehicles to service.
BAE Systems identified United Defense, a major tracked retain wheeled mobility but have the survivability characteristics of combat vehicle business in the US, as a focus for increased reset tracked combat vehicles.
This evolving convergence of utility and activity and has seen substantial growth since its acquisition of that combat vehicle capabilities led BAE Systems to acquire Armor company in June 2005.
Holdings, Inc. a leading US supplier of wheeled utility vehicles and armour protection technology.
The Armor Holdings capabilities Having established a strong position in the tracked combat complement the tracked combat vehicle capabilities of the former vehicle sector, BAE Systems looked to address the newly emerging United Defense business in the US see figure 1. opportunities for wheeled military vehicles.
Wheeled vehicle fleets have in the past been assigned primarily to utility and support When BAE Systems acquired Armor Holdings the requirement in the applications while the heavier combat vehicles, with their enhanced US for Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP vehicles was just survivability, were deployed for combat operations.
BAE Systems has been able to respond to this urgent 14 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP vehicle RG33 The MRAP programme awards reflect both the Groups industrial capacity and its ability to collaborate across sites and businesses globally.
Mine protected vehicles Demand for a new class of utility vehicle which incorporates the mobility of wheeled utility vehicles with the survivability of tracked combat vehicles has led to the development of mine protected wheeled vehicles.
BAE Systems land systems strategy and key acquisitions have ensured it is a leading player in this key growth area.
US MRAP orders % BAE Systems has been awarded contracts for RG33 approximately one-third of 14 the c. 12,000 MRAP vehicles requirement, winning large orders for MRAP vehicles sourced ordered in the US.
Caiman from three of its operations: the OMC business in South Africa: 14 the former United Defense facilities in York, Pennsylvania: and the In addition, the business has 65 recently acquired former Armor Holdings facilities in Sealy, Texas 7 received contracts for over RG31 1,000 mine protected vehicles and Fairfield, Ohio see figure 2. in other markets.
Other New generation vehicle programmes are likely to emerge in response to the continuing convergence of utility and combat vehicle requirements.
Near-term MRAP requirements are expected to evolve BAE Systems in two directions.
Medium Mine Protected Vehicle MMPV is the US Others Army programme of record for future MRAP-like requirements, while the proposed Joint Light Tactical Vehicle JLTV programme is likely Figure 2 to involve the application of advanced new technologies to achieve a range of three types of light to medium vehicles of comparable size and mass to the lightweight High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Wheeled utility vehicle route map Vehicles HMMWV in use by the American military see figure 3.
The requirements for the JLTV will apply lessons learned by the US military for survivable, combat-ready utility vehicles, as have been BAE Systems has developed its land systems strategy at a time of significant demonstrated with up-armoured HMMWVs and MRAPs.
BAE Systems growth in activity.
Production of FMTV Family of Medium Tactical Vehicles has is approaching the JLTV requirement through the formation of two increased and MRAP vehicles have been in demand throughout 2007.
This is likely to continue in the short term with MMPVs and JLTVs likely to become entirely separate teaming arrangements.
BAE Systems currently has two distinct JLTV bids underway.
MRAP RG33 MMPV Up-armour programme Caiman RG31 HMMWV JLTV FMTV Previous Now Future BAE Systems Others Subject to competition Figure 3 BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 15 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Implementing our strategy continued Case study two Delivering benefits from partnered support Tornado support roadmap Business portfolio actions addressed in this case study BAE Systems UK Tornado support programme is a key example of how the Group is meeting customer demands for through-life capability and support.
Grow UK Grow US Grow in the Grow land Grow export Grow global Initially the Group piloted projects with the UK military aircraft fleet, which through-life business Kingdom of systems business support businesses Saudi Arabia have now culminated in the Tornado ATTAC programme.
This model can now be followed for other projects both within the UK and other export markets.
BAE Systems and its predecessor companies have developed extensive support capability in the Kingdom Initial pilot contracts Through-life Availability contract Future availability of Saudi Arabia over several decades support contract contract opportunities Spares and ATTAC component support Whole aircraft Tornado weapon e. g Typhoon, Pilot projects launched within the UK based on this support system availability Nimrod MRA4 experience realised significant cost and efficiency benefits BAE Systems partnering approach took a significant step forward in 2006 with the UK Tornado support programme The partnered support model is being developed for other projects and in other markets, such as Australia In response to customer demands BAE Systems has developed a partnered support approach which is providing cost savings and efficiencies for customers while developing a substantial and profitable stream of business for the Group.
For several decades BAE Systems and its predecessor companies Tornado support roadmap have been developing a deep relationship in support of the armed forces in Saudi Arabia, principally the Royal Saudi Air Force.
This highly BAE Systems contracts successful relationship has provided a basis on which to develop Possible future BAE Systems contracts support solutions programmes into other markets, most notably with the armed forces in the UK.
Initial pilot projects were established, identifying components of At the end of 2006 the Groups partnership approach to supporting the UKs military aircraft fleet where industry could bring enhanced the UKs armed forces took a further major step forward with the efficiency to the management of parts, repair and overhaul.
In an signing of the ATTAC Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft environment of severe cost restraint the benefits quickly became Contract agreement.
ATTAC is potentially worth 1.5bn and includes apparent, delivering reduced costs together with the operational on-aircraft maintenance of the Tornado GR4 aircraft fleet, spares benefit of enhanced availability.
support, technical support and training.
Under the ATTAC agreement, BAE Systems has taken responsibility for deep support at Progressively, BAE Systems deeper involvement in support of the Royal RAF Marham and combines this with a capability development and Air Force RAF has been expanded across larger airframe assemblies sustainment service as a structured and cost-effective approach and sub-systems leading to contracts to manage the maintenance and to inserting new capability into the aircraft, so as to maintain its support of whole aircraft fleets.
A combined maintenance and upgrade war-fighting effectiveness throughout its service life.
ATTAC is an facility was established at RAF Cottesmore for the UKs Harrier fleet, availability contract where BAE Systems is responsible for ensuring co-locating the RAF and Royal Navy engineering activities with those the required aircraft, at an agreed capability, are provided to the of BAE Systems.
front-line when they are required.
The similar concept now in place for the larger fleet of Tornado aircraft Similar opportunities exist across a number of areas, including new in the UK enabled aircraft down-time for maintenance to be optimised platforms such as Typhoon and those due to enter service, such as to facilitate modifications and systems upgrade to take place the MRA4 Nimrod.
In addition, similar partnered support arrangements concurrently.
Combined maintenance and upgrade has reduced are being developed across the UKs armoured fighting vehicle fleets traditional maintenance manhours by 50%.
Highlighting the success of and in UK naval support.
this programme, the UK governments National Audit Office reported in 2007 that these arrangements had contributed to savings of 1.3bn over the past five years on Tornado support, with a 51% reduction in Tornado flying hour costs.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Case study three A home market strategy in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Kingdom of Saudi Arabia programme evolution Business portfolio actions addressed in this case study BAE Systems relationship with Saudi Arabia can be traced back to the late 1960s through its predecessor companies.
Today this has developed into Grow UK Grow US Grow in the Grow land Grow export Grow global a successful home market with the Salam programme to supply through-life business Kingdom of systems business support businesses Saudi Arabia Typhoon aircraft signed in 2007.
Moving from an export programme to a home market Aircraft export sale Focus on investment and training within Saudi Arabia Integrated defence capability Industrialisation British Aircraft Corporation Saudi Arabia has been an important market for BAE Systems for a Lightning, Strikemaster number of decades.
The Group continues to strengthen this market relationship, creating new opportunities for the future and the development of Saudi Arabia as a home market.
BA E Systems can trace the roots of its relationship with the Kingdom British Aerospace of Saudi Arabia back through its predecessor companies to the supply Tornado, Hawk of Lightning and Strikemaster aircraft in the late 1960s.
The initial aircraft deliveries were followed by the provision of extensive support arrangements.
In 1985 agreement was reached between the UK government and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for a substantial BAE Systems enhancement to the capability of the Royal Saudi Air Force RSAF Typhoon and Royal Saudi Naval Forces RSNF through the purchase of Tornado aircraft and associated training systems and support, and supply of ships.
As with the Lightning programme, Tornado was initially a UK export programme supported by a large expatriate workforce.
1970 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 2030 Over time, BAE Systems and the RSAF have worked to substantially increase the number of Saudi nationals employed on the programme.
Well-trained and highly skilled Saudi nationals have progressively replaced a high proportion of the expatriate workforce and the capability to undertake major maintenance and upgrade activity has been established in Saudi Arabia.
The Group employs approximately 2,300 Saudi nationals.
BAE Systems has made significant investments into Saudi Arabia, both in new facilities for its people and in companies through which aerospace work is undertaken in support of the programme.
The Groups commitment to Saudi Arabia as one of its key home markets includes the recent relocation of the divisional management team to the Kingdom.
In December 2005 the UK government and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia signed an agreement to modernise the Saudi Arabian armed forces.
This programme, Salam, includes the supply of Typhoon aircraft, a contract for which was signed in 2007.
Importantly, the agreement sets out a plan that will further enhance both Saudi Arabias indigenous capability and BAE Systems position as a major constituent of the Saudi Arabian defence industrial base and a major local employer.
Further investment in industrial facilities is already underway to facilitate the modernisation of the RSAF and support the introduction of Typhoon aircraft under the Salam programme.
Saudi Arabia BAE Systems home market strategy in Saudi Arabia is focused on the in-country development of industrial capability.
