Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Resources The key resources and arrangements the Group uses to achieve its strategic objectives include: the people it employs: relationships with its customers, subcontractors and other suppliers: research and development: intellectual property: and its capital structure.
All employment policies include a commitment to equal opportunities The Operational Framework OF page 44 encompasses the mandated regardless of sex, race, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, religion, age or policies and core business processes that provide a common framework disability, subject only to considerations of national security.
The Groups for how we do business.
These mandated policies and core business policy is to provide, wherever possible, employment opportunities for processes together with our key resources help us to achieve the disabled people and to ensure that disabled people joining the Group Groups strategic objectives.
and employees who become disabled whilst in our employment benefit People from training and career development opportunities.
Our employees are key to our success, both now and in the future.
The Group has put into place a number of ways of consulting with We invest extensively in education schemes to encourage an interest employees and providing them with information on the performance of in science and education amongst school children and support higher the Group and other matters that affect them.
The effectiveness of the levels of education through our apprentice programmes and graduate communication process is assessed regularly with the aim of ensuring sponsorship schemes.
The Group employs 88,000 people in its continual improvement so as to provide employees with the information subsidiaries, with a further 9,500 employed in joint ventures.
The they want by the most effective means.
workforce encompasses a broad range of skills and experience delivering a full range of products and services for air, land and Employees are actively encouraged to become shareholders in the naval forces as well as advanced electronics, information technology Company by way of all-employee share schemes.
solutions and customer support services.
Honours In the UK, the following individuals were honoured in The Group aims to get the best from its employees by treating Her Majesty the Queens 2008 New Year Honours lists: them with respect, creating a supportive workplace and giving them CBE: Murray Easton and Alan Garwood opportunities for development.
This helps the Group attract and retain OBE: Vic Emery highly talented people who can deliver the products and services MBE: Dave Blacker customers need.
Further details on the approach to employee engagement and Performance Centred Leadership PCL, the Groups integrated development are detailed on pages 37 to 43 in the Corporate approach to managing leadership performance, development and responsibility section of this report.
reward, is critical to the Group achieving its strategic objective of continuing to embed a high-performance culture.
PCL addresses Relationships with customers the setting of objectives and performance assessment together with The Group regards the relationship with its customers as a key the determination of reward, development needs and potential.
The discriminator in a competitive industry.
Its core businesses are mostly process was applied to 600 leaders at its launch in 2000 and is now defence related, selling products and services primarily to the US, the deployed to over 6,200 executives globally across all of the Groups UK, the Saudi Arabian and other national governments, both directly operations.
It drives business success by linking individuals goals with and indirectly with other defence and aerospace companies.
In many the wider goals of the organisation, enabling employees to understand cases these relationships extend over decades and span the full how their own success contributes to the success of the Group.
PCL product and service lifecycle from the initial concept definition, through is a core business process mandated by the OF to be used across the system development phase, into production and then on to support the Group.
for the system in service.
Apprenticeships BAE Systems wins Sun Microsystems Supplier Award The BAE Systems Advanced Apprenticeship programme is BAE Systems was named Meritorious Performance Supplier one of the largest such schemes in the UK.
At any one time, in Sun Microsystems 2007 Supplier Awards programme.
the Group has up to 1,000 young people employed on its The Supplier Awards recognise companies that make numerous training programmes.
outstanding contributions to Sun Microsystems record of delivering superior technology, quality service and excellent value to its customers.
BAE Systems Annual Report 2007 51 Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Resources continued and development through using common processes in a coordinated way, thereby reducing duplication.
BAE Systems supports SC21 by providing the project director for the industrial programme, coordinating the 16 primes and tier one companies, managing the industrial implementation plan including over 100 suppliers and interfacing with the UK MoD.
BAE Systems has also implemented the SC21 principles and processes across its own Supply Chain Excellence improvement programme, and is leading improvement work with 11 of the industrial plan suppliers.
Several common improvement plans are in place, coordinating the improvement requirements of the supplier and its other aerospace and defence customers.
The Groups Centre for Performance Excellence has identified best practices in managing major subcontracts from across BAE Systems and industry.
These best practices are being embedded in the Groups UK Association for Project Management APM Awards processes, guidance and training to help deliver on commitments to In 2007, ATTAC the Availability Transformation: Tornado Aircraft Contract see page 16 was awarded Project of customers.
This directly aligns with the Groups strategic objectives of the Year by the UK APM.
enhancing programme execution capabilities, sharing of best practice between the Groups global businesses and embedding a highperformance culture.
This lifecycle approach is used as the basis of one of the Groups core Research and development R&D and intellectual property business processes.
The continued development of the Groups technological capabilities Lifecycle Management LCM The OF mandates the use of LCM across and expertise is key to achieving the Groups strategic objectives.
LCM provides a structured approach to managing the The Group is engaged in a significant R&D programme in support of Groups commitments and investments throughout product and project the platforms, systems and services that it provides to its customers.
lifecycles, promoting the application of best practice management and This covers a wide range of work and includes performance innovations, facilitates continuous improvement.
improvements to manufacturing techniques and technology to improve the through-life support of products.
Throughout this lifecycle the Group engages extensively with its customers and undertakes customer satisfaction surveys as part of The development and demonstration of capabilities in networked its drive for continuous performance improvement.
systems, and enabling interoperability, is an important area of focus in both the UK and the US.
Long-term research is undertaken through Increasingly contracts are being awarded for the delivery of a partnerships with the academic sector and in the Groups Advanced capability, rather than just a product.
Reflecting this new approach, traditional customer relationships are evolving into long-term Technology Centre and Systems Engineering Innovation Centre.
partnerships with governments and their armed forces.
Application of this research is managed by the Groups business units through business focused R&D programmes.
Customers fund directly Managing subcontractors and other suppliers much of the near-term product development work undertaken by the Managing major subcontracts is a key strategic capability.
Total R&D expenditure for the Group amounted to 1,460m on subcontractors represents a significant portion of project cost and, 2006 1,248m, of which 176m 2006 162m was funded by therefore, effective management of this expenditure is a key value the Group.
The benefits of capability-based contracting, combined with ongoing budget pressures, are leading many customers Intellectual property is created every day, in every part of the Group.
to demand a more integrated, partnering, approach to meeting their It takes many forms, not only tangible products but also know how requirements.
Transforming relationships with suppliers is an developed over the years.
The Operational Framework mandates a essential part of developing systems integration and through-life policy to protect the Groups intellectual property through appropriate management capabilities.
BAE Systems is committed to improving use and observance of intellectual property law, so that returns supply chain relationships and working together with other companies, made from the investment in R&D and technological innovation large and small, in each of the Groups home markets to deliver better are protected.
value and innovation for its customers.
The Group filed patent applications covering over 100 new inventions BAE Systems is a founder of the UK aerospace and defence 21st in 2007 in support of its global businesses, and has a total portfolio Century Supply Chain SC21 programme, designed to coordinate of patents and patent applications covering more than 1,500 multiple customers with suppliers in improving supplier management inventions worldwide.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Corporate governance Board of directors 54 Corporate governance 56 Remuneration report 64 Other statutory and regulatory information 84 Typhoon with Paveway air-to-surface weapon load.
