Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Directors report Business review Business group reviews continued The Programmes & Support business group, with 1 29,100 employees, comprises the Groups UKbased air, naval and underwater systems activities and the Integrated System Technologies business.
2 Programmes & Support During 2007, Programmes & Support achieved EBITA of 456m 1 2006 342m on sales of 5,327m 2006 4,615m and generated 3 an operating cash inflow of 807m 2006 449m.
1 Sales growth of 15% Return on sales benefited by 0.8% arising from one-off gains recorded Return on sales improved to 8.6% in the first half of 2007, including completion of the Offshore Patrol Vessel arbitration process.
1 Order book at a new high of 20.9bn 4 4 Restated Restated Order intake includes the appropriate work share of the award of the 2007 2006 2005 Saudi Typhoon contract.
1 Sales 5,327m 4,615m 4,660m 2 Military Air Solutions EBITA 456m 342m 261m Military Air Solutions is responsible for delivering five major Return on sales 8.6% 7.4% 5.6% programmes: Typhoon, Hawk, Nimrod MRA4, F-35 Lightning II 3 Cash inflow 807m 449m 441m Joint Strike Fighter, and Autonomous Systems & Future Capability.
1 In addition, it is responsible for through-life support for these Order intake 9,091m 5,178m 4,186m programmes as well as for the UKs Royal Air Force RAF fleets 1 Order book 20.9bn 17.0bn 16.8bn of Harrier, Tornado, Nimrod MR2 and VC-10 aircraft.
5 2,6 The business made strong progress during 2007: both on delivering Share of Group sales Share of Group EBITA 33% 28% its programme commitments and working in partnership with its customers to enhance their military capability.
Work continues towards the creation of an air sector Long-Term Partnering Agreement LTPA as envisaged in the Defence Industrial Strategy, published in December 2005.
A foundation contract, setting out the partnering principles and providing a framework for detailed negotiations, was agreed in March.
This has enabled the Group to generate a shared view of the business and is helping to direct investment.
Delivery of Typhoon aircraft to the four partner nations continues Key points with a total of 53 aircraft delivered to the UK and 84 across the other European partner nations as at 31 December 2007.
Five of the 15 contracted aircraft for Austria were also delivered during the year.
RAF Typhoons now operational Full six ship Type 45 destroyer contract awarded In the UK, RAF Typhoons are operational in air defence and Quick Launch of first of class Astute submarine Reaction Alert roles.
Discussions to establish long-term integrated Orders received for second and third Astute Class submarines logistics support contracts are progressing well.
Tranche 2 aircraft are Offshore Patrol Vessel arbitration settled now in final assembly with the first delivery planned for 2008.
Work has also commenced on further air-to-ground capability enhancements.
Looking forward Good progress is being made on development and production of the UK RAF Hawk Advanced Jet Trainer, where the first production aircraft The future of Programmes & Support is linked to MoD funding in order to meet is now structurally complete.
current UK armed forces operational requirements and delivery of the Defence On the Hawk contract for India, ten aircraft have been accepted by the Industrial Strategy.
Twenty Hawk aircraft for South Africa have In the air sector, short-term growth is dependent both upon production execution and in-service support performance in the UK and on export deliveries.
been delivered, with the remaining aircraft due for delivery in the first half of 2008.
In March, the 200th T-45 Goshawk aircraft was delivered The naval sector expects the creation of the joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet Limited.
Growth prospects for the joint venture include the UKs Future Carrier to the US Navy and the ongoing T-45 production programmes continue CVF programme and the Military Afloat Reach and Sustainability programme.
The six ship Type 45 programme underpins the business for the next few years.
The Nimrod MRA4 aircraft development programme is progressing and The Submarines business is focused on the Astute programme and securing the production programme continues to perform to the contractual concept design work on the Future Submarine programme.
A Stability Augmentation System has now been embodied for Astute Boats 4 to 7 is key in retaining the necessary skill base in order to design and build the next generation nuclear deterrent submarine.
1 including share of equity accounted investments 2 earnings before amortisation and impairment of intangible assets, finance costs and taxation expense 3 net cash inflow from operating activities after capital expenditure net and financial investment, and dividends from equity accounted investments 4 restated following changes to the Groups organisational structure 5 before elimination of intra-group sales 6 excluding HQ & Other Businesses 32 www.
baesyste ms. com Directors report Business review Directors report Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Partnering Progress has been made towards establishing a partnered through-life availability support solution for the RAF Typhoon.
The support contracts for the VC-10 and Nimrod MR2 aircraft continue The naval joint ventures continue to perform to plan.
Upon creation of the new maritime sector joint venture, BVT Surface Fleet Limited, and VC-10 fleet maintenance has now been extended to 2013.
BAE Systems will sell its share of Flagship Training Limited to VT The Tornado availability programme, ATTAC, is fully effective and Group, and Fleet Support Limited will become wholly owned by BVT a contract expansion has been agreed.
This increases the scope Surface Fleet Limited.
of ATTAC to include the remaining areas of the Tornado aircraft.
Submarine Solutions The Harrier GR9 aircraft has transitioned successfully into service.
The first of class boat, HMS Astute, was launched in June 2007 Harrier has supported UK military operations with high recognition and has completed Trim & Basin Trials successfully.
The boat is for the capability it is providing.
on schedule for delivery to the November 2008 contracted date.
Military Air Solutions is partnered with Lockheed Martin and Northrop Construction activities on Boats 2 and 3 are also progressing well.
Grumman on the F-35 Lightning II programme, with responsibility for Agreement of pricing of Boats 2 and 3 was reached and an order the design and manufacture of the rear fuselage, empennage and received to allow the start of production on Boat 4. delivery of a number of key aircraft systems.
Three aircraft variants are in development: Carrier, Conventional Take-Off and Landing CTOL Integrated System Technologies Insyte and Underwater Systems and Short Take-Off and Vertical Landing STOVL.
The Carrier variant The Sampson Radar, the Combat Management System and Long completed its final Critical Design Review successfully in June and Range Radar programmes for the Type 45 destroyers continue to manufacture and assembly has now commenced.
All three aircraft meet all key milestones.
The first of class radar has been successfully variants are now in various stages of manufacture and assembly.
Successful trials of a highly autonomous medium-altitude longThe Seawolf Mid-Life Update Tracker completed all of its trials at the endurance unmanned air system, HERTI, took place in 2007. shore-based facility, HMS Collingwood.
The Taranis unmanned combat air vehicle technology demonstration The Falcon programme continues to progress to schedule and will programme continues on plan and to cost with the first metal cut of provide the UK Armed Forces with a new tactical communications the demonstration vehicle in September.
Taranis is a key enabler to network, providing a secure information infrastructure capability.
the UK MoDs evaluation of future capability requirements.
The Sting Ray lightweight torpedo main production order remains In-country flight testing of the first South African Gripen is proceeding on schedule with the third batch accepted in October 2007. to plan.
The Archerfish mine disposal system has successfully passed initial qualification trials as the Common Neutraliser for sea mines with the Surface Fleet Solutions US Navy.
In August, the Type 45 six ship contract was signed, capturing the remaining scope of work to complete all six destroyers and Talisman, the company-funded Unmanned Underwater Vehicle, has establishing a jointly managed risk profile against a robust schedule, been developed further, reducing the size, unit cost and the underwater that met the MoDs cost aspirations.
drag while retaining the payload capacity.
It has undertaken exercises with the US Navy.
The second and third ships, Dauntless and Diamond, were launched in January and November 2007 respectively, whilst the first of class, HMS Daring, commenced sea trials in July.
The final vessel of the Bay Class Landing Ship Dock Auxiliary, RFA Lyme Bay, was handed over to the customer in June two months ahead of the contract date.
Two of the three ex-Royal Navy Type 23 frigates for the Chilean Navy completed their reactivation and were delivered to the customer.
The third ship is planned to be handed over to the Chilean Navy in May 2008.
The CVF programme passed the UK MoD Main Gate Review in 2007.
Contracts for the manufacturing phase are now in the final stages of negotiation.
The arbitration process in respect of the Offshore Patrol Vessels was settled and title to all three vessels transferred to the customer in April 2007.
Type 45 The first of class Type 45, HMS Daring, successfully completed her stage one sea trials on schedule in August 2007.
