10 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Directors report Business review As at 4 March 2008, the Company had been notied in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority The Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review, the Operating review of the following interests in its ordinary share capital: and the Corporate responsibility statement, included in the Annual review and summary financial statement, and the Financial review on pages 4 to 5, report Standard Life Investments Limited 9.06% on the principal activities of the Group, its operations during 2007 and future Lloyds TSB Group plc 6.30% developments in its businesses and are incorporated by reference into the Schroder Investment Management Limited 6.06% Legal & General Group plc 4.01% Directors report and accounts.
Prudential plc 3.43% Dividends Corporate governance and the Combined Code The Directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary shares of 6.9p net per share, making, with the interim dividend of 4.6p, a total dividend for 2007 of Overview 11.5p net.
Preference dividends totalling 10.75p gross per preference share The Board continues to endorse and apply the principles of good corporate have been paid for 2007. governance reected in the 2006 Combined Code the Code, as appended to the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Directors interests The governance of the Company through the year in the light of the principles and supporting principles and provisions of the Code is described No Director had any material interest in any contract of signicance with the in the following paragraphs.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 and Group during the period under review.
The interests of Directors in the share save as otherwise explained in the paragraph headed Compliance with the capital of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings and their interests under Code on page 15, the Board believes that the Company was in compliance the long-term incentive schemes the Performance Share Plans 2001 and 2006, with the provisions of the Code.
the deferred bonus plan and in respect of options, are set out in the tables in the Remuneration report beginning on page 16.
Honorary President The Company has provided a qualifying third party indemnity to each of Viscount Weir is Honorary President of the Company, having been appointed the Directors, which remains in force.
to this position in May 2003 following his retirement as Chairman.
The Board Share capital and major shareholders The Board currently comprises 10 Directors, of whom seven, including the Details of the share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2007, including Chairman, are non-executive.
Details of the one change during the year can be the rights attaching to each class of share, are set out in Note 28 on pages 65 found under the heading Directors below.
In addition, Duncan Magrath was and 66.
During the year to 31 December 2007 no ordinary shares were appointed an executive Director from 31 March 2008.
The Directors believe that repurchased for cancellation and 4,957,163 preference shares representing the Board continues to include an appropriate balance of skills and, with them, 4.23% of the preference share capital were repurchased for cancellation for the ability to provide effective leadership for the Group.
a total consideration of 7,500,534 at an average price of 151.3p.
1,286,018 Throughout 2007 and as at the date of this report, the Chairman was ordinary shares were issued following the exercise of options held under the Sir David John, the Chief Executive was Ian Tyler and the senior independent Companys savings-related share option scheme and 1,271,342 ordinary shares Director was Robert Walvis.
Sir David John continued as chairman of each were issued following the exercise of options held under the Companys of the Nomination Committee and the Business Practices Committee.
No other shares were issued during the year.
Robert Walvis continued as chairman of the Remuneration Committee and At 31 December 2007, the Directors had authority, under the shareholders Steven Marshall continued as chairman of the Audit Committee throughout resolutions approved at the AGM and separate class meeting held in May 2007, the year, and each remains chairman as indicated, at the date of this report.
to purchase through the market 43,071,984 ordinary shares and 17,245,795 As stated in the announcement made on 19 February 2008, Anthony Rabin preference shares at prices set out in those resolutions.
This authority expires was appointed Deputy Chief Executive with effect from 31 March 2008 and at the conclusion of the separate Class meeting which follows the 2008 Duncan Magrath was appointed Finance Director with effect from the same Annual General Meeting.
As stated in the further announcement made on 26 February 2008, Throughout the year all the Companys issued share capital was publicly Sir David John is retiring as Chairman and from the Company after the AGM on listed on the London Stock Exchange, and it remains so as at the date of 15 May 2008, and will be succeeded as Chairman by Steven Marshall.
There are no specic restrictions on the size of a shareholding nor on The Board operates both formally, through Board and Board Committee the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the Articles of Association meetings, and informally through regular contact between Directors as required.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements between Decisions on a list of specic matters, including the approval of financial holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of statements, major tenders and capital expenditure, and most acquisitions and shares or on voting rights.
disposals, are reserved to the Board or Board Committees.
Matters falling Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 31 on pages 71 outside the list are delegated to management.
The list of these reserved and 72.
Shares held by the Balfour Beatty Employee Share Ownership Trust are matters is reviewed by the Board from time to time, most recently in not voted.
There is no person who has special rights of control over the Companys Most meetings of the Board during 2007 were held in London, with two share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
A number of the Companys meetings held elsewhere.
In July, a meeting was held on the site of the new significant banking, joint venture and contract bond agreements include Birmingham Hospital, which is in the course of construction by the Group.
provisions which become exercisable by a counterparty upon a change of In November, a meeting was held in Washington DC, when Directors were able control of the Company.
These include the right of a counterparty to request to meet the management of Balfour Beatty Construction US and view some of additional security and to terminate an agreement.
its projects in the Washington area.
G Oo uv r e gr o n va en rc ne ance 11 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Procedures for Board meetings remain unchanged from previous years.
Papers Reports on the workings of these Committees are set out below.
The activities are generally sent out at least three days in advance of the meeting.
These of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration report include a written report from each of the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, beginning on page 16. the director of Safety, Health and the Environment, and the group managing The Audit Committee directors.
At the meetings, oral reports are made on issues arising from the The terms of reference for the Committee, based on the Smith report written reports, and both those and other matters of immediate interest or and the requirements of the Code, were approved by the Board in October concern are discussed by the Board.
Apart from the meetings that approve 2003.
They are subject to regular review but remain unchanged to date and the interim and final results respectively, and the meeting prior to the Annual are available on the Companys website.
The main responsibilities of the General Meeting, a separate presentation on a topic of interest or concern, Audit Committee remain as stated in previous reports.
In summary they are: such as the operations of a particular business, is normally made to the Board.
Each meeting lasts three to four hours, but can be longer.
1 to monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any The Board met on 12 occasions in the course of 2007.
Two of the meetings formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: were called at short notice respectively to consider issues surrounding the 2 to review the Groups internal financial controls established to identify, Companys shareholding in Metronet and a potential acquisition.
Directors assess, manage and monitor financial risks, and receive reports from unable to attend either meeting due to other commitments were briefed management on the effectiveness of the systems they have established separately.
and the conclusions of any testing carried out by the internal and A table showing attendance at Board meetings, and at meetings of the external auditors: Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Business Practices Committee, is set out on page 12.
In addition, the 3 to monitor and review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: non-executive Directors held two separate meetings during the year, one being 4 to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment attended by the Chairman and one taking place without the Chairman.
of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of Chairman engagement of the external auditor: Sir David John became Chairman in May 2003, having joined the Board 5 to assess the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external in August 2000.
Sir David spends an average of two days per week on auditor and to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the the business of the Company.
He has other significant commitments as external auditor to supply non-audit services: and non-executive chairman of The BSI Group and of Premier Oil plc.
The Board considers that his other commitments are not of such a nature as to hinder 6 to review arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns his activities as chairman of the Company or those as chairman of the about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting.
Nomination and Business Practices Committees.
It was announced on The Committee continues to be chaired by Steven Marshall.
The other members 26 February 2008 that Sir David would be stepping down as Chairman after of the Committee currently are Mike Donovan, Stephen Howard, Gordon Sage the AGM on 15 May 2008. and Christoph von Rohr.
Chris Pearson, the Company Secretary, continued as Directors secretary of the Committee.
All members of the Committee have extensive Brief biographical details of the Directors, including the Chairman, are given experience of management in large international organisations.
The chairman, in the Annual review and summary financial statement.
All the Directors Steven Marshall, is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management shown served throughout the year other than Duncan Magrath, who was Accountants, and a former group finance director and group chief executive of appointed an executive Director from 31 March 2008 and will attend the AGM.
He later held both these appointments at Railtrack plc.
Jim Cohen, who is not pictured, served as a Director until his retirement on It was announced on 26 February 2008 that Sir David John was retiring as 18 February 2007.
Chairman and from the Company after five years as Chairman, having joined From September 2003, non-executive Directors have been appointed the Board in 2000.
He will be succeeded by Steven Marshall, who has been a for specic three year terms, and it is part of the terms of reference of the non-executive Director of the Company since 2005.
The Board has agreed that Nomination Committee to review all appointments of non-executive Directors Mr Marshall should remain chairman of the Audit Committee on an interim at three year intervals, or as near to that as is practicable, and make basis after his appointment as Company Chairman becomes effective, until recommendations to the Board accordingly.
a replacement with the appropriate financial and accounting background has The Board considers that all the non-executive Directors continue to been identified and appointed to the Board.
The Board accepted that this situation, albeit temporary, would not be compliant with the Code, but considered nonetheless that the interests of the Rotation of Directors, election and re-election Company and shareholders would best be served if Mr Marshall remained The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the Articles chairman of the Audit Committee for the time being.
It is anticipated that a of Association and the prevailing law.
The Articles may be amended by the successor to Mr Marshall as Audit Committee chairman will be appointed in shareholders through special resolution.
The powers of directors are set out time for the Audit Committee which precedes the interim results for 2008. in the Articles and the general law.
Appointments to the Committee are made by the Board for a period of up The Articles of Association of the Company provide that each Director to three years, extendable by no more than two additional three year periods, shall retire from ofce in the third year following the year in which last so long as members continue to be independent.
At the Board meeting elected or re-elected, and shall be eligible for re-election.
This year, the only following each meeting of the Committee, the Committee chairman provides an Director to retire is Anthony Rabin, the Deputy Chief Executive from 31 March oral report on the work of the Committee and any significant issues that may 2008, who is seeking re-election, being eligible.
In addition, Duncan Magrath have arisen.
The minutes of Committee meetings are circulated to all members who was appointed from 31 March 2008, seeks election for the first time.
Board Committees Four meetings of the Committee were held in 2007.
At the invitation The main Board Committees, the membership of which is either wholly or of the Committee, partners from the external auditor, the Head of Group Audit, substantially comprised of non-executive Directors, continue to be the Audit the Finance Director and the Company Chairman regularly attend each meeting.
Committee, the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the In addition, any independent non-executive Director who is not a Committee Business Practices Committee.
member has an open invitation to attend meetings.
12 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Directors report continued In 2007, as in previous years, the main purpose of the March and August The Business Practices Committee meetings of the Committee was to consider the final and interim results The Business Practices Committee was chaired throughout the year by respectively, a process which is well established.
At each of these meetings, Sir David John, its other members being Mike Donovan, Christoph von Rohr, and Robert Walvis.
Chris Pearson, the Company Secretary, continued as the Committee reviewed significant accounting policies, financial reporting issues and judgements, and reports from internal financial management and secretary to the Committee.
Its terms of reference cover matters of business internal and external auditors.
conduct, ethics, reputation, health, safety and the environment and matters The May and November meetings of the Committee are not driven by of corporate social responsibility generally.
It is also charged with reviewing financial results, and at these meetings the Committee was able to review the effectiveness of the whistle-blowing procedures established in a wider range of matters in addition to its usual business.
Committee considered a review of taxation issues and in November, the The Committee met twice in 2007.
As usual, the main topics considered Committee conducted a further review of the Groups enterprise resource by the Committee throughout the year related to health, safety and the planning system.
environment, including final approval of the Groups sixth corporate Throughout 2007, the Committee has continued to review the Groups responsibility report, published in May 2007.
The Committee also discussed, financial risk management processes.
This review has included reports from among other things, the questions of safety from a long-term perspective, the the Head of Group Audit on the Groups internal controls and on the work of the importance of a safety culture, progress in safety generally given the Groups internal auditors, a consideration of the effectiveness both of the internal audit expansion, and the practical difficulties of applying common safety standards function and of the external audit process, a review of the resources of the in different jurisdictions.
Regular reports were received by the Committee on external and internal auditor, and a consideration of the external auditors the Groups charitable activities and about whistle-blowing procedure management letter in respect of accounting procedures and internal financial and practice.
As a result, the Committee felt able to recommend to the Board that Table of attendance at meetings it might properly conclude that the Company continued to maintain a sound Details of the number of meetings of, and attendances at, the Board system of internal financial control, and that a proper review of the meetings and meetings of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and effectiveness of the Companys systems of internal financial controls had Business Practices Committees during the year are set out in the table been completed.
The relevant total number of meetings held in 2007 in each case The Committee has also considered the independence of the external is included in brackets after the name of the Board or Committee.
It should auditor and received conrmation that, in its view, it remained independent be noted in reviewing attendance of meetings that when meetings are of the Company.
Consideration of the independence of the external auditor called at short notice it is not always possible for all Directors to attend, due included the non-audit work carried out by the external auditor during the year, to prior commitments.
which continues to be covered by the policy approved by the Board in June Business 2003 an analysis of non-audit fees incurred is set out in Note 4.2 on page 36.
Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Practices The Committee has carried out a review of the proposal made by the external Name of Director 12 4 0 4 2 auditor in respect of the audit fees and terms of engagement for the 2007 M J Donovan 12 4 2 audit and has recommended that the Board proposes to shareholders that S L Howard 11 3 4 Deloitte & Touche LLP continues as the Companys external auditor.
The administrative procedures of the Committee were unchanged through J L Cohen 1 the year.
The Head of Group Audit continues to have direct access to the Sir David John 12 2 Chairman of the Committee.
Separate meetings between the Committee S Marshall 11 4 3 Chairman, and the Finance Director, the Head of Group Audit and the external A L P Rabin 12 auditor respectively, took place after the March and August meetings.
Dr H C von Rohr 10 3 3 2 The Nomination Committee G H Sage 11 4 3 The Committee was established by the Board in November 2003.
Its terms I P Tyler 12 of reference are available on the Companys website.
The Committee continues to be chaired by Sir David John.
Its other R J W Walvis 12 4 2 members, currently, are Mike Donovan, Stephen Howard, Steven Marshall, P J L Zinkin 12 Gordon Sage, Ian Tyler and Robert Walvis.
The secretary of the Committee is Retired on 18 February 2007.
The Committee held no formal meetings in 2007.
Board, Committee and individual director evaluation The Board as a whole and its main Committees were the subject of an The Remuneration Committee evaluation exercise carried out in 2004 by an external consultant.
The actions Information about the working and membership of this Committee is agreed which arose from the report were implemented through 2005.
A further contained in the Remuneration report beginning on page 16. full evaluation exercise, of the Board and its main Committees, was carried out during 2007 by an external consultant.
While no substantive issues emerged from the exercise, a number of minor procedural matters were identied as meriting attention and possible changes to current practice, and these are under consideration for implementation during 2008 together with any changes to Board procedures necessitated by the coming into force of the Companies Act 2006.
Our governance 13 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Dialogue with shareholders monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and The Company has continued its long-established programme of communication forecasts by executive Directors and line management, including particular with institutional investors and brokers throughout 2007.
Presentations of the areas of business or project risk.
This is used to update both managements understanding of the environment in which the Group operates and the half year and full year results were made in accordance with the practice of previous years.
Some 60 meetings have been held at regular intervals through methods used to mitigate and control the risks identified: the year with institutional shareholders, in addition to meetings with brokers individual tender and project review procedures commencing at operating and analysts, and a number of analysts and key shareholders were invited to company level and progressing to Board Committee level if value or perceived visit the operations of Balfour Beatty Construction in the USA in October 2007. exposure breaches certain thresholds: This programme will continue and be expanded where appropriate, subject to the constraints of regulation and practice.
regular reporting, monitoring and review of health, safety and Reports to the Board on meetings or other contact with shareholders environmental matters: or their representatives are made by executive Directors on a regular basis.
the review and authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and capital As before and on occasion, the Chairman attends meetings with shareholders expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: and any non-executive Director is always welcome to do so too.
The nonexecutive Directors continue to believe that, through their direct and ready the review of specic material areas of Group-wide risk and the formulation access to, and contact with, the Chairman, through Mr Walvis, the senior and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: independent Director, and through the regular reports to the Board, they are the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures, kept fully aware of the views of the larger shareholders in the Company and updated through the free and regular ow of information to address the the investment community generally.
changing risks of the business: Risk management specic policies set out in the Group Finance Manual, covering the financial The Board takes ultimate responsibility for the Groups systems of risk management of the Group, including arrangements with the Groups bankers management and internal control and reviews their effectiveness.
The Groups and bond providers, controls on foreign exchange dealings and management principal risks and how they are mitigated are summarised on pages 8 and 9. of currency and interest rate exposures, insurance, capital expenditure As for previous years the Board has continued to assess the effectiveness of the procedures, application of accounting policies and financial controls: risk management processes and internal controls during 2007 and to the date of this report.
Such assessment is based on reports made to the Board, the Audit a Group-wide risk management framework which is applied to all functions Committee and the Business Practices Committee, including: in the Group, whether operational, financial or support.
Under it, the key risks facing each part of the Group are regularly reviewed and assessed, together the results of internal audits reviews of internal financial controls: with the steps to avoid or mitigate those risks.
The results of those reviews a Group-wide certication that effective internal controls had been are placed on risk registers and, where necessary, specic action plans maintained, or, where any significant non-compliance or breakdown are developed: had occurred with or without loss, the status of corrective action: and reviews and tests by the internal audit team of critical business financial a paper prepared by management on the nature, extent and mitigation processes and controls and spot checks in areas of perceived high business of significant risks and on the systems of internal controls.
risk: and The Groups systems and controls are designed to ensure that the Groups the Groups whistle-blowing policy.
exposure to significant risk is properly managed, but the Board recognises that These systems are extended, as soon as possible and as appropriate, to all any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the companies joining the Group.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In addition, Annual General Meeting not all the material joint ventures in which the Group is involved are treated, for these purposes, as part of the Group.
Where they are not, systems of internal Sir David John, who chairs the Nomination and Business Practices Committees, control are applied as agreed between the parties to the venture.
Steven Marshall, who chairs the Audit Committee, and Robert Walvis, who Central to the Groups systems of internal control are its processes chairs the Remuneration Committee, will be available at the Annual General and framework for risk management.
These accord with the revised Turnbull Meeting to answer any questions arising from the work of these committees.
Guidance on internal controls and were in place throughout the year and up to The Board continues to regard the Annual General Meeting as an important the date of signing this report.
occasion on which to communicate with shareholders, and research into The Groups systems of internal control operate through a number of subjects of likely interest to shareholders is undertaken so that questions can different processes, some of which are interlinked.
As stated in the report for be answered during the meeting for the benefit of all shareholders present.
2006, these include: Shareholders may also put questions in advance of the Annual General Meeting by writing to the Company Secretary.
The business to be put to the Annual the annual review of the strategy and plans of each operating company General Meeting is set out in the separate circular to shareholders.
and of the Group as a whole in order to identify, inter alia, the risks to the Groups achievement of its overall objectives and, where appropriate, any relevant mitigating actions: 14 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Directors report continued Political donations to provide pay and other benets which reect good local practices and reward individual and collective performance: and In common with previous years, neither the Company nor its EU subsidiaries have made political donations or incurred such expenditure during the year and to ensure that all applicants and employees receive equal treatment there is no intention to do so in the future.
regardless of age, origin, gender, disability, sexual orientation, marital status, Due to a perceived lack of clarity in the law and the severe penalties for religion or belief.
infringement, the Company has over the past few years sought limited authority Individual businesses use a variety of methods to communicate key business from shareholders to make political donations, even though the Companys goals and issues to employees and also consult and involve their employees policy in that regard, which as stated remains firmly in place, is that the through local publications, briefing groups, consultative meetings, training Company shall not make such donations.
programmes and working groups to assist the process of continuous In the past year, the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating to improvement in the way they operate and do business.
Regular publications political donations have come into force.
These supersede the earlier rules.
inform employees of major business and technical achievements.
Most of our Unfortunately, although the law is now clearer in some respects, the new UK-based businesses have either attained or have committed to attain the UK Act has still left areas of uncertainty, while the penalties remain the same.
On the positive side, it is now clear that donations to a trade union other than Regular communication is maintained with the in-service and pensioner to its political fund are not political, and it is now reasonably clear that the members of the Groups Pension Funds.
grant of paid time off for local government elections has the same status.
However, support for independent candidates in elections, or support for some Charitable activities lobbying groups, could be regarded as political for the purposes of the During 2007 the Group has continued to help raise funds for charity and relevant laws, and the introduction of an overall 5,000 aggregate limit for has also continued to provide donations in cash and kind to charitable all donations is unhelpful.
It is for these reasons, among others, that the organisations.
The total amount of funds both raised by employees and donated Company, on the advice of its solicitors, feels obliged to seek further limited by the Company and its UK subsidiaries during the year was 400,000. authority from shareholders, which it will do at the Annual General Meeting As in previous years, the Groups main efforts have been directed to a in May.
Following the expiry of a two year fund raising and support agreement with Marie Curie, the charities committee decided that the Corporate responsibility Company should next turn its support to a child based charity and NCH homes for children, was duly selected as the main focus for the Groups UK charitable A full description of our approach to corporate responsibility appears in the fundraising efforts for 2007 and 2008.
During the year, through a wide variety of Annual review and summary financial statement.
This includes more fundraising events and efforts, employees raised a total of over 83,000 for information about the Groups charitable activities, which are described NCH, a sum which was increased by a further 33,000 donated directly by the briey below.
Company to NCH under a matched funding agreement.
Written report The Companys two other main charities, Groundwork UK and the Princes For the seventh year we are publishing a separate corporate responsibility Trust Building Better Lives, received donations of 30,000 and 10,000 report including safety, social and environmental issues.
A copy will be available respectively during the year.
to shareholders attending the Annual General Meeting and to preference Support for other charities has continued, as follows, on the basis that it shareholders attending the separate class meeting.
was and is right to do so when charities have been supported by the Company for many years.
Thus, 1,500 in cash and considerable in-kind support Group policies estimated value 5,000 has been provided to Engineers against Poverty, and Our published policies on health and safety, the environment, ethics and human a similar cash sum was provided to RedR, which provides emergency rights remain in place and are subject to regular reviews.
Our progress in the engineering help particularly in remote locations.
During the year the Company areas of health and safety and the environment is described in the separate became a patron of CRASH, the construction charity, at a cost of 7,800, and report.
has continued its membership of the charities Business in the Community Employment 15,000 and the Institute of Business Ethics 5,000.
Finally, 500 was again As the Group operates across a number of business sectors in different provided to the Glasgow-based charity, clubs for young people cyp ScotWest.
environments, it has evolved a decentralised management structure, with In addition, the Groups UK subsidiaries have raised a further aggregate employment policies designed to suit the needs of individual businesses.
sum of 213,000 for a very wide variety of other UK charitable causes in 2007, However, each employing company is expected to comply with certain key including a notable sum of just over 30,000 raised by Haden Young employees principles in its design and practice of employment policy.
and supporters for Marie Curie.
Much of this sum was raised by the efforts of employees, with the employing company making an additional contribution.
These are: As in previous years, the Group continues to enable UK employees to to provide an open, challenging and participative environment: donate to charities of their choice through the Give as you Earn scheme.
The Company has decided to provide sponsorship for the annual London to enable all employees to utilise their talents and skills to the full, through Youth Games.
Pursuant to that, in 2007 the Company donated 125,000 for the appropriate encouragement, training and development: 2007 Games and a further 150,000 towards the 2008 Games.
to communicate a full understanding of the objectives and performance of the Group and the opportunities and challenges facing it: Our governance 15 Balfour Beatty plc Directors report and accounts 2007 Post balance sheet events IAS 1 requires that financial statements present the Companys and the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows fairly Details of post balance sheet events are set out in Note 35 on page 74. ie.
give a true and fair view for each financial year.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in Payment of creditors accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, In the UK, the Companys policy is to settle the terms of payment with suppliers income and expenses set out in the IAS Boards Framework for the preparation when agreeing the terms for each transaction or series of transactions: to seek and presentation of Financial Statements.
In nearly all circumstances, a fair to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: and to abide by presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: these terms of payment as and when satisfied that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 31 December 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: 2007 the year end creditors days of the Company were 19 2006: 17.
2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which Financial instruments provides relevant, reliable, comparable and comprehensible information: and The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposures 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic to foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, price risk, credit risk and liquidity risk requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact are described in the Financial review on page 5 and detailed in Note 21 on of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the Companys and pages 48 to 53. the Groups financial position and financial performance.
The Directors consider that they have met these requirements in preparing Research and development these financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper The Group continues to be committed to investment in research and accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the development in all its areas of activity.
This covers new products and financial position of the Company and the Group, and are reasonably directed processes and innovation in areas such as information technology and asset at safeguarding the assets and detecting and preventing fraud and other irregularities.
Directors are also responsible for the preparation of a Directors management systems.
We continue to undertake a range of development initiatives throughout report and a Remuneration report which comply with the requirements of the our businesses which are supported by links with selected universities.
Details of the Groups 2007 research and development expenditure are given in Note 4.1 on page 35.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the Directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: Compliance with the Code so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information The Company believes it is compliant with the Code save only in the following of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and respect, namely that the effectiveness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures is reviewed by the Business Practices Committee, and not the the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director Audit Committee.
The reason for this is that, in the Companys experience, to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the great majority of whistle-blowing type complaints arise out of the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
non-financial matters, mainly employment related.
The Audit Committee is This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the copied with all reports made to the Business Practices Committee on the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. whistle-blowing procedure and practice.
As stated in the column describing the Audit Committee on page 11, the Auditors Company will not comply with the Code for a temporary period later in 2008 while the new Chairman of the Company, Steven Marshall, remains chairman Deloitte & Touche LLP have indicated their willingness to continue as auditors to of the Audit Committee.
the Company and a resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Directors report The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Independent Auditors report on page 23, is made with a view to distinguishing Signed by order of the Board for shareholders the respective responsibilities of the Directors and of the C R ON Pearson Secretary auditors in relation to the financial statements.
4 March 2008 The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS adopted by the European Union, and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the International Accounting Standard IAS regulation.
