Report of the Directors Additional information for shareholders The following description summarises certain provisions of the current Articles of Association as adopted by special resolution on 17 November 2005 the Articles of Barratt Developments PLC the Company and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Companies Acts or the Articles should be consulted if further information is required.
Certain amendments will be proposed to the Articles at the Annual General Meeting on 27 November 2007, brief details of which are set out below.
Further details are set out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting and copies of the Companys current Articles of Association, together with copies marked up to show the proposed amendments are available for inspection at the Companys registered ofce.
Share capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to applicable statutes and other shareholders rights, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specic provision as the Board as dened in the Articles may decide.
Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and other shareholders rights, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board.
At each Annual General Meeting the Company puts in place annual shareholder authority authorising the Companys Directors to allot unissued shares, in certain circumstances for cash, in accordance with the guidelines of the Investor Protection Committees.
Voting Subject to any rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, every member present in person at a general meeting or class meeting has, upon a show of hands, one vote.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of votes of the other joint holders and seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
The Articles currently only entitle proxies to vote on a poll, whereas the Companies Acts now entitle proxies to vote on a show of hands.
It is therefore proposed to amend the Articles at the Annual General Meeting on 27 November 2007 to reect this change in legislation.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
Where more than one corporate representative has been appointed, any one of them is entitled to vote and exercise other powers on behalf of the member at a general meeting or class meeting, but in the event that the representatives votes or other powers conict, the power is treated by the Company as not having been exercised and the member will be deemed to have abstained from exercising its votes or powers.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
Currently, all issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a restriction notice as dened in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Deadlines for voting rights Votes are exercisable at the general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
Under the Companies Acts, the deadline for delivering proxy forms cannot be earlier than 48 hours excluding non-working days before the meeting for which the proxy is being appointed.
The Articles however, provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not less than 48 hours or such shorter time as the Board may determine before the meeting not excluding non-working days.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends, and also any xed rate dividend, whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts in good faith, it is not liable to holders of shares with preferred or pari passu rights for losses arising from the payment of interim or xed dividends on other shares.
Barratt Developments PLC 38 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Additional information for shareholders The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as dened in the Articles if such person has been served with a restriction notice as dened in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Liquidation Under the Articles on a liquidation, the liquidator may, with the sanction of an extraordinary or special resolution of the Company and any other sanction required by the Companies Acts, divide among the members excluding any members holding shares as treasury shares in kind all or part of the assets of the Company whether they shall consist of property of the same kind or not.
It is proposed to amend the Articles at the Annual General Meeting on 27 November 2007 to remove this provision as it is a reection of applicable legislation and contains references to extraordinary resolutions, which is a concept not being retained in the Companies Acts.
Variation of rights Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares, or with the sanction of an extraordinary or special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting except an adjourned meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy not less than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
However, because of the reference to extraordinary resolutions, which is a concept not being retained in the Companies Acts, and since the proceedings and specic quorum requirements for meetings convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Acts, it is proposed to amend the Articles at the Annual General Meeting on 27 November 2007 to remove these provisions from the Articles.
Transfer of shares Any shares in the Company may be held in uncerticated form and, subject to the Articles, title to uncerticated shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system.
Provisions of the Articles do not apply to any uncerticated shares to the extent that such provisions are inconsistent with the holding of shares in uncerticated form or with the transfer of shares by means of a relevant system.
Registration of a transfer of an uncerticated share may be refused in the circumstances set out in the Uncerticated Securities Regulations as dened in the Articles and where, in the case of a transfer to joint holders, the number of joint holders to whom the uncerticated share is to be transferred exceeds four.
Subject to the Articles, any member may transfer all or any of his certicated shares by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Board may approve.
The instrument of transfer must be executed by or on behalf of the transferor and in the case of a partly-paid share the transferee.
The transferor of a share is deemed to remain the holder until the transferees name is entered into the register.
The Board may, in its absolute discretion and without giving any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
The Board may also decline to register a transfer of a certicated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is duly stamped or certied or otherwise shown to the satisfaction of the Board to be exempt from stamp duty and is accompanied by the relevant share certicate and such other evidence of the right to transfer as the Board may reasonably require: ii is in respect of only one class of share: and iii if joint transferees, is in favour of not more than four such transferees.
The Board may decline to register a transfer of any of the Companys certicated shares by a person with a 0.25% interest as dened in the Articles if such a person has been served with a restriction notice as dened in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length sale as dened in the Articles.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Company may purchase its own shares in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the Companys issued share capital.
The Company currently has authority to buy back up to 24,315,195 ordinary shares during the period up to the next Annual General Meeting.
The minimum price which must be paid for such shares is 10 pence and the maximum price payable is an amount equal to the higher of: i 105% of the average of the closing middle market quotations for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Ofcial List for the five immediately preceding business days: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Report of the Directors | Additional information for shareholders Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
A resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 27 November 2007 to amend the Articles.
The proposed changes to the Articles derive from the Companies Act 2006 with the exception of the proposed amendment regarding retirement of Directors at the age of 70, which derives from the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006.
The Companies Act 2006 was enacted on 8 November 2006 and is being implemented in stages.
Since a number of significant changes arising from the Companies Act 2006 will not come into force until October 2008, the Company has decided at this stage to make only a small number of changes to the Articles to reect some of the more permissive provisions of the Act which will already be in force when this years Annual General Meeting is held.
Details of the specic changes being proposed are set out in full in the explanatory notes to the separate notice convening the Annual General Meeting.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director appointed by the Board holds ofce only until the next following Annual General Meeting and is then eligible for election by the shareholders but is not taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
The Board may from time to time appoint one or more Directors to hold employment or executive ofce for such period subject to the Companies Acts and on such terms as they may determine and may revoke or terminate any such appointment.
Currently, under the Articles, no person is capable of being appointed a Director if at the time of his appointment he has attained the age of 70 years and any Director is required to vacate ofce at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting commencing after he attains the age of 70 years.
However, the age limit of 70 years is no longer appropriate following the enactment of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and the repeal of section 293 Companies Act 2006, which took effect on 6 April 2007.
Therefore the amendments to the Articles to be put to the 2007 Annual General Meeting will remove this requirement.
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company, a minimum of one-third of the Directors shall retire by rotation.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall be those who held ofce at the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and who did not retire at either of them.
If the number so retiring is less than the minimum number of Directors required to retire, additional Directors up to that number shall also retire.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in ofce or, in the case of those who were appointed or reappointed on the same date, shall be determined by lot.
Any Director who has held ofce for a continuous period of nine years or more shall also retire.
The Company may by special resolution remove any Director before the expiration of his term of ofce.
The ofce of Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns or offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii his resignation is requested by all of the other Directors and all of the other Directors are not less than three in number: iii he is or has been suffering from mental ill health: iv he is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that his ofce is vacated: v he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: vi he is prohibited by law from being a Director: vii he ceases to be Director by virtue of the Companies Acts: or viii he is removed from ofce pursuant to the Articles.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities and to give security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any third party.
Shares held in the EBT The Trustees of the Barratt Developments Employee benefit Trust EBT may vote or abstain from voting on shares held in the EBT in any way they think t and in doing so may take into account both financial and non financial interests of the beneciaries of the EBT or their dependents.
significant agreements The following significant agreements contain provisions entitling the counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change of control of the Company: under the 2,150,000,000 credit facilities agreement dated 5 February 2007 as amended and the 400,000,000 revolving credit facility agreement dated 2 February 2005 as amended between, amongst others, the Company, Lloyds TSB Bank Plc as the facility agent and the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders together, the Credit Facilities, the facility agent must, upon a change of control, cancel the total commitments of the lenders under such Credit Facilities and declare all outstanding credits, together with accrued Barratt Developments PLC 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Report of the Directors | Additional information for shareholders interest and any other amounts payable in respect of such Credit Facilities, to be immediately due and payable.
For these purposes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company.
under the privately-placed notes amounting in aggregate to $200,000,000 the Dollar Notes issued pursuant to a note purchase agreement dated 23 August 2007 by the Company to various institutions, the holders of Dollar Notes have an option to require the Company to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of Dollar Notes held by each holder at par, together with interest accrued thereon.
under the privately-placed notes amounting in aggregate to 80,000,000 the Sterling Notes issued pursuant to note purchase agreements dated 23 August 2007 and 29 August 2007 to various institutions, the holders of Sterling Notes have an option to require the Company to prepay the entire unpaid principal amount of Sterling Notes held by each holder at par, together with interest accrued thereon and a makewhole amount in respect of any repayment occurring during an interest period.
Under the terms of the note purchase agreements in respect of the Dollar Notes and the Sterling Notes, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert acquires beneficial ownership of more than 50% of the issued share capital of the Company carrying voting rights.
The Report of the Directors from pages 4 to 49 is signed on behalf of the Board by: Mr L Dent Company Secretary 26 September 2007 Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41
