Financial statements Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty In accordance with the requirements of IFRS, the Group has detailed carrying amount of goodwill at the balance sheet date was 816.7m below the critical accounting judgements made in, and the key with no impairment recognised during the year ended 30 June 2007. sources of estimation uncertainty within these financial statements.
Impairment of brands Critical accounting judgements The determination of the impairment calculation for indefinite life In the process of applying the Groups accounting policies, which are brands requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the brands as described in the accounting policies note, the Directors have made no dened in note 11.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate individual judgements that have a significant impact upon the financial of the future cash ows expected from these brands including statements, apart from those involving estimations, which are dealt the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs and requires the with below.
determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash ows.
The carrying amount of indefinite life brands at the Key sources of estimation uncertainty balance sheet date was 100.0m with no impairment recognised The key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of during the year ended 30 June 2007. estimation uncertainty at the balance sheet date are discussed below.
Dened benefit pension Carrying value of land and work in progress The Directors engage a qualied independent actuary to calculate the The Groups principal activity is housebuilding and property Groups liability in respect of its dened benefit pension scheme.
Due to the nature of this activity, much of the calculating this liability it is necessary for actuarial assumptions to be development entered into by the Group is speculative in nature.
made, which include discount rates, salary and pension increases, Accordingly, the Group has in its balance sheet at 30 June 2007 price ination, the long-term rate of return upon scheme assets and current assets that are not covered by a forward sale.
As actual rates of increase and mortality may differ from internal controls are designed to identify any developments where the those assumed, the pension liability may differ from that included in carrying value of land and work in progress is less than the lower of these financial statements.
cost or net realisable value.
Hedge accounting Estimation of costs to complete The Group has a gearing target of around 2.5 times net debt earnings In order to determine the profit that the Group is able to recognise before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA.
The on its developments in a specic period, the Group has to allocate gearing target supports the land spend activity and the Wilson site-wide development costs between units built in the current Bowden acquisition.
It also has to estimate costs to complete on such developments.
In making these assessments there is a The majority of the Groups facilities are oating rate, which exposes degree of inherent uncertainty.
The Group has developed internal the Group to increased interest rate risk.
The Group has therefore controls to assess and review carrying values and appropriateness of taken out 860.0m note 22 of oating to xed interest rate swaps.
The Group has adopted hedge accounting for these swaps on the basis that it is highly probable that there is sufficient forecasted Recognition of profit where developments are accounted for under debt to match with the period of the swaps.
If the highly probable IAS11 Construction Contracts criteria was not met in future then any changes in fair value of the The Group applies its policy on contract accounting when swaps would be recognised in the income statements, rather than recognising revenue and profit on partially completed contracts.
At 30 June 2007, there is a gain of 12.3m 2006: nil application of this policy requires judgements to be made in respect included in reserves related to these swaps.
of the total expected costs to complete each relevant contract.
The Group has in place established internal control processes to ensure that the evaluation of costs and revenues are based upon appropriate estimates.
Impairment of goodwill The determination of the impairment of goodwill requires an estimation of the value-in-use of the cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated as dened in note 10.
The value-in-use calculation requires an estimate of the future cash ows expected from these cash-generating units including the anticipated growth rate of revenue and costs and requires the determination of a suitable discount rate to calculate the present value of the cash ows.
The Barratt Developments PLC 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
