Financial statements Financial statements Impact of standards and interpretations in issue but not yet effective At the date of authorisation of these financial statements there are The adoption of the following standards, amendments and a number of standards, amendments and interpretations that have interpretations are not expected to have any material impact on the been published.
All of these have been endorsed by the EU with financial statements of the Group: the exception of IFRS8 Operating Segments, IFRIC12 Service IFRIC10 Interim Financial Reporting and Impairment.
IFRIC10 Concession Arrangements, IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes prohibits the reversal of impairment losses recognised in previous and IFRIC14 IAS19 The limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum interim periods on goodwill, investments in equity instruments or Funding Requirements and their Interaction and are therefore financial assets.
mandatory for the Groups accounting periods beginning on or after IFRIC11 IFRS2 Group and Treasury Share Transactions.
The Group has not early adopted any IFRIC11 requires all share-based payment transactions for which standard, amendment or interpretation.
services are received in exchange for shares in the company to be treated as equity-settled.
It also requires that where the parent The standards, amendments and interpretations that are expected to grants share-based payment transactions to the employees of a impact upon the Group are: subsidiary that they be treated as equity-settled, whereas if the IFRS7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures.
IFRS7 introduces subsidiary grants shares to its employees the transactions are new disclosures on quantitative and qualitative risks arising from treated as cash-settled.
This interpretation will apply to the Group financial instruments.
This standard will apply to the Group from from 1 July 2007. the annual period commencing 1 July 2007 and is expected to IFRIC12 Service Concession Arrangements.
IFRIC12 provides impact upon the Group by requiring additional disclosures in the guidance upon the accounting for public-to-private infrastructure annual financial statements.
This interpretation will apply to IFRS8 Operating Segments.
IFRS8 amends the current the Group from 1 July 2008. segmental reporting requirements of IAS14 and requires a IFRIC13 Customer Loyalty Programmes.
IFRIC13 requires management approach to be adopted so that segment the credits given as part of customer loyalty schemes to be information is presented on the same basis as that used for recognised at their fair value as a separate component of revenue.
This standard will apply to the Group The revenue related to these schemes should only be recognised from the annual period commencing 1 July 2009 and is expected when the entitys obligations are fullled.
This interpretation will to impact upon the Group by requiring additional disclosures in the apply to the Group from 1 July 2008. annual financial statements.
Amendment to IAS1 Presentation of Financial Statements Capital Disclosures.
This amendment introduces new disclosures about an entitys management of its capital resources.
This amendment will apply to the Group from the annual period commencing 1 July 2007 and is expected to impact upon the Group by requiring additional disclosures in the annual financial statements.
This amendment requires an entity to capitalise borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset as part of the cost of the asset.
A qualifying asset is one that takes a substantial period of time to get ready for use or sale.
The option of immediately expensing these borrowing costs is removed.
This amendment will apply to the Group from the annual period commencing 1 July 2009 and its impact is currently being assessed.
IFRIC14 IAS19 The limit on a Dened benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their Interaction.
IFRIC14 states when refunds or reductions in future contributions can be treated as available under IAS19 and how a minimum funding requirement affects future contributions or may give rise to a liability.
This interpretation will apply to the Group from the annual period commencing 1 July 2008 and its impact is currently being assessed.
Barratt Developments PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 57
