Strategy everything we do at ISS is guided by our vision: Lead facility Services globally by leading facility Services locally Lead globally with a presence in all main regions and In 2007, ISS updated the implementation plan on its stratecountries.
gic objectives in the ISS Strategy plan 2007-2009. the ISS Strategy plan 2007-2009 is a continuation and development Lead locally with leading positions in all established of the previous strategy plans and further details the initiamarkets and the ambition to quickly achieve this position tives needed to fulfil the ISS vision.
Service offering Lead the industry by offering best-in-class Single Services, ISS is a global Facility Services company.
In 2007, ISS Multi Services and Integrated Facility Services IFS.
further strengthened its global delivery capability by adding StRAteGY | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 33 new service areas in several countries and by expanding of 2007 added as a fifth pillar in ISSs IFS House as existing service areas through organic growth and acquisitions.
this means that ISS can offer a wide In response to customer demand, ISS has established range of services within the IFS House: operations in security services through acquisitions in several geographies.
to further strengthen the strategic Cleaning Catering focus on developing this business area, Security, including office Support Security access control and guarding services, was from the outset property Services Facility Management IFS FM 34 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StRAteGY delivery model In 2007, significant resources were added to the Cleaning Service solutions are offered to the customer as Single excellence initiative, as cleaning is still ISSs largest single Services, Multi Services or Integrated Facility Services and service area.
the purpose of the Cleaning excellence concept are generally self-delivered by ISS.
is to support the ISS countries in delivering optimal performance, using the most efficient tools and methods, superior In single-service outsourcing, the customer buys one service training, improved logistics, efficient supply chain, cost solution from ISS, e. g. outsourcing of cleaning or property reductions and gap-closing tool processes.
the customer thereby enjoys the benefits of outsourcing to ISS and can capitalise on service know-how to facilitate knowledge sharing and best practices between and best practices, HR management, procurement benefits, countries and within the service lines, ISS has established reduced financial administration of the outsourced service knowledge Forums within all key service areas.
these forums area, increased operational flexibility, etc.
are sponsored by a Coo or Regional director and focus on both general knowledge sharing and the implementation of In multi-service outsourcing two or more services without the specific service-excellence initiatives.
full integration of IFS the customer achieves the same benefits as with single-service outsourcing for each outsourced service development and methodology area as well as benefits of service integration where possible.
ISS continued the development of new services, delivery models, systems and methodologies in 2007 to fulfil its In an Integrated Facility Services solution two or more vision of being the leading global Facility Services company.
services under one contract and with a single point of contact on-site, ISS takes over all or most of the Facility Service global corporate client organisation functions at the customers premises.
the customer thereby to further leverage and develop ISSs position as the leading receives both the full potential of single-service outsourcing global Facility Services company and provide excellent and the advantages of integrating services.
By integrating service for our multinational clients, in november 2007 ISS services, ISS can drive further cost synergies and increase decided to introduce a global Corporate Client organisation.
simplicity, efficiency and flexibility for the customer by the purpose of the Corporate Client organisation is to: providing a single point of contact, and utilise best practice across service areas.
drive new Business Sales with selected multinational customers Single-service excellence serve multinational clients through a key account the foundation for being the leading Facility Services comorganisation pany is a continuous focus on delivering service excellence support 100% retention of existing multinational in every service area.
Going forward, ISS will continue to customers focus heavily on developing and spreading single-service support further development of IFS within the excellence throughout the organisation.
countries StRAteGY | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 35 IfS implementation ii operating margin, and iii profitable organic growth.
In An IFS implementation team was established in 2006 with addition, ISS will focus on reducing financial leverage on a the primary focus of accelerating the IFS implementation multiple basis.
the team consists of experienced specialists with an overlying mission of providing operational cash flow support in winning, bidding, transitioning and operating ISSs first objective is to continue to maintain a relatively high the first IFS contract within a country.
Going forward, this rate of cash conversion primarily by operating in a manner that team will be an integrated part of the Corporate Client optimises working capital.
through this approach, ISS expects organisation, working with both building IFS competencies to continue to generate a level of positive cash flow from operain the countries and operating multinational IFS contracts.
tions exceeding its obligations to service its credit facilities.
Service culture the ISS way Operating margin In 2007, ISS decided to establish the Service Culture the ISS ISSs second objective is to maintain or improve its operating Way programme to further define and develop a strong and margin, which increased from 5.8% in 2006 to 6.0% in 2007. characteristic corporate culture and an ISS approach to service ISS will seek to generate further operational efficiencies by management for all country organisations to implement.
the increasing its local market positions and operational densiaim of Service Culture the ISS Way is to achieve specific imties, as well as through the implementation of company-wide provements in customer retention and employee satisfaction by best practices.
In 2007, ISS increased its market position and educating the organisation in service management and the ISS service offering in especially the high-growth economies, values.
It is the ambition that the programme will have a posiand introduced regional Cleaning excellence teams.
tive short and long-term effect on both customer satisfaction and employee motivation.
Service Culture the ISS Way is Profitable organic growth a cornerstone towards maintaining and further improving the ISSs third objective is to continue to leverage its international ISS position as one of the worlds leading service organisations.
market position and service offering in order to increase its local market positions and drive organic growth.
ISS Systems and methodologies continues to work with a wide range of initiatives to: i ISS will invest further in systems and methodologies.
attract new customers, ii increase customer retention rates, including through the establishment of dedicated In 2007, ISSs It business solutions were further developed key account teams, and iii cross-selling related services, and implemented in a number of countries.
Shared initiasuch as security and pest control, to existing customers.
tives in a number of areas such as planning tools, facility Additionally, ISS has increased its market presence and service management systems, etc.
have been developed and operating platform in selected high-growth economies, will be further implemented.
particularly in Latin America, Asia and eastern europe.
Operational objectives Reduce financial leverage ISS will seek to maintain and enhance operational efficiency ISS is determined to seek to reduce the financial leverage by retaining its focus on three well-established and prioritised of the Group on a multiple basis.
this is expected to be operational objectives for its local managers: i cash flow, achieved primarily through growth in ISSs operating profit 36 AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 | StRAteGY through a continued focus on cash flow, operating margin, growth in the uS market.
ISS intends to build on this organic growth and acquisitions.
However, as a result of platform by expanding its geographical coverage in the this growth strategy, ISS expects to incur additional debt in uSA and further strengthening delivery capabilities within the future.
the extent and timing of ISSs deleveraging on the service areas where ISS is already present.
a multiple basis will, however, depend upon, among other things, ISSs cash flow generation and the scale and timing ISS expects to continue focusing primarily on smaller bolt-on of payments related to its future acquisition activities, which acquisitions, which it believes will reduce the risks relating may temporarily increase its leverage on a multiple basis in to individual acquisitions and enable it to leverage the exterms of net debt to pro forma adjusted eBItdA.
perience of local management teams throughout its countries of operation.
ISS cannot provide any assurance, however, growth and geography that it will not pursue larger acquisitions in the future.
A wide range of initiatives will underpin organic growth spanning from further investment in the growth economies It is important to emphasise that acquisition-driven revenue of the world via an enhanced sales force and training for growth will vary widely from year to year, among other new customer retention initiatives.
things depending on opportunities, organisational capability, financial resources, etc.
and thus acquisition speed could ISS intends to continue to focus on the high-growth econodeviate significantly from the level mentioned above.
mies in Latin America, Asia and Central and eastern europe.
In 2007, ISS experienced revenue growth of 33% in Asia, including a new country establishment in taiwan.
Revenue growth in Central & eastern europe was 31% in 2007 while revenue grew in Latin America by 41% compared with 2006.
ISS expects to continue to make acquisitions to facilitate its strategy of increasing local scale and broadening its local service offerings.
Since the beginning of 2000, ISS has acquired and integrated more than 575 businesses, of which more than 500 were acquisitions of relatively small businesses with annual revenue of less than dkk 100 million euR 13.4 million.
In 2007, ISS entered the uS Facility Services market through the acquisition of Sanitors Inc. Sanitors has annual revenue of approximately dkk 1.8 billion, 10,000 employees and a service offering in cleaning, building maintenance, landscaping and security.
the company operates in 42 of the countrys 50 states.
With the acquisition of Sanitors, ISS has created a strong platform for future organic and acquisitive StRAteGY | AnnuAL RepoRt 2007 37 SIngAPORe cAf At SIngAPORe geneRAL hOSPItAL JIMMy LIM, cAteRIng
