WORKING TOGETHER 21 how we do it... Our people We pride ourselves on recruiting and Working together is retaining outstanding people who are individual experts fundamental to our success.
We encourage an entrepreneurial culture where everyone feels they can make a significant When our people direct their contribution to the business, as well as be rewarded by it.
59% of our staff are shareholders in Grainger and varied skills, experiences our permanent staff retention for the year October and professionalisms to 2006 to September 2007 was 90.1% against a national average of 84.3%.
supplement those of others, For Grainger, investing in people means giving staff the consequent lateral the opportunity to develop both as employees and individuals.
We believe in building the business with creativity and inspiration them, and our people development activities are guided by a mix of business objectives and individual needs.
Twice-yearly reviews ensure everyone understands their role, and the impact they can make on the overall business.
During 2008, we intend to introduce a number of learning and development initiatives for our employees.
These will include a management development programme, tailored to relevant individuals.
We aim to become the employer of choice in our market by connecting our people strategy, values and HR policies to reinforce and promote our distinctive culture.
We aim to be a high-performance team of like-minded experts who share a common vision for growth.
GRAINGER SKILLS FINANCING DEVELOPMENT PAGE 22 PAGE 25 RESIDENTIAL SUPPORT SERVICES PAGE 22 PAGE 25 PROPERTY SERVICES GROUP PAGE 22 PAGE 25 RETIREMENT SOLUTIONS PAGES 22 AND 25 WORKING TOGETHER 22 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 We restructured our management and teams RESIDENTIAL This team has two key responsibilities: during the year.
The key change made was to Portfolio, corporate and individual acquisitions both create a residential team, separate from property in our established markets and also to capitalise on services.
The division of their responsibilities potential growth areas by dening residential in a wider is described below, alongside those of our sense, e. g. caravan parks, serviced apartments.
astute awareness of changing markets, a wide network of contacts and high-calibre, creative thinking: and FINANCING The success of our group is not only Strategy-setting decision-making at a portfolio fund dependent upon the performance of our assets, but level including buy and sell decisions for capital recycling also how effectively we fund them.
and on refurbishment programmes intended to increase The bulk of our funding comes from the debt markets rental yield and or capital values.
but during the year, we introduced 159m of third-party equity through G:res1 and entered the capital markets PROPERTY SERVICES In total there are just over with the launch of a seven-year convertible bond.
This 100 people working in this team, in six of our seven raised c. 110m at a rate of 3.625% and a conversion UK ofces.
Their work falls into two major categories: price of 8.64.
Our expansion into Germany has been Property management covers the day-to-day funded by new euro facilities, to ensure a natural hedge.
operational running of the properties including rent We believe it is necessary to refresh and update our reviews and renewals, reducing voids, repairs and borrowings and take innovative opportunities as they arise.
maintenance, refurbishment, block management, Our traditional bank debt is made up of a combination commercial, lettings and customer care.
With more of term loans and revolving facilities with varying maturity than 19,000 UK properties belonging to five different dates, currently all in excess of two years.
We have a owners, it is essential that not only their operational work club of banks, most of whom we have had relationships is of a high standard, but that they also give value-added with for a number of years.
Our covenants, which include recommendations based on their local knowledge: and a loan to value test and a cash cover over interest are Sales and valuations includes completing day-to-day sales relatively generous.
Our core business in particular, is of 12 properties every week, valuing properties which very cash generative, and this gives us the ability to pay have been identied by the residential team for potential down debt quickly if necessary.
Further, the loan to value purchase and also carrying out our year-end valuation of calculation uses the current market value of our assets.
every property that Grainger owns directly.
This has an in-built reversion, so there is an additional layer RETIREMENT SOLUTIONS The roles in our retirement of comfort not immediately apparent.
We have a policy solutions team vary from that of actuarial to customer of hedging the interest rate on at least two thirds of our relations.
In particular, success within the home reversion debt, keeping our hedging instruments separate from market depends on the following three factors: the facilities.
We use a combination of swaps and caps.
Product innovation Our own Bridgewater brand includes a exible reversion alternative.
Our team monitors the success of this by reference to, for example, the number of enquiries which result in the purchase of a property.
We seek to be at the forefront of any emerging products: WORKING TOGETHER 23 SUPPORT SERVICES Finance and IT work closely together to deliver management information in an efficient way.
RETIREMENT SOLUTIONS The home reversion market became FSA regulated in 2007 which we believe will be a catalyst for growth in the industry.
WETHERBY ROAD, LEEDS REFURBISHMENT Acquired in June 2007 for our core Our Knightsbridge based portfolio, Wetherby Road contains refurbishment team carries six 1 and 2 bed ats of regulated out strategic works, including and AST tenure.
extensions and conversions, to increase rental yields or sales values.
WORKING TOGETHER 24 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 ELMCROFT DRIVE, OUR PEOPLE ASHFORD, MIDDLESEX We are keen to offer our staff Rick and Gill have been tenants here both career and personal for nearly 10 years.
Their one-bed development to ensure they at forms part of the Elmcroft estate full their potential at Grainger.
RETIREMENT SOLUTIONS Based in Newcastle, the retirement solutions team commands 40% of the home reversion equity release market.
HOMES FOR THE FUTURE Graingers development pipeline is spread across the UK.
The current programme is set to deliver over 3,000 homes.
WORKING TOGETHER 25 Distribution It is critical to reach as many potential SUPPORT SERVICES Our support services cover all customers as possible and marketing is key.
We have the areas expected in a FTSE 250 company.
Above all individual relationships with financial advisers and an they strive to constantly improve the ways they work, online system that allows those advisers to access cases by increased automation as well as better methods.
We also have an important Finance look after our management accounting and agreement with Norwich Union who offer our home financial reporting, treasury, tax, internal audit, credit reversions alongside its own lifetime mortgages.
As a control, invoice processing, service charge accounting group, we price the plan, acquire the property, manage and insurance.
The requirements for efficient funding, the property and undertake the sale on vacancy.
We tax management and meaningful and timely financial also acquire existing portfolios of home reversion assets, information are rightly demanding: which are actuarially priced based on market valuations IT supports a vast array of applications and systems.
of the properties: and Our systems and communications are vital to the running Regulation Since April 2007 home reversions have of our operations and our team have both proactive been regulated by the FSA.
We employ compliance development and reactive support responsibilities: and education staff who ensure that our operations HR helps us to attract and retain the very best people.
are of the exacting standards required and all reporting Our team ensures that our policies and practices, and is completed on time.
salaries and benets are competitive.
In addition, they We are very proud to have been recently awarded are responsible for learning and development, ensuring Best Home Reversion Provider for the second year it is aligned to our business objectives: and running at the prestigious Mortgage Solutions Awards.
Corporate affairs is responsible for internal and external Our staff are also involved in setting up lifetime leases communications except investor relations as well as on our new retirement properties and monitoring the corporate responsibility see page 45.
Their aim is to performance of our CHARM investment.
build a stronger brand and ensure our public relations activity is controlled and focussed.
DEVELOPMENT Our development team works closely with local authorities, communities, joint venture partners GROUP There are some functions which are operated and all other relevant stakeholders.
It also makes the centrally within the business, which we describe as group most of the knowledge and expertise within our other functions.
These include: divisions to design buildings that can be managed Investor relations which is predominantly carried out by efficiently.
Our people are strong negotiators and the executive directors and includes many meetings with their specic responsibilities include: shareholders and analysts: acquisition of land suitable for regeneration, Company secretarial is responsible for compliance with often through tender: the Companies Act and the Listing Rules, as well as valuefinancial modelling of possible design variations: added activities such as board evaluation and share plan gaining planning permission: administration: and project management: Governance describes the boards strategy setting as well selling developments, wholesale or individual as monitoring and control.
units: and hand-over for ongoing management.
WORKING TOGETHER 26 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 our people are more than the key to our success.
We share our vision and believe that by working together, we can achieve it.
Our culture will ensure enjoyment along the way!
WORKING TOGETHER 27 34% Our staff that have five or more years service.
