WORKING TOGETHER 11 what we do... Our portfolio We own, either directly or with co-investors, We have a well nanced, a substantial value of residential property assets, in the unique portfolio of residential UK and Germany.
Our portfolio of properties subject to regulated tenancies in itself is worth over 1.2bn.
properties and investments Most of our assets are reversionary in nature.
This means that there is an inherent gain outside of normal capital and a rare, skilled workforce appreciation or rent which will be delivered through to be proud of.
This effective vacancy or from work that we do, for example, obtaining planning permission.
combination delivers value Our assets and interests are efficiently nanced using both debt and equity to give investors one of relatively from our assets.
few current opportunities to invest in a geared residential company.
More recently we have broadened our business to include management fee income.
We do this by applying our honed skills and experiences, to manage property on behalf of other people generally funds and ventures in which we hold a significant stake.
Annualised income is now running at some 7m per annum and has been generated with very little incremental cost due to the sheer scalability of our platform.
UK RESIDENTIAL GERMANY DEVELOPMENT PAGE 12 to 16 PAGE 18 PAGE 19 Core portfolio German market-let Development Joint ventures Curzon Park joint venture with Development Securities Funds Retirement solutions WORKING TOGETHER 12 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 Core portfolio UK residential REGULATED We currently own some 7,600 regulated residential properties valued at over 1.2bn, and these remain central to our portfolio.
These assets provide significant and predictable cash ows of over 100m per annum WHOLE UK RESIDENTIAL from rents and from proceeds received when they are sold.
PORTFOLIO BY GEOGRAPHY A regulated tenancy gives security of tenure the right for the tenant to stay Excluding share of joint ventures investment value in the property for the rest of their lives.
The rent is set independently and is less than the market rate for similar properties.
Due to changes in the law, North and Scotland no regulated tenancies have been created since 1989.
This gives us predictable 317m vacancies and therefore sales, as our tenants get older.
While inevitably this Midlands East portfolio will decline, it will continue to be a major contributor to our business 409m for some time.
We do aim to buy as many of these assets as returns and Other South availability allow.
Properties subject to regulated tenancies can be acquired at 494m a discount to the ordinary property value known as vacant possession value.
London 739m On vacancy, we sell the properties to realise both the discount which we call the reversion and any house price ination from the date we originally bought them.
We therefore realise high margins on sale.
UK TENANTED RESIDENTIAL We are protected against some of the risks associated with the residential market, such as short-term or localised falls in house prices, by the size Portfolio analysis by investment value and geographical spread of our portfolio, and the fact that we buy and sell properties over long periods of time.
The regulated portfolio also has low exposure to top-end volatility.
Currently the average vacant possession value of our regulated stock is 205,000 per unit 182,000 in 2006 with 60% of our properties valued below 250,000.
Further, these properties are typically unmodernised and appeal to first-time buyers and those hoping to create value on renovation.
This keeps them in demand.
ASSURED These are residential properties let at market rates on assured shorthold tenancy AST agreements, typically of six months to a year.
Regulated 1,221m In the year to September 2006 we transferred a large number of our ASTs Assured other 104m to G:res1, the fund we subsequently launched this year.
Increasingly we are Vacant 50m purchasing regulated tenancies in portfolios which also contain ASTs.
We will Equity release 542m Hotel complex 9meither hold these for ongoing capital growth, or trade them over a relatively Other interests 33m short period, depending on how we believe returns can be maximised.
Share of joint ventures associates 290m Joint ventures TOTAL AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2,249m GRAINGER GENINVEST LLP In June 2005, Grainger and Genesis Housing Association formed a 50 50 joint venture to acquire a 70m portfolio of 461 residential units from the Church Commissioners.
The partnership acquired a further 1,138 units for 196m in March June 2006.
WORKING TOGETHER 13 TILT Grainger acquired The Tilt HOMEWELL, HAVANT, HAMPSHIRE REGIONAL OFFICES Estate Company Limited, consisting Grainger acquired a row of Graingers seven ofces in the UK of 309 homes, in September 2007. ex-workmans period cottages in give good geographical coverage The portfolio is located in East Dulwich, Havant in March 1997.
We currently and localised knowledge.
London SE22 and includes many Victorian own eight of the row which are properties most of which look out onto let on regulated tenancies.
TAIT & BENSON is one of the blocks belonging to Grainger GenInvest.
Since acquisition from the Church Commissioners, a major works project has been completed on the communal areas.
WORKING TOGETHER 14 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 Troy and Simon rent their contemporary designed at in Hackney, London from the Grainger managed fund G:res1.
DIBDEN HOUSE, MAIDA VALE, LONDON Since acquisition in 2005 from the Church Commissioners, Grainger GenInvest has spent 2m on major works to the communal areas of this block of 246 units.
BUILDING HOMES FOR THE FUTURE Graingers open plan ofces encourage a friendly working atmosphere and easy When we develop properties, we use sharing of information and ideas.
our management expertise to build homes that are efficient to manage and can be specifically designed to let.
WORKING TOGETHER 15 Joint ventures continued UK residential The portfolio now consists of 1,641 units in eight blocks in central London.
Grainger provides asset management services while Genesis handles day-today property management.
Over the coming year we aim to identify strategic JOINT VENTURES opportunities to increase returns through appropriate refurbishment and Share of joint ventures associates individual sales.
2006 Funds 151m Fund management is an integral part of Graingers evolving business model.
179m It adds another layer of leverage to our operations, allowing us to generate 2007 290m fees from the skills of the people we employ.
In this way our returns are no 328m longer derived only from the properties directly and our return on capital is enhanced.
We believe that by following this model our group will be worth Market value more than the sum of its parts.
Vacant possession value G:res1 Established in November 2006, the G:res1 fund is a Jersey-based company that invests primarily in market-let residential properties in the UK.
Grainger is a co-investor in the fund, which is independently managed and controlled.
The fund was set up to capitalise on the growing NUMBER OF UK attractiveness of residential property as an investment class.
Investors are PROPERTIES MANAGED currently a broad mix of UK and overseas institutions.
The funds initial portfolio included 1,480 units in 38 blocks across the UK.
2004 13,226 In March 2007, acting on our advice, the fund acquired a 700-unit portfolio 2005 consisting of properties predominately located to the east of the City of 13,567 London.
The fund now holds 2,155 individual units in 56 unbroken clusters 2006 of property, with a market value totalling 435m.
90% of these are in London 15,221 and the South East.
The fund is aiming to acquire further assets over the 2007 19,312 coming year, and make strategic sales, while refurbishing other properties.
As adviser and asset and property manager, we earn fees for delivering returns.
As a co-investor, we benefit from the resulting dividends and growth.
ResPUT The Schroders Residential Property Unit Trust ResPUT is a specialist residential fund which provides investors with almost ungeared exposure to the UK residential market.
The fund is managed by Schroders Property Managers Jersey Limited and advised by Grainger.
We also manage the property on a day-to-day basis.
The fund aims to combine a high-quality income yield with above average prospects for capital growth.
It has gross assets of just under 100m, and Grainger currently owns a 22% stake valued at approximately 20m.
Capital is recycled through strategic sales and astute acquisitions.
WORKING TOGETHER 16 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 Retirement solutions UK residential Our retirement solutions business has more than doubled in size over the year.
We have recognised that not all people will choose to release equity in their homes in retirement, but some will prefer other housing solutions.
HOME REVERSION MARKET As a result we have begun to broaden our offering and now own in excess Investment value and of 1,000 retirement apartments.
vacant possesion value We have maintained our 40% share of the home reversion market.
Under a home reversion plan, an individual or couple sells Grainger part or all of their 2006 241m home in return for a cash lump sum which is dependent upon the value of 421m the property, the proportion being sold and the age s of the homeowner s. 2007 The occupiers are then able to remain in their property rent-free for the 542m remainder of their lives.
Bridgewater, Graingers own brand, offers a exible 779m reversion plan which as an alternative to a single lump sum, offers an escalating release or a series of cash payments.
Investment value Vacant possession value The property is purchased at a discount to the vacant possession value of the property the selling price without a tenant in situ.
Similarly to regulated property, this provides a reversion, which is realised on ultimate sale of the property, when the tenant vacates.
The reversion is greater on a home reversion than on a regulated property since there is typically no rent at all on a home reversion.
The home reversion market became regulated by the FSA in April 2007.
Against demanding deadlines we achieved regulation from the outset, a hurdle not achieved by some.
We believe that regulation is a catalyst for growth in the industry, placing it on a level footing with lifetime mortgages, the most popular method of equity release.
As well as using the Bridgewater brand, we source home reversions through a distribution agreement with Norwich Union and many financial advisors.
We also aim to acquire more mature portfolios through our extensive property network.
We expect continued growth in this market as more people seek to release cash to supplement their pensions, improve their lifestyles or realise their dreams.
The final major constituent of our retirement solutions business is the CHARM portfolio which we acquired early in 2007 for 135m.
This is a portfolio of equity mortgages, where the mortgage is repaid as a proportion of the sales proceeds rather than as the amount of the loan originally borrowed.
Interest, which grows with rpi, is also received.
WORKING TOGETHER 17 WOODVILLE GARDENS, EALING Grainger advised Schroders on the acquisition of this large detached Victorian house in July 2007.
The property comprises of eight self-contained ats all let on assured shorthold tenancies.
POINT HOUSE, BLACKHEATH Our in-house property services team LONDON works closely across all divisions.
They also liaise with tenants and suppliers.
Laura is a regulated tenant in this historic listed building which Grainger acquired in May 2002.
ROTHENBURG WMME GERMANY Acquired in 2006, this property comprises of 16 units of which 10 are residential and six are commercial.
The property is fully occupied.
WORKING TOGETHER 18 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 German market-let Germany We entered Germany, Europes largest residential market, in 2006, in order to replicate our business model in a market that was behind the UK in levels of home ownership.
As Germany continues to deregulate its housing, major portfolios of reversionary property are becoming available.
This has made GERMAN MARKET-LET the market very attractive to investors and since 2002, 25bn has been 4,520 properties with a invested in 600,000 units.
The tenant-friendly laws and controlled rents attract market value of 346m professional landlords.
The relatively low price per unit provides potential for significant capital growth.
As single occupancy continues to grow and the supply of new housing is diminishing, we believe there will be a growing demand for quality housing.
HAMBURG We have targeted the more afuent regions and concentrated on higher BERLIN quality properties that suit owner occupation, rather than only focusing on DSSELDORF yield.
Our background as a long-term residential property owner differentiates us from the many purely financial purchasers in this market.
We now own approximately 4,500 homes in Germany, worth 242m.
STUTTGART MUNICH MUNICH The tenants have security of tenure similar to regulated tenancies in the UK.
We will continue to work with local partners, looking for strategic expansion opportunities.
We also intend to seek third-party equity so we can apply our GERMANY co-investment fund management model.
Portfolio overview Our Mannheim ofce currently employs seven staff who advise on 2,528 properties 1,684 properties acquisitions and asset management.
We currently outsource the day-to-day 308 properties management of the portfolio to local agents.
4,520 properties WORKING TOGETHER 19 Development Development This business aims to create mixed-use developments with a significant residential element.
Current programmes consist of nearly 7,000 residential homes with 2 million sq.
ft. of commercial space, including healthcare facilities, MAJOR DEVELOPMENT schools and nurseries, sports and recreational facilities, a community theatre PROJECTS and a cemetery.
Estimated Project end value Our philosophy is simple and responsible.
We take a long-term interest in West Waterlooville 520 acres of greenland Land Phase1: the communities we create and are committed to their sustainability.
We in Hampshire 135m also promote the benets of good design, with schemes that really take into Hornsey Road Baths account the way people actually live, which of course, ensures a demand for Islington 212 residential units the homes.
and community buildings 44m We are not afraid to challenge conventional wisdom.
We also aim to Macaulay Road Clapham maintain an open and straightforward relationship with all parties involved.
97 residential units 56m We have recently strengthened the management team with bases in both Barnsbury Complex Islington London and Newcastle to ensure good geographical coverage.
Our strategy 141 residential units 49m is to reduce our development risk by focusing on larger long-term residentialGateshead College 263 residential units 72m led schemes, in project-specic joint venture partnership with others.
Current Newbury projects in the pipeline, valued by their expected end development value, 330 units include 324m with planning consent and 485m without.
ft. retail 82m Wards Corner Seven Sisters Joint venture with Development Securities 198 residential units 76m CURZON PARK Curzon Park is a 10-acre site in central Birmingham, acquired for 33.5m in December 2006 through a collaborative 50 50 agreement with Development Securities plc.
The site will be developed over six to eight years to create up to 800,000 sq.
ft. of retail space and parking for 1,500 cars.
The development will cost over 300m which will be appropriately nanced.
A planning application was submitted in summer 2007 and it is expected that work will begin on-site in early 2008.
WORKING TOGETHER 20 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 85% Eligible Grainger employees participating in our Share Incentive Plan
