This has been an exciting year for Graingers Corporate Responsibility At Grainger, we know programme and I am pleased to report that social and environmental that our future is based concerns have become increasingly central to our core business activities.
around people whether Our commitment to sustainability has had a significant impact on Graingers developments.
At our Hornsey Road site all homes are being built to the they are our dedicated EcoHomes Very Good standard and all future developments will now be staff, the tenants we care built to Code for Sustainable Homes level three.
for, the investors and We have also conducted a baseline review to establish significant environmental shareholders we answer impacts across the business.
A two-year action plan is being drawn up to deliver against these recommendations.
to or the communities that Social considerations are also being taken into account at our development we are part of.
At Hornesy Road we are working with the school neighbouring the site proud of our commitment on a number of different projects.
On our other planned developments, all local communities impacted by our work are extensively consulted before to all these groups.
Regarding our existing homes, we have been very successful in helping tenants 1 1 The Warm Front Grant provides a package of access funds through the Warm Front initiative.
Not only does this provide insulation and heating improvements up to the greater support for our more vulnerable tenants, but it also improves the value of 2,700 or 4,000 if oil central heating is recommended.
energy efficiency of our portfolio.
I am very proud of our work with Business in the Community where we welcomed three people who have been affected by homelessness to join us on two-week work placements.
This has been an enriching experience for all concerned not least our own staff.
In the year ahead we will be taking our commitment to our people further with a strengthened programme of training and additional investment in Human Resources.
This year we are pleased to have launched a dedicated Corporate Responsibility website www.
com which contains more detailed information on all our CR activities.
Grainger is challenging itself to perform better in all areas.
We have set ourselves short-term targets as well as a programme of long-term goals to take our CR strategy forward in the coming years.
RUPERT DICKINSON Chief executive STRATEGY 46 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 how we behave continued Training remains a key area for Grainger.
We have developed and launched objective 1 a new training and development site on the company intranet and are Encourage staff to also ensuring that all property managers are qualied to the Association of Residential Letting Agents ARLA standard.
In 2008, we will be contribute to, and share concentrating on learning and career development with the aim of increasing in, the success of the average training days.
company through their Our HR director will undertake an HR policy review to ensure the business and culture continue to align in accordance with best practice.
own ideas and ongoing We will also be conducting a review of the Grainger employer brand professional development, with the aim of connecting our values, people strategy and HR policies.
whilst supporting them TARGETS 2007 08 to maintain a healthy Enable employees to better share in the success of the company by developing balance between home a career development framework to encompass all roles: and launch a new and work commitments.
management development programme as part of our succession planning.
Rene our performance management system to reinforce our culture that each employee makes a valuable contribution to the business.
Develop our employee benets package to offer greater exibility, thereby enabling employees to better reect their individual needs.
Key performance indicators Employees 2005 2006 2007 Number of employees undertaking professional education 31 34 38 Average number of training days per employee 33 4 Investment in training per employee 671 674 628 % staff turnover 19% 25% 10% % of employees with five or more years service 30% 39% 34% Proportion of all staff that are female 56% 56% 56% % of women in senior management positions 24% 4% 5% % of women in technical or professional positions 16% 13% 28% % of part-time employees n a 10% 6% % of eligible employees participating in the sharesave scheme n a 50% 53% % of eligible employees participating in share incentive plan n a 83% 85% STRATEGY 47 ARCHIKIDS Grainger continued to support Open House in 2006 07 by nancing the launch of the Archikids website: www.
The initiative is aimed at educating children about the built environment.
DOT & JOAN, EASTBOURNE Dot is a regulated tenant and still lives in the same house she was born in.
A few years ago, we gave her special dispensation to allow her friend Joan to move in with her.
STAFF DEVELOPMENT Holly Walker joined Grainger as a property management assistant PMA in 2005 and has shown great personal initiative and drive in this role.
Recognising where data management systems could be improved, Holly devised a new method of storing, sharing and tracking information.
This was implemented across our Property Services division.
Holly also developed an induction guide for new PMAs to ensure comprehensive technical training was available for all.
Holly was a clear candidate for promotion to trainee property manager PM and enrolled on our six month PM training programme.
After successfully completing this, we were delighted to promote Holly to property manager in September 2007.
I enjoy working at Grainger because of the focus they have on their staff and their development.
They provide a supportive atmosphere where individuals can identify the need for change and these ideas are responded to positively.
HOLLY WALKER STRATEGY 48 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 how we behave continued We are pleased to report that tenant satisfaction increased this year, with objective 2 65% of existing market rented tenants rating Graingers Management Service Ensure that we treat our as very good or excellent up from 60% last year.
We continue to help our more vulnerable tenants access funding via the Warm Front initiative.
36% tenants and customers of homes surveyed under this initiative have now had insulation work carried fairly, and that we are out.
One focus on training this year has been to ensure all our property managers are ARLA qualied.
This has enabled us to continue to deliver responsive to their needs.
the highest standards of service.
Key performance indicators Customers 2006 2007 Number of properties surveyed to date under the Warm Front Miller Paterson initiative 445 2,946 % of above properties which have had insulation work done 28% 36% Proportion of rent due that has been collected 99% 98% Rent loss due to voids as a percentage of open market rental value 6% 2% Warm Front only TARGETS 2007 08 As a founder member of REAL SERVICE, work to establish our current performance level within the benchmarking criteria.
Following the launch of British Property Federation Crystal marked Standard Tenancy Agreement, implement across Grainger for all new and renewed tenancies.
To measure, via a sample of tenants, the level of satisfaction with repair work in order to establish a baseline and set improvement targets from next year.
REAL SERVICE is a benchmarking group dedicated to helping the real estate industry improve customer service and generate improved property performance www.
co. uk Our 2007 environmental baseline review has provided us with an accurate objective 3 picture of our most significant impacts: energy use, transport, waste and procurement.
We will focus on these as well as collecting data so we can Reduce our direct adverse report accurately and set performance-related improvement targets next environmental impacts, and year.
We have had considerable success in sustainable design, environmentallyhelp and encourage our friendly practices and construction at Hornsey Road this year with all homes being built to EcoHomes Very Good standard.
Our contractors are measuring tenants and customers to and monitoring waste levels and we can report that 40% has either been do the same in respect of recycled or sent to a Materials Recovery Facility.
By considering sustainability the properties they occupy.
earlier, including speaking in advance to contractors, we are confident of achieving higher environmental standards.
STRATEGY 49 With regard to our existing portfolio, we have conducted a research exercise objective 3 continued to identify more  alternatives to the materials that we use in our refurbishments.
We will now be developing minimum standards for a range of materials and incorporating this information into our refurbishment software programme.
TARGETS 2007 08 Devise and implement a company-wide employee environmental awareness programme.
To increase the proportion of recycled content in materials used in new builds to 10% by value and use good practice measures to increase this still further.
All new Grainger homes to be designed and delivered to CSH level three or EcoHomes Very Good in the case of some existing schemes.
LONG-TERM TARGETS Provide online access advice, information and guidance to tenants, on environmental issues and explore a suitable partner organisation with whom to communicate with tenants about the environment.
Develop an action plan to implement agreed recommendations from the Environmental Baseline Review over the coming two years.
Develop and implement a carbon management strategy by 2010.
As our business is based around providing and managing homes, reducing objective 4 homelessness is particularly relevant to Grainger.
We were therefore delighted to welcome three people into the business through the Business Seek to understand the Action on Homelessness work placement scheme.
In addition, we have also needs of the communities hosted a Ready to Go Training and Action Day, which prepares clients affected within which we operate, by homelessness for work placements, and hosted a CV workshop.
and positively contribute As our development activities have grown, we have been mindful of the potential impact that we could have on local communities and have worked to their well-being with specialist organisations to deliver effective community consultation.
By engaging actively with the community and key stakeholders pre-application, we not only produce a better scheme which meets the needs of the community that surround it, but also increase our chances of success in planning.
At our Hornsey Road development, we have enjoyed working with the local school and getting to know those in the community through a fun day held in conjunction with Tollington Community Association.
STRATEGY 50 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 how we behave continued TARGETS 2007 08 objective 4 continued Develop and implement a Community Investment strategy that supports charities and community activities relevant to our business and staff.
Work in partnership with Shelter to support their policy seminars on raising awareness of the professional private rented sector.
Each business division to identify and undertake relevant community activity.
Key performance indicators Community 2005 2006 2007 Money raised for charity of the year Shelter 30,764 24,112 10,296 Number of staff involved in community activities 180 220 250 Total amount raised for charities 42,234 58,747 71,283 Over the past year, we have formalised our health and safety strategy objective 5 and have proactively communicated with our network of contractors.
Safeguard the health, We also produced and distributed a handbook, Health and Safety Requirements for Property Maintenance Contractors and this safety and welfare of our has proved to be a useful tool for embedding health and safety employees, and where throughout the business.
possible that of our tenants, We are pleased to report that our key performance indicators RIDDOR reportable accidents and incidents, and pollution incidents contractors, visitors, clients are zero again this year.
TARGETS 2007 08 Gather and present health and safety data for all Grainger activities and projects, track performance and identify trends.
Ensure accident incident rates for Grainger and contracted activity is below the national average year-on-year.
Undertake health and safety audits for a representative sample of Grainger activities and contractors to assess compliance and inform improvement activity.
Identify suitable health and safety training and deliver to relevant Grainger staff.
STRATEGY 51 SUPPORTING OUR STAFF Ian Lawson, senior property manager, set up his own under 9s football team this summer, the Hebburn Wanderers.
Graingers sponsorship of his team enabled them to purchase new equipment and it has given them the necessary financial stability to offer season awards and man of the match medals.
This sponsorship money has been warmly received by all at Hebburn Wanderers, it has allowed my team to train and compete in brand new quality kit, and provided the required training equipment to give the kids all the chance of success in the league.
The setting up of a team and all that comes with the running of a junior football season takes a lot of my time and effort and the fact that Grainger provided such excellent support has delighted me.
IAN LAWSON BUSINESS IN THE COMMUNITY Grainger has continued its relationship The strips are really cool, and we so feel part of the wanderers now, lets with BITC.
In 2006 07, we gave three hope we can start challenging for the title soon, come on the wanderers.
work placements to clients from DYLAN PHOENIX MORRISON, Team Captain.
STRATEGY 52 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 how we behave continued Grainger has embarked on a programme of supplier engagement this year.
objective 6 This has involved circulating a Code of Good Practice which has a focus Engage proactively with on community awareness and respect for the environment.
We are also working with KPMG to review our supply chain which will prioritised suppliers.
We spend a significant amount of money on property expenses and capital expenditure, and development projects.
During the year we completed a tender process and are pleased to have appointed an environmentally preferable stationery supplier across our ofces.
Key performance indicators Supplier 2005 2006 2007 Average payment term from invoice date 30 days 30 days 18 days TARGETS 2007 08 Request supplier environmental information as part of future tender processes and actively consider this information when awarding significant supplier contracts.
Grainger continues to engage with investors wherever we see an opportunity objective 7 to do so.
This year we undertook a corporate benchmarking exercise, learning more about both our investors and our peers public CR commitments.
This Maintain high standards has given us a better understanding of the sustainability goals of these groups.
of business conduct, We held an internal workshop with staff to discuss the results and brainstorm and secure long-term CR target ideas for the future.
The outcomes of this workshop were fed sustainable returns for directly into the development of our targets for 2007 08. our investors.
TARGETS 2007 08 Formally respond to requests for information sent by our major investors owners of at least 2% of shares on sustainability and CR in general.
Proactively engage with the CR committee of at least one major investor to help develop and improve our own internal CR strategy.
