WORKING TOGETHER 3 who we are... Grainger is currently the UKs largest quoted Grainger is a company that residential property owner and manager.
We puts passion and energy have, over many years, acquired a substantial portfolio of property assets of varying types and into everything we do.
We are a long-term business and trade our properties throughout market cycles.
people work together as Established in Newcastle in 1912 to acquire and manage a team.
We have a culture tenanted residential properties, Grainger now owns over 14,000 homes in the UK and 4,000 in Germany.
which encourages the Our business has grown steadily over the years, most sharing of information signicantly in the 1970s and 80s when several large industrial companies deregulated or denationalised and a vision for the future.
and released their tenanted housing stocks.
In 1983 Grainger oated on the London Stock Exchange.
Grainger has been a significant player in residential property for many years.
While acquiring, managing and selling properties remains fundamental to our business, we have been actively developing complementary areas which are now significant contributors to our cash ows and profits.
Grainger today is a much broader-based and more dynamic business.
Teamwork is vital to our success.
Only by working closely across all our divisions to share our skills and experiences can we derive the best returns from our assets.
1912 1983 1985 Grainger was established Floated on the London Entered land development in Newcastle to acquire Stock Exchange with gross with the acquisition of and manage tenanted assets of 18m.
350 acres of land between residential properties.
Grainger, subsequently achieved planning consent, established the infrastructure then sold the land to housebuilders.
WORKING TOGETHER 4 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 Our strategy We now hold a unique position in the Our ambition is to become one of Europes leading UK residential market: that of being an owner, property quoted, integrated residential property companies.
manager, trader, asset and fund manager.
As a result, few To achieve this, we aim to: people understand the complexities and opportunities provide superior risk-adjusted returns: of residential property as well as Grainger.
maximise the efficiency of our capital structure Acquiring, managing and selling residential tenanted by introducing third-party equity and debt through properties has always been at the heart of our business.
residential property funds: While the increase in property values over the long term enter new residential sectors where we can use has inevitably contributed to our growth, this builds on our management skills and resources to build astute buying founded on our local expertise.
large portfolios: As well as growing this core business, we have developed diversify income streams to include fund new income streams through exposure to other areas management fees alongside co-investment growth: of the residential property market.
For instance, Grainger continue to build on our unique position as is now an emerging force in the development of a long-term holder, asset manager, trader and residential-led, mixed-use schemes: we are leaders in the developer of residential property: UKs home reversion market, providing equity release for elderly homeowners: we have launched and continue touse our skills and property network reputation manage the largest UK market-let residential property fund: to integrate developing, managing and funding: and and we have successfully replicated our business model encourage and capitalise on the growing recognition in Germany, spreading the risk of our UK-based portfolio.
of residential property as an investment class.
Our experience gives us a unique perspective that enables These aims are underpinned by our group-wide us to see opportunities where others only see challenges.
ethical way of doing business.
This includes commitment to integrity in all business relationships, employee development, tenant care, environmental responsibility and community service.
1989 2001 03 2007 Grainger acquired The next major expansion, with the The closing of the highly successful Channel Hotels and acquisition of Bradford Property Trust capital raising activity for G:res1, Properties which plc BPT, creating the largest quoted the UKs largest, market-rented owned over 700 London residential property portfolio in the UK.
ats and resulted in its We are now working towards first London ofce.
becoming one of Europes leading, quoted, fully integrated, residential property companies.
WORKING TOGETHER 5 Grainger has a substantial asset base including several different types of residential property and property-related interests.
With over 7,655 4,520 UK regulated properties German properties with, 14 000 with a market value of a market value of UK properties, Grainger is the UKs largest quoted 1,221m residential landlord 242m Total market Fund manager of Grainger UK average value of propertymarket property value related assets G:res1 the UKs largest 205,000 2.5bn market-rented fund Grainger currently has in excess of seven 809m property asset management 40% Gross development value ofces across the UK of existing developments of the UK home reversion market UK RESIDENTIAL WORKING TOGETHER 6 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 our people are professionals Across all levels and disciplines we seek to employ not only the best in their eld, but those who can consistently apply their skills and experiences for the benefit of the group as a whole.
It is by this cross working that we continue to unlock real value from our portfolios and ventures.
OPERATIONS % GRAINGER OWNED Core 7,655 Regulated tenancies sit at the heart of our portfolio business.
We also own 555 assured shorthold tenancies, 277 vacant properties and more 100% PAGE 12 Joint ventures Grainger GenInvest is a joint venture with Genesis Housing Association with over 1,500 units predominantly in ourishing areas of London.
50% PAGES 12 and 15 Funds G:res1 is a 2,000-unit market-let residential fund which was launched and then fully invested during 2007.
ResPUT is the 550-unit Schroders market-let residential 22% fund.
We hold a significant stake in each.
PAGE 15 Retirement Initially, simply a home reversion portfolio, now with over solutions 3,000 properties and growing, we have now expanded considerably into retirement housing.
100% PAGE 16 Germany We started buying properties in Germany in October 2005 and now have over 4,500 units mostly in the south and west of the country, where demand is highest.
100% PAGE 18 Development Our focus in this division is on large, mixed-use schemes.
The expected end gross development value of our current portfolio is over 800m.
100% PAGE 19 Development Curzon Park is our first joint venture with Development Joint ventures Securities plc.
It is developing a 10-acre, residential-led, mixed-use development site in Central Birmingham.
50% PAGE 19 WORKING TOGETHER ALL ACTIVITIES THROUGHOUT THE BUSINESS ARE PERFORMED BY SKILLED EXPERTS 7 GROSS PROPERTY-RELATED ASSETS GRAINGER TEAM SKILLS FINANCING bank debt, capital markets, equity raising 1,418m RESIDENTIAL fund management, asset management, acquisitions, strategic sales and refurbishment 364m PROPERTY SERVICES lettings, property management, rent reviews, sales, valuations, customer care, repairs and maintenance, block management 547m RETIREMENT SOLUTIONS acquisitions, marketing, customer relations, compliance, actuarial, sales, regulatory reporting, intermediary relationships, product design and innovation 542m DEVELOPMENT financial modelling, land acquisitions, planning, procurement, project management, design, marketing, sales 242m SUPPORT SERVICES accounting, tax compliance, credit control, financial modelling, financial reporting, purchase 110m ledger, sales ledger, treasury, transactional support, IT, insurance, internal audit, company secretarial, HR, ofce support GROUP 34m investor relations, company secretarial, governance WORKING TOGETHER 8 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 what makes Grainger successful?
We are completely attuned to the markets We are determined to achieve our ambitious plans for growth, though in the current climate this will no in which we operate and how government doubt prove more challenging and may take longer than policy could effect residential property.
We will be guided by the overarching values that In addition, Graingers unique geographic have brought us success to date: coverage, owner manager reputation and ability to innovate enables us to compete PASSION We approach every challenge with energy, where others cant.
enthusiasm and an open mind.
Our creative approach helps us to see new ideas and opportunities where others may only see obstacles.
PERFORMANCE We aim to continuously improve every aspect of our business, and appreciate that our investors and colleagues should expect nothing less.
First-class performance demands hard work, professionalism, teamwork and high-quality processes.
PRINCIPLES Our business is not in commodities but in peoples homes and aspirations.
So we never forget we have a responsibility to individuals, to the environment and to society as a whole.
We have a proud reputation to maintain and a strong legacy to leave behind.
WORKING TOGETHER 9 We are eager to achieve our vision through careful our leadership team from left to right: evolution of our business model.
We stand by the values MARIE GLANVILLE that have made us successful.
Ours is a transparent Company secretary, finance and IT approach and we believe that meaningful relationships MARK ROBSON Property services with all of our stakeholders are essential.
Teamwork is ANDREW SCRIVENER Development also vital to our cause, working across our divisions to ANDREW CUNNINGHAM ensure we derive the maximum returns from all of our Deputy chief executive and finance director assets and interests.
RUPERT DICKINSON Chief executive DEBRA YUDOLPH Corporate affairs PETER COUCH Retirement solutions ANDREW PRATT UK residential STEPHANIE JENKINS HR director QUINTON HILL-LINES Corporate development and funds WORKING TOGETHER 10 GRAINGER PLC Annual report and accounts 2007 BREAKDOWN OF PROPERTY ASSETS BY MARKET VALUE Regulated 1,221m UK other assets 196m German market-let 242m Retirement solutions 542m Development 121m GenInvest 353m Curzon Park 34m G:res1 435m ResPUT 88m Joint ventures and associates shown at full value.
For Graingers share see page 6.
