Sales by OEM Pratt & Whitney 41% Other 3% GE 6% Rolls-Royce 23% Honeywell 27% DirectorsReport BusinessReview: IGS , Randy   workforce.
RandyOnysko, GeneralManager, 2 I4 GS, Denver BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 .
MichaelKuczynski, TechnicalSales, StevensAviation, Denver The overhaul of engine control components is a delicate and precisely managed process.
The working environment is kept immaculately: each component, part, screw, bolt, pin and wire is logged, tracked, checked and tested.
Everyone involved at IGS develops a keen eye for detail.
IGS engineers develop a detailed understanding of the components they work on.
The expertise they accrue becomes a valuable asset for the business and its clients.
25 Legacy Support formerly Component Repair and Overhaul Sales Inc Inc 1 2007 2006 Dec 2006 Dec m m % m % USA 43.6 45.7 5 42.0 4 1 At constant exchange rates Total revenue was 43.6 million, a 4% increase over 2006 at constant exchange rates with all of the growth relating to the impact of full year sales from Ontic which was acquired in early 2006.
Overall market conditions for the component companies continue to be very robust with strong inputs and orders for both Ontic and IGS.
Commercial backlog and workload at the OEMs and customers served by these businesses remains extremely high and the continued use of a large number of military aircraft around the world results in a steady demand for parts and support of those legacy aircraft.
We continue to see no major competition for Ontics core licensing model to support the OEMs beyond the OEMs reluctance to let go of legacy products and focus their resources on their current and new products.
Ontics broad product portfolio and decades of experience supporting these types of products is unsurpassed in the aviation marketplace.
IGS excels relative to their competition through best-in-class customer service and product turn around time that its customer base has grown to depend on to meet their service needs.
In the second half of 2007 Ontic signed licences for new products which will generate sales of over 6.0 million per year over the next five years for a variety of products including Military Landing Gear and Fuel Controls and Gas Compressors Generators.
Order intake for existing licensed products was over 22.0 million which resulted in the largest order backlog in the companys history at the end of 2007.
The pipeline of new licence opportunities continues to be very robust looking forward into 2008.
Market conditions for the parts distribution companies ITS and Barrett, which focus primarily on Business and General Aviation aircraft, were not as robust in 2007 as prior years.
OEM driven engine exchange and upgrade programmes have supplemented the need for serviceable engines and components and have had a negative effect on the economics of these serviceable product offerings.
Actions are in place to address the changing market dynamics and reverse the negative trend in 2008 which include an overall reduction in workforce whilst increasing the resources in sales and marketing.
Given the ongoing market conditions for these businesses and BBA Aviations strong B&GA engine market presence through our ERO companies, we will be aligning ITS and Barrett with ERO to better exploit the inherent synergy between those businesses while still providing the same products, service and value to customers that we serve.
Outlook The legacy support market presents a major opportunity for BBA Aviation which our businesses are ideally positioned to exploit.
HermanChacon, ShopSupervisor, 2 I6 GS, Denver BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Keeping the right people in place.
One of the priorities since acquiring IGS has been to sustain the culture that made it so successful, retain the balance thats in place and continue to recruit the best and brightest from local schools and colleges.
Punctuality, a high level of manual dexterity, a mechanical inclination and a good dose of common sense are the prized attributes among potential recruits.
Those that meet these criteria find a working environment in which they can grow personally and professionally.
This is one way in which we are ensuring a successful future for IGS.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 27 DirectorsReport BusinessReview: APPHRuncorn  :Boeing, Airbus, BritishAerospace, AgustaWestland, Saab, HawkerBeechandCessna.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 The site is the epitome of highly organised professionalism.
Lean manufacturing processes drive out waste and increase productivity.
Walk-times around the shop floor are kept to a minimum.
Computerised, vertical storage carousels save space and cut down on the time it takes to locate and retrieve parts.
The workshop is divided into cells areas dedicated to individual products.
BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 29 APPH Group APPH Group Landing Gear and Hydraulics Sales Inc 2007 2006 Dec m m % USA 14.6 11.3 29 Europe & ROW 48.2 44.8 8 Total 62.8 56.1 12 Sales at 62.8 million were 12% higher than the prior year, with all of the growth being organic.
The markets that we service remained strong during 2007, with Original Equipment for Business and Military applications being particularly buoyant.
These sectors were supported with increased demand for both replacement parts across all sectors, and repair & overhaul services in our Commercial Aviation sector.
Continuing military activity will result in ongoing high demand for Military equipment, for both fixed and rotor wing applications, where APPH has a relatively strong position.
2008 should see increasing demand in the Business Aviation sector for both conventional and Very Light Jet applications, an area where we are regionally positioned to take advantage of this trend.
Several new contracts were won on System Hydraulics and associated equipment with Eurocopter on the EC175-Z15 50.0 million, Hindustan Aeronautics on the Advanced Jet Trainer AJT 2.6 million, and Cessna on various aircraft types including the CJ4 Throttle Quadrant 2.0 million.
Our MRO facility was awarded a contract in support of the Repair & Overhaul of the Landing Gear System for the B717 worldwide fleet which should generate sales of circa.
On our established programmes, L3 Communications announced the selection of the C27J aircraft for the Joint Cargo Aircraft programme, in support of the US Army and Airforce, who require a minimum of 78 aircraft.
APPH, together with its Italian partner, supplies the Landing Gear System for this platform order value 30.0 million.
On 2 February 2007 we acquired Commercial Aircraft Products, based in Wichita and specialising in the design and manufacture of hydraulic system components, electro mechanical positioning systems and access mechanisms used on a wide range of Business Aviation and Light Jet Programmes.
CAPs proprietary products are approved and used by Cessna, Hawker Beech, Bombardier and Adams, on both mature and embryonic platforms.
Outlook The markets in which we operate are currently strong and with the increase in our order book during 2007, APPH is well positioned for continued growth.
Oxford Training and Airport Oxford Sales Inc 2007 2006 Dec m m % UK 21.0 31.5 33 Oxford Aviation Training and Oxford Airport were sold during the year for 71.1 million and the monies received invested in our core businesses.
A small engineering business CSE Aviation which was based at the airport was closed in early 2008.
KenLivingston, ManufacturingManager,  0 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 One of the control boards at APPH reflects the complexity of the work at Runcorn.
For Ken Livingston, this colour-coded display is invaluable.
It allows him to assess the status of every cell at the site with little more than a glance.
The purpose of this board is to highlight issues.
Green tells me everything is acceptable.
I can see whats being done to remedy a problem and ascertain staffing levels in a moment.
APPHs highly specialised staff incorporates a remarkable set of skills, so designs conceived at the Runcorn site can see their way to completion there.
From the manufacture and fine-tuning of components, to the stress testing of hydraulic equipment and the paint spraying of finished gear, expertise in every aspect of landing gear design and build is in evidence.
Control boards at APPH reflect the complexity of the work at Runcorn.
2 2 B BB BA A A Av vi ia at ti io on n An Ann nu ua all R Re ep po or rt t 2 20 00 07 7 In an industry whose environmental credentials are under close scrutiny, Signatures terminal building at Bostons Logan International Airport sets new standards for sustainable airport architecture.
Craig Hanson of architects Schenkel Shultz: Signatures new Boston terminal makes full use of sustainable materials and low voltage lighting.
Natural light floods the building, reduces the need for electric lights and improves the working environment.
The design also works hard to promote the use of bicycles and public transport: there are showers, bike racks and parking spaces set aside for pooled cars.
Father and son Colin and Chad Bichard above work together at H S and are testament to the loyalty the firm inspires.
Colin joined the business away from the shop floor in a semi-skilled role.
We know that successful working cultures have a positive impact on the bottom line, so in considering new acquisitions and more established members of our group of companies, we think very carefully before making any decision that could affect a well-balanced culture.
hris Head, Managing Director of H S right has been with the Portsmouth business for 2 years.
Its values are very important to me.
There is a real family feeling about the business.
Nick, whose grandfather started the business, still works here.
We have had people join us when they were young and leave us when they were old.
Fathers are bringing their sons in to be apprentices.
It brings strength and trust to our business.
Corporate Social Responsibility Our Corporate Social Responsibility Vision BBA Aviations vision is to create long-term sustainable stakeholder value.
We aim to impact positively on society and the environment through the operation of our companies and the conduct of our personnel.
This responsibility includes open and frequent communications with stakeholders, employees and customers, as well as with the communities where our companies operate, on matters of health, safety and environmental protection and preservation, and fair and equitable competition and employment practices.
It is the individual responsibility of all BBA Aviation managers to ensure that these critical corporate values are reflected in daily business operations.
Supporting this Vision are six key values that underpin the way we do business: Integrity Responsibility Performance Safety People Service Integrity We earn the trust and respect of our stakeholders with honesty, fairness, openness and by honouring our commitments.
Responsibility Managing our impact on, and contributing positively to, society and the environment.
Safety We are dedicated to safety and security, the elimination of hazards and protecting people, property and our environment.
Service We strive continually to anticipate customer needs, exceeding their expectations.
People We embrace diversity and equality, investing in and empowering our people through training, education and experience.
Performance We focus on delivery of long-term and sustainable value, continuous improvement and reliability.
Governance of Corporate Social Responsibility at BBA Aviation plc Board of Directors including Mark Harper a non-executive director and BBA Aviations CSR Responsible Director Executive Committee including Group HR Director Group Chief Executive CSR Steering Committee including representatives from each of the operating businesses Business Executives Functional Executives Significant CSR leadership roles within BBA Aviation plc.
Satisfying the highest ethical standards, complying with the Fair Treatment, Diversity and Business Ethics law, and exercising appropriate sensitivity to the needs of Our people form the foundation of each BBA Aviation business.
To sustain our employees, the communities in which we work, and the a committed, progressive workforce, it is critical that we treat our environment must be integrated with our business goals in a employees equitably.
A large part of this investment in our employees complementary manner.
This balance cannot be achieved involves ensuring that we operate fairly at all times and do not permit unless all of our employees are engaged in this effort.
discrimination against any employee or applicant for employment on the Responsibility to the Board for relationships with all our basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, disability, national origin, stakeholders lies with the Group Chief Executive.
age, military status, veteran status, sexual orientation or marital status.
This includes giving full and fair consideration to suitable applications from Shareholders disabled persons for employment and making appropriate adjustments We are fully committed to increasing the value of the business to our so that if existing employees become disabled they can continue to be shareholders and therefore to communicating with our shareholders to employed, wherever practicable, in the same job or, if this is not reassure them of our focus on enhancing the value of the business.
In practicable, making every effort to find suitable alternative employment addition to publishing our orporate Social Responsibility SR reports and to provide relevant training.
on our website and requesting feedback, we regularly discuss SR issues Not just a management philosophy, we believe in instilling this with them.
These discussions and the feedback we have received via commitment to fairness in our entire staff, and require that all our employees other channels offer valuable insights into those areas that we can expand abide by the highest standards of ethical conduct, as reflected in the Groups upon in our future reports to meet the needs of our shareholders better.
orporate Social Responsibility and ode of Business Ethics Policy.
Our people Reporting It is our obligation as a company to ensure that, regardless of where they In October 2007 we issued our sixth annual orporate Social Responsibility work or what job they are performing, our employees have a safe, secure Report.
The report can be found on the ompanys website.
We have and fulfilling work environment that allows them to reach their full potential.
continued to gauge the progress of our SR programme by participation In order to be competitive in the marketplace and to ensure that we in the annual Business in the ommunity orporate Responsibility Index.
are positively impacting the communities in which we do business, we Our index scores from 2002 to 2005 showed continued year to year must first invest in the health and safety of our employees.
In 2006 the ompany did maintain its position as a Top 100 our employees health and safety is therefore our number one priority.
ompany in the Bit index, although our score dropped.
In November We value the talent that each individual brings to BBA Aviation.
2007 we again completed the Index survey and look forward to receiving Helping all our employees play to their strengths and improve their skills, Business in the ommunitys results and business rankings in 2008. in both their job functions and their interactions with customers, is a key area of investment for BBA Aviation.
It is our belief that by so doing, we can continuously improve the calibre of our people, enhance the success of our business, and positively impact the world around us.
4 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Health and Safety Under the guidance of the SR Steering ommittee whose membership Health and Safety risks are assessed through a dedicated team of health is committed to driving operational SR leadership within the operating and safety professionals operating at various levels throughout our businesses, we are developing a strategy for carbon management.
This includes three senior level managers and numerous plan to measure accurately greenhouse gas emissions will form an integral site-based managers who employ web-based audit and training tools and part of our long-term sustainability programme.
Significant financial who regularly evaluate site performance.
Performance statistics such as investment has already been made by several of our businesses to reduce recordable incident data, accident severity, lost work days and workers the amount of harmful solvents consumed in their process.
Emissions of compensation claims are compiled on a continuous basis and reported to solvent vapour to the atmosphere have been reduced significantly at the the Board, Executive Management ommittee and senior line APPH UK sites through substituting the chemical and through investment management.
Improvement plans are formulated and performance in and use of the latest technology.
Of equal importance our airport targets are set for all our business units on an annual basis.
operations are also looking for opportunities for improvement: the latest In April 2007 we were deeply saddened to report that a fatal accident generation of fuel hydrant trucks coming online at ASIG at London occurred at Detroit Metropolitan Airport.
We were shocked by this loss of Gatwick are compliant with the Euro 5 emissions standard, reducing the life and have been working with the appropriate authorities to establish amount of particulate emissions considered harmful to human health.
the root cause and to ensure that such an accident does not happen Supporting our local communities and improving our surrounding again.
This will be achieved through improved training and environment remains a priority for BBA Aviation companies.
We continue communications, and amendments to processes and systems.
Our to demonstrate our commitment to the environment through many severity index performance has deteriorated in 2007 when compared activities and initiatives.
In keeping with Signatures commitment to with 2006, but at year-end we did record a ompany-wide Recordable environmental responsibility and consistent for a greener airport, Bostons Incident Rate of 6. which is lower than the industry average of 7.1 and Logan International Airport BOS is expected to be Leadership in Energy our RIR performance of 6.6 in 2006.
This represents the lowest rate for the and Environmental Design LEED certified in early 2008 as the first ever current portfolio of our aviation businesses since we started to compile green general aviation facility.
LEED is a rating system developed by statistics some six years ago.
We realise that much work still lies ahead.
the US Green Building ouncil.
Projects that achieve LEED certification Our goal is to achieve an industry leadership role in safety practices and incorporate sustainable, green architectural design: make use of performance.
As the safety improvement programmes that are now environmentally friendly building products and energy efficient embedded in our aviation service businesses continue to mature, we electrical and mechanical systems: and utilise environmentally sensitive anticipate further improvement in the months and years to come.
construction practices to provide for high building performance and to minimise environmental impact.
The Environment Evaluating environmental risks associated with the operation of our Suppliers businesses and managing those risks continues to receive senior entralised procurement is one method that BBA Aviation uses to promote management level focus within BBA Aviation.
The same audit and our SR principles through the supply chain.
We encourage each of our training tools employed to manage health and safety risk are utilised to businesses to centralise their procurement processes when feasible, and identify issues of environmental compliance and risk on a regular basis.
source materials and services locally when centralised procurement is Through annual self-assessments and site audits, our personnel develop impractical.
site improvement plans, which are scrutinised by senior management.
In We continue to work actively with suppliers and customers to design addition, we engage external consultants to conduct a semi-annual and develop products that do not impact adversely on the environment, Environmental Index of all business sites in order to gauge their impacts health or safety of our broader communities.
Finally, through our annual participation in the Business in the Environment Survey, we take stock of our environmental Local Communities and Charities performance under the scrutiny of external evaluators.
Supporting the local communities in which we work and improving our BBA Aviation requires each of our businesses to work towards surrounding environment is of paramount importance to BBA companies reducing our environmental footprint.
For a number of years we have around the world.
We recognise that we form part of the broader global focused on identifying and improving performance in key areas of community.
It is our responsibility, as a good neighbour, to contribute to environmental impact, which include waste creation, energy and water those locations where we are resident.
In addition to providing support to consumption.
An initiative to improve waste management at APPH our surrounding communities through our practices of local employment, Runcorn through improved segregation and waste compaction led to local training and, where appropriate, the purchase of local goods and a 25% reduction in 2007 in the total amount of hazardous waste going services, we are proud to play an active role in a variety of local activities to landfill and eliminated over 1,000 road transport miles 0.25 t O2.
We continue to demonstrate our commitment to our In addition to focusing our attention on these three key impacts, communities through many activities and initiatives.
In 2007 Hugh McElroy, we continue to encourage our businesses to become certificated to ISO President and EO of Dallas Airmotive, received the Humanitarian Award 14001: Environmental Management Systems.
APPH Runcorn achieved from the Dallas Texas Area hapter American Red ross and Dallas certification in September 2007.
APPH Basingstoke and Bolton are also Airmotive was recognised for its employee and corporate donations to working towards certification and the remaining APPH businesses have Hurricane Katrina relief efforts, its ongoing support of the Ready When the set themselves a 2010 deadline for achieving IS0 14001 certification.
Time omes programme and for creating an environment of volunteerism.
A Board Priority We remain committed to SR and it is a priority for the Board to make further progress during 2008.
We will report on our progress during the year.
5 Acquisitions and Disposals DirectorsReport The Group acquired five businesses during the year for a total consideration of BusinessReview:FinancialMatters 76.0 million.
We acquired ommercial Aircraft Products AP to strengthen the presence of APPH in the USA.
All of the other businesses related to Signature Exchange Rates in the USA and in total added another nine locations to our network of bases.
A significant proportion of BBAs earnings are generated in US dollars.
The These businesses, which are detailed on page 40 of the Directors Report, have movements in this exchange rate since 2005 are shown in the table below: contributed approximately 20.5 million of turnover in 2007.
The fair market value of the assets acquired was 8.2 million, and the resulting goodwill was 2005 2006 2007 40.1 million.
These acquisitions were financed by the disposal of our businesses at Oxford US Dollars Average 1.82 1.84 2.00 airport which together raised 71.1 million and generated a profit on disposal of Spot 1.72 1.96 1.99 8.4 million.
An investment in Lider in Brazil was written down by 7.6 million.
The decision The spot dollar rate, which is used to translate the dollar assets and liabilities at 1 to write down the investment was taken after a discussion with other shareholders December 2007, was relatively unchanged but the dollar was weak against sterling regarding our future participation in the venture which led to a reconsideration for the whole of 2007 with the result that the average rate which is used to translate of the influence we could exert on future strategy and the carrying value of the our earnings was significantly higher at $2.00 compared to $1.84 in the prior year.
This had the result of reducing the translated value of pre-tax earnings in the current year by some 6.0 million compared to 2006.
Interest The net interest charge was 19. million 2006: 24.6 million with the reduction Share Based Payments mostly relating to lower debt levels due to the transfer of 17.
1 million of debt to The impact of share based payments for continuing operations during the year Fiberweb at the time of its demerger in November 2006.
Interest cover was 5.5 was to reduce profits by 0.9 million compared to a credit of 1.6 million in 2006. times 2006: 4.2 times.
Assuming that Fiberweb had been demerged on 1 January The credit in the prior year was caused by a reduction in the share price impacting 2006 interest costs would have been approximately 17.0 million in the prior year the accounting cost of a share award which was cash settled US share option with the increase to 19. million in the current year mostly relating to higher holders.
The cost in the current year also benefited from a similar adjustment circa average US dollar interest rates.
1.1 million as a number of these shares remain outstanding.
ompared to the prior year the improvement reduced the results of Flight Support by 1.4 million, Tax and Dividends Aftermarket Services and Systems by 0.9 million and central overhead by The normalised tax rate for continuing operations was 27.0% 2006: 29.9% with 0.2 million.
the reduction in the rate reflecting the implementation of a new tax structure Unallocated central overhead was 9.7 million 2006: 7. million.
This increase and the release of tax provisions for potential tax exposures in USA and Europe results from the inclusion in the prior year of a profit of 1.6 million relating to a which were no longer required.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of curtailment gain in the UK pension scheme relating to the demerger of Fiberweb 5.
5p bringing the total for the year to 7.6p 2006: 8.5p.
If Fiberweb had been and the allocation of.
7 million of central overhead costs to Fiberweb in 2006 demerged at the beginning of 2006 and if BBA Aviation had been operating as an which has been mostly, but not entirely, offset by cost reductions.
independent company from that time it is anticipated that the full year dividend would have been 7.1p.
Against this rebased full year dividend the recommended Restructuring Costs and Amortisation of Acquired Intangibles 2007 dividend represents an increase of 7%.
Restructuring costs and amortisation of acquired intangibles for continuing operations were 6.4 million 2006: 8.0 million.
Further details of these amounts Pensions can be found in note 2 to the onsolidated Financial Statements.
The overall value of our pension scheme assets is unchanged at 478.1 million 2006: 477.1 million, whilst liabilities have fallen significantly, due principally to increased discount rates, to 422.8 million 2006: 498.2 million.
The resulting surplus of 65.6 million in the UK scheme was not recognised as it is not expected that the surplus will result in a reduction to the ompanys contributions to the scheme.
Excluding the surplus on the UK scheme there was an overall deficit of 10. million 2006: 21.1 million.
Following an actuarial valuation of the UK schemes in 2004, the ompany made a special contribution of 5.0 million during 2005 and 2006 and a further contribution of.
Cash Flow and Debt ash flow from operating activities for the Group reduced to 78.7 million 2006: 118.8 million and for continuing operations was 102.4 million 2006: 122.1 million.
The reduction for continuing operations resulted from higher tax cash payments and an outflow in working capital caused by a build up in inventory particularly in the ERO and APPH businesses.
As anticipated there was a working capital inflow during the second half of.
9 million and further improvements in inventory turns are being targeted for 2008.
There was a free cash inflow of 18.1 million compared to.
Net debt was 75.2 million, slightly higher than at the end of 2006 56.9 million.
There was a net cash outflow of 19. million in the period which included cash payments in respect of the demerger of 2.
7 million relating to adviser costs and the settlement of a Section 75 pension obligation.
6 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Gross capital expenditure reduced to 9.8 million 2006: 91.8 million and Funding and Liquidity represents 1. times depreciation 2006: 1.4 times.
Aviation expenditure in 2006 The Groups operations are financed by a combination of retained profits, equity amounted to 47.0 million and the reduction in expenditure related to Flight Support.
Borrowings are generally raised at Group level from banks and A significant proportion of our debt is held in US dollars as a hedge against then lent to operating subsidiaries on commercial terms.
The Group maintains our US dollar assets.
The weakening of the US dollar against sterling has had a sufficient available committed borrowing facilities to meet any forecasted funding significant beneficial impact on the translated value of our dollar debt.
by currency is shown in the table below: At the end of 2007, the Group had committed bank facilities of $900.0 million of which $77.7 million was undrawn.
In addition, the Group maintains uncommitted Debt Cash profile by currency facilities for daily working capital fluctuation purposes.
At the end of 2007, the undrawn amount of these uncommitted facilities totalled $.
2007 2006 m m Interest Rate Risk Management Sterling 355 187 The interest rate exposure arising from the Groups borrowing and deposit activity US dollars 616 457 is managed by using a combination of fixed and variable rate debt instruments and Euros 112 85 interest rate swaps.
The Groups policy with respect to interest rate is to fix portions Others 2 2 of debt for varying periods based upon our debt maturity profile and an Total 375 57 assessment of interest rate trends.
At the end of 2007, approximately 2% of the Groups total borrowings were fixed at weighted average interest rates of 4.5% The Group has a syndicated multi-currency loan for 450.0 million that will expire for varying terms up to two years.
The Group policy with respect to cash deposits is to only have deposits with Currency Risk Management pre-approved banks with credit ratings of A1 P1 and with limits on the amount The Groups policy is to hedge all significant transactional currency exposures deposited with each institution dependent on their credit rating.
Deposits are through the use of forward currency contracts.
It is also the Groups policy to hedge generally for short-term maturity less than three months.
overseas capital employed, including recognised goodwill, between 50% and 85% by means of currency loans and currency swaps.
Financial Risk Management and Treasury Policies The main financial risks of the Group relate to funding and liquidity, interest rate fluctuations and currency exposures.
A central Treasury department that reports directly to the Group Finance Director and operates according to objectives, policies and authorities approved by the Board, performs the management of these risks.
The overall policy objective is to use financial instruments to manage financial risks arising from the underlying business activities and therefore the Group does not undertake speculative transactions for which there is no underlying financial exposure.
More details are set out in note 18 to the onsolidated Financial Statements.
7 DirectorsReport  Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 Executive Management Committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 8 1.
Mark Harper 51 Non-executive Director, He was appointed to the Board in February 2005 as a non-executive Director, Chairman, Remuneration Committee becoming interim EO in February 2006.
He temporarily assumed the role He was appointed to the Board in December 2006.
He is hief Executive of Filtrona of Executive hairman with effect from 17 January 2007 and became plc, the international speciality plastic and fibre products supplier which demerged non-executive hairman on 11 June 2007.
An engineer by training, he was a from Bunzl plc in June 2005.
He joined Bunzl in 1986 where he held a number of director of Williams plc and on the demerger in 2000 became hief Executive general management positions.
He is BBAs SR Responsible Director and became of Kidde plc.
He was appointed hairman of Whatman plc in December 2007 the hairman of the Remuneration ommittee on 27 April 2007. and is also hairman of Vitec Group plc and a non-executive director of Ricardo plc and atlin Group Limited.
Nick Land 60 Non-executive Director, Chairman, Audit Committee 2.
Simon Pryce 46 Group Chief Executive He was appointed to the Board in August 2006.
He was formerly hairman of He was appointed to the Board in June 2007.
He is a chartered accountant and Ernst & Young LLP and a member of the Global Executive Board of Ernst & Young, was previously with GKN plc for nine years in a variety of roles, most recently positions which he held from 1995 to 2006.
He is now a non-executive director as hief Executive of GKNs Diversified Businesses Group.
Prior to joining GKN of Royal Dutch Shell plc, Vodafone Group Plc and Ashmore Group plc and a he held senior positions at JP Morgan and Lazards in London and New York.
member of the Advisory Board of Three Delta LLP.
He also sits on the Finance and Audit ommittees of the National Gallery and is hairman of the Practice Advisory 3.
Andrew Wood 56 Group Finance Director Board of the Institute of hartered Accountants of England and Wales and the He was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director in January 2001.
Board of Trustees of Farnham astle.
He is a trustee of the Vodafone Group A chartered management accountant, he was formerly Group Finance Director Foundation.
He became hairman of the Audit ommittee on 1 March 2007. of Racal Electronics plc.
Bruce Van Allen 52 President Flight Support Senior Independent Director, He was appointed to the Board in May 2002.
He joined Signature in 199 and has Chairman, Nomination Committee held various posts since that date, including most recently, EO of BBA Aviation He was appointed to the Board in January 1999.
He is a non-executive director of North America.
Premier Farnell plc and Henderson Group plc.
He was formerly a partner at Deloitte & Touche, retiring in 1999 as Senior Partner.
He became the Senior Independent Director and hairman of the Nomination ommittee on 27 April 2007.
Hansel Tookes 60 Non-executive Director He was appointed to the Board in February 2007.
He is a non-executive director of orning, Inc. FPL Group, Inc. Harris orporation and Ryder System, Inc. For nearly twenty years, he held various positions at United Technologies Group including as President, Large Military Engines Group, Pratt & Whitney.
He retired in 2002 from Raytheon, Inc. where he had formerly been hairman and EO of Raytheon Aircraft Group.
Simon Pryce, Group Chief Executive 2.
Andrew Wood, Group Finance Director 3.
Bruce Van Allen, President Flight Support 4.
Gary Fisher, Group HR Director 5.
Dave Haslam, Managing Director APPH Group 7.
Jim Gerwien, President Legacy Support 8.
Hugh McElroy, President Engine Repair & Overhaul 9.
