9.5% Return on invested capital showing a continued improvement over 2006.
GregMartin, ExecutiveDirector, B 22usinessDevelopment, H SAviation, Portsmouth BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 H S specialises in the total overhaul of APUs, the auxiliary engines that power an aircrafts systems.
Because of the unusual and entirely unpredictable stresses that components undergo between overhauls, aircraft aftermarket services remain the realm of highly skilled mechanics.
omputers have made fewer inroads here than they have into most other engineering environments.
Mechanical dexterity is a pre-requisite for working on even the most modern engines.
Every APU or turbine engine that arrives at the Portsmouth facility passes through a gate system.
Wear is carefully assessed, tolerances tested, parts recalibrated and performance rigorously monitored.
Reassembled engines are subjected to a flight test.
H S technicians monitor performance using software designed to mimic an aircrafts systems.
2 Engine Repair and Overhaul Engine repair and overhaul ERO Sales Inc Inc 1 2007 2006 Dec 2006 Dec m m % m % USA 223.6 212.2 5 195.2 15 Europe & ROW 48.9 48.2 1 48.2 1 Total 272.5 260.4 5 243.4 12 1 At constant exchange rates Engine Repair and Overhaul ERO had another good year in 2007 against a backdrop of strong market conditions.
Sales increased by 5% on a reported basis to 272.5 million 2006: 260.4 million and by 12% on a constant currency basis with all of the growth being organic.
Business and General Aviation aircraft use provides over 75% of EROs revenue and all major programmes experienced solid growth.
Revenue increased almost two-fold on our newest authorisation in the PW300 500 as demand continued for field service and hot section inspection work.
The PT6 JT15D business delivered good growth during the year despite challenges due to changing market dynamics.
Rolls-Royce Tay and Spey are a key component of our B&GA sector and experienced significant growth driven partially by our introduction into the Tay 611-8C and Rolls-Royce CorporateCare programmes.
The TFE731 is our single largest source of revenue and grew well.
Civil rotor-wing operations present a large opportunity for ERO across the world with growth rate projections anticipated to outpace all other market sectors over the next ten years.
In 2007, our Rolls-Royce 250 helicopter engine programme saw strong growth in revenue over 2006.
We have added additional resources and repair services to this business that will benefit 2008 and beyond.
We signed long-term agreements with several large fleet and medical service operators and will continue to focus on strategic growth opportunities.
We are well positioned to assume new rotorcraft engine authorisations that will round out our service offerings within the transport and utility helicopter markets.
ERO continues to make improvements in its operations and supply chain structure to facilitate profitable organic growth.
At the end of 2007, a strategic decision was made to incorporate the activities of the two BBA Aviation parts distribution companies International Turbine Services ITS and the Barrett Turbine Engine Company BTEC under ERO leadership going forward.
Outlook Maintaining strong relationships with both engine and airframe Original Equipment Manufacturers OEMs remains a central element of ERO strategy.
Growing acceptance by operators of OEM sponsored pay-by-the-hour programmes makes close ties with OEMs important in order for ERO to have access to these sources of revenue.
Competitively, ERO continues to enjoy strong and growing market share positions across its full range of product line offerings.
Whilst some competition continues from OEM aftermarket support services, the trend has been for OEMs to diminish their internal capacity for legacy engine support favouring greater roles for the independent providers.
Consolidation among the independent engine providers continues leaving a small number of large multi-programme global competitors including BBA Aviation.
