1 8% Organic sales growth of 6% and increased underlying operating profit of 18% on a constant currrency basis.
1 2.5% Operating margins improved from 11.8% in 2006.
Tight-knit teams Changes to a flight plan have an immediate effect on ground schedules.
Faced with rapidly shifting priorities, Signature workers at Bostons Logan International Airport understand that there is no substitute for constant, clear communication.
Essential services Re-fuelling is a skilled and carefully planned procedure.
There is an acute awareness among Signatures people that the care and attention they invest in their smallest action pays dividends for our customers and can be critically important.
SharonMorris, OperationsManager S BBi Ag Av n iaa tiot nu Anr ne ua l F Rel pi og rt h 200t 7Support, Boston 1 Signature Signature Sales Inc Inc 1 2007 2006 Dec 2006 Dec m m % m % USA 316.3 291.1 9 267.8 18 Europe & ROW 78.4 69.9 12 69.4 13 Total 394.7 361.0 9 337.2 17 1 At constant exchange rates Despite historically high crude oil costs and a commensurate rise in average retail jet fuel prices to more than $6.00 per gallon in some areas, B&GA flight activity remained strong and Signature locations both in the USA and Europe performed very well in 2007.
The revenue increased by 17% to 394.7 million at constant exchange rates.
Organic growth was 9% with the balance being accounted for by higher fuel prices 3% and acquisitions 5%.
We continued to see good growth of 11% from fractional operators and they now account for 25% of total revenue.
Our non-fractional revenue grew organically by 8% during the year.
Our businesses outside North America, which now account for some 20% of total revenue, had a particularly strong year growing their revenues by 12%.
Signature continued to add new price volume incentive programmes which were successful in adding new customers and increasing volume at all levels within its existing customer base.
Such programmes have been highly effective in employing the depth and logistical quality of Signatures network to create differentiating competitive price advantages.
New facilities were completed in Teterboro, New Jersey, which added over 60,000 square feet of hangar and related office space.
Major expansion and renovations were also completed at the Signature FBO terminal at Paris Le Bourget, creating the largest FBO complex on the airport.
Work began on a new hangar and terminal renovation at San Francisco International Airport total investment $15 million following the award to Signature of a 10 year lease extension by the airport authorities.
In addition to significantly expanding capacity at one of the worlds busiest airports, the new facilities and on-going business operations will also be designed to meet LEED Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design certification, including the introduction of all new, environmentally friendly ramp and ground support equipment that use alternative energy sources.
Signature continued to place emphasis on Health, Safety and Environmental improvements, introducing new safety training programmes and additional resources to facilitate on-going safety audit and compliance.
Signature has followed a strategy of acquiring FBOs positioned in major business centres, resort destinations and more recently, key reliever airports.
During 2007 Signature added 10 new FBO locations to its global network of which 8 were acquired in the USA, 1 acquired in Greece and a new operation was started up at Liege in Belgium.
These new locations will generate incremental revenue of approximately 53 million per annum in the first full year of operation.
In 2007 they contributed sales of approximately 18 million.
BBA Aviation announced on 22 February 2008 that it had agreed to acquire the assets of Hawker Beechcraft Services Incs Line Service Operations for a cash consideration of $128.5 million on a debt and cash free basis.
The acquisition consists of 7 geographically diverse FBOs in strategically important growth markets in the USA.
Each location is an important corporate aircraft destination and the assets represent a good mix of major business aviation, commercial and key reliever airports.
In 2007 Hawker Beechcrafts Line Service Operations had sales of $73 million, EBITDA margins of 12% and gross assets of approximately $16 million.
It is expected that the acquisition will be immediately earnings enhancing and returns should be in excess of BBA Aviations cost of capital by 2010.
The bases are highly complementary to Signature in terms of location, service reputation and quality of facilities.
The acquisition will significantly strengthen Signatures network and provide an opportunity for real value creation through benefits associated with network fuel volume, price, cost and real estate, which are expected to be fully realised by 2010 with limited investment.
Including the Hawker Beechcraft FBOs BBA Aviation now has a total of 84 wholly owned locations worldwide, of which 61 are located in the USA.
These cover 47 of the top 50 US Metropolitan Areas, 18 of top 30 US hub airports, as well as 27 of the top 50 fractional operations airports.
In addition Signature has a minority interest in 14 other FBO locations in Brazil and Hong Kong.
Outlook The surge in business jet deliveries continues to create a growing demand for airside infrastructure support ramp, hangar and maintenance space which Signatures unrivaled quality of network locations and portfolio of long-term lease agreements leave it ideally positioned to support in 2008 and beyond.
The strong growth of business and general aviation outside of North America should create continuing opportunities to expand Signatures FBO network in Europe and facilitate new business development activities in Asia and the Middle East.
Sales Customer Mix NonFractional 75% Fractional 25% Early evening in Boston Preparing a private jet for take off.
Arriving in Paris Airside expertise in Le Bourget.
Turnaround Fuel re-stocked, interior cleaned and vacuumed, a plane prepares for departure from Boston.
Soon, baggage will be loaded and pilot and crew will board to begin their pre-flight preparations.
At precisely the right moment its passengers will be ushered carefully across the tarmac and settle into their seats.
Landing at Paris Le Bourget it meets the same level of service.
Although the procedures and paperwork are very different, its crew and passengers will experience discretion, care and comfort in equal measure.
Investment in Signatures infrastructure at Le Bourget allows their terminal to process aircraft as large as 747s and provide 14 customers with a comfortable lounge environment.
SteveGulvin,  M BBAi A d vid atil oe n An E na uas l Rt, ep oS rt i 2g 007nature 15 DirectorsReport BusinessReview:FlightSupport ASIG   theworldatanyonetime.
16 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 Thorough airside training When the first planes taxied to the terminal on 1 February 2008, they were met by expert ground crew, technically adept re-fuellers and efficient baggage handlers.
SivaPersad, ASIGTrainingManager, ASIG,  BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007 17 ASIG ASIG Sales Inc Inc 1 2007 2006 Dec 2006 Dec m m % m % USA 156.4 167.4 7 154.0 2 Europe & ROW 28.4 28.0 1 28.0 1 Total 184.8 195.4 5 182.0 2 1 At constant exchange rates Total revenue at ASIG increased slightly by 2% at constant exchange rates to 184.8 million.
Much improved fide-icing seasons at the start and end of 2007 added 5.0 million of revenue compared to the prior year and net new business amounted to 3.0 million but this was largely offset by continued withdrawal from uneconomic locations.
Overall there was a significant improvement in profitability and margins compared to the previous year.
The commercial flight support market continued its steady recovery in 2007.
Airlines overcame the effect of historically high fuel prices with an emphasis on improved systems and supply chain efficiency which created new outsourcing opportunities for ASIG in higher skill higher margin activities.
ASIG was also successful in winning rate increases on a number of major contract renewals as prices continued to firm in the wake of strong demand and ASIGs ability to leverage its increasingly differentiated level of service and quality.
Despite the improvement in overall market conditions and operating efficiency, the commercial airline services market remains highly price sensitive.
ASIG continues to seek opportunities to expand its business by leveraging its network scale and growing expertise as an integrated systems and services provider to the airlines, both airside and landside.
ASIG was awarded a seven year, $150.0 million contract by Terminal One Group Association TOGA, comprised of four of the worlds leading airlines - Air France, Japan Airlines, Korean Air and Lufthansa - to provide full ground handling services to all 16 airlines operating at New Yorks JFK International Airports Terminal One.
ASIG will handle over 10,000 flights and 4 million passengers annually at Terminal One with services starting on 1 February 2008.
To support this contract ASIG will invest $16.0 million in ground support and other equipment.
ASIG introduced a series of new Health, Safety and Environmental programmes and training initiatives in 2007 which contributed to a 4% year on year improvement in RIR.
ASIG was named the Best Airport Fuel Operator for an unprecedented third consecutive year in an annual survey of the worlds major airlines conducted by Armbrust, a leading industry trade organization.
Outlook Airline consolidation in North America looks more likely than ever.
ASIG is monitoring this situation closely and will seek to leverage its network and existing relationships to maximize any opportunities that may arise.
Sales Product Mix GSE Tech Services 1 8% Cargo Services 4% Fuel Services 48% Ground Handling 30% DirectorsReport BusinessReview:FlightSupport  training,  customersrelyon.
LuisAnchondo, , ASIG,  18 BBA Aviation Annual Report 2007
