Riverbank House, London EC4 Our Business and Market Helical Bar is a property development and investment company.
We create shareholder value through a wide variety of high margin activities with property investment at our core.
Whilst a profit centre in its own right, property investment provides a stable income stream to cover all our overheads and interest costs.
Our spread of activities gives us the flexibility to deploy capital rapidly across our business and focus on whatever opportunities offer the best returns at different points of the property cycle.
Retail Office development refurbishment Office Retail development refurbishment Industrial Retirement Property investment development villages Change Mixed use of use development Overseas Outsourcing development Asset management 04 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Business Review Our goals Our approach how we create value We seek to make excellent returns for our shareholders over Planning We are specialists in unlocking value by obtaining the short-, mediumand long-term whilst avoiding the pitfalls planning consents for more valuable uses.
of the commercial property cycle.
We aim to achieve this This year we gained consent for a retirement village of through a broadly based, diversified property business, which 144 units on the site of a disused hospital in Liphook, has access to a very wide range of opportunities.
Hants, resulting in a 9m increase in site value.
We do this with a small, long serving management team who We currently have brownfield sites in Cambridge, Horsham have a significant proportion of their own wealth invested in and Great Alne west of Stratford upon Avon where we are an 18% stake in the Company and have no competing seeking retirement village consents.
Residential use is being interests.
We try to keep execution risk to a minimum, sought on industrial sites in Fleet and Whitstable and on a working with first rate joint venture partners when we move greenfield site in Telford.
into new areas of property business.
Changes of use 7 3 Leisure Industrial Trade counter 5 7 3 Retail Warehouse Residential 5 1 7 3 Car Showroom Hotel Retirement Accommodation 7 3 Retail Student Accommodation Offices 05 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Business Business Review Review Our Business and Market 5 Clareville House, London SW1 In Vauxhall, London we are working with National Grid UK Office refurbishment We like to breathe new life into Pension Fund to secure a large residential allocation on an unloved, empty office buildings in and around Central industrial estate fronting the Thames.
Our biggest project is at London introducing some design flair and creating new hubs White City where on behalf of a consortium of landowners or communities of occupiers.
In Battersea we recently we are master planning 4.5m sq.
ft. of residential and converted an empty TV studio into offices with a communal commercial space on 33 acres.
In Milton Keynes we are in bar and meeting space which is now let to over 20 different the process of gaining consent for a 300,000 sq.
We have just obtained planning consent to double warehouse and leisure scheme and a trade park on the floor space, building a second 50,000 sq.
ft. on part of the separate sites.
Investment properties Rex House, SW1, Shepherds Building, W12 and 61 Southwark Street, SE1 represent over Mixed use development In recent years we have sought 100m of buildings that we have refurbished in the past and to create more sustainable development with a variety of retained for their growth potential.
In particular, we have incorporated residential uses into a number of our schemes.
These include Retail development Through our joint ventures with 700 student housing units above our 180,000 sq.
ft. retail in Oswin and Overton, we have been building retail parks Nottingham and 56 flats in our department store conversion and shopping centres for over a decade.
Last month in Cardiff which were all sold on the first morning of the we completed a retail park in Luton let to DFS, SCS, launch, a year before completion.
At C4.1 in Milton Keynes, Carpetright, Harveys and sold to the Hercules Unit Trust for with local developers Abbeygate, we are building 440 flats 36m.
Planning consent is being sought for a 25,000 sq.
bulky goods retail warehouse scheme in Crewe.
These have been forward sold to Barratts and social Retail asset management Reconfiguring and combining landlord Genesis.
At Parkgate, Shirley the construction small retail units enables us to attract desirable new retailers of an 80,000 sq.
ft. Asda supermarket together with into our retail centres.
At the old Morgans Department Store 120,000 sq.
ft. of retail and 200 residential units are planned in Cardiff we have created units for Borders, TK Maxx, to commence in 2008.
In Wolverhampton an 11 acre site has Moss Bros and Rossiters.
At Letchworth we nearly doubled been divided and sold into land parcels for residential, hotel, rental values over a three year period.
We introduced a dozen car showroom and public houses with a listed building to be new retailers to the town more than doubling the capital converted into a casino.
value and generating a near five fold return on equity.
Office development We have a 20 year track record of building Grade A Central London office buildings, often in partnership with institutions and other landowners.
We have recently been appointed by Pace Investments City Limited to manage the development in the City of 320,000 sq.
ft. of offices pre-let to Man Group as their new headquarters.
We are also partnering National Grid UK Pension Fund on the refurbishment of 35,000 sq.
ft. of leisure and restaurants at Clareville House, SW1.
At Mitre Square, EC3 we have obtained planning consent for a 350,000 sq.
ft. office scheme and plan to commence in 2008.
At Bracknell we are moving forward through planning a major mixed use scheme which will comprise over 300,000 sq.
ft. of offices and residential.
06 06 06 Helical Bar Helical Bar Helical Bar plc plc plc Report Report Report & & & Accounts Accounts Accounts 2 2 20 0 00 0 07 7 7 Business Business Business Review Review Review Our Business and Market Our Business and Market Cowley, Oxford Industrial development In partnership with Chancerygate 2006 with Prudential on a 22,000 sq.
ft. property at we are building 140 units totalling over 580,000 sq.
ft. for Dukesbridge House in Reading.
The facility has since been onward sale to owner occupiers at two sites in Oxford and refurbished and commenced operations in April 2007. at Southampton, Southall West London and Stockport.
Poland Helical Poland continues to make good progress.
ft. of mainly industrial space but also trade counters, crche and a convenience store in Sosnica Retail Park, Gliwice, will comprise a 64,000 sq.
m. Hailsham with Quadrant Estates.
In recent years we have retail park anchored by a 12,000 sq.
m. Carrefour completed successful schemes in Slough with Chancergate hypermarket.
The site is at the intersection of the new A1 and in Cambridge, Edenbridge and Harlow in partnership and A4 motorways and will be completed to coincide with with Dencora.
These schemes often include sales of parcels the new junction in the second half of 2009. of land for hotels, car showrooms and self-storage and the At Wroclaw, a retail scheme for 10,000 sq.
m. is planned development of trade counter schemes.
adjacent to the existing Korona Retail Centre.
Pre-lets have Retirement villages As part of our planning business we already been agreed with Electroworld and Carpetright.
obtained retirement village consents and in the past sold off Work will start on site at the end of 2007 and terms have the sites for development.
At Cawston, Rugby we retained an been agreed to forward sell the completed scheme to an interest in the development as a consortium member and Irish investor.
following its success have elected to build out our recently A number of other retail schemes are under consideration.
Outsourcing Our outsourcing venture, The Asset Factor, has made good progress during the year evolving its positioning as an asset manager and property operator.
We have secured a 50% stake in an internal property management business in partnership with Nelson Bakewell.
Currently managing support services to a portfolio of over 30m sq.
ft. in over 600 locations: it is one of the top three managers of multi-tenanted buildings in the UK.
Our strategy is to invest in new management, improved systems and best practice processes to create and grow a premium branded, market leading property and facilities management business.
We have also launched a new corporate services office business as a joint venture with fast growing sector specialist Avanta.
Our first surplus space deal was signed in December 07 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Business Business Review Review Our Business and Market Our Business and Market
