The Board of Directors and Senior Management The Board of Helical Bar plc is collectively responsible for providing the entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a framework of controls and reporting structures which assist the Company in pursuing its strategic aims and business objectives.
The Board of Helical Bar plc comprises four executive directors and four non-executive directors.
Board of Directors and other officers Executive directors Managing Director Michael Slade, BSc Est Man FRICS FSVA, joined the Board as executive director in 1984 and was appointed Managing Director in 1986.
Finance Director Nigel McNair Scott, MA FCA FCT, joined the Board as non-executive director in 1985 and was subsequently appointed Finance Director in 1987.
A former director of Johnson Matthey plc and Govett Strategic Investment Trust plc he is Chairman of Avocet Mining Plc.
Development Director Gerald Kaye, BSc Est Man FRICS, was appointed to the Board as executive director in 1994 and is responsible for the Companys development activities.
He is a former director of London & Edinburgh Trust Plc.
Investment Director Michael Brown, BSc Est Man MRICS, was appointed to the Board as executive director in 1998 and is responsible for the Companys property investment activities.
He is a former director of Threadneedle Property Fund Managers.
Non-executive directors Chairman Giles Weaver, FCA, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 1993 and was appointed Chairman following the 2005 AGM.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Committees.
A recent Chairman of Murray Johnstone Ltd, he is Chairman of Kenmore European Industrial Fund Limited and AH Medical Properties PLC and a director of Aberdeen Asset Management plc, James Finlay Ltd and ISIS Property Trust 2 Ltd as well as being Chairman or a director of a number of investment companies.
Antony Beevor, BA, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 2000.
He is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
He is also a member of the Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Committees.
A former Head of Corporate Finance at Hambros Bank and Chairman of Croda International Plc, he is a Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel.
Wilf Weeks, OBE, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 2005.
He is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Committees.
Founder and Chairman of GJW Government Relations, he is now the Chairman of European Public Affairs at Weber Shandwick.
He was awarded an OBE in June 2006 for his services to the arts in London.
Man, FRICS, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 2006.
A former Deputy Senior Partner of Cushman & Wakefield Healey & Baker, he is a non-executive director of McKay Securities PLC, ISIS Property Trust 2 Ltd and various other companies.
Company Secretary Tim Murphy, ACA, was appointed Company Secretary in 1994.
Senior management Matthew Bonning-Snook joined the Company as a development executive in 1995.
Jack Pitman joined the Company as an investment executive in 2001.
John Inwood joined the Company as a management executive in 1995.
24 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance
