C4.1 Milton Keynes Managing Directors Statement State of the market Recent investment performance data Senior management A cornerstone on which Helical is built show that the commercial property market is levelling off.
is the alignment of shareholders interests with those of the The overall figures, however, mask a sharp contrast between senior management of the Company.
The Board of Directors Central London offices, which could produce double digit have always had a significant shareholding in Helical and at capital growth, and the other sectors which are now showing 31 March 2007 this shareholding, including other little capital appreciation.
Including the shares held by the Companys Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust ESOP Helicals current stance is to adopt a relatively defensive this shareholding is 24%.
The average term of office for our approach to our investment portfolio while we remain talented team is almost 17 years for our executive directors, committed to buy trading and development opportunities with the equivalent for management below Board level being where we are continuing to find attractive margins.
I take this opportunity to express my thanks to Unlocking shareholder value in competitive markets requires the home team and all our various joint venture partners for increasingly creative means.
Helical is constantly reinventing their contributions to these results.
itself and has established a very successful model of setting up joint ventures with talented specialist management teams.
This augments our core business helping to keep Helical at the forefront of the property market and continuing to outperform its peers.
Real Estate Investment Trusts REIT The REIT legislation was enacted in 2006 and, from 1 January 2007, qualifying listed property companies have been able to convert into REITs.
Companies in the new REIT asset class are required to maintain a far greater percentage of their business devoted to investments than we would wish.
We believe at this point in the current cycle, it is from development and trading, rather than investment, whence the majority of our future profits will flow.
Conversion to a REIT is not appropriate for Helical.
Our objective is to take advantage of the flexibility that we retain to generate sufficient profits net of tax to outperform the more tax efficient REITs.
Michael Slade Managing Director 03 Helical Bar plc Report & Accounts 2007 Business Review
