Board of Directors Wesley R Edens 46 Roger Carey 63 John Harris 60 Chairman Mr Carey is the senior independent NonMr Harris is a Non-Executive Director Mr Edens is Chairman of Mapeley and Executive Director of Mapeley.
He is the president of Lincoln founding principal, Chairman and Chief director of Slough Estates plc from 1983 Harris LLC, a full service corporate real Executive officer of Fortress Investment to 1996 and was chief executive of Saville estate services rm based in Charlotte, Group LLC NYSE: FIG, the first NYSE listed Gordon Estates plc from 1997, leading a North Carolina.
He was formerly president private equity and hedge fund manager.
The company, of the Bissell Companies, Inc, a major Mr Edens has primary investment oversight renamed Industrious, was subsequently commercial real estate and investment of Fortresss private equity and publicly sold to Brixton plc in 2005.
He began is currently the non-executive chairman his career at Lehman Brothers, where he of Ibis Project Services Ltd and Protego ran the mortgage trading area as a partner Industrial Ltd and a non-executive director and managing director.
He then joined of Bassett Trust Ltd, Safestore Holdings PLC BlackRock Financial Management to form and of residual Industrious companies.
He his first private equity fund, BlackRock is a past President of the British Property Asset Investors.
He spent a year at UBS as Federation.
managing director in the principal finance group, and stayed until 1998, when he Michael Fascitelli 51 and two principals founded Fortress.
Mr Fascitelli is a Non-Executive Director Mr Edens serves on numerous corporate of Mapeley.
He is President of Vornado boards, including Aircastle, Brookdale Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust Senior Living, GAGFAH, Eurocastle based in New York.
He also serves on the Investment, GateHouse Media, Mapeley board of Trustees of Vornado, Alexander's, and Newcastle Investment.
He also serves Inc. and GMH Communities Trust.
He was on the board of the U. S. Ski and Snowboard formerly a partner at Goldman Sachs&Co.
Charles Parkinson 54 Jameson Hopkins 39 Mr Parkinson is a Non-Executive Director Chief Executive officer of Mapeley.
He practised as an accountant Mr Hopkins is the Chief Executive officer in Guernsey between 1981 and 2004, when of Mapeley and has been involved with he retired as chairman of PKF Guernsey the Group since its formation in 1999.
He is now a Deputy in the States He is responsible for all areas of business, of Guernsey, and is a resident of Guernsey.
including day to day operations, future Mr Parkinson is chairman of the M&G growth opportunities and long-term strategy.
Income Investment Company Limited and He joined Mapeley from Delancey Estates, of the Eastern European Property Fund where he was the acquisitions director.
Limited and a non-executive director of Prior to that he was a director of Savills.
Dexion Equity Alternative Limited and He is a chartered surveyor.
Teesland Advantage Property Income Trust Limited.
He is a chartered accountant and is a qualied barrister.
