How we do it Freehold assets Leasehold assets Construction and t-out We acquire freehold assets either We operate leasehold assets occupied We use a framework of contractors as part of bundled outsourcing by our clients on a principal basis.
and suppliers to carry out the contracts or directly in the Rents payable to third-party construction and t-out services investment market.
We are focused landlords represent a cost to Mapeley hence benefiting from further on acquiring good quality assets which we strive to keep as low economies of scale.
These services let to strong credit tenants.
Our specialist team are provided for a small margin a proprietary database of over carried out 258 rent reviews and to our outsourcing tenants.
We 10,000 assets, with approximately lease renewals in 2007 on the also leverage our capabilities and 5.
Customer services 4,500 potential targets, which enables leasehold estate.
We aim to keep in-house expertise in this area meeting customers needs us to make direct approaches our rental payments lower than by providing services to tenants to landlords to acquire these assets.
the contractual annually indexing in our DPI Portfolio and new Our reputation as being one of income we receive from our clients third-party tenants at market prices.
only a few providers of real estate to generate profits.
outsourcing solutions, enables us to gain insight into new outsourcing Facilities management services deals ahead of our competitors.
We currently use one facilities management provider to deliver facilities management services to our outsourcing clients, HMRC and IPS.
By using one provider we benefit from pricing advantages through scale.
We aim to keep these costs as low as possible to generate a profitable spread between the income we receive from our clients and what we pay to the facilities management partner.
Acquire new assets growing Mapeleys platform Portfolio Freehold Leasehold FM Service Construction and Property Property Fit-out HMRC Abbey Identity and Passport Service Direct Property Investment Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 03 Its about know-how... Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 04 Market capability We are present in every major town and city in the UK and own or operate a diverse estate of some 1,689 assets.
We carried out 339 rent reviews and lease renewals in 2007 as both landlord and tenant.
The operational aspects of our business provide us with unrivalled, in-depth specialist local market knowledge which enables us to drive superior returns through our regional operating platform.
From nding creative solutions to a clients catering requirements, to using rent review information to make an off-market acquisition approach to a Run to run property third-party landlord, our diversely skilled Our diversely skilled team team work tirelessly to leverage our work tirelessly to nd operating capability to nd solutions for solutions for our clients.
our clients, mitigate risks and drive returns.
We are run to run property.
Customer relationships Understanding our clients needs is at the core of what we do.
Our acquisition & strategy of occupier inertia our belief that chosen clients will remain in occupation of their buildings requires strong day to day relationships.
93% of our income is generated from... its about relationships UK Government and investment grade corporate clients.
We focus on these high quality clients as we perceive them to have significant and complex real estate requirements which we can service, creating value for both parties.
We employ a partnership approach to secure and build strong and trusting relationships with our clients.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 05 Its about balance... Asset management Balanced business Owning and operating a diverse estate We are different to a lot of property of some 1,689 assets creates numerous companies.
As well as acting as landlord, opportunities for generating value.
We we also act as tenant through our leasehold refer to this as optionality.
This gives us a competitive of assets which become vacant to securing advantage as we see both sides of the upfront cash payments for extending leases property market.
Our target markets are with third-party landlords, we deploy the UK regions which tend to be more pro-active asset management strategies stable compared to London.
Our portfolio to generate recurring revenue streams, often is balanced and defensive.
We generate working with our clients and sharing in 93% of our income from UK government the profits created.
We have a controlled and investment grade tenants, we have pipeline of asset management opportunities a 10 year average lease length and one an excellent source of organic growth.
of the lowest vacancy rates in the sector at 3.5%.
& Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 06... its about performance Working with our clients We deploy pro-active asset management strategies to generate recurring revenue streams.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 07 Because of our truly portfolio, unique kno of our markets, strong with tenants and our platform and capabil well placed to deliver shareholder returns.
Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 08 nationwide wledge relationships operating ity, we are sustainable Mapeley Limited Annual Report 2007 09
