Own and manage a diverse portfolio of properties 3.
Lifecycle works investing in and protecting the value 2. of our estate Facilities management services running buildings smoothly 4.
Projects changing the working environment of our clients 1.
Acquire new assets a diverse portfolio services running investing in and protecting working environment of meeting customers needs growing Mapeleys platform of properties buildings smoothly the value of our estate our clients We operate a 24 hour client Be it through winning new We own freehold assets We provide a full range Lifecycle refers to the fabric From refurbishment works help desk for our outsourcing outsourcing contracts or and we also manage of  of the building and lifecycle to modernise space, to clients and receive over acquiring assets on a direct leaseholds occupied services to tenants in our works range from boiler feasibility studies to increase 9,000 calls per month in basis in the investment by our tenants.
portfolio ranging from replacements to roong space capacity and provide relation to the provision market, we aim to increase catering and cleaning and cladding works.
sustainable property of facilities management our scale and coverage.
Freehold properties exist to childcare and security solutions, we adapt and and projects services.
in both our Outsourcing services.
Lifecycle works are carried t-out our tenants space Our regional operating and Direct Property out to maintain and where in response to their changing Our clients benefit from platform which gives us Investment Portfolios.
We do not self-deliver these possible to enhance the value occupational needs.
a quality assured service a presence in every major With our leasehold assets, services, they are provided of our assets by ensuring answered by specialist call town and city in the UK is our clients occupy the by our facilities management they are t for their Most of the project works handlers who are accustomed easily leveraged to support assets as tenant but we partners.
We are required we perform are as a result to dealing with our diverse growth by acquisition carry out all interaction outsourcing clients estates to carry out planned of our obligations to HMRC estate and familiar with of new assets freehold with third-party landlords gives us valuable insight maintenance, reactive under the outsourcing our clients building-related or leasehold, to generate on their behalf and also into their occupational maintenance and lifecycle contract, however we also issues.
carry principal risk on strategies and enables us replacement to the provide project services to customer service we aim the financial impacts of to mitigate vacancy risk.
HMRC estate under our new tenants taking space to build and maintain strong the lease.
in our estate and to our relationships with our clients existing tenants in the to secure their long-term DPI Portfolio.
