QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 58 SUSTAINABILITY INTRODUCTION ACHIEVEMENTS AND AMBITIONS This year, we have chosen to report on sustainability rather We now describe some examples of our efforts to date and than corporate social responsibility.
Quintain is not alone in highlight some key aspirations for the year ahead under the believing that significant changes need to be made to the way 10 headings of the BioRegional WWF One Planet Living Principles.
we live and work to ensure that we can maintain our society These are: and environment.
We believe that continuously working to carbon: higher standards is how we can best deliver value to shareholders and stakeholders alike.
waste: Increasingly, companies must go beyond merely meeting transport and access: minimum legal requirements to consider the wider impacts materials and supply chain: of their businesses.
Although this inevitably poses great challenges, we are sure that it is the right thing to do.
Our food: track record in devising creative, forward looking solutions water: should position the Group well to meet rising expectations across the range of issues which face us all.
physical well-being and environment: Delivering lasting improvements in our working practices health, heritage and culture: and use of resources will not only benefit society and the lifestyles: and environment, but Quintain itself.
To achieve our aims, we need to develop relevant and achievable aspirations whilst practices and people.
at the same time retaining a clear focus on shareholder return.
For we know that unless our efforts are economically CARBON and nancially sound, we will not be able to make a positive Tackling climate change is both the most high prole and the environmental and social contribution.
most important aspect of sustainability.
Recent months have seen much policy development, including the Lord Mayors STRATEGY FOR SUSTAINABILITY Climate Change Action Plan, the Chancellors announcement In the year ahead, we will develop a business wide of eco-towns containing up to 100,000 low carbon or carbon sustainability strategy.
To help us, we have appointed neutral homes, and the Energy White Paper.
Brook Lyndhurst, a specialist sustainability consultancy, The focus on energy is appropriate, and for Quintain this means to review and analyse our existing working methods and attention to both energy production and energy conservation.
to advise on how we can embed sustainability throughout In 2006, we changed suppliers so that 100% of our energy our business operations.
for our head ofce now comes from renewable sources.
We The strategy will provide the framework within which we will intend to develop a Carbon Reduction Strategy that will look measure and report on our existing activities.
It will guide us comprehensively at all areas of our work and offer practicable in identifying innovative ways of becoming more sustainable solutions on how carbon emissions can be reduced, including and, where appropriate, incorporating these new ideas into the widespread use of natural ventilation solutions, the use our business model.
Future reporting on the strategy will of low-energy lighting systems and so on.
It will include a include both our successes and also those actions from detailed feasibility study to identify how we can best measure which we and others need to learn for the future.
the carbon footprint of our operations and how our tenants and partners can best make their own contribution to our The strategy will draw inspiration from the BioRegional WWF programme.
We believe that we can use our developing One Planet Living Principles which we have much admired.
knowledge of sustainability, and our contacts within this eld, Of course these are extremely ambitious, representing an to help others become more aware of their carbon impact.
aspiration for the future rather than what is attainable Our large developments at both Wembley and Greenwich, immediately, but we will use them as a stimulus for further for example, will have dedicated energy solutions, which improvement.
Auditable and robust accounts of our performance will engage both tenants and occupiers.
will require the development of appropriate monitoring and measurement systems.
Feasibility studies to test the most Some of our most dramatic endeavours to tackle carbon effective and appropriate techniques and, crucially, ones reduction are coming through our joint venture BioRegional which suit Quintains business circumstances will be Quintain: through this we have committed to 120 zero carbon carried out this year and the results incorporated into housing units in the first phase of Middlehaven, Middlesbrough, our Sustainability Strategy.
and to the development of 200 zero carbon units in the Mayor of Londons exemplar scheme at Gallions Park, London, in partnership with Crest Nicholson.
indd 14 25 07 2007 11:41:07 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 59 WASTE MATERIALS AND SUPPLY CHAIN Waste and its minimisation has become an increasingly Quintain is a signatory at level B1 of the Mayors Green central issue to Quintain.
At our head ofce, we are already Procurement Code.
The Code encourages businesses in recycling cardboard, paper and cans and plan to increase this London to purchase goods made from recycled materials, over the next year and to explore the potential to expand the to stimulate demand for recycled materials and thus help range of materials collected for recycling.
We actively support London become more sustainable.
eTree, a programme promoting shareholder communication We will work towards minimising or eventually eliminating through electronic means rather than by paper.
the use of materials harmful to the environment.
We remain We are endeavouring to improve waste management across nancially committed to the research and development our Special Projects portfolio.
For example, we have recently of Serrastone technology, a cement-free low carbon building announced that we will use the Envac system at Wembley.
block with the appearance of stone.
Envac is an underground network for waste transportation, Supply chain management does, of course, require close working collection and treatment.
The installation of this system means relationships with others and we shall be considering how best reducing road transportation of waste, improved hygiene and to achieve and measure an evermore sustainable procurement enhanced occupational health and safety standards.
Already, our partnership in the BioRegional Quintain suggest that the scheme would also reduce the carbon dioxide joint venture is providing leading-edge learning opportunities: emissions associated with waste management on the site.
our developments through this vehicle will use natural materials BioRegional Quintain plans to introduce recycling and communal throughout the construction process and will use Scandinavian composting in all its developments and provide segregated bins style fresh air recirculation systems to deliver high levels of and estate wide facilities management.
indoor air quality in the home.
TRANSPORT AND ACCESS FOOD In a society where mobility and access are paramount, Quintain Although perhaps not normally receiving attention in the strives to make the case for sustainable transport and access.
Corporate Social Responsibility pages of annual reports in We have a cycle-to-work scheme at our head ofce and provide the UKs property sector, food is an integral part of everyday bicycle racks and shower facilities.
We will continue to extend life, its impacts are significant and, in our view, a high quality, our use of video conferencing and teleconferencing in an attempt well-designed built environment needs to consider it.
to cut unnecessary travel and therefore carbon emissions.
Quintain will strive to extend its use of Fairtrade products Our Wembley, Greenwich Peninsula and BioRegional Quintain and include more seasonal, locally sourced and organic food.
developments will include car clubs managed by third party BioRegional Quintain will enable residents to source local providers to reduce the need for car ownership across our and organic food through twinning developments with local developments.
The BioRegional Quintain development at farms and food providers and where possible to grow their Brighton, for example, is proposed to be essentially car free, own on serviced allotments.
well served by public transport and with only 12 parking spaces provided, eight of which are for disabled use and four allocated WATER for a car club.
Climate change must be at the heart of the revised National In our schemes in urban areas, such as those at Wembley and Water Strategy for the UK due later this year.
At Quintains head Greenwich, we are able not only to integrate public transport ofce, we strive to promote water efficiency and conservation.
with the travel plans for the developments, but have put the We also strive to promote water efficiency throughout our public transport solutions in these cases, both tube and operations.
For example, at Wembley a number of specic buses centre stage in the design and layout of the schemes.
measures will be used to help reduce water consumption.
In other locations, particularly those in greeneld sites, we These include the specication of low water consumption will explore innovative solutions to minimise the carbon white goods, WCs, basins and showers.
In addition, a central emissions associated with access.
rainwater harvesting system will serve communal gardens.
We are also, of course, mindful of our obligations under the At their Brighton development, BioRegional Quintain have Disability Discrimination Act 2006.
Our accessibility strategy committed to reducing water consumption through the for Wembley will be based on a full open dialogue with the specication of efficient ttings and appliances and through Brent Access Forum: all residential dwellings, for example, harvesting rainwater.
will comply with Lifetime Homes requirements and a significant proportion are capable of being easily adapted for full wheelchair access.
