QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 62 REPORT FROM THE PRINCIPAL EXTERNAL VALUERS JONES LANG LASALLE LIMITED In accordance with your instructions we have valued the Having regard to the foregoing, we are of the opinion that the freehold and leasehold investment properties, as set out in aggregate of the market values of the freehold and leasehold the attached schedule as at 31 March 2007 for the purposes properties, as at 31 March 2007, subject to and with the benefit of your annual accounts.
of the tenancies then subsisting where applicable, was 296,245,000 two hundred and ninety six million two Our valuations have been made in accordance with the Practice hundred and forty five thousand pounds.
Statements in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards 5th Edition, on the basis of market value, the full denition Categorised as follows: of which accompanies the General Principles attached Freehold and feuhold 176,405,000 hereto, to which we would draw your attention.
Long leasehold 94,540,000 We have inspected the top 30 properties by value, a third of the Short leasehold 9,500,000 remainder and all properties acquired over the last 12 months.
Part freehold and part leasehold 15,800,000 For each property we have made relevant local enquiries and In addition to the above we understand that as at the date obtained such other information as we considered necessary of our valuation contracts for sale had been exchanged for to provide you with our opinions of value.
the disposal of six properties at an aggregate contract price No allowance has been made in our valuations for expenses of 41,725,000.
These properties are not included in the of realisation or for any taxation which might arise in the event aggregate valuation above.
of a disposal and our valuations are expressed as exclusive In accordance with our normal practice, we confirm that this of any Value Added Tax that may become chargeable.
Report is condential to the Company Directors for the specic Our valuations assume that there is good and marketable title purpose to which it refers.
No responsibility is accepted to any to the properties and that they are free of any undisclosed burdens, third party, and neither the whole of the Report, nor any part, outgoings, restrictions or charges.
We have not read all documents nor reference thereto, may be published in any document, of title nor leases and, for the purpose of our valuations, have statement or circular, nor in any communication with third accepted the details of tenure, tenancies and all other relevant parties without our prior written approval of the form and information with which we have been supplied by your Company context in which it will appear.
We have not seen or read the In accordance with the RICS requirements on disclosure we planning consents and have assumed that the buildings have confirm that: been erected and are being occupied and used in accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no outstanding the annual fee income from the valuation is less than 5% statutory notices.
of our turnover: and We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the Jones Lang LaSalle have been appointed as one of the properties, nor to test any of the services, but have reected external valuers since the formation of the Company, in our valuations, where necessary, any defects, items of during which time the signatory has been rotated.
disrepair or the benefit of any improvements which we noticed Finally, we confirm that the above valuation has been carried during the course of our inspections, or of which you have out by us as External Valuers, qualied for the purposes of the subsequently advised us.
Our valuations assume that the valuation in accordance with the requirements of the Practice buildings contain no deleterious materials, and that the sites Statements in the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
are unaffected by adverse soil conditions or environmental contamination, except where we have been notied to the Yours faithfully contrary.
Should it, however, be established subsequently that contamination exists at any property or on any neighbouring land or that the premises have been or are being put to a JR HANDLEY MRICS contaminative use, this might reduce the values now reported.
DIRECTOR Unless expressly advised to the contrary we assume that appropriate insurance cover is and will be available on For and on behalf of commercially acceptable terms relating to composite panels, JONES LANG LASALLE LIMITED terrorism and ooding.
Accordingly, our opinions of value make 8 May 2007 no allowance for the risk that insurance cover for any property may not be available, or may only be available on onerous terms, or for any adverse market reaction to the presence of composite panels.
All our valuations are net of Stamp Duty Land Tax and normal purchasers costs.
We have not made any allowance for properties that are jointly owned and have therefore reected the full open market value of these properties in our certicate.
Adjustments should be made elsewhere in your accounts for any partial interests.
indd 18 25 07 2007 11:41:08 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 63 REPORT FROM THE PRINCIPAL EXTERNAL VALUERS SAVILLS COMMERCIAL LIMITED AND CHRISTIE CO LANDHOLDINGS AT GREENWICH PENINSULA, QUERCUS HEALTHCARE PROPERTY PARTNERSHIP QUERCUS, SILVERTOWN AND WEMBLEY TRI CARE ASSETS AND PROGRESS HOUSING ASSETS We confirm that we have inspected the above properties and made We confirm that we have inspected a sample of the above all relevant enquiries in order to provide you with our opinion portfolio of 230 properties and made all relevant enquiries of market value as at 31 March 2007 of the various property in order to provide you with our opinion of market value as interests which Quintain Estates and Development PLC hold.
We confirm that our valuations have been carried out in accordance We confirm that our valuations have been carried out in with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Appraisal and accordance with the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Valuation Manual and that we have carried out the valuation Appraisal and Valuation Standards and that we have carried as External Valuers, qualied for the purpose of the valuation out the valuation as External Valuers, qualied for the purpose in accordance with that Manual.
of the valuation in accordance with those standards.
Our valuations have been made on the basis of the denition, The valuations are based on inspections of 16 properties during terms of reference, information sources, assumptions and March 2007 within Quercus together with desk top reviews of the conditions as noted in our formal Valuation Certicate dated all other properties.
For these desk top reviews we have relied 21 May 2007.
In particular, no allowance has been made in upon information provided together with our general knowledge our valuations for any expenses of realisation or any taxation of the industry and properties.
The inspected properties were liability arising from a sale of any property and all gures are selected by Christie Co in conjunction with Quercus and expressed exclusive of Value Added Tax.
considered to be representative in terms of geography, size, type of care provided and tenant company.
Based on our overall Our valuations are on the basis that each property has a good knowledge of the portfolio and the previous inspections of and marketable title and is free from any undisclosed burdens, 153 properties we carried out between December 2004 outgoings, restrictions or charges.
We have, for the purpose and December 2006, we consider the sample to be fully of our valuations, been provided with plans and particulars representative, equating to around 67% of the portfolio.
as to tenure and the terms of leases as have been contained The Tri Care and Progress assets were inspected in March 2004. within various documents supplied to us by the Company or For the avoidance of doubt, three assets Clark Hospital, Hull its professional advisers.
and East Riding Hospital and Fylde Coast Hospital have been Having carefully considered this matter, we have reported our valued by Messrs DTZ Tie Leung and we have relied upon their opinion of market value as at 31 March 2007 of the freehold and valuation in arriving at our own opinion of value of the portfolio.
other interests held, subject to and with the benefit of the existing Our valuations have been made on the basis of the denition, leases and otherwise with vacant possession, at an aggregate terms of reference, information sources, assumptions of 774,150,000 seven hundred and seventy four million one and conditions as noted in our formal valuation report dated hundred and fty thousand pounds.
All of the properties are 31 March 2007, we draw attention to the fact that the valuations held for redevelopment.
exclude any liability that arises or could arise in respect of The above total includes a 100% share of the interest at Silvertown VAT, taxation and the costs of acquisition or realisation.
The gure reecting the terms of a Joint Venture We have not been provided with title deeds or reports on title Agreement with the London Development Agency at that property in respect of the properties and have therefore assumed that is 17,500,000 with the aggregate reducing to 766,650,000 all properties are free from any unusual or onerous restrictions, seven hundred and sixty six million six hundred and fty encumbrances, easements or outgoings, that good title can be thousand pounds.
shown and that all covenants including leasehold covenants, Our Valuation Certificate comments on the high degree of restrictions and stipulations affecting the properties have been subjectivity in this instance for all of the properties and various complied with.
In particular, our valuation We are of the opinion that if the portfolio was sold in a single of Wembley includes the value of an option to acquire the transaction in the market at the present time, a premium would freehold and long leasehold interests in land notwithstanding be achieved for the reasons set out in full in our report.
In our that the option is non-assignable.
As discussed with the Company opinion the value of the portfolio if sold in a single transaction and its auditors, our valuation disregards this restriction.
as at 31 March 2007 is in the order of 763,000,000 seven hundred This letter is a short form confirmation of our valuation for and sixty three million pounds.
inclusion in the Companys Report and Accounts.
No reliance This letter is a short form conrmation of our valuation for should be placed upon it without simultaneous reference to inclusion in the Company Reports and Accounts.
No reliance our formal Valuation Certicate, copies of which have been should be placed upon it without simultaneous reference provided to you and which are available for inspection at to our formal valuation report, copies of which have been your ofces by interested parties.
Yours faithfully Yours faithfully STEPHEN R REASBECK MRICS MARTIN ROBB BSC MRICS DIRECTOR DIRECTOR For and on behalf of For and on behalf of SAVILLS COMMERCIAL LIMITED CHRISTIE CO 21 May 2007 31 May 2007 4 QED ar07 middle.
indd 19 25 07 2007 11:41:08 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 64 PROPERTY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME AS AT 31 MARCH 2007 Property address Property description Category Tenure Number of tenants Principal tenants Valuation range 50,000,000 Greenwich Peninsula, Greenwich, London SE10 A 194 acre mixed-use development site optioned to Meridian Delta Limited Mixed-use Freehold a joint venture comprising Quintain Estates and Development PLC and Lend Lease Europe Limited.
Planning consent was achieved during 2004.
Development comprises 3.5m sq ft of employment and ofce space, 10,000 new homes and 360,000 sq ft of retail.
Quintain owns the freehold to 18.5 acres.
The first residential land sale is proceeding following planning consent.
A planning application for the first plot of the ofce development is shortly to be submitted.
The Peninsula Quays joint venture in the North West with Lend Lease has now been formalised and the first plot is in development.
Other plots are at advanced stages of design.
Wembley Complex, Wembley, Middlesex 42 acres of land surrounding, but not including, the new National Stadium Mixed-use Freehold at Wembley, for which planning consent was granted in December 2004.
The development comprises a 6.2m sq ft mixed-use scheme, and work has completed on The Square of Fame and the refurbishment of Wembley Arena.
The first residential building is in the course of construction with all the units being sold.
Planning has now been received for the next two residential plots.
On another plot, Heads of Terms have been agreed with Hilton International for a 402 bed international 4-star hotel and with iQ, the student accomodation fund owned 50:50 between The Wellcome Trust and Quintain, for a 656 room student hall of residence.
Planning permission was submitted in June 2007, with completion programmed during 2010.
A further eight acres has been acquired in joint venture with the London Development Agency LDA which has outline planning permission for 730,000 sq ft of mixed-use accommodation.
During the year, the Group acquired the Plaza Hotel, situated on land which forms part of the existing development area.
The Hotel has 306 rooms and is managed and operated by Hilton.
Valuation range 25,000,00050,000,000 Palace of Industry, Wembley, Middlesex A 13 acre site for which a planning application is being prepared.
Delisted in Mixed-use Freehold 3 Reality Group Limited February 2004, the site forms part of the wider masterplanning framework designation approved by the London Borough of Brent in March 2004.
Emersons Green, Bristol, Avon 65 acres within a larger 275 acre development site.
Current planning Mixed-use Freehold application for 2,650 dwellings, 40 acres of employment land and 50,000 sq ft of retail.
Valuation range 10,000,00025,000,000 Docklands Depot, Silvertown, London E16 A 12.6 acre site used primarily as a distribution depot with 12 buildings comprising Mixed-use Freehold 2 Edwin Asiley Group Limited warehouses, workshops, a four storey ofce building, loading docks, social club, outbuildings and surplus land.
The buildings total 333,742 sq ft. Extensive areas of hard standing for lorry and car parking.
The site is owned jointly with the LDA and our interest is 66.7%.
Opportunities to expand the site are being explored.
Valuation range 5,000,00010,000,000 Phase 3, Arrow Valley, 54 Claybrook Drive, 140,000 sq ft distribution unit currently under construction and shortly to be marketed.
Industrial Freehold Redditch, West Midlands Dorset House, London Road, Headington, Oxford A 1.5 acre site comprising four former residential properties which have been Student accommodation Freehold adapted for education use C2.
Planning application in preparation for student accommodation.
Valuation range 2,000,0005,000,000 Flemingate, Beverley, East Ridings, Yorkshire The property is part of a larger development site of 16 acres which is subject to an Mixed-use Freehold 3 The First Secretary for State for Communities equalisation agreement giving Quintain and Wykeland in joint venture a share of and Local Government 38.11% of the value.
A planning application has been submitted for a mixed-use Venridge Limited scheme comprising 92,000 sq ft of shops with 40% mezzanine oor: 15,000 sq ft of restaurants: 40,000 sq ft of ofces: an 80 bed hotel: a conference facility: a cinema: the relocation of the Beverley Campus of East Riding College: provision of community and club facilities and 161 carbon friendly homes.
indd 20 25 07 2007 11:41:09 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 65 Property address Property description Category Tenure Number of tenants Principal tenants Valuation range 50,000,000 Greenwich Peninsula, Greenwich, London SE10 A 194 acre mixed-use development site optioned to Meridian Delta Limited Mixed-use Freehold a joint venture comprising Quintain Estates and Development PLC and Lend Lease Europe Limited.
