QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 60 SUSTAINABILITY CONTINUED PHYSICAL WELL-BEING AND ENVIRONMENT LIFESTYLES We remain strongly committed to ensuring that the safety Quintain believes that the well-being of its staff is critical of all our staff and external contractors is taken seriously.
to the success of the Company.
Conscious that our staff have We are pleased to report again in our Annual Report that there family commitments, we provide a childcare voucher scheme have been no RIDDOR reportable incidents within the year.
that is administered by Busy Bees, childcare specialists.
All staff are made aware of the Company Health and Safety For staff keen to keep t and healthy, we have established Policy and display screen equipment assessments are a gym membership scheme, in alliance with Holmes Place.
conducted on an annual basis.
Quintain endeavours to promote a good work life balance at Wembley, Greenwich Peninsula and our other projects.
Quintain also believes that having space to relax and socialise is important: as our provision of The Square of Fame at Wembley In the year ahead, our Sustainability Strategy will carefully consider illustrates.
BioRegional Quintain developments will host significant the question of lifestyles: as custodians of the built environment, sections of green space for local communities to enjoy and wildlife Quintain is in a powerful position to enable and encourage both to ourish.
Provision of public green space and green roofs are individuals and businesses to adopt more sustainable lifestyles.
integrated in the building design of developments in our Special But we are well aware that tenants, occupiers, investors and Projects portfolio.
Importantly, Greenwich Peninsula has been others are still, rightly, concerned with quality, performance dedicated as a Low Emission Zone, which will ensure that levels and value for money.
The challenge going forward is to produce of air pollution are minimised and that high standards of air integrated solutions that work at all levels.
PRACTICES AND PEOPLE HEALTH, HERITAGE AND CULTURE Quintain is included in the FTSE4Good Index, evidence of our The health of our staff is of great concern to us.
We operate a corporate responsibility commitments.
Ensuring our staff are stress management policy to help staff recognise and manage both well-informed and thoroughly engaged with our journey will stressful situations and there is an occupational health doctor be essential.
Staff will also be encouraged to provide feedback based at Wembley, available to all staff.
In addition, information on new initiatives and also make suggestions.
As sustainability on the symptoms of stress and how to manage it is contained becomes a growing area of work for Quintain, we will appoint in the Company handbook and staff are encouraged to join a Sustainability officer who will be chiey responsible for the Companys private health insurance scheme.
implementing new sustainable methods of working, monitoring the process of change and maintaining an Quintain is committed to cultivating an environment at head awareness of sustainability in new developments.
ofce in which all staff feel empowered to make suggestions and provide feedback on the Company, its performance and More broadly, we are keen to ensure that all our stakeholders working conditions.
We take the views of our staff expressed existing and potential clients, collaborators, investors and in the annual staff survey seriously and endeavour to address others understand our objectives, are aware of our achievements any concerns that arise.
We also value the feedback gleaned and are able to learn from our experience.
We will report fully from community consultations on our Special Projects on progress against our targets.
Our desire to be honest and open developments, which ensures that we are aware of the local works in tandem with our existing accountability measures, communities needs.
Our Sustainability Strategy will aim in particular the open disclosure and fair and ethical treatment to formalise our approach and will explore how it can policy.
It is important that protection should be afforded be extended across our operations.
to individuals who are willing to voice concerns about illegal or improper working processes.
Quintain believes there are many benets to having a diverse workforce and we remain committed to ensuring that this continues to be reected in our recruitment.
indd 16 25 07 2007 11:41:08 QUINTAIN ESTATES AND DEVELOPMENT PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 61 MOVING FORWARD We do not yet have robust and veriable quantitative measures Many of our endeavours in pursuit of sustainability over the on which to report.
We have eschewed the temptation to produce past year have been behind the scenes.
More visible was the selective indicators.
We intend to put sustainability at the heart Building for a Low Carbon World conference which we hosted of what we do and to do so in a co-ordinated, rational, at the Royal Geographical Society in April 2007.
The conference business minded fashion.
This means treating sustainability brought together leaders from across the built environment as a serious strategic issue and ensuring that the tools we use, industry to debate collectively what we could do, together, the things we measure and the actions we take are carefully to reduce our large carbon footprint.
With the industry thought through, not merely bolted on.
In addition, as we have responsible, either directly or indirectly, for around 50% emphasised, they must be compatible with Quintains business of the total UK greenhouse gas emissions, it is imperative circumstances and our focus on shareholder returns.
that we challenge the business as usual model and commit We shall report more fully next year.
We are excited about the to embed sustainability within our operations.
opportunities presented by sustainability and we look forward As well as signalling our commitment to playing our part to working with friends, competitors, colleagues and collaborators in tackling climate change and delivering on sustainability, as we learn how best simultaneously to live within environmental the conference enabled us to gauge the degree of support limits, to deliver a fair and just society and to achieve economic for our future plans.
The degree of enthusiasm shown by more well-being.
than 500 delegates more than 90% of delegates committed METHODOLOGICAL NOTE to measuring their corporate carbon footprints within the next This Sustainability Report was based on work by Brook Lyndhurst, an independent 12 months reinforced our confidence in embarking on such an research and consultancy practice specialising in sustainability.
Brook Lyndhurst ambitious programme in the year ahead.
As well as developing undertook a thorough review of our documentation and procedures, across all our own Sustainability Strategy, we shall be establishing our operations, and conducted a series of in-depth discussions with Directors, a charitable research foundation to explore the broader senior managers and other members of staff.
challenges of the sustainability agenda.
We also intend repeating Brook Lyndhurst has not formally audited the information presented in this the conference next year, providing an opportunity to report Sustainability Report.
Brook Lyndhurst is, however able formally to assure on progress, highlight successes and learn from mistakes.
that the issues covered are a fair reection of Quintains operations and business practices.
Brook Lyndhurst can further confirm that it has had free and open access Details of the conference, and of the follow-up work, are to all documents and all individuals requested during the course of its review.
In this Sustainability Report, we have made a good start by indicating the kinds of actions and activities already underway, on environmental issues such as waste and energy and on social issues such as health and lifestyles.
We have also given an indication of the ambitions we have for the year ahead, notably our intention to produce a Sustainability Strategy, which includes a range of feasibility assessments and a Carbon Reduction Strategy.
