66 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Board of Directors Board of Directors 1.
Peter Smith, Chairman of Savills plc, and Chairman of the Nomination Committee 7.
Timothy Ingram, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Aged 61, was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 24 May 2004 and was elected Chairman Aged 60, was appointed to the Board on 27 June 2002.
He is Chief Executive of Caledonia Investments plc and with effect from 1 November 2004.
His other non-executive appointments are: N M Rothschild & Sons Limited a Non-Executive Director of The Sage Group plc, ANZ Bank Europe Limited and Alok Industries Limited.
He was and The Equitable Life Assurance Society.
He became a Non-Executive Director of Associated British Foods plc formerly Chief Executive of First National Finance Corporation, a main Board Director of Abbey National plc and on 28 February 2007 and in December 2007 he became Chairman of Templeton Emerging Markets Investment a Non-Executive Director of Hogg Robinson plc.
Trust PLC where he had previously been a Non-Executive Director.
He is a Member of the Board of the CBI.
Robert McKellar, Chief Executive Asia Pacific Formerly Peter was Senior Partner of  LLP PwC and served for two years as Chairman Aged 48, was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Director on 1 June 2000 having served as Finance of Coopers & Lybrand International and as a member of the global leadership team of PwC.
He served as Chairman Director of Savills Commercial Limited since December 1994.
He was appointed Chief Executive Asia Pacific of RAC Plc and was a Non-Executive Director of Safeway plc.
Aubrey Adams, Group Chief Executive 9.
Charles McVeigh, Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Aged 58, was appointed to the Board on 12 February 1990 and appointed as Managing Director on 19 December Aged 65, was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2000.
He is currently Chairman 1990 and Group Chief Executive on 1 June 2000.
He holds Non-Executive Directorships with Pinnacle Regeneration of Citigroups Corporate and Investment Banking Global Wealth Management Partnership, having until recently Group plc and Unitech Corporate Parks plc.
He is also a Trustee of The Wigmore Hall.
With effect from 1 April 2008, been Co-Chairman of Citigroups European Investment Bank formerly known as Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.
he will also be Non-Executive Chairman of Air Partner PLC.
He also serves on the Board of EFG-Hermes and is a member of both the Development Board and Advisory Council 3.
Mark Dearsley, Group Finance Director of the Princes Trust.
Formerly he has served on the Boards of Witan Investment Company plc, Clearstream, the Aged 46, was appointed to the Board on 3 September 2007 as Group Finance Director.
He is also the Executive London Stock Exchange, LIFFE and British American Business Inc: he was also appointed by the Bank of England Director responsible for Cordea Savills.
Prior to joining Savills he was Finance Director of Aviva Europe & International, to serve on the City Capital Markets Committee and the Legal Risk Review Committee.
He was also a member of a division of Aviva plc.
Martin Angle, Independent Non-Executive Director 10.
Rupert Sebag-Montefiore, Director Aged 57, was appointed to the Board on 2 January 2007.
He is a Non-Executive Director of OAO Severstal, Dubai Aged 54, joined Savills in 1980 and was appointed to the Board on 31 May 1995.
On 26 October 2004, he became International Capital LLC, Celerant Consulting Chairman, and the National Exhibition Centre Chairman.
Formerly, he Chairman of Savills L&P Limited, having served as its Managing Director since May 2000.
He is the Executive Director has served on the Board of TI Group plc, where he was Group Finance Director, and held various executive roles with responsible for the UK residential and general practice surveying business.
In January 2001, he was appointed to the Terra Firma Capital Partners and its portfolio companies, including The Waste Recycling Group Executive Chairman Board of Fastcrop plc the holding company of Primelocation.
com, an internet property aggregator site and was and Le Meridien Hotel Group Deputy Chairman.
appointed Chairman of that company on 3 November 2004.
He served as a Non-Executive Director of Adventis Group plc during its AIM flotation and is a Governor of Bournemouth University.
Jeremy Helsby, Director Aged 52, joined Savills in 1980 and was appointed to the Board in 1999.
He is the Executive Director responsible for 11.
Fields Wicker-Miurin OBE, Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee the UK and European Commercial business.
He became Chairman of Savills Commercial Limited on 1 January 2001, Aged 49, was appointed to the Board on 27 June 2002.
She is co-founder and partner of Leaders Quest and chairs is Chairman of Savills Europe and a Director of Savills Asia Pacific Limited.
On 18 October 2007, it was announced its Advisory Board.
She is a Non-Executive Director of the CDC Group and on the Board of the UKs Department for that he will be appointed as the new Group Chief Executive Officer of Savills plc when Aubrey Adams retires.
Business Enterprise and Regulatory Reform.
She is also a governor of Kings College London where she chairs the He is progressively taking over day-to-day responsibility for operations and will be formally appointed with effect audit committee.
Previously she was Chief Financial Officer and Director of Strategy at the London Stock Exchange.
Simon Hope, Director Aged 43, joined Savills in September 1986 and was appointed to the Board on 1 May 1999.
He is the Executive Director responsible for our Capital Markets team.
He is head of Savills Commercial Investment, a Director of Savills Finance Holdings plc and a member of the Charities Fund Property Board.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Executive Sub Committee 67 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Board of Directors 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 910 11
