58 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2007 Our Responsibilities Our Responsibilities Since we last reported, our approach to corporate responsibility has further evolved, reflecting a greater understanding of what it means to our business and how we can benefit from its integration into our operations.
We have assessed in further detail how our success depends upon our reputation, brand and relationship with a variety of internal and external stakeholders.
The benefit to us of improved corporate responsibility includes: being better able to retain and recruit the best people by meeting the expectations and values of current and future staff: being able to retain and attract clients by listening and responding to their changing needs by developing new and innovative services: and We continue to be a member of FTSE4Good, which measures the performance of by supporting and enhancing the Savills brand globally through promoting ethical companies that meet globally recognised corporate responsibility standards.
inclusion highlights our continued commitment to long term corporate responsibility.
We are a values driven business, and as such remain committed to conducting People all aspects of our business according to ethical, professional and legal standards.
Savills vision and strategy is based on the belief that market leadership and superior The Board is responsible for ensuring our policies and standards reflect our corporate financial results can only be achieved by Savills having strong teams of outstanding values.
Whilst these are more fully developed in the UK, we have, wherever possible, individuals.
Our reputation in the market comes from clients interactions with our attempted to develop and apply them in our overseas businesses.
people who are smart, innovative, professional, responsive to changes in the market, As part of our risk management and internal control activities, these policies and highly motivated and dedicated to excellent client service.
Great people make Savills standards are regularly reviewed and updated to reflect changes in legislation, best different and on-going recruitment and retention of outstanding individuals remains practice and business needs see pages 73 to 74 for more details on our risk a top priority for our business.
It is thanks to them that Savills continues to be a great management and internal control activities.
We include a consideration of corporate place to work.
responsibility related risks in our Key Risk Registers, which ensures that we are aware During the year a review of our Human Resources Strategy was undertaken to of and are addressing the potential risks that face our business see pages 54 to 55 ensure that Savills retains its competitive edge in a challenging recruitment and for details of our key Risks and Uncertainties.
In order to examine and validate our current position an Employee As indicated in last years report, we have set up a Corporate Responsibility working Engagement Survey was carried out.
group consisting of senior operation and function heads within the Group and  chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
The focus of this working group is to integrate The survey was conducted by the Great Place to Work Institute GPTW, a specialist corporate responsibility into our day-to-day business.
To do this, four key themes assessment and consulting practice, and involved our UK and Irish employees.
have been adopted to help communication: People, Clients, Environment and The main objectives of the survey were: Community.
Operational forums, reporting to the working group, have been set up to focus on these areas.
to engage staff in shaping the future for people in the business: to help Savills continue to be a great place to work: and as a strategic driver to improve the recruitment and retention of staff.
The level of participation achieved was 86%, one of the highest results recorded by GPTW.
The survey confirmed that Savills is a welcoming, friendly employer where people are given the autonomy and responsibility to do a good job.
It also highlighted that our employees are committed and extremely proud to work for Savills.
The survey also helped us to identify where additional progress could be made and we have developed a strategy to deliver identified improvements.
We will focus our efforts on better internal communication, clearer career development and continued improvement of our people management.
Additional information to show how we are addressing these and other objectives is shown opposite.
59 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2007 Our Responsibilities  Building on the recent accolade of Graduate Employer of Choice for Property 2007 by The Times, a new graduate recruitment campaign was launched in the UK.
To help facilitate the initiative, a graduate recruitment manager was appointed.
The improved programme has created greater consistency in our recruitment of graduates across the businesses.
In Ireland our business, Savills Hamilton Osborne King has initiated The Graduate TM Excellence Programme which is a two and a half year structured learning programme designed to promote technical excellence and develop future leaders.
This programme is underpinned by four pillars: Business: Graduates develop the technical and professional competencies necessary to operate successfully in the business and the market place at large.
Team: Graduates develop skills that will ensure that they operate as effective team Work lifebalance players and contribute fully to our teams success.
Employees value more than just financial remuneration, and that providing a balanced and flexible approach to professional life can help enhance employee performance Individual: Graduates develop a thorough understanding of themselves and as and enjoyment of their career.
In the UK we have introduced an Enhanced Family the programme advances they recognise the change in their behaviour, growth Pay policy and most recently launched Additional Holiday and Loyalty Holiday and learning.
Reward Schemes designed to recognise and reward the loyalty of those who Valuesandbehaviour: Graduates behave in line with our ethical framework make a long-term commitment and contribution to Savills.
and values and understand why these are important to the business culture.
 Developingtalent Internal communication is an increasingly important activity in the development Attracting the right talent is an important component of our skills strategy.
We must of the Group and a priority in its strategy to invest in the organisation and the brand.
also retain and motivate high performers in the Group and ensure active employee As Savills grows so does the importance of managing the multitude of messages management.
A vital part of this is helping to identify talent and to develop new flowing through and across the organisation.
It is important that we help employees to skills amongst existing employees.
We are in the process of implementing a talent both understand and undertake what is needed to provide the best possible service management and development strategy across the organisation in order to help to customers and to contribute to the ongoing success and growth of the business.
An internal communications department has been established to facilitate Recognitionandreward communication within the business using both online and offline media.
The competitive remuneration of our employees is key to retaining them.
We regularly This newly centralised team is continuing to improve the effectiveness of employee review the way we reward and incentivise employees.
Additional benefits include: communications such as a weekly e-newsletter, organisational announcements, performance and profit related bonus schemes, share save and share option surveys and suggestion schemes to engage employees and to expand the use of schemes, pension schemes, health, long term disability and life insurance.
Our bonus schemes and share schemes give employees the ability to share in Healthandsafety the financial success of the Group and recognises and incentivises their direct The promotion of a healthy and safe workplace is a fundamental responsibility of all contribution to that success.
Policies and procedures are in place to reduce risks and incidents within the workplace.
We have dedicated health and safety executives who manage, audit and review health and safety, as well as implementing improvements where required.
All employees have access to the resources they need to enable them to achieve their personal and company health and safety objectives.
We provide workspaces, equipment, materials and systems of work that contribute to a safe and healthy environment for our employees.
We strive for health and safety excellence and are not driven by compliance alone.
Clients Savills ability to anticipate and deliver against client needs is inherent in our culture, and essential to our tradition of high quality service.
Environmental and social issues are increasingly on our clients agendas and should be reflected in what we do.
 Many of our offices are moving towards accreditation under ISO9001:2000 Quality Management.
This will not only make our operations more efficient, but will also make us more competitive when submitting bids and proposals, especially with teams focusing on public sector clients.
60 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2007 Our Responsibilities Supplierselection Our Responsibilities Our choice of suppliers can have an impact on economic, social and environmental factors.
Whilst we do not use many suppliers, there are some areas of our business such as property management, where suppliers play an important role.
In these areas, we are starting to put in place common standards for supplier selection.
Environment Savills impact on the environment arises both from our operations and from the advice we provide to clients.
The impact of our operations on the environment is low compared to many other industries, and so the most significant contribution we can make is through the quality of advice to clients.
By helping clients to understand the environmental implications of their property decisions, we can have a much broader impact.
We therefore see our specialist services, research and training as an important part of our environmental responsibility.
 Clientservices Savills teams both apply and are nominated for awards, the results of which Many of our services include several business strands that have a strong provide invaluable feedback about our work.
For example, in November 2007 the environmental component.
These include, for example, town and country Commercial Retail and Leisure team was awarded the Estates Gazette Property planning, building consultancy, facilities management and strategic projects.
Adviser of the year for Retail and Leisure award.
We can only provide the environmental services that the market demands.
Part of our Savills continually responds to clients needs by enhancing existing and introducing role, therefore, is to increase awareness of the benefits of addressing environmental new services.
For example, our biggest Property Management team in Asia has and other issues.
Savills were an Official Sponsor of the Think 07 exhibition and introduced: conference held in London in May 2007.
The event gathered together the UKs leading opinion formers and thinkers to debate: Savillsclientportal: this enables clients to remotely access real time financial information about their property.
Clients can choose to print tailor-made financial How the built environment meets todays changing environmental, economic and reports.
There is also a platform to store and share meeting minutes, floor plans, social needs.
This is also environmentally friendly as it eliminates the need to What needs to happen to make the built environment truly fit for purpose in a circulate minutes and other documents by hard copy.
: customers and clients are able to complete What sustainability means for the private sector and government bodies involved the online survey allowing us to receive direct feedback on our services.
 The wider responsibilities of the property and construction industries as we deal We recognise that the expectations about the built environment are changing with the issues of climate change, urban renewal and redevelopment.
across our global market and that they are being driven both by market demand and regulatory change.
Our strategy is to create strong and diverse teams which Examples of what we are doing include: our Hong Kong office has introduced a new offer services to address the increasing legislative framework.
For example, following way to manage properties and buildings within its portfolio which benefits the regulatory change in the UK, Savills has seamlessly incorporated Home Information environment.
Its Invisible Hands Environmental Care Programme has already Packs HIP into its UK residential operations.
resulted in several awards including for energy efficiency and recycling.
In addition, because many of our consultants are leaders in their respective fields, we are able to provide insight into future trends, such as the changing urban landscape.
Our involvement in and support for the Global Cities Exhibition at Tate Modern in London, is an example of how our expertise helps to inform discussions on the future of the built environment.
This exhibition was free to the public and examined the recent changes in ten global cities, in both developed and emerging markets: Cairo, Istanbul, Johannesburg, London, Los Angeles, Mexico City, Mumbai, Sao Paulo, Shanghai and Tokyo.
Global Cities Exhibition The Global Cities Exhibition at Tate Modern in London is an example of how our expertise helps to inform discussions on the future of the built environment.
61 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2007 Our Responsibilities As part of our commitment to our staff, we commissioned a community survey throughout our network of offices in the UK.
The results of the survey prompted the company to re-examine its approach to Charitable Giving in the UK, promote existing, and introduce a number of new, initiatives.
These include: GiveAsYouEarnScheme: Savills operate a give as you earn scheme, which enables employees to donate to charities of their choice in a convenient and tax efficient manner.
BonusWaiverScheme: Employees are given the opportunity to donate to charities of their choice by waiving part of their annual bonus entitlement.
Savills enhances any such donation by up to 10%.
MatchingScheme: Where an employee or group of employees raises money for a particular registered charity, on request, Savills may make a matching donation.
The amount available for the matching scheme is determined by the board of each In Summer 2007, the Savills Research team published a report on the Market for operating subsidiary on an annual basis.
This considered the impact of the introduction of Environmental Performance Certificates and the Code for Sustainable Homes on the housing GivingofTime: Where employees use their holiday entitlement to undertake work market.
While the UK Government has set a policy objective that all new housing for registered charities, Savills will give the employees one extra half day of holiday should be zero-carbon by 2016, implementation will require this kind of research and for every full day of holiday committed to working for a charity up to a maximum of expertise which Savills can provide.
two extra half days each year.
Ouroperations Globally the Group is very active and involved in wide ranging activities including: While our environmental footprint is relatively small, we appreciate the value in In China, our Shanghai office supported children from needy families suffering from reducing the impact of our activities on the environment to as low a level as is leukaemia through the Chinese Red Cross Foundation and its Little Angel Fund.
This aim supports our business goals in a number of ways.
For example, by identifying operational efficiencies our actions are often not only good In Hong Kong, we have been awarded The Caring Company Award organised by for the environment, but can also save us money too.
In addition, it assists us in being the Hong Kong Council of Social Services which applies to the staff working on their an employer of choice.
The Group adopted an updated environmental policy statement in November Savills Sydney are supporting Earth Hour which is aimed at inspiring 2007, which sets out its current approach to achieving its environmental objectives.
people to take action on climate change by turning off lights for one hour In the UK, a cross-company Green Group was formed in March 2007 to stimulate on a designated date.
and co-ordinate environmental initiatives nationwide.
Likewise in Hong Kong, In Ireland, the graduates at Savills Hamilton Osborne King are encouraged as part Savills Property Management Ltd has established a centrally co-ordinated approach of their training to give up two weeks of their time to work on charitable activities and to sharing environmental best practice, training and business development.
this is a scheme that is being considered for inclusion within our graduate scheme in Similar initiatives are being pursued on a business by business basis elsewhere the UK.
Future plans A number of offices operate an environmental management system that complies While we are pleased with the steps we have taken to formalise our approach with BS EN ISO 14001:2004.
This is designed to achieve and demonstrate sound to Corporate Responsibility in 2007, we recognise that there is more work to do.
environmental performance by controlling the impact of our activities and services In particular, we have an opportunity to spread these practices, approaches on the environment.
In 2007, eight UK locations and our Hong Kong office have and services more widely throughout the Group.
We are also in the process of adopted this international standard, with others to follow during 2008. establishing performance measurement indicators across the Group, so that Information Technology forms an important part of any business.
A prime focus of we can better monitor, measure and improve our performance in the future.
the Green Group is to find solutions through our use of modern technology to reduce our environmental impact.
Initiatives that have emerged from their work include those aimed at reducing power consumption, reducing waste and reducing the need for travel.
We are also using new technology to deliver research information, marketing materials, web-based collaborative forums and marketing brochures to reduce paper, transport costs and waste.
Community As we reported last year the Board of Savills plc remain committed to enabling and, where appropriate, encouraging its employees to be actively involved in their local communities.
Part of the Savills culture includes playing a positive role in the communities in which we operate, and our reputation relies on being a key member of the community.
An intrinsic part of this role is supporting charities and community related activities on both a local and national level, which also has a positive impact on our company profile and raises awareness of our brand in these markets.
62 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2007 Our Responsibilities Developer acquires Victoria Station retail complex, confirming that shopping centres remain attractive assets despite current trends UK Victoria Place shopping centre, London High quality shopping centres continue to represent In total, Victoria Place covers 83,000 sq ft and excellent investment opportunities, despite current comprises around 45 units arranged over three floors.
October 2007 saw Belfast-based Its significant growth potential is complemented by property developer William Ewart, advised by Savills, a range of strong tenants.
The centre is currently fully purchase the long leasehold in the Victoria Place let to blue-chip companies including Sainsburys, shopping centre.
The centre, which is part of Londons Next and Border.
The total annual rental income is Victoria Station complex, was acquired from the estimated to be 5.3m.
Metro Fund for 92.5m, reflecting a net initial yield of approximately 5.1%.
63 Savills plc Our Business Report and Accounts 2007 Our Responsibilities 64 Savills plc Our Governance Report and Accounts 2007 Contents Our Business Chairmans Statement 12 Review of Operations 16 Financial Review 50 Risks and Uncertainties Facing the Business 54 Our Responsibilities 58 Our Governance Board of Directors 66 Directors Report 68 Corporate Governance Report 70 Remuneration Report 75 Directors Responsibilities 84 Independent Auditors Report 85 Our Results  88 BalanceSheets 89  90  91  92  139 Our Governance Premium price achieved for exceptional house in Belgravia UK Belgrave Place, London Belgrave Place is a rare property: a relatively This is the second time in six years that Savills low building that provides high quality family have been involved in the sale of Belgrave Place.
accommodation over only four floors in the We advised an overseas family on the sale of Belgrave Belgravia area of London.
The house features six Place having recently assisted a member of that bedroom suites, four reception rooms, a kitchen, family acquire their London Residence.
For the 2001 gym and staff accommodation.
sale, we openly marketed Belgrave Place with a full marketing campaign which resulted in its sale to At start of 2007, we were appointed to carry out a the English family who completely refurbished the quiet placing exercise to gauge market demand for property and resided there until 2007. this exceptional property.
Without employing any formal marketing or brochures, our experienced team generated interest from several parties.
Ultimately, this interest translated into an informal tender and a premium price being paid by an overseas purchaser.
