55 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT This report has been drawn up in accordance The overall aim is that the xed elements of executive directors with the Combined Code 2006 and the Companies remuneration base salaries and pension bene ts should be set at around Act, complies with the FSAs Listing Rules, and the median of the range paid by comparable companies, and that superior has been approved by both the Remuneration performance should be rewarded through total remuneration in the upper Committee and the board.
Shareholders will quartile of the range.
These benchmarks gear rewards to high performance, be invited to approve this report at the Annual and seek to ensure that the company can attract and retain executives of General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committees suitable calibre in the sectors very competitive labour market.
terms of reference are available for inspection on The Committee undertook a full review of the remuneration arrangements the companys website.
for executive directors in 200506 and the resultant recommendations were The Companies Act requires certain parts of the approved by shareholders at last years Annual General Meeting.
The new remuneration report to be audited.
The audited arrangements were accordingly implemented for the first time in 200607. sections are highlighted.
They comprise: l Base salary: Reviewed annually in the light of external market movements and other relevant factors such as internal relativities.
Base salary levels COMPOSITION AND FUNCTION OF THE were checked in the 200506 review and set around the median of external REMUNERATION COMMITTEE comparators.
The Remuneration Committee was reconstituted l Annual bonus: The aim is to provide a clear and direct incentive.
in April 2007 and now comprises Mary Francis Bonus comprises a single payment awarded at the end of the financial Chairman, Simon Clarke, Ian Menzies-Gow, Paul year.
Bonus levels depend on performance against a financial target Rigg and John Salmon.
growth in net asset value per share during the year in question and The Committee considers all aspects of personal targets.
Awards range from 10% of base salary if the minimum the executive directors remuneration and performance target is met, to 125% for performance at the maximum.
administers the companys share schemes.
l Performance share plan: An annual award of shares which vests after The remuneration of the non-executive three years and provides the main incentive to sustained, longer term directors is considered by the board following performance.
The level of vesting depends on performance against two recommendations by the executive directors.
cumulative financial targets growth in net asset value per share and No director participates in setting their own growth in total shareholder returns.
Awards are normally worth 125% remuneration.
The Committee also reviews and of base salary and levels of vesting range from 25% of base salary if the notes annually the remuneration trends across minimum net asset value growth performance target is met but the Total the company and any major changes in employee Shareholder Return TSR is less than 0%, to 150% if both targets are bene ts structures.
The company has complied throughout the l Pensions: Executive directors pension bene ts are funded through either period with the Directors Remuneration Report the fide ned bene t scheme now closed, or the fide ned contribution Regulations 2002. scheme.
l Shareholdings: Since 1st December 2006 it has been the companys policy REMUNERATION POLICY AND MAIN that excutive directors are expected to build up their shareholdings in the company over a five year period to be, at a minimum, the value of one ELEMENTS OF REMUNERATION times base salary.
The objective of St. Modwens remuneration policy is to attract, retain and motivate high calibre senior executives through competitive pay arrangements which are also in the best interests of shareholders.
These include performancerelated elements with demanding targets, in order to align the interests of directors and shareholders and to reward success.
