14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 107 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107 M PENSIONS The companys pension schemes are the principal pension schemes of the group and details are set out in note 19 of the consolidated financial statements.
The directors are satisfied that this note, which contains the required IAS 19 Employee Benefits disclosures for the group, also covers the requirements of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits for the company.
N OPERATING LEASE COMMITMENTS Operating lease commitments where the company is the lessee Annual commitments under non-cancellable operating leases are as follows: 2007 2006 Land and Land and buildings Other buildings Other m m m m Operating leases which expire: In one year or less 0.1 0.1 Between one and five years 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.5 0.3 0.5 O CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The company has a joint and several unlimited liability with Vinci PLC and the Ministry of Defence under guarantees in respect of the financial performance of VSM Estates Holdings Limited.
The company is also party to a joint and several guarantee to Fortis Bank in respect of the performance of Sowcrest Limited which is limited to 18.4m.
14704 12 02 2008 Proof13 14704STMODWEN FIN:Layout 1 13 2 08 10:05 Page 108 108 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF ST. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC We have audited the parent company financial statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC for the year ended 30th November 2007 which comprise the Company balance sheet and the related notes A to O.
These parent company financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have reported separately on the group financial statements of St. Modwen Properties PLC for the year ended 30th November 2007 and on the information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the companys members, as a body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the companys members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the companys members, as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read the other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited parent company financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Directors Report, the Chairmans Statement and the Business Review.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the parent company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any further information outside the Annual Report.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the parent company financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgements made by the directors in the preparation of the parent company financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the parent company financial statements are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the parent company financial statements.
Opinion In our opinion: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the companys affairs as at 30th November 2007: the parent company financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the Report of the Directors is consistent with the parent company financial statements.
Deloitte & Touche LLP Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors Birmingham, United Kingdom 8th February 2008 14704 12 02 2008 Proof 11 14704
