The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 42 Governance Financial statements Investors Directors report The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31st December 2007.
Principal activities and review of the business The principal activity of the group is the provision of textile maintenance services.
A list of the companys principal subsidiary undertakings as at 31st December 2007 is given on page 87.
The company is required to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the group during the year ended 31st December 2007, the position of the group at the end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the group known as a Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the following sections of this Annual Report and Accounts: Chairman and Chief Executives Introduction on pages 4 to 5, Business Review on pages 6 to 15, Operations Review on pages 16 to 27 and Financial Review on pages 28 to 30.
All of this information is incorporated by reference in this Directors Report.
Results and dividends The financial statements set out the results of the group for the year ended 31st December 2007 which are shown on page 49.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 13.3 pence per ordinary share which, together with the interim dividend of 6.1 pence per ordinary share paid in October 2007, makes a total dividend for the year of 19.4 pence 2006: 18.20 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to the approval of the recommended final dividend by shareholders, the dividend award to shareholders for 2007 is 33.0 million.
If approved, the company will pay the final dividend on 6th May 2008 to shareholders on the register at 18th April 2008.
Changes in composition of the group The group acquired a number of textile maintenance businesses and the clinical solutions and decontamination businesses of the InHealth group.
The total consideration including net financial liabilities assumed and deferred consideration payable for the acquisitions is 116.7 million.
Details of the fair value of net assets acquired and consideration paid are set out in note 30 a to the financial statements.
Directors The current directors of the company are set out on page 33.
Each served throughout the year ended 31st December 2007 except Ren Schuster who was appointed to the board on 1st March 2007.
Christopher Kemball, John Burns, Phillip Rogerson and Per Utnegaard retire by rotation at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the number of board and committee meetings held during the year and attendance by individual directors are included in the corporate governance statement on page 35.
The interests of the current directors in the shares of the company are included in the report on directors remuneration which is set out on pages 38 to 41.
Directors indemnity Article 140 of the companys Articles provides, among other things, that insofar as permitted by law, every director of the company or any associated company shall be indemnified by the Company against any liability incurred by the director in the execution and discharge of the directors duties, power or office.
On 30th June 2006 and 30th April 2007, the company, pursuant to the power conferred by Article 140, executed deed polls for each of the then and all future executive and non-executive directors of the company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries respectively.
The indemnities granted under these deed polls constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The board believes that it is in the best interests of the group to provide these indemnities to its directors in order to ensure that it attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive terms of employment in line with the market.
In addition, the company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its directors and officers.
Share capital and control Pursant to Section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, which implements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is required to disclose certain additional information.
Such disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in the Annual Report, include the following: The companys Articles of Association the Articles give a power to the board to appoint directors, but also require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and for re-election once they have held office for more than 36 months thereafter.
The Articles themselves may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
The board is responsible for the management of the business of the company and may exercise all the powers of the company subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the companys Memorandum of Association and the Articles.
The Articles, for instance, contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the companys power to borrow money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying back of shares are also included in the Articles and such authorities are renewed by shareholders each year at the Annual General Meeting.
A copy of the Articles is available to view from the companys Secretarial Department.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 43 Financial statements Investors There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company following a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan agreements, property lease arrangements, directors service agreements and employees share plans.
None of these are deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on the business of the group as a whole.
In addition, there exist agreements between the company and its directors and certain senior employees which provide for compensation for loss of office or employment due to a takeover bid.
Copies of executive directors service contracts are available to shareholders for inspection at the companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Substantial shareholdings As at 28th February 2008 the company had been notified, pursuant to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rules, of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share capital: No.
of shares m % Silchester International Investors Limited 27 16.0 Prudential plc 18 10.5 Taube Hodson Stonex Partners Limited 10 6.1 Sanderson Asset Management Limited 95.2 Legal & General Assurance Pensions Management Limited 7 4.0 Barclays PLC 53.0 Newton Investment Management Limited 53.0 Share capital Details of the movements in the year are set out in note 21 to the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 11.00 am on Monday 28th April 2008 is sent separately to shareholders with this report.
The venue for the meeting is the Royal Aeronautical Society, 4 Hamilton Place, London W1J 7BQ.
Amendment to Articles of Association It is proposed at the Annual General Meeting to adopt new Articles of Association Articles, primarily to take account of the changes in English company law brought about by the parts of the Companies Act 2006 that have been brought into force to date.
It is also proposed to bring clearer language into the Articles and to remove provisions which are adequately dealt with in the Companies Act 2006.
An explanation of the changes to be introduced is set out in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
Copies of the Memorandum and Articles of Association in their current form and as they are proposed to be amended may be inspected at the companys offices, 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7DL during business hours on any weekday weekends and public holidays excluded, until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 28th April 2008.
Authority to allot shares As in previous years, resolutions will be proposed to authorise the directors to allot shares up to approximately one-third of the companys issued ordinary share capital of which approximately 5% may be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
In any three year period, no more than 7.5% of the issued share capital will be issued for cash on a non pre-emptive basis.
The two resolutions numbers 9 and 10 are set out in full in the notice of Annual General Meeting.
No issue will be made which would effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
The directors have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Purchase of own shares In certain circumstances it may be advantageous for the company to purchase its own shares.
A special resolution number 11 will be proposed at the April 2008 Annual General Meeting to seek authority from shareholders to do so, such authority to expire on the date of the next following annual general meeting or a date 18 months from the date of the resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares which may be acquired being 10% of the companys issued share capital and the maximum and minimum prices at which they may be purchased.
The shareholders authority granted at the 2007 Annual General Meeting remains valid until the next annual general meeting.
If the company were to purchase any of its own shares, it may consider holding them as treasury shares as an alternative to cancelling them, subject to the authority allowed by resolution number 11, provided that the total number of treasury shares does not at any one time exceed 10% of the companys issued share capital.
Companies are permitted to hold shares purchased on the market in treasury with a view to possible re-issue at a future date, as an alternative to cancelling them.
This would allow the company to re-issue the shares held in treasury quickly and cost-effectively and would provide the company with additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
On 30th October 2007 the company purchased 200,000 ordinary shares for treasury at 532 pence for a combined cost of 1.06 million.
The share price on 31st December 2007 was 514 pence: the company currently holds 1,025,000 ordinary shares in treasury.
The board are committed to managing the companys capital effectively and the directors keep under review the option of buying back the companys shares.
Other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels and the overall position of the company will be taken into account before deciding upon this course of action.
The directors will only purchase the companys shares on the market if they believe it is in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 44 Governance Financial statements Investors Directors report continued Political and charitable donations Financial contributions to a range of charities and good causes during the year amounted to 44,272 2006: 25,315.
There were no political donations during the year 2006: nil.
Creditor payment policy Whilst the group does not follow any published code or standard on payment practice, it continues to be the groups policy to agree the terms of payment with each of its suppliers at the commencement of the trading relationship and to abide by those terms provided that the supplier has performed in accordance with the relevant terms and conditions.
Trade creditor days of the company for the year ended 31st December 2007 were 10 days 2006: 10 days and for the groups major trading companies were 50 days 2006: 35 days.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they may be reappointed will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The directors are confident that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditors are unaware.
The directors have taken steps in order to make them aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditors are aware of that information.
Corporate Responsibility The importance of corporate responsibility CR is recognised by the board and it recognises its responsibility in setting the CR Policies that are distributed throughout the group.
The board has determined that responsibility for CR Policy implementation and compliance monitoring lies ultimately with the Chief Executive.
The board regularly reviews the management of corporate  issues, which have now been integrated into the groups risk management programme.
We believe that paying close attention to employee, health and safety and environmental issues is an integral and important component of best practice in business management.
Our approach to corporate responsibility will influence our ability to create long-term financial and non-financial value, and impact on our relationship with our employees, customers, partners, investors and the community.
We believe effective management of corporate responsibility can reduce risks and also help us identify business opportunities.
We have identified the following areas as being of most importance to our business: Hiring, maintaining and caring for our employees: Reducing environmental damage and costs relating to energy, water and detergent use: Working with our suppliers to ensure high ethical standards: and Respecting and communicating with our local communities.
This year we started to collect centrally key non-financial data and set targets for our performance in these areas.
This data is gathered on a country business unit level and from 2008 progress will be reported regularly to the board.
These initiatives will ensure compliance with the requirements of the UK Companies Act 2006 to monitor non-financial issues material to the business.
Caring for our employees In a challenging marketplace where dedicated people are increasingly difficult to recruit and retain, it is important to our business success that we continue to meet our employees needs and expectations, since they are key in meeting and exceeding the expectations of our customers.
The responsibility for staff training and recruitment lies with our business unit line management.
We focus on induction training at all levels, individual development plans and, where appropriate, cross-border transfers.
We are committed across the group to in-house training and promotion of internal candidates.
We have established a series of long-term incentive schemes for senior management at our business units, with general training and development plans to meet the expectations and prospects of our dedicated and loyal employees.
We value diversity in our workforce and have a group-wide Human Resources and Employee Policy that refers to non-discrimination between employees or potential employees on any grounds.
It is our policy not to discriminate against disabled persons, in particular with regard to recruitment and selection, training, career development and promotion.
Where an employee becomes disabled during the course of their employment, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the group continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is our policy to maintain an ongoing dialogue with our employees in local operations, and to listen to their concerns and needs.
This is primarily carried out at country level via staff associations and trade unions where recognised.
The group also has a whistleblowing system by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
Due to the diversity of our workforce the system operates throughout the group in a number of languages.
For example, in the UK, the system is available in 12 different languages.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 45 Financial statements Investors Health and safety management Many of our employees work in a production environment incorporating potentially significant risk factors.
Some are working with industrial laundry machinery and equipment, and are involved in the movement and transportation of textiles.
It is therefore of the utmost importance to us that we maintain for our employees, as well as for customers and others affected by our activities, a high standard of health and safety systems.
The Managing Director of each business unit is responsible to the Chief Executive for maintaining health and safety procedures appropriate for the environment where they operate.
These responsibilities include providing safe systems of work: for example ensuring rotation of laundry operatives responsibilities to avoid fatigue, training on manual handling to ensure correct lifting, and training on procedures for using laundry cages and trolleys.
Our employees are regularly provided with appropriate training according to their roles and responsibilities.
We believe that health and safety concerns everyone working in our operations: procedures and systems are documented in handbooks or manuals.
We carry out periodic risk assessments at business units and will invest in improvements to our safety systems when and where required.
This has, for example, resulted recently in a major investment in enhanced fire protection systems and equipment in Denmark and Sweden, also reducing risks associated with business continuity.
We regularly review our health and safety policies and procedures to ensure they reflect legislative or business sector changes or developments.
We have a robust reporting system in place for use in the unfortunate case of a health and safety related incident occurring.
Reducing our environmental impact We recognise the environmental impact of our operations and we understand the risks and opportunities associated with these challenges.
With the scarcity of natural resources and consequent rising prices, there is a need for us continually to look at ways to reduce our use of resources.
We follow the guidelines set out by the European Textile Services Association, an industry body representing the textile rental services sector in Europe, to achieve our goal.
Due to the nature of our business we have identified four areas that are of particular importance to us, and which all of our business units are continually focusing on: Water use: Energy consumption: Use and disposal in effluent of cleaning detergents: and Transport-related energy consumption.
In addition we monitor and control the costs associated with these areas closely.
These costs are specifically highlighted in our annual budget and ongoing forecasts.
Plant management appraisals include an element reflecting how successful they are at controlling these costs.
Water recovery We use water recovery systems in the majority of our operations, as they reduce water consumption by between 20% and 25%, helping to protect the environment and at the same time controlling costs.
Reducing heat and energy loss Our strategy to reduce heat and energy loss is to install new technology in key parts of our operations, where most energy is used, and where there will be a significant environmental benefit.
For our laundry operations this typically means boilers and driers.
New technology has helped us control the use of energy by recycling hot water, recovering energy from boiler exhaust gas, monitoring tumbler temperatures to optimise drying time and recovering high pressure steam for use elsewhere in the laundry process.
New technologies have typically reduced energy consumption by between 10% and 30%.
Reducing the amount and concentration of cleaning detergents used and disposed of in effluent We work closely with our detergent suppliers to find ways to optimise our usage of detergents and decrease the use of water.
We have already progressed significantly in this field, for instance by installing water recovery recycling systems that reduce the volume of detergent solids disposed of in effluent.
These initiatives have typically also resulted in a reduction in detergent usage of between 20% and 30%.
Shortening delivery distances We are mindful of any future national or local legislation in this area, and are continually working towards meeting and exceeding requirements.
We regularly review our vehicle routes to ensure the most efficient use of our fleet resources and fuel.
Working with our textile suppliers It is important to us that our suppliers adhere to the groups important requirement for the provision of appropriate labour standards regarding employee age, working conditions and the general treatment of workers.
We fully support relevant international standards in this field, especially Convention No.
138 of the International Labour Organisation, which seeks to progressively raise the minimum age for workers.
We are in constant dialogue with our largest direct suppliers and carry out periodic checks to assess compliance with the groups policies.
We are continually reviewing our procedures, and the potential risks associated with using overseas suppliers.
In November 2007, through the Business Social Compliance Initiative, Berendsen Sourcings supplier in Vietnam received an independent review of labour standards and working conditions adopted: a number of improvement areas were identified that are being addressed.
