The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 08 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Business review continued Our business Our strategy We intend retaining our market leading Enablers We are predominantly a European textile position in the UK and Ireland by ensuring Our people k maintenance business.
We believe that that we maintain our high standards of by focusing on our core business we are able operational excellence.
With our core service A new management structure k to deliver higher levels of growth at better offerings mature, we seek to develop related Quality service k margins than our competitors.
We do this activities in which our existing customers k Capturing new markets by managing our service operations efficiently will appreciate our service such as the and innovating and by making the resources available to expansion of our healthcare franchise into drive our growth strategies using our core sterile medical consumables clinical solutions areas of expertise.
We believe that it is and decontamination services.
important to build market leading positions The different service areas of our business as this provides scale for our operations and offer different opportunities for growth creates the opportunity to win new business and returns on our investment.
As we look at attractive margins and to deliver the 4 to invest and grow our business we generally benefits of bolt-on acquisitions.
New markets give priority to the workwear and facilities entered in 2008 We are growing the proportion of profits parts of our business, where these opportunities in Continental Europe relative to the UK as are of more value to our customers and Financial objectives we believe Continental Europe offers greater therefore more profitable to us.
By following the strategy we have laid opportunity in our existing activities.
Today Geographically, we will continue out above and with the focus of our the majority of our business is in Continental to concentrate on Europe.
management in delivering these business Europe.
In order to manage these growth objectives, we aim to deliver the following opportunities we now have two regions Our business objectives financial objectives.
covering Continental Europe: our Nordic We have experienced management teams region and our Continent region, which both We aim to grow our revenues faster than running our business who understand their have separate management teams.
In growing the economic growth of our markets.
markets and their service operations.
They are our European business we look to enter We target returns on our invested capital commercially focused in order to capture the new markets, which provide opportunities and from our investments at a higher opportunities for organic growth.
An immediate priority has been rate than the cost of capital to the group.
the majority of markets in which we operate opportunities in the Baltics and Central We look to grow our earnings at least are largely mature and the outsourced service Europe where the new accession countries in line with inflation.
is generally well established, the opportunities to the EU are forecasting higher levels of We target stable free cash flow generation for volume growth and winning of new economic growth than their Western European with a level of post dividend free cash flow contracts remain.
The development of outsourcing to finance at least partly further investments in these countries in markets such as textile We also continue to innovate and improve in the business.
maintenance has substantial potential in our our customer service, moving the focus from We maintain a progressive dividend policy.
In 2008 we have entered these markets product supply to delivering service solutions.
We manage the group on a sound by acquisition of mat companies in the case Service quality is an essential component financial footing.
of the Baltics and by preparing for a greenfield of both winning and retaining contracts operation in the Czech Republic.
with significant benefits arising from a stable Key performance indicators contract base.
We assess the progress we are making on our strategy including the development, All our teams are focused on delivering performance and position of the business pricing that recovers the increases in our using a broad set of financial key performance cost base and enables us to invest to support indicators.
These are set out on page 03. the growth our customers are expecting.
Our business teams continually drive for efficiency and to be the lowest cost provider in their markets, using our scale, investment and experience.
We also maintain health and safety as a priority.
We believe that attractive returns can be delivered from investment in bolt-on acquisitions where we can leverage our market leading position and scale to deliver higher levels of operational efficiency to the acquisitions that we have made.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 09 Governance Financial statements Investors The Davis Service Group Plc Nordic Continent UK and Ireland Christian Ellegaard Managing Director Peter Havus Managing Director Steve Finch Managing Director Our Nordic region covers Our Continent region covers Our Sunlight business is the well established, but still Germany and Austria, where market leading, serving hotels growing, markets of Denmark, we have strong positions and restaurants, healthcare, Sweden and Norway, where in Healthcare and where a key and public sector customers we are seeing faster growth, focus is to grow our market with flat linens and garments and Finland where we see share of the higher margin on a national basis.
We have volume opportunities in each Our direct sale business a competitive position in of these markets.
In 2007 Bjrnklder has expanded its workwear in Holland and we entered the sterile medical network in Sweden in 2007 a fast growing workwear and consumables and surgical and in January 2008 we mats business in Poland.
entered the Baltic region with 2008 we expect to commence We also have a strong our mat service operations.
greenfield operations in the business in Ireland using the Czech Republic.
Nordic revenue Continent revenue UK and Ireland revenue 263.8m 191.8m 366.5m 32% 23% 45%
