The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 24 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Operations review continued UK and Ireland Margins were stable in the second half Servicing of our additional volume meant two UK and Ireland of the year compared with the second half additional plants were required for operation Our businesses have performed well of 2006 after a number of periods of decline: during the summer: we recommissioned with double digit growth in revenue a welcome reversal of trend.
Our UK business our Hayes plant and acquired the leased facility and adjusted operating profits driven has stronger prospects than it has had for in Northeet from the Brooks administrator.
Margins were stable many years, with each of our divisions seeing Our margin in the hotel and restaurant in the second half after a number of periods opportunities for profitable volume growth division increased in 2007 but we believe of decline for our textile businesses.
we can now target further improvement in margins for 2008.
A levelling out of costs, which have suffered Growth year on year 2007 2006 significant increases in recent years, has Our healthcare division saw revenue and Revenue h 22% 12% also contributed to a more positive outlook profits move ahead.
The business has been with a minimum wage increase of 3.2% successful in retaining and extending existing Adjusted operating profit h 13% 1% in October 2007 compared to much higher contracts under the NHS PASA framework Adjusted operating margin x 10.4% 11.2% levels in past years.
Energy costs are benefiting agreement and we are pleased with the level Before exceptional items and amortisation from our xed gas prices to September 2008. of new contract wins in tenders for new of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
In the period prior Our hotel and restaurant division was able to the framework being agreed, NHS Trusts Our revenue grew by 22% to 366.5 million to secure new business with an annual value deferred their outsourcing programme but 301.6 million including a contribution of 8.0 million following the exit of Brooks this is now back on the agenda of many of 21.0 million from the Clinical Solutions from the market.
This resulted in a significant Trusts with further tenders being proposed.
business, which was acquired in June.
Overall, amount of capacity permanently leaving the The framework has led to lower pricing organic revenue growth was 8% including market 12 months after Rentokil withdrew for those Trusts whose contract pricing was the benefit of the linen contracts which from this market.
Thanks to the skill and above framework, which have now mostly we won following the exit of Brooks from dedication of our staff at all levels, we were been renewed.
We therefore expect that the market.
Adjusted operating profit was able to transfer those contracts over a matter going forward we will see price stability with up 13% to 38.2 million 33.9 million of days to ensure continuity of service the opportunity to increase prices on renewal driven by acquisitions, including a contribution to customers.
We have continued our focus of those contracts which are below the of 0.8 million from Clinical Solutions.
this year on appropriate pricing but much framework price.
This will take a number The plants in operation number 58 with remains to be done to ensure that pricing of years to develop.
meets the demands of scale and service our customers require and to enable us to invest In June we made a strategic acquisition The textile maintenance businesses in the UK for the future growth predicted for this of clinical solutions and instrument and Ireland have performed well, with revenue industry.
Sunlight is now the only company decontamination businesses to provide entry and adjusted operating profits moving ahead on its own able to provide a national service, to the attractive UK sterile consumables with double digit growth in the year excluding although other providers can do so through and decontamination markets, both of which Clinical Solutions.
We aim to build on the strong relationships that Sunlight already has with many NHS Trusts and other Achievements in 2007 healthcare providers and to develop a broader k Good organic revenue growth including range of services alongside Sunlights existing 58 linen contracts following Brooks exit operations.
In addition, we will deliver Number of plants the same focus on operational excellence k Brooks workwear contracts acquired we operate that exists within Sunlight, thereby improving k Margins stable in the core textile margins.
We have moved quickly to integrate maintenance businesses in the second half the salesforce of the Clinical Solutions, 9800 k Strategic acquisition to enter UK sterile business in October 2007 to capture Number of people consumables Clinical Solutions and the good opportunities to cross sell services we employ decontamination markets with our existing reusable textiles into the operating theatre market.
We are currently Priorities in 2008 negotiating a contractual financial close on a National Decontamination Programme k Ensure pricing meets the demands contract, on which the business was of our service awarded preferred bidder status prior k Integration of the Clinical to our acquisition.
Solutions business k Secure further decontamination contract wins The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 25 Governance Financial statements Investors Focus and excellence Clinical Solutions the acquired business with the existing In June 2007 we acquired the sterile theatre care business of Sunlight to create medical consumables Clinical Solutions Sunlight Clinical Solutions and we are and decontamination business of InHealth.
developing a broader range of services to This acquisition provided entry to attractive the UK Healthcare market alongside Sunlights markets with good growth prospects.
The UK decontamination In addition it builds on the existing strength market has strong growth prospects for of Sunlight in the UK Healthcare market outsourced providers as the capacity of the where it currently serves over 150 NHS Trusts, NHS is increased and there are greater including a strong theatre drape and gown levels of outsourcing driven by the National rental business.
We have now merged Decontamination Programme.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 26 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Operations review continued UK and Ireland We are making progress with the potential for further contract wins but the process remains slower than we would want.
As a consequence, bidding costs for contracts under the National Decontamination Programme have been higher than anticipated as we await decisions from the Trusts COPY TO COME on the tenders.
While the workwear market remains competitive we have benefited in the year from the contracts we acquired for a relatively modest cost from Brooks with 7 million in annual revenue.
We have invested in new textiles for the business and on plant upgrades.
In the second half we successfully integrated this volume into our plants, with the effect that margins have stabilised and should now start to improve in 2008.
We continue to invest in sales and service and we are seeing growth in some key profitable sectors.
Our operations in Ireland grew both revenue and operating profit with a good and established mix of business.
During the year, we spent 62.2 million on acquisitions in this region, of which 43.0 million was paid at completion to acquire the clinical solutions and decontamination businesses of the InHealth group.
Further deferred cash consideration is payable of up to 22.5 million dependent upon future Brooks, West Bromwich plant decontamination contract awards.
We have Following the administration of Brooks also acquired a linen direct supply in February 2007 Sunlight secured new business which complements our textile business with an annual value of 8.0 million maintenance business.
in the hotel and restaurant division and acquired workwear contracts from the administrator with an annual value of 7.0 million.
Sunlight story Our plant at West Sunlights new logo expresses the 4 CARE values Bromwich has received of the business: Caring for employees and customers: significant capital Agile, flexible to respond: Reliable, with dependable investment in recent service: Efficient, to be cost effective.
At the same time management has championed investment in training and development through National Vocational Qualications to capture the benets available.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 27 Governance Financial statements Investors Compliance with low emission Of Sunlights 100 commercial vehicles zone Sunlight, UK operating in London, 20 were identied Londons Low Emission Zone LEZ in the second half of 2007 that would not aims to deter the driving of high emission comply with these new standards.
The fleet vehicles and to improve air quality.
From in London was subsequently upgraded February 2008, driving in the zone but not so that all vehicles became compliant before meeting LEZ emissions standards triggers the start of 2008. a substantial daily charge.
