The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 33 Financial statements Investors Executive Directors Chairman I Roger Dye 56 Kevin Quinn 47 Christopher R M Kemball 61 Chief Executive Finance Director Chairman Roger was appointed Finance Director Kevin was appointed Finance Director Christopher was appointed to the board in August 2000, subsequently becoming in May 2005.
He has previously held senior in January 1999 and subsequently became Chief Executive in May 2005.
He has been finance positions within Amersham plc.
Non-Executive Chairman in May 2005. an executive director of several public Prior to 1997, Kevin was with He is a Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint companies since 1987, a non-executive , latterly as Partners Limited.
director of Nestor Healthcare plc since 2005 a partner in its Prague ofce, having also and is Chairman of its audit committee.
worked in the USA and France.
Non-Executive Directors John D Burns 63 # Philip G Rogerson 63 # Ren H Schuster 46 # Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director John was appointed to the board as Philip was appointed to the board in June Ren was appointed to the board in March a non-executive director in 1987.
He is 2004 and became Senior Independent 2007.
He is CEO, UK and Ireland, of Adecco Chief Executive of Derwent London plc, Director in May 2005.
He is Non-Executive S. A. the recruitment and managed service a consulting partner of Pilcher Hershman Chairman of Aggreko plc, Carillion plc, business, and a member of their Executive & Partners and a former Chairman of the Northgate plc and THUS Group plc and, until Committee.
He was a non-executive director Westminster Property Owners Association.
February 1998, he was Deputy Chairman of SurfControl plc and was previously with of BG plc formerly British Gas plc having Vodafone plc, the Hewlett Packard Corporation been a director since 1992. and KPMG in senior management positions with significant international responsibilities.
Per H Utnegaard 48 # David A Lawler 44 Key Non-Executive Director Company Secretary Per was appointed a non-executive director David joined the group in 1995 and was Audit committee of the company in January 2005 and is appointed Company Secretary in May 2005.
Remuneration committee President & CEO of Swissport International He has previously held senior finance positions Nomination committee Ltd.
Per previously had his own consultancy with Thorn EMI plc and KPMG, and has rm in Switzerland, prior to which he was worked extensively outside of the UK including # Identied by the board Wholesale Director of Alliance UniChem plc.
Denmark, Germany, Ireland and the USA.
as an independent director The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 34 Governance Financial statements Investors Corporate governance statement continued The Chief Executive, Roger Dye, and the Finance Director, Kevin Quinn, ensure that the board is kept fully aware on a timely basis of business issues and prospects throughout the group.
Both are directors of Sunlight Service Group, the holding company of our UK trading businesses, and attend bi-monthly UK Ireland board meetings, as well as having frequent less formal contact with Sunlight board members.
They are also directors of Sophus Berendsen A S, the management company of our Nordic and Continent businesses, and, as well as attending bi-monthly Nordic and Continent board meetings, they regularly attend individual Berendsen country board meetings, thereby meeting the management teams of each operation.
The key issues raised at these meetings are brought to the attention of the board.
Also, as with the UK Ireland region, frequent less formal contact is maintained with Berendsen board members.
During 2007 the board met senior management teams at both Berendsen and Sunlight.
This was achieved through site visits to Holland in May 2007 and Birmingham, UK in October 2007.
These sessions were comprehensive and gave board members detailed insight into the operations of the Berendsen and Sunlight businesses, their challenges and opportunities.
These meetings and subsequent follow-up are consistent with the free ow of information and communication between the board and the senior management teams within the group.
Similar sessions have already been scheduled for 2008.
Composition of the board During 2007, consistent with the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code, the board comprised two executive and five non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Their biographies on page 33 reect a suitable breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
Independence of the board In December 2007, the nomination committee performed a thorough review of the independence of the non-executive directors.
The committee concluded that all the non-executive directors remain independent from management and provide a strong independent element on the board, being free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
To safeguard their independence, directors are not entitled to vote on any matter in which they have a material personal interest unless the directors unanimously decide otherwise and, where necessary, directors are required to absent themselves from a meeting of the board while such a matter is being discussed.
To strengthen the independence of the non-executive directors and to enable them to discuss more freely the performance of the groups executive management, the Chairman meets formally with the non-executive directors at least once each year without the executives being present.
The independence of the directors is further supported by the work of the Company Secretary whose appointment and removal is the responsibility of the board as a whole.
The Company Secretary, who is also secretary to the audit, nomination and remuneration committees, ensures that board procedures are complied with and provides advice on corporate governance and regulatory compliance.
All directors have unfettered access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedure by which directors can, where necessary for the discharge of their duties, obtain independent professional advice at the companys expense.
John Burns has served on the board for more than nine years and as a result the board has reviewed the extent to which he remains independent.
Following this review the board are of the view that he continues to demonstrate strong independence in character and judgement, and in the manner in which he discharges his responsibilities as a director.
Consequently, the board is satisfied that, despite his length of tenure, there is no association with management that could compromise his independence and that therefore he remains independent.
As required by the 2006 Combined Code, the board has determined that any non-executive director who has served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
John Burns will therefore be subject to re-election at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
Following a formal performance evaluation, the board has concluded that his performance as non-executive director continues to be effective.
He contributes signicantly as a director through his individual skills and his considerable knowledge and experience of the group.
Directors induction and training There is a formal induction programme for all new non-executive directors covering matters such as the operations and activities of the group, the groups key financial and non-financial risks, the role of the board and the matters reserved for its own decision, and the responsibilities of the groups board committees.
Ren Schuster, who was appointed on 1st March 2007, has now completed his induction programme.
The Chairman of the board is also responsible for ensuring that all non-executive directors receive ongoing training in order that they can appropriately perform their duties.
Training needs were discussed at the non-executive directors meeting in November 2007 and, where appropriate, during the annual evaluation of each director.
Each non-executive director has confirmed that in 2007 they have kept themselves properly briefed and informed on current issues.
Board and committee evaluations In the last quarter of 2007 the board carried out a comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the board, its principal committees and each of its individual directors.
The process was led by the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
As in previous years, the views of all directors were canvassed in respect of the performance of the board as a whole and of its committees.
Each director was also asked to assess the strengths and weaknesses of his individual contribution to the boards performance.
This year, the board also engaged the services of Lintstock, an independent governance consultancy, to assist in the design and distribution of the questionnaires and to help in the collation and analysis of the results.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 35 Financial statements Investors Amongst other things, the assessment focused on the boards effectiveness in the following areas: Its contribution to the testing and development of group strategy: Its understanding of, and contribution to, the groups risk management: Its ability to directly observe and assess the performance of the business units managing directors: The quality of the relationships between the board and senior management: Its oversight of the risks and opportunities inherent in the management of group subsidiaries: and Its maintenance of a close alignment between shareholders interests and executive remuneration.
This process was then complemented by separate meetings between each director and the Chairman where feedback was discussed.
The evaluation of the Chairman himself was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director, through consultation with the other directors and the Chief Executive.
In addition to the exercise described above, the executive directors are evaluated in respect of their executive duties through a separate process whereby the Chairman and the non-executive directors assess the Chief Executive and the Chief Executive assesses the Finance Director and the Executive Board.
The full results of the board evaluation were initially discussed at the non-executive directors meeting in November 2007 and then presented to the board in December 2007.
The directors have concluded that following this comprehensive review, the board and its committees operate effectively and also consider that each director is contributing to the overall effectiveness and success of the group.
Nevertheless, in light of the evaluation, the board has identied a number of areas in which it would like to see further improvement.
These include encouraging the business units to work more closely together, particularly in procurement, developing a comprehensive senior and middle management career and training programme and furthering its knowledge of markets and key customer requirements, as well as delivery of the groups growth strategy and achieving specic free cash ow targets.
Attendance at board and committee meetings The board requires all directors to devote sufficient time to discharge their duties effectively and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, and board visits to Holland and Birmingham, the board met nine times during 2007.
One of these meetings was the strategy review meeting during August 2007.
In addition, as referred to above, the non-executive directors met without the executive directors in November 2007.
The three principal committees of the board are the remuneration committee, the audit committee and the nomination committee.
The terms of reference of these committees are set by the board and are available for inspection either on our company website www.
co. uk, or upon request from the Company Secretary.
The membership of these committees, details of which are set out on page 33, is in compliance with the provisions of the 2006 Combined Code.
The attendance of all individual directors at board and committee meetings for the year ended 31st December 2007 is detailed below.
During 2007, all directors attended all board and relevant committee meetings held.
Board and committee meetings members attendance Board Audit committee Remuneration committee Nomination committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended Executive directors I R Dye 9 9 4 4 K Quinn 9 9 Non-executive directors C R M Kemball 9 9 1144 J D Burns 99111144 P G Rogerson 9 9 3 3 5 5 4 4 R H Schuster 8 8 2 2 4 4 3 3 P H Utnegaard 9 9 3 3 5 5 4 4 Excluding non-executive directors meetings and site visits.
Only eligible to attend meetings after appointment or prior to resignation.
Role of the executive board July 2007 saw the establishment of a group level executive board.
This board sits at the apex of managerial decision making within the company.
It meets periodically and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The other members are the group Finance Director, the three Regional Managing Directors and the Company Secretary.
It has met three times since its inception.
The executive board has collective responsibility for running the groups business.
It develops the groups strategy and budget for board approval.
It recommends to the board the groups capital expenditure and investments budgets.
It monitors the financial, operational and service performance of the whole group.
It reviews the groups risk register, allocates resources across the group within plans agreed by the board, plans and has started to produce major cross-business programmes, development plans for the senior talent base and succession plans for the group.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 36 Governance Financial statements Investors Corporate governance statement continued Within the groups corporate governance framework, the executive board is empowered to approve, up to limits beyond which board approval is required, capital expenditure, disposals of xed assets, the making of investments by the group and divestments.
It is authorised to delegate these approvals, up to its own limits, to senior executives.
Report of the audit committee Composition The committee met three times during 2007.
On 1st March 2007 John Burns resigned from, and Ren Schuster was appointed to, the committee and subsequently the committee comprised Philip Rogerson committee Chairman, Ren Schuster and Per Utnegaard.
All members of the committee are non-executive directors and are considered by the board to be independent.
The Finance Director, the group Internal Audit Manager and representatives from the external auditors attend each meeting at the request of the committee Chairman.
At least once each year, the committee meets with the external auditors without executive management present.
From time to time, the committee Chairman also meets in private session with the group Internal Audit Manager without any other member of management being present.
The board considers that the committee Chairman has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge the committees duties.
In particular, Philip Rogerson is a Chartered Accountant and from 1992 to 1998 he was the Finance Director and then the Deputy Chairman of BG plc.
Role and authority The committees principal function is to enable the board to monitor the integrity of the groups financial reports and its system of internal controls: to monitor the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: and to manage the relationship with the groups external auditors.
The committees terms of reference were reviewed and approved by the board on 23rd April 2007 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Activities in 2007 During the last 12 months the committee: monitored the integrity of the companys financial statements and 2007 preliminary and interim announcements, having reviewed the significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in them: kept under review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls and risk management systems: monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal audit function: approved the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors, assessed their independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of audit processes: required that, with the exception of tax services, the committee pre-approved all non-audit services to be performed by the groups external auditors that exceeded pre-set thresholds.
In most instances, the individual threshold for any non-audit services is 50,000.
Other external accounting rms may be used for larger, non-audit services, including taxation and consultancy advice and due diligence in relation to significant acquisitions: reviewed the whistleblowing arrangements in place for staff to raise concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: and reviewed the procedures the group has adopted in order to establish that there is no relevant audit information of which the groups external auditors were unaware in accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
The committee Chairman reports on each committee meeting at the following board meeting.
Report of the remuneration committee Full details of the committees composition, role and authority and activities are set out in the report on directors remuneration on pages 38 to 41, which will be subject to an advisory vote by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 28th April 2008.
Report of the nomination committee Composition The committee met four times during 2007 and comprised Christopher Kemball committee Chairman, Philip Rogerson, Per Utnegaard, John Burns and Roger Dye.
From 1st March 2007 Ren Schuster was appointed to the committee.
Following the appointment of Ren Schuster, four of the six members of the committee are regarded by the board as independent.
Role and Authority The committee is responsible for board succession planning and makes recommendations to the board on the appointment and reappointment of all directors.
It also keeps under review the succession planning for senior executives.
The terms of reference of the nomination committee were updated and approved by the board on 23rd April 2007 and are available on the companys website or upon request from the Company Secretary.
Activities in 2007 The nomination committee concluded in 2006 that a further non-executive director should be recruited in order to strengthen the independence of the board and with specic experience in pan-European corporate management, particularly in acquisition integration.
Following agreement by the committee of the appointment specication, a rm of recruitment consultants was retained in order to assist in the search for a suitable candidate.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive, selected a short list of suitably qualied candidates from which Ren Schuster was selected by the committee.
Subsequently his selection was unanimously approved by the board.
Following the resignation of Christer Strm, the former Managing Director of the Berendsen operations, in January 2007, the committee reviewed and approved the appointments of Regional Managing Directors for Nordic Christian Ellegaard, Continent Peter Havus and UK Ireland Steve Finch.
In October 2007 the nomination committee devoted a considerable amount of time to succession planning, management career planning and training.
This was initiated by the Chief Executive presenting a detailed paper on each senior management position within the group and succession plans for each position.
Further work is now being undertaken on career planning and training.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements Governance 37 Financial statements Investors During the year the committee has also: evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the board: assessed thoroughly the extent to which current non-executive directors remain independent and, in particular, the independence of John Burns who has served on the board for more than nine years: and considered the membership of the boards sub-committees.
Combined Code compliance statement Throughout the year ended 31st December 2007 the company has been in compliance with the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Overview of systems of internal control and risk management The board has responsibility for establishing, maintaining and reviewing the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal control.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These systems of internal control are regularly reviewed by the board.
The key elements of the existing systems of internal control, which accord with the Turnbull Guidance 2005, and which operated throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, are as follows: Open culture The board considers that the group operates a risk-aware culture with an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early identication of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is quickly taken to minimise any impact on the business.
Ongoing process for risk identification, evaluation and management There is an ongoing process for the identication, evaluation and management of the most significant risks faced by the group.
This process includes the following: a dened organisation structure with appropriate delegation of authority: formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management information: a comprehensive financial review cycle, which includes a rolling three-year planning process, an annual budget approved by the board, review of monthly variances against budget and quarterly forecasting of annual performance: provision to management and the board of relevant, accurate and timely information based on reliable management information systems which are continually being improved and updated: monthly reports to the board from the Chief Executive, Finance Director and other members of the executive board, which includes the managing directors of the Nordic, Continent and UK Ireland regions: regular business unit management board meetings periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Finance Director, executive board and company board meetings at which existing, new and evolving operational, financial and other risks are discussed, and appropriate actions to manage risks are discussed, agreed and followed up: discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses identied at these meetings and, if considered necessary, their inclusion in reports to the executive board and company board: the maintenance of business unit risk registers and a Group Risk Register, the latter being regularly updated and reviewed by the board, and which sets out the most significant risks facing the group, summarised in the Business Review on pages 10 to 11, and actions being taken in mitigation: and a structured and approved programme of internal audit visits with the implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part of a continuous programme of improvement.
Whistleblowing The group has a system by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
During 2007 the system was operational throughout the group.
Due to the diversity of our workforce the system operates in 21 languages.
Procedures are in place to ensure issues raised are addressed in a condential manner.
The Company Secretary is required to report to the audit committee biannually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2007 five calls were received and appropriately responded to.
Annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of internal control The board and audit committee requested, received and reviewed reports from executive and senior management, its advisers, group internal audit and our external auditors, in order to assist the board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal controls.
Through the ongoing processes outlined above, areas for improvement in internal controls are continuously identied and action plans are devised.
Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by management and the board.
The board considers that none of the areas of improvement identied constitute a significant failing or weakness.
The board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls in accordance with the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005.
By order of the board David Lawler Company Secretary 28th February 2008
