The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 20 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Operations review continued Continent Why did we acquire Permaclean?
With the acquisition we accessed 9 plants We identified that our workwear operations and depots, which complement our existing in Germany were not of sufficient size to footprint to give us a national coverage of deliver our growth targets in Europes largest Germany and a platform for further growth.
Permaclean provided Our integration programme focused on the opportunity to acquire a well structured the merging of our salesforces as quickly company, with a good reputation for quality as possible, improved logistics and productivity and service, a good record of organic growth gains.
Management has delivered the and a strong customer portfolio.
Permaclean benefits of this acquisition and we believe is 100% focused on workwear and facilities.
there are now further opportunities to It was our priority target.
expand organically and through acquisition.
Expanding in Germany The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 21 Governance Financial statements Investors Our management team has built on the Continent Achievements in 2007 business base of Permaclean, which was Excellent first year contribution from The region significantly increased its k already well invested with a good market Permaclean, our German workwear revenue and adjusted operating profits.
position based on quality and service acquisition We improved margin following the with a strong, diversied customer portfolio.
acquisition of Permaclean in German It is also focused entirely on higher margin High organic growth maintained in Poland k workwear.
German Healthcare continues workwear and facilities, which is often not Organic growth in Holland k to be under pressure.
Margins also the case in German textile maintenance through increased market share improved in Holland and in Poland companies.
Management has delivered revenue grew at close to 20%.
k New plant opened in Warsaw the benets of the acquisition, which has given us a national footprint, through a Growth year on year 2007 2006 combination of a well planned and executed Priorities in 2008 Revenue h 17% 5% integration process and the introduction Investments in clean room facilities k of best management practice to which the Adjusted operating profit h 19% 1% in Poland and Holland new business team has responded well.
Adjusted operating margin h 15.2% 14.9% Establish a new salesforce in the Czech Permaclean contributed approximately k Republic, with a greenfield plant for 2009 21.0 million to revenue and we have seen Before exceptional items and amortisation of customer contracts and intellectual property rights.
margins build through the year, particularly Grow organically and through k in the second half, towards the levels acquisitions in German workwear Our Continent region covers the country achieved elsewhere in the group.
We operations of Germany, Austria, Holland German Healthcare profit levels maintained k believe that there are opportunities for and Poland.
In January 2008, we established further expansion organically and through a new company in the Czech Republic acquisition in workwear in what remains a and expect to commence operations towards fragmented market.
We are market leader 34 across the region as a whole, with 34 plants While the hospital market in Germany, which Number of plants and 4,400 staff.
is substantially outsourced, continues to be we operate under pressure as the hospitals themselves Revenues in our Continent region grew contract and consolidate, there are other care 17% to 191.8 million 164.2 million while sectors in the market such as elderly care and adjusted operating profit was up 19%, 4400 nursing homes which are growing and where to 29.2 million 24.5 million.
The organic Number of people the level of outsourcing is less advanced.
revenue growth delivered by our Dutch and we employ We see opportunities for growth longer Polish businesses was offset by the expected term and are positioning ourselves to address decline in German Healthcare.
these market sectors more aggressively.
Germany is our pivotal market on the On the other hand, our healthcare business Continent with revenues now exceeding in Austria, which has higher margins, did not 120 million.
We are pleased to report suffer from the same market conditions and that, following the acquisition of Permaclean grew its profits, albeit from a small base.
in workwear earlier in 2007, we have seen Our business in Holland grew 5% through adjusted operating profits and margins move organic revenue growth which, with a small ahead strongly despite the fact that our benefit from acquisitions providing an healthcare business in Germany ended the improvement in margin, was a good result.
year with lower profits and revenues.
We have seen continued good momentum in sales despite the fact that this is a very competitive market for us.
We believe we have gained market share by investing in our salesforce and by improving its efficiency.
The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 22 Statements Governance Financial statements Investors Operations review continued Continental We are pleased that approximately one-third of sales to new customers in Holland, who have not previously had a service contract, were made in the new market segments we have been targeting.
For 2008, we will invest in our clean room plant to ensure we capture the maximum opportunity in this niche, higher margin part of the business.
Our Polish business again grew revenue close to 20%.
We opened our new plant in Warsaw in the summer and, with the transfer of work from Warsaw Plant our existing two plants, we have been building We opened our new plant in Warsaw in summer up our productivity levels.
We opened a new 2007 as our third greenfield site in Poland.
Our approach in Poland is to build up production plant in Poznan in February 2008 and we for the volume gains we are making at existing sites are investing in clean room facilities in this site by putting on additional shifts.
We then transfer which will be the first such facility in Poland volume into the new plants as a base for further productivity gains.
to capture this growing opportunity.
We have identied a further two greeneld sites in Poland for further profitable expansion.
We have established a company in the Czech Republic and are currently negotiating a land purchase for a greeneld site for workwear and facilities services.
Our plan is to have this site operational early in 2009 and through 2008 we will build our salesforce and target the strong industrial base in this new member state within the European Union.
We are using experienced management from within the group to develop our operations there.
Acquisitions in the Continent region totalled 45.6 million, primarily in respect of Permaclean.
Specialist Laundries Plants are accountable for the service they We believe that our customer needs provide to customers and we are pressing are best met by specialising the service ahead with closer to the customer initiatives we provide to them from our laundries.
across the group and particularly in Holland, Hotels, healthcare and workwear services where we are extending our CL2000 are typically segregated.
concept to other parts of our operations.
Health and Safety Training, Holland Management recognise their responsibility to help employees understand, adopt and maintain safe working practices.
As part of the ongoing health and safety training programme during 2007, production employees watched training films on work posture and movement, which showed both good and bad examples.
Having seen the films, they were observed whilst working by an external health and safety specialist: and some further recommendations were made to individual employees.
This training has contributed to the maintenance of a safe working environment for our staff.
Ruud Smeets Health and Safety Co-ordinator The Davis Service Group Plc Report and Accounts 2007 Statements 23 Governance Financial statements Investors Investing in security and waste management controls very and fire protection, Berendsen seriously.
Demonstrating our commitment, The provision and maintenance of a wellsignificant fire protection and security protected and safe working environment upgrade capital expenditure has been for all our employees is particularly important.
budgeted in our Nordic and Continent Operational management at all our business regions in the three years to 2010. units take health and safety, fire, security Fire alarm system panel
