Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and, other than Mr Robertson, are independent of the investment manager, are responsible for the determination of the investment policy of the group and its overall supervision.
The directors are as follows: Christopher Hill Chairman 55.
John Robertson is a Hill is a resident of Guernsey.
He is an resident of the UK.
Mr Robertson has over 30 Associate of the Chartered Institute of Bankers years experience in investment management and was managing director of Guernsey in a variety of roles, and is currently Head of International Fund Managers Limited, part of Governance at Resolution Investment Services the Barings Financial Services Group, for 8 Limited with responsibility for the risk, years prior to its sale in 2005 to Northern Trust.
He has over 30 compliance and internal audit departments.
He is a current years experience in the field of offshore banking and fund director of several hedge funds, including Resolution World administration and is a past Chairman of the Guernsey Sector Fund Limited, which is listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.
He is Chairman of Close Fund He is also a director of Resolution International Funds plc and Management Portfolios II PCC Limited and Investec Capital Resolution Alternative Funds plc, both open ended investment Accumulator Trust Limited, both listed in London.
companies with variable capital listed on the Irish Stock Exchange.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Association of Keith Dorrian 61.
Keith Dorrian is a resident Certified Accountants.
He has over 30 years financial experience in the offshore finance industry.
Andrew Wilson is a joined Manufacturers Hanover in 1973 before resident of the UK.
He was formerly of Richard moving to First National Bank of Chicago in Ellis, Royal Insurance as chief surveyor and he 1984 and ANZ Bank Guernsey in 1989.
He joined Rugby Securities as a director in 1987. joined Bank of Bermuda, Guernsey in 1999 and was appointed He was a founder director of Rugby Estates plc Guernsey head of global fund services and managing director of in 1990 and has been chief executive officer the banks Guernsey fund administration company in 2001, since its flotation in 1994.
Rugby Estates plc was listed in the retiring in December 2003.
He is currently chairman of Babcock Official List and subsequently moved to the Alternative and Brown Public Partnerships Limited, listed on the London Investment Market of the London Stock Exchange.
Stock Exchange, and is a director of a number of funds and fund management companies including a property company listed on Euronext, Amsterdam.
Christopher Fish is a resident of Guernsey.
He recently retired as Managing Director of Close International Private Banking.
Mr Fish has over 30 years experience in offshore banking, asset management, treasury, trust services and fund administration.
Mr Fish is the non-executive Chairman of Close International Asset Management Holdings Limited and Close International Bank Holdings Limited and is Chairman of Teesland Advantage Property Income Trust Limited, a property investment company which is listed in London, and a director of other listed funds.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 14
