Report of the Directors The Directors present the report and accounts of the group for Investment Policy the period ended 31 December 2007.
The Companys investment objective is to provide ordinary shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the Results and Dividends potential for capital and income growth from investing in a The results for the period are set out in the attached accounts.
diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
The Company has paid interim dividends related to the period As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually delegated the ended 31 December 2007 as follows: management of the property portfolio, and other services, to Payment date Rate per share Resolution Investment Services Ltd, the Managers.
"First interim March 2007 1.45p Investment risks are spread through the Company and its subsidiaries the ""Group"" investing in a diversified portfolio of Second interim May 2007 0.8604p freehold and long leasehold over 60 years remaining at the time Third interim May 2007 0.4521p of acquisition UK commercial properties."
The Group intends to Fourth interim August 2007 1.3125p invest in income producing investments.
The Group will principally invest in three commercial property sectors: office, Fifth interim November 2007 1.3125p retail and industrial.
The Group has not set any maximum geographic exposures within the UK nor any maximum weighting It is the policy of the Directors to declare and pay dividends as limits in the principal property sectors.
The Directors do not therefore recommend a final dividend.
A sixth interim dividend of 1.3125p was paid on The Group is currently permitted to invest up to 15 per cent of its 29 February 2008 to shareholders on the register on total assets in indirect property funds including in other listed 15 February 2008. investment companies.
The Group is permitted to invest cash, held by it for working capital purposes and awaiting investment, Principal Activity and Status in cash deposits, gilts and money market funds.
The Company is a Guernsey company and during the period Gearing, calculated as borrowings as a percentage of the carried on business as a property investment company.
Group's gross assets, may not exceed 65 per cent.
It is the Boards current intention that borrowings will be limited to a Listing Requirements maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Groups net assets at the time of Throughout the period the Company complied and intends to borrowings.
The Board receives recommendations on gearing continue to comply with the conditions applicable to property levels from the Managers and is responsible for setting the investment companies set out in the Listing Rules.
gearing range within which the Managers may operate.
There is no gearing within the Company.
Business Review At each Board meeting, the Board receives a detailed The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall stewardship presentation from the Managers together with a comprehensive of the Company, including investment and dividend policies, analysis of the performance of the Company and compliance corporate strategy, corporate governance, and risk management.
with the investment restrictions during the reporting period.
An Biographical details of the Directors, all of whom are nonanalysis of how the portfolio was invested as at 31 December 2007 executive, can be found on page 14. is contained within the Managers Review on pages 8 to 11 and a full portfolio listing is provided on page 13.
The Companys performance in meeting its objectives is measured against key performance indicators as set out on page 16.
A review of the Companys returns during the period, the position of the Company at the end of the period, and the outlook for the coming period is contained in the Chairmans Statement and the Managers Review.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 15 Report of the Directors Continued Principal Risks and Risk Uncertainties Management of Assets and Shareholder Value The Companys assets consist of direct investments in UK As stated above, the Board has contractually delegated the commercial property.
Its principal risks are therefore related to the management of the investment portfolio to Resolution Investment commercial property market in general, but also the particular Services Ltd. circumstances of the properties in which it is invested and their The Company invests in properties which the Managers believe tenants.
More detailed explanations of these risks and the way in will generate a combination of long-term growth in income and which they are managed are contained under the headings of capital for shareholders.
Investment decisions are based on credit risk, liquidity risk and interest rate risk in note 15 to the analysis of, amongst other things, prospects for future capital accounts.
The Managers also seek to mitigate these risks growth, sector and geographic prospects, tenant covenant through continual review of the portfolio, active asset strength, lease length and initial yield.
management initiatives, and carrying out due diligence work on potential tenants before entering into new lease agreements.
All Investment risks are spread through investing in a range of of the properties in the portfolio are insured.
geographical areas and sectors, and through letting properties to low risk tenants.
A list of all the properties held as at Other risks faced by the Company include the following: 31 December 2007 is contained on page 13 and further analysis Economic - inflation or deflation, economic recessions and can be found in the Managers Review.
At each Board meeting, movements in interest rates could affect property valuations.
the Board receives a detailed presentation from the Managers together with a comprehensive analysis of the performance of the Strategic - incorrect strategy, including sector and property portfolio during the reporting period.
allocation and use of possible gearing, could all lead to poor returns for shareholders.
The Board and the Managers recognise the importance of managing the discount of share price to net asset value in Regulatory - breach of regulatory rules could lead to enhancing shareholder value.
One aspect of this involves suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Listing, marketing and, to this end, the Managers meet with current and financial penalties or a qualified audit report.
potential new shareholders, and with stock broking analysts who cover the investment company sector, on a regular basis.
In Management and control - changes that cause the addition, communication of quarterly portfolio information is management and control of the Company to be exercised in provided through the Companys website.
the United Kingdom could lead to the Company becoming liable to United Kingdom taxation on income and capital Key performance Indicators gains.
The Board uses a number of performance measures to assess Financial - inadequate controls by the Managers or third the Companys success in meeting its objectives.
The key party service providers could lead to misappropriation of performance indicators are as follows: assets.
Inappropriate accounting policies or failure to comply Net asset value total return against the Investment Property with accounting standards could lead to misreporting or Databank Balanced Monthly and Quarterly Funds Index.
Discount of share price to net asset value.
Operational - failure of the Managers accounting systems or disruption to the Managers business, or that of third party Dividend per share and dividend yield.
service providers, could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, leading to a loss of Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
These indicators for the period ended 31 December 2007 are set The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks through in the financial highlights on page 3. continual review, policy setting and enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also regularly monitors the investment environment and the management of the Companys property portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the Turnbull Guidance.
Details of the Companys internal controls are described in more detail on page 19.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 16 There are no service contracts in existence between the Directors Company and any Directors but each of the Directors was The Directors who held office during the period and their interests appointed by a letter of appointment which sets out the main in the shares of the Company as at 31 December 2007 all of terms of his appointment.
The letters of appointment of the which beneficial were: Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered As at 31 December 2007 office during business hours and for fifteen minutes prior to the 25p Ordinary Shares held Annual General Meeting and at the meeting itself.
Christopher Hill 20,000 Management Keith Dorrian 10,000 Resolution Investment Services Limited provides management services to the Company.
A summary of the contract between Christopher Fish 10,000 the Company and Resolution Investment Services Limited in John Robertson 10,000 respect of management services provided is given in note 2 to Andrew Wilson 20,000 the accounts.
The Directors, other than Mr John Robertson, have considered There has been no changes in the above interests between the investment performance of the Company and the capability 31 December 2007 and 2 April 2008. and resources of the Managers to deliver satisfactory investment performance.
It also considered the length of the notice period of The Directors are also Directors of UK Commercial Property the investment management contract and the fees payable to the Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited, the Managers, together with the standard of the other services Companys wholly owned subsidiary undertakings.
The Directors received the following emoluments in the form of Following this review, it is the Directors opinion that the fees: continuing appointment of the Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole due to the strength 24 August 2006 to and quality of the management team and the Managers 31 December 2007 commitment to the sector.
Christopher Hill 38,904 Substantial Interests in Share Capital Keith Dorrian 32,068 At 2 April 2008 the following holdings, representing more than Christopher Fish 32,068 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital, had been John Robertson 32,068 notified to the Company.
Andrew Wilson 32,068 Number of The Directors are remunerated for their services at such rate as Ordinary Shares Percentage the Directors shall determine provided that the aggregate amount Held 000s Held of such fees shall not exceed 170,000 for the financial period Phoenix and London ended 31 December 2007, and 150,000 per annum thereafter.
Assurance Limited 348,760 40.2% The fees will be reviewed annually and may be increased in line with usual market rates.
The above table includes an additional Phoenix Life Limited 309,898 35.7% one off fee of 5,000 paid to each of the Directors, in respect of additional services undertaken for the placing of 350,000,000 State Street Nominees 26,784 3.1% new 25p Ordinary Shares on 1 March 2007.
This additional fee is included within the total launch costs associated with this share issue.
Mr Robertsons directors fees are payable to his employer Resolution Investment Services Limited.
In accordance with the articles of association of the Company each of Mr C Hill, Mr K Dorrian, Mr C Fish, Mr J Robertson and Mr A Wilson retired by rotation and, being eligible, offered themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting held on 14 March 2008.
Each of the Directors was duly re-elected at the Annual General Meeting.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 17 Report of the Directors Continued The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr Christopher Fish, operates Corporate Governance within clearly defined written terms of reference which are Guernsey does not have its own corporate governance code available on request and comprises all of the Directors other than and, as a Guernsey registered company, the Company is not Mr John Robertson.
The duties of the Audit Committee in required to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual and Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June Interim Accounts: the system of internal controls: and the terms 2006 the Code.
However, it is the Companys policy to comply of appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration.
It with best practice on corporate governance that is applicable to is also the forum through which the auditors report to the Board investment companies.
of Directors and meets at least once a year.
The objectivity of the Arrangements in respect of corporate governance have therefore auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews been made by the Board, which it believes are appropriate for the terms under which the external auditors are appointed to the Company.
Except as disclosed in the following paragraph, perform non-audit services.
The objectivity and independence of the Company complied throughout the period with the provisions the auditors is safeguarded by obtaining assurances from the of the Code.
Since all the Directors are non-executive, the auditors that adequate policies and procedures exist within its provisions of the Code in respect of Directors remuneration are firm to ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the not relevant to the Company, except in so far as they relate to Company by reason of family, finance, employment, investment non-executive Directors.
Consequently there is no requirement and business relationships other than in the normal course of the for a separate Remuneration Committee.
Directors fees are business and enforcing a policy concerning the provision of nonconsidered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by audit services by the auditors which governs the types of work shareholders.
from which the additions are excluded.
The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the In view of its non-executive nature and the requirement of the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular Articles of Association that all Directors retire by rotation at least regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 371,670 for every three years, the Board considers that it is not appropriate the period ended 31 December 2007 and related principally to for the Directors to be appointed for a specified term as the two share issues, for which 352,000 was charged against recommended by provision A.
7.2 of the Code, nor for a Senior launch costs.
Notwithstanding such services, the Audit Independent Director to be appointed as recommended by Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP to be independent of provision A.
The board consists solely of non-executive Directors of which Mr During the period the performance of the Board, committees and Christopher Hill is Chairman.
All Directors, other than Mr John individual Directors were evaluated through an assessment Robertson are considered by the Board to be independent of the process, led by the Chairman.
The performance of the Chairman Companys Managers.
New Directors receive an induction from was evaluated by the other Directors.
the Managers and Secretary on joining the Board, and all Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
A them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains management agreement between the Company and its appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance.
Managers, Resolution Investment Services Limited, sets out the matters over which the Managers have authority and the limits Going Concern beyond which Board approval must be sought.
All other matters, After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the nature of the including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing, and Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the corporate governance procedures, are reserved for the approval Company has adequate resources to continue in operational of the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at least existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they quarterly and receives full information on the Companys continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant accounts.
information in advance of Board meetings.
UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 18 Environmental Policy Relations with Shareholders The Managers acquire, develop and manage properties on behalf The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places of the Company.
It is recognised that these activities have both great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The direct and indirect environmental impacts.
The Board has Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and endorsed the Managers own environmental policy, which is to the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet work in partnership with contractors, suppliers, tenants and shareholders if required.
The Annual General Meeting of the consultants to minimise those impacts, seeking continuous Company provides a forum, both formal and informal, for improvements in environmental performance and conducting shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and regular interviews.
Internal Controls The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has therefore established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed, consistent with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
Internal control procedures have been in place throughout the period and up to the date of approval of this Report, and the Board is satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and, by their nature can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Board monitors the investment performance of the Company in comparison to its stated objective and against comparable companies.
The Board also reviews the Companys activities since the previous Board meeting to ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed investment policy and approved investment guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to such policy and guidelines.
In addition, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the Secretary in respect of compliance matters and duties performed on behalf of the Company.
The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The Board has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Managers and the Secretary, including their internal audit functions and the work carried out by the Companys external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which safeguards shareholders investments and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Company is therefore considered unnecessary.
Director Meetings Attendance Summary Board of Audit Directors Committee Held Attended Held Attended C Hill 8 8 2 2 K Dorrian 8 8 2 2 C Fish 8 8 2 2 J Robertson 8 8 n a n a A Wilson 8 8 2 2 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 19 Report of the Directors Continued On the 28 August 2007 the Directors announced that it intended Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares to use this share buy back authority to purchase shares as the The Directors have authority to buy back up to 14.99 per cent of market price of a share was more than 5 per cent below the the Companys Ordinary Shares in issue as at 14 March 2008, published net asset value of a share for a continuous period of 867,126,287 Ordinary shares, and will seek annual renewal of 20 dealing days or more.
Following the publication of the interim this authority from Shareholders.
Any buy back of Ordinary financial statements in early September 2007 the Company Shares will be made subject to Guernsey law and within commenced a program of share buy backs.
The Company guidelines established from time to time by the Board which will purchased 12,873,713 Ordinary Shares of 25 pence each for a take into account the income and cash flow requirements of the total cost of 10.3 million, during the period.
These shares are Company and in accordance with the statement in relation to being held as treasury shares at the period end, see note 12. share buy backs in the Companys prospectus.
The making and timing of any buy backs will be at the absolute discretion of the As a result of the above, on the 19 December 2007 the Directors Board.
convened an Extraordinary General Meeting EGM to consider the continuation of the Company.
The resolution to approve the Purchases of Ordinary Shares will only be made through the continuation of the Company was passed with 99.76 per cent of market for cash at prices below the prevailing published net votes in favour.
asset value of an Ordinary Share as last calculated where the Directors believe such purchases will enhance shareholder value.
The Directors do not intend to convene another extraordinary Such purchases will also only be made in accordance with the general meeting to consider the continuation of the Company rules of the UK Listing Authority which provide that the price to unless the shares trade at a discount of over 5 per cent, be paid must not be more than five per cent above the average calculated as described above, for 90 dealing days or more of the middle market quotations for the Ordinary Shares for the following the first anniversary of the EGM held on 19 December 2007. five business days before the purchase is made.
Directors Recommendation The Company may retain any shares bought back as treasury The directors considered each resolution being proposed at the shares for future re-issue and re-sale or transfer or may cancel Annual General Meeting to be in the best interests of the any such shares.
During the period when the Company holds Company and its shareholders as a whole and they unanimously shares as treasury shares, the rights and obligations in respect of recommended that all shareholders vote in favour of them, as those shares may not be exercised or enforced by or against the they intended to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings of Company.
The maximum number of shares that can be held as shares which amounted in aggregate to 70,000 shares treasury shares by the Company is 10 per cent, of the aggregate representing approximately 0.01 per cent of the current issued nominal value of all issued Ordinary Shares.
Ordinary Shares held share capital of the Company.
as treasury shares will only be re-issued, re-sold or transferred at prices which are not less than the published net asset value of an Auditors Ordinary Share.
Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to It is the intention of the Directors that the share buy back continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their authority will be used to purchase Ordinary Shares subject to the re-appointment was approved at the Annual General Meeting income and cash flow requirements of the Company if the share held on 14 March 2008. price of an ordinary share is more than 5 per cent, below the published net asset value for a continuous period of 20 dealing Approved by the Board on 2 April 2008 days or more.
In the event that such discount is more than 5 per cent, for 90 dealing days or more, the Directors will convene an extraordinary general meeting to be held within three months to consider an ordinary resolution for the continuation of the Company.
Christopher W. Hill Director Christopher Fish Director UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 20
