Investment Managers Resolution Investment Services Limited RIS is a leading asset manager and currently has approximately 58 billion of assets under management.
RIS has a long history of managing commercial property and over the years has built up a high level of knowledge and experience in this asset class.
RIS has the advantage of a strong and well-resourced team that is dedicated to searching out value actively in the property sector.
The team manages a number of property portfolios, totalling around 2.9 billion.
Gary Hutcheson, Sheila Miller & Robert Boag GARY HUTCHESON BSc Dip Prop Inv.
MRICS Deputy Head of Property Investment Experience: 25 years Gary, who is the lead manager of the Company, graduated from the University of Paisley in 1983 with a degree in Land Economics qualifying as a Chartered Surveyor in 1984.
He obtained considerable experience in retail property development and investment with Norwich Union and Bredero Properties plc.
He joined Resolution Investment Services Limited in October 1991 and gained his postgraduate Diploma in Property Investment from Reading University in 1996.
ROBERT BOAG BSc MRICS Senior Asset Manager Property Investment Experience: 22 years Robert graduated from the University of Paisley in 1986 with a degree in Land Economics.
In 1987 he became a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
He has several years experience operating as property asset investment manager throughout the UK with Scottish Metropolitan and Haslemere Estates.
He joined Resolution Investment Services Limited in January 2006.
SHEILA MILLER MA Hons MSc MRICS Asset Manager Property Investment Experience: 1 year Sheila graduated from the University of Glasgow in 1996 with a Master of Arts honours degree in English Literature and Media Studies.
She then went on to study at University of Paisley where she obtained an MSc in Urban Property Appraisal in 1997.
Following on from her studies, Sheila began her career in 1997 as a Surveyor within the professional team at Jones Lang LaSalle and joined DTZ Debenham Tie Leung in 2000 as a Surveyor within the retail agency department.
Sheila joined Resolution Investment Services Limited in 2007.
She is a member of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
5 7 Chancery Lane, London, WC1 UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 7
