Company Summary The Company The limited partnerships principal business is that of an investment and property entity.
UK Commercial Property Trust Limited the Company is a closed ended, Guernsey registered investment company which Objectives was launched on 22 September 2006.
The investment objective of the Company is to provide Ordinary The Company has a single class of share in issue, which is listed Shareholders with an attractive level of income together with the on the official list and traded on the London Stock Exchange, potential for capital and income growth from investing in a and currently has no borrowing.
diversified UK commercial property portfolio.
The investment policy of the Company is set out on page 15.
The Company has an indefinite life and was incorporated on 24 August 2006.
Management At launch the Board appointed Resolution Investment Services The Group Ltd as Investment Managers.
The investment management The Group consists of the Company, its two wholly owned agreement is for a fixed initial two year period ending on subsidiaries, and a limited partnership.
22 September 2008 and, with effect from 22 September 2007, is terminable by any of the parties to it on 12 months notice.
Both subsidiaries, UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited and Further details of the management contract are provided in the UK Commercial Property GP Limited, are incorporated in Notes to the Accounts.
Guernsey and their principal businesses are that of an investment and property company.
ISA PEP Status The limited partnership, UKCPT Limited Partnership, is a The Companys shares are eligible for ISA and PEP transfers.
UK Commercial Property Holdings Limited and UK Commercial Property GP Limited have a Website partnership interest of 98.99 and 1 per cent respectively in this The Companys internet address is: www.
The remaining 0.01 per cent partnership interest is held by The Droit Purpose Trust, which is a Jersey purpose trust.
The GP is the general partner and UKCPH is a limited partner of the GLP.
Great Lodge Retail Park, Tunbridge Wells UK COMMERCIAL PROPERTY TRUST LIMITED 2
