CorpComms Awards: Best Employee Communications UNITE was commended for Best Employee Communications for the 2007 Big Blue Bus tour where senior members of the UNITE team travelled to some 16 towns and cities where we are located to meet with the local teams to communicate our strategy and to engage with our university and city stakeholders over a 10 day period.
MRS Research Excellence & Effectiveness Awards: Best Research Campaign UNITE is committed to understanding our customers and providing an experience at the Heart of Student Living.
In 2007, we were delighted to be recognised for our Customer Experience Programme in association with TNS, for Best Research Campaign at the MRS annual Research Excellence & Effectiveness Awards.
London Planning Awards 2007: Best Community Based Planning Initiative Awarded by a collaboration of the GLA, London First and RTPI UNITEs flagship scheme in Camden, Somerset Court, demonstrates a groundbreaking opportunity to develop both primary and tertiary education facilities in synergy.
Working in partnership with the London Diocesan Board for Schools, UNITE used its innovative modular construction methods to build a state of the art primary school for some 240 local children and purpose-built accommodation for 168 students studying in the area.
The award for Best Community Based Planning Initiative reflects UNITEs commitment to the community by ensuring our purpose-built student accommodation compliments the balance of the local area.
CRF Britain's Top Employers: Best Example of HR Management 2007 UNITE has been recognised along with some of the worlds leading companies as a Top Employer for 2007 by CRF.
CRFs mission is to identify the top performers in recruitment, retention, employment, strategy and leadership.
These attributes were identified within UNITEs HR Management, demonstrating the companies commitment to its people.
EG Property Marketing Awards 2007: Best Corporate Marketing UNITEs marketing team was awarded the Estates Gazette Property Marketing Award in March 2007 for Best Corporate Marketing Property Company sector.
The winning campaign was based on client retention entitled A helping hand from UNITE.
