33 The Board of Directors Geoffrey Maddrell Mark Allan Joe Lister John Tonkiss Chief Operating Officer Chairman Chief Executive Chief Financial Officer John, 40, joined UNITE in 2001 as Aged 71, Geoffrey, in addition to Mark, 35, was appointed to the role Joe, 36, joined UNITE in 2002 from General Manager of the Group's being Chairman of UNITE, is also of Chief Executive in September  where he Chairman of BuildStore Limited, 2006, having previously served as worked in the Corporate Finance off-site manufacturing facility.
John F&C UK Select Trust plc and of Chief Financial Officer for three practise.
Joe has held a variety of joined UNITE's Leadership Support Economic Lifestyle Property years.
Mark held a variety of other roles at UNITE, including Corporate Board in 2002 and subsequently Development Company Limited.
roles in the business prior to that, Finance and Investment Director was promoted to the role of Group He is also a director of Goldcrest having joined the Group in 1999. and most recently as the Managing Development Director in 2004.
In Homes plc and is founding As Chief Executive he chairs the Director of Livocity, UNITEs 2006, John was appointed Chairman of Research Autism.
Groups Leadership Support Board graduate housing business.
Managing Director of UNITE's Geoffrey has a long-standing and and has overall responsibility for the As such, Joe has in-depth Student Hospitality UK Business successful involvement in the Groups performance against its knowledge of the Groups finances and, in 2007, was made UNITE's strategic direction and expansion Customer, People, Stakeholders and investment strategy, for which, Chief Operating Officer to reflect his of businesses, with a particular and financial target, whilst as CFO, he now has overall responsibility for strategic and interest in building related continuing to drive UNITEs responsibility, as well as being tactical business operations activities.
responsible for the Finance and chairmanship of the Board until Company Secretarial functions.
the 2009 annual general meeting Joe also acts as Chairman of of the Company will be of UNITEs Project Approval Meetings.
considerable benefit to the Group.
34 Richard Walker Nicholas Porter Nigel Hall Stuart Beevor Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director, Non-Executive Director and Chairman Senior Independent Director and of the Remuneration Committee Aged 40, Richard was, until Aged 38, Nicholas Porter founded Chairman of the Audit Committee January 2008, Chief Operating UNITE in 1991 and held the Aged 51, Stuart is Managing Officer of Carphone Warehouse UK, position of Chief Executive Officer Director of Grosvenor Fund Aged 52, Nigel, who qualified as a with responsibility for the Groups until September 2006.
Under his Management Limited and a Chartered Accountant in 1980 with 750 UK stores, websites, direct leadership UNITE developed a member of the Board of Grosvenor Price Waterhouse, was Group sales and insurance services.
proven business model: established Group Limited, the international Finance Director of Arcadia Group Richard was previously Managing a new asset class: and developed a property group, which he joined in plc formerly The Burton Group plc Director of Carphone Warehouses sustainable business to capitalise 2002.
Prior to joining Grosvenor, until February 2003.
He joined the European retail business, operating on UNITEs significant market Stuart was Managing Director at Burton Group in 1984 and was in 14 countries, and UK Sales opportunities.
Nicholas, who Legal and General Property Limited, appointed to its Board in 1997, Director.
He holds a law degree recently founded The Capital having previously held a number of becoming Group Finance Director in from Nottingham University and Values Group, continues to provide roles dealing with development, November of that year.
Nigel is also trained as an accountant with focused support to the Company investment, property management Chairman of Countrywide Farmers Coopers and Lybrand.
His main in his role of Non-Executive and unitised funds at Norwich plc and a Non-Executive Director of supporting strengths are built Deputy Chairman.
Pinewood Shepperton plc and C&J Union.
Stuart brings a knowledge of around his operational expertise Clark Limited.
With his considerable property investment, property funds and 17 years of experience of experience of finance and and investor demand that uniquely having the customer at the operations in multi-site businesses, supports the Board and the heart of every decision made.
Nigel provides strong leadership of business in its role as a Cothe Audit Committee.
