Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders Business review Quoted Private Equity QPE The potential market for QPEs offering is very significant and we will take a highly-selective approach, creating value with the management teams of these companies through 3is private equity skill base, network and resources.
Business model Strategy Marketplace This new business line was established to The initial geographic focus of QPEs activity is Research undertaken by 3i has identified address a significant market opportunity to in Europe and QPE will use 3is sector resources approximately 2,300 companies with provide equity finance and added value to and geographic deal origination network to market capitalisation between 1100 million small and mid-cap quoted companies in build a view of each relevant sector and and 12 billion quoted on major European Europe.
The QPE team will aim to deliver identify potential investment candidates.
This research has also highlighted private equity value creation techniques to Investments will only be made on the basis that in 2006 there were approximately public companies without taking them of a strategic plan for each situation, which 25 public-to-private transactions of all sizes private.
A number of small and mid-cap will include some or all of the following key involving private equity funds on these quoted companies in Europe suffer from a elements: exchanges.
Therefore, the potential market lack of strategic focus or direction: are for QPEs offering, which is differentiated Governance the strengthening of boards typically relatively under-researched by the from either an activist fund or Public-toand executive management to ensure a capital markets: and frequently suffer from Private approach, is very significant.
direct connection between shareholders relatively limited liquidity in their shares, in However, QPE will take a highly-selective interests and the operational delivery some cases exacerbated by shareholders with approach to this opportunity and aims to of performance: significant holdings who may be sellers.
We invest in only eight to 12 situations during believe that the operating performance of Management and incentives the its first two years.
many such companies could be significantly enhancement of management capabilities Bruce Carnegie-Brown Managing Partner improved by applying private equity together with the introduction or techniques.
strengthening of incentive structures designed to drive sustained growth in QPE will acquire influential stakes in selected shareholder value: companies and will have flexibility in the size of its equity investment.
We will aim to avoid Value creation plan the rigorous competing on price with traditional buyout construction of strategic, operational and funds or other buyers seeking 100% financial objectives set out over a clear ownership.
As portfolio companies will remain timeline, starting with a 100-day plan and listed, existing investors will have a choice transitioning into monthly performance of whether to sell to QPE or to remain milestones: and invested, sharing in the value which may Active ownership the strategic and be created by enhancing the investee practical input required to drive earnings companies operational performance.
growth and accelerate enhanced shareholder QPEs business model is differentiated from value, which may include identifying typical buyout funds which generally require opportunities for acquisitions or disposals total ownership as a condition of any offer by the investee company.
for a public company: are typically restricted 3is track record, network, People in the planned holding period for any Programmes, sector resources and private investment: and are generally required to pay equity skill base mean that this should a significant premium over current trading be a compelling offering to many public prices in order to secure full control.
QPE will also seek to provide further value by appointing at least one of its Partners to the board.
3i Group plc 25 Report and accounts 2007
