Business review Infrastructure Our first year as a distinct business line has seen the successful launch of 3i Infrastructure Limited, and our reach extended in continental Europe, Asia and the US.
Together, these initiatives made for a good year and provide a strong base from which to build future asset growth in this rapidly-expanding market.
Business model eg PFI projects, hospitals, education, and The board of 3i Infrastructure Limited, Building on 3is experience of making government accommodation : utilities which is chaired by Peter Sedgwick, a former infrastructure investments for over eg water, gas, electricity distribution : and member of the management committee of 20 years, the Group established a distinct transportation eg roads, airports, ports, the European Investment Bank, comprises Infrastructure business line during the year.
Infrastructure assets and returns had A fifth non-executive director is Paul Waller, An example in the utilities sector was previously been reported as a part of the a member of 3is Management Committee.
Anglian Water, AWGs principal business, At 31 March 2007, 3is 46.4% shareholding, is the fourth largest Ofwat regulated including associated warrants, in 3i The objective was to facilitate the expansion of 3is business in this rapidly-growing water and waste-water company, Infrastructure Limited was valued at market internationally and also to prepare with 4.2 million water and 5.4 million 334 million.
for the launch of a listed investment vehicle, waste-water customers.
3i Infrastructure Limited is expected to publish 3i Infrastructure Limited, which is advised its first interim results in November 2007. exclusively by 3i and in which 3i Group plc Marketplace has a 46.4% stake.
Infrastructure businesses tend to be assetGross portfolio return intensive businesses providing essential The business model for the Infrastructure The Infrastructure business line generated public services over the long term, often business line is to achieve a blended return a gross portfolio return of 16% on opening on a regulated basis or with a significant through a combination of returns earned portfolio value in the year to 31 March component of revenue and costs that are on assets invested either directly by 3i or 2007.
Of the return, 12 million relates to subject to long-term contracts.
indirectly through 3i Infrastructure Limited the transfer of assets to 3i Infrastructure and advisory and performance fees earned There is a substantial market opportunity Limited and income yield on the portfolio.
from advising external funds such as for new and replacement infrastructure in A further 8.6 million unrealised profit was 3i Infrastructure Limited.
developing and more mature economies.
generated from the increase in Increasing recognition by governments of the 3i Infrastructure Limiteds share price and An annual advisory fee paid by 3i Infrastructure value that the private sector can bring to associated warrants since flotation.
Limited to 3i is based on the fair value of 3i infrastructure has also grown demand.
Infrastructure Limiteds investments at 1.5% Investment and realisations for investments when initially acquired, The combination of these factors has During the year, the Infrastructure team reducing to 1.25% for investments held for resulted in a significantly growing asset class.
made new investments of 251 million longer than five years.
A performance fee of in Osprey AWG and 6 million in T2C.
20% is earned by 3i on the total return above 3i Infrastructure Limited In addition, further drawdowns of 32 million an 8% performance hurdle at the end of a 3i Infrastructure Limited listed on 13 March 2 were made by I and Alma Mater to fund the financial period.
2007 with a market capitalisation of purchase of new assets in those funds.
3is infrastructure investments Strategy in Europe and the US are now made mainly The only disposals made were transfers of A dedicated international team of 14 through the 3i Infrastructure listed company.
assets to 3i Infrastructure Limited and proceeds investment professionals has a geographical from a partial realisation in the Alma Mater fund.
3is initial investment in 3i Infrastructure Limited focus on Europe, Asia and the US through was provided by transferring four seed assets four hubs: London: Frankfurt: Mumbai: Portfolio with a value of 234 million and investing and New York.
These investors target three In addition to the 334 million value of 91 million in cash.
Three assets, Alpha Schools, main sub sectors: social infrastructure 3is holding in 3i Infrastructure Limited Octagon Holdings and Infrastructure Investors at 31 March 2007, the Group continues to 2 I, were transferred in full 94 million.
hold direct investment in four assets not Osprey AWG was transferred in part transferred to 3i Infrastructure Limited with 140 million with the balance 111 million a value of 135 million, the largest of these remaining on the 3i balance sheet, as 3i being the retained holding in Osprey AWG d Infrastructure Limited is not permitted to hold with a value of 111 million.
more than 20% of its portfolio cost in any For further information on Infrastructure please visit individual asset.
Michael Queen Managing Partner www.
com 3i Group plc 24 Report and accounts 2007
