Board of Directors and Management Committee 12 2 3 4 567 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 3i Group plc 48 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders 1.
Michael Queen Other members of Management Committee: Chairman since 2002 and a non-executive Director since Executive Director since 1997.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee and the Growth Capital and Infrastructure.
Responsible for Company Secretary and General Counsel since 1996.
Chairman of Frontier Economics Growth Capital investment since 2005.
Joined 3i in Responsible for the Groups legal, compliance, internal Limited.
A director of BG Group plc and Carnival 1987.
From 1994 to1996 seconded to HM Treasury.
audit and company secretarial functions.
Chairman of the Corporation and plc.
A Governor of the London Business Appointed Group Financial Controller in 1996 and Corporate Responsibility Committee.
School and a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
A member of the Appointed to the Management Committee in 1996.
From 1995 to 2002 Chairman of Foreign & Colonial Management Committee and the Groups Investment Aged 57.
From 2003 to 2006 Deputy Committee since 1997.
Ceased to be Finance Director 12.
Bruce Carnegie-Brown Chairman of GKN plc.
Formerly Head of the Prime on assuming responsibility for Growth Capital Managing Partner, Quoted Private Equity.
A director of Gardens Pension Trustees of the Management Committee since joining the Limited, a corporate trustee of the 3i Group Pension 2.
Oliver Stocken Company in January 2007 and a member of the Groups Plan, and a non-executive director of Northern Rock plc.
Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Investment Committee.
Formerly CEO of Marsh Limited Member of the Financial Services Authoritys Listing since 2002 and a non-executive Director since 1999. and Head of Debt Capital Markets in Europe and Asia Authority Advisory Committee.
Past Chairman of the Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee and for JP Morgan Chase.
Past President of the Institute British Venture Capital Association.
Aged 45. of the trustees of the 3i Group Pension Plan.
A non-executive director of of the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations 7.
Danny Rosenkranz Close Brothers Group plc.
Committee and the Valuations Committee.
Chairman of Non-executive Director since 2000.
A member of the Rutland Trust plc, Home Retail Group plc, Oval Limited Audit and Compliance Committee, the Remuneration 13.
Denise Collis and Stanhope Group Holdings Limited and a director of Committee and the Nominations Committee.
A member of the Management Standard Chartered plc.
Formerly Finance Director of of Foseco plc.
Formerly Chief Executive of The BOC Committee since joining the Company in 2004.
Previously Barclays plc and a director of GUS plc and Pilkington plc.
Group plc and Chairman of Pecaso Limited.
Aged 61. employed by HSBC and Standard Chartered.
Before Aged 65. joining 3i was HR Partner at Ernst & Young.
Philip Yea Non-executive Director since 2004.
Chairman of the Managing Partner, Asia.
A member of the Management Chief Executive and executive Director since joining Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit Committee and the Groups Investment Committee since the Company in 2004.
A member of the Nominations and Compliance Committee and the Nominations re-joining the Company in 2002.
Formerly Managing Committee and the Valuations Committee.
Chairman of Weir Group plc and Scottish & Partner, Group Markets.
Previously employed by 3i from of the Groups Investment Committee since 2004.
A non-executive director of Aegon 1984 to 1996.
Formerly a Partner of Andersen and a A non-executive director of Vodafone Group plc.
UK plc and Standard Bank Group Limited.
Formerly non-executive director of Principality Building Society.
Formerly Managing Director within the private equity a non-executive director of the Financial Services Aged 50. business of Investcorp.
A former Finance Director of Authority and Bank of Scotland plc, Chief Executive Diageo plc and former non-executive director of of Morgan Grenfell Asset Management and a member 15.
Jonathan Russell HBOS plc and Manchester United PLC.
Aged 52. of the Financial Reporting Council.
A member of the Management Committee and the Groups Investment 4.
Formerly Finance Director and member of the Management Non-executive Director since 2002.
A member of Chairman of the European Private Equity and Venture Committee since joining the Company in 2005. the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Capital Association Buyout Committee.
A member of the Valuations Committee and the Groups Committee.
A director of Elkay Manufacturing and Investment Committee.
A non-executive director of John Hancock Financial Trends Fund.
Jo Taylor Cable & Wireless plc.
Formerly, Director General Finance supervisory board of Continental AG.
Formerly Chairman Managing Partner, Venture Capital.
A member of the at the Department for Constitutional Affairs, Group and Chief Executive of AT Kearney, Inc, and a director Management Committee and the Groups Investment Finance Director of Robert Fleming and Chief Operating of Maytag Corporation, Lawter International, Inc and Committee since 2005.
Chairman Officer UK of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Aged 68. of the British Venture Capital Association Venture Committee and a British Venture Capital Association 5.
A member of the Non-executive Director since September 2006.
Audit and Compliance Committee, the Remuneration A member of the Nominations Committee and the 17.
Paul Waller Committee and the Nominations Committee.
Vice Chairman, Citigroup Europe Managing Partner, Funds.
A member of the Management of Alcan, Inc and Royal Dutch Shell PLC.
Formerly Chief and a member of Citigroups Global Investment Banking Committee since 1999 and a member of the Groups Executive of Socit Gnrale fide Belgique, executive Operating Committee.
A non-executive director of Investment Committee since 1997.
Vice-President and member of the executive committee The British Land Company PLC, a member of the DTI Past Chairman of the European Private Equity and of Suez and a director of Tractebel and Fortis.
Industrial Development Advisory Board and a trustee of Venture Capital Association.
Aged 52. the UK Career Academy Foundation.
Guy Zarzavatdjian of the Regulatory Decisions Committee of the Financial Managing Partner, Growth Capital, Europe.
Aged 56. of the Management Committee since January 2007 and a member of the Groups Investment Committee since June 2006.
Managing Director, Benelux from 1999 to 2002 and Managing Director, France from 2002.
3i Group plc 49 Report and accounts 2007
