Business review Group business This review provides an overview of our main activities: principal markets: Group and business line performance: and risk management.
It also describes our key financial performance measures and our performance against them.
Introduction to the Group 3is vision and strategy are regularly reviewed Funds raised for venture capital in Europe 3i is a world leader in private equity and by the Group Board and the risk management rose almost 50% in the year to 116 billion, venture capital with five distinct business framework as set out on pages 26 to 31 according to EVCA data.
Ernst & Young and lines investing across Europe, Asia and the US.
provides the framework for identifying, Dow Jones VentureOne data shows that We invest from our own balance sheet and assessing and responding to risks in European venture capital investment also with funds that we advise or manage relation to executing that strategy and increased by 5% to 14.1 billion and that US on behalf of others.
venture capital investment increased by 8% to $26 billion in 2006, its highest level There are detailed descriptions, performance We operate in a number of distinct of investment in five years.
data and commentaries for our Buyouts, geographical and sector markets and the Growth Capital and Venture Capital business market for each of our business lines has its Although there is no single source that lines on pages 12 to 23, together with case own specific characteristics.
However, the accurately tracks the European growth studies illustrating the nature and range of environment and competitive landscape for capital market in which 3i operates, our their investment activity.
Our two new each of them is influenced by the level of own internal data suggests that there was business lines, Infrastructure and Quoted private equity funds raised and invested, a 65% increase in the amount invested to Private Equity are also described on pages 24 the strength of the capital markets and the 14.5 billion in 2006. and 25. extent of merger and acquisitions activity.
According to Asian Venture Capital Journal With the exception of Venture Capital, The Groups overall vision is to be the private statistics, the Asian markets in which 3i all of these influences were strongly positive equity firm of choice: operating on a worldoperates directly China, India, North Asia during the year increasing both activity wide scale: producing consistent marketand South East Asia saw a 50% increase and competition, especially in Buyouts.
beating returns: being acknowledged for our in investment.
partnership style: and winning through our Overall, global private equity fundraising 3i is a highly-selective investor and made unparalleled resources.
On pages 10 and 11 and investment levels were dominated by 62 investments during the year to 31 March we have set out the strategy for achieving buyouts.
We make a small number this vision, along with a summary of our year 2006 released by the European Private of investments each year across a range of progress, the key risk factors involved and Equity and Venture Capital Association sectors, regions and types of investment.
statistics relating to our performance with EVCA in March 2007 show that European Consequently, general economic conditions respect to each key element of strategy.
private equity firms raised a record 190 billion have less influence than changes occurring in 2006 2005: 172 billion and invested in specific sectors.
According to the EVCA some 79% of funds raised and 78% of that invested related to buyouts.
According tounquote, the number of mid-market buyouts in Europe increased by 17% from 2005 to 2006.
3i Group plc 08 Report and accounts 2007 Directors report Directors remuneration report Auditors report Financial statements Additional financial information Information for shareholders 3i investment 3is investments teams: in funds: Benelux Central Europe China China France India Germany Israel India Japan Italy Korea Nordic Russia Singapore United Arab Emirates Spain Switzerland UK US Our competitive advantage comes from our international network and the strength and breadth of our relationships in business.
These underpin the value that we deliver to our portfolio and to our shareholders.
Private equity thrives on change, and We employ a relatively small number of strategic shifts within economies and sectors staff an average of 765 for the year drive activity both in terms of investment for a FTSE 100 company, and they work and realisations.
3is local presence and in focused teams across 23 locations in dedicated sector-focused teams enable us to three continents in a matrix structure.
achieve competitive advantage in originating The key dimensions of this matrix are investment opportunities, assessing them business line, geography and sector, with and in managing assets.
each business line unified through common carried interest schemes and processes.
As a returns-focused business, we set clear Our professional service teams are targets for our key performance measures incentivised on Group performance.
at a Group and business line level and these are set out in detail for each business line on The high levels of staff engagement achieved pages 12 to 25. by the Group, and reported on page 11, are supported by our One room: One firm The key Group financial performance culture.
This is underpinned by a clear set of measures are: values and developed through combining 2007 2006 capabilities and knowledge, aligning interests Total return 26.8% 22.5% and by selecting the best team for the job from our internal and external resources Gross portfolio return 34.0% 24.4% around the world.
Our culture is Gearing 0% 1% performance-based and highly-collaborative Net asset value growth 193p 125p and requires continuous investment in our people and in our communications.
The key business line performance 3is values and our non-financial key measures are: performance measures are set out in our Gross portfolio return Corporate responsibility report on pages Portfolio health 40 to 47.
This report also describes our approach and performance with respect to Long-term IRRs by vintage corporate responsibility, both from the perspective of 3i as a company and 3i as an investor.
3i Group plc 09 Report and accounts 2007
