What we do At Aberdeen, asset management is all that we do, and only for third parties.
Our capabilities cover equities, fixed income and property.
We know global markets from the local level upwards: we have 1,500 staff, across 24 offices, in 19 countries.
We believe our focus, size and approach enable us to provide effective asset management and superior client service.
Our teams champion original thinking and knowledge, so investment decisions are based only on our own research.
As a group, we have the scale to provide global coverage of financial markets: yet we are small enough to focus on each and every portfolio decision.
Close-knit teams, clear investment processes and flat structures are important to us.
We look to grow our clients assets in a way that is manageable and sustainable over the longer term.
Aber Aberdeen deen Asset Asset Manag Management ement PLC PLC Ann Annual ual R Repor eport t and and A Accounts ccounts 2007 2007 5 5 What we do continued Equities The Aberdeen equity process dates from the early 1990s.
The process is continually evolving but its central tenets are an emphasis on original research, the identification of businesses that we can understand and the elimination of downside risks through price disciplines.
While it originated in Asia, our approach works equally in developed markets, since we believe that it is fundamentals that drive returns over the long term.
Equity investment process Equities breakdown Company visit note Risk Specialist equities 1.4bn North America 0.5bn controls European 1.5bn Global EAFE 3.0bn Global Emerging Asia Paci c 1 2 3 Markets 18.3bn 3.8bn Quality Aberdeen Price Portfolio Pass or fail?
universe construction Cheap or UK 5.5bn expensive t t t Potential revisit Watchlist Monitor review Total 34.0bn Active management Proprietary research Long-term focus Team approach Our aim is to add value by Our equity managers always visit Our mainstream strategies are We employ over 75 investment identifying good quality securities, companies before investing, making simple: we buy and hold, add on the professionals based globally.
defined chiefly in terms of thousands of visits annually to dips, and take profits on price runPortfolio decisions are made management and business model, existing and prospective holdings.
This reduces transaction costs collectively, and we avoid cultivating which are attractively priced.
Stock Every contact is documented in and keeps portfolios focused.
Cross-coverage of selection is the key source of equity detail.
If a security fails our screens, rarely pursue short-term returns for securities also increases objectivity alpha.
We downplay benchmarks in we will not own it, irrespective of its mainstream strategies, albeit for and lessens reliance on individuals.
portfolio construction since these index weight.
specialist portfolios, activity may be provide little clue to future more dynamic.
6 6 Aber Aberdeen deen Asset Asset Manag Management ement PLC PLC Ann Annual ual R Repor eport t and and A Accounts ccounts 2007 2007 Fixed income With the DeAM acquisition in 2005, Aberdeen inherited a fixed income process that dates back to the late 1980s.
Its core elements are: a focus on proprietary research: the identification of investment opportunities with attractive risk-reward characteristics: the combination of multiple non-correlated sources of alpha: and close risk monitoring at all stages of the decision making.
Our global client base invests in a range of local, global, specialist currency and fixed income securities.
Investment process evaluating risk at every step Fixed income breakdown 1 2 High Yield 0.5bn Unfunded 0.1bn Clients Investment teams Global Emerging Markets 1.8bn Agree your risk Idea generation in an and return unconstrained universe European 2.8bn requirements Asia Pacific 4.7bn UK 13.9bn Global 7.2bn 4 3 US 13.5bn Portfolio managers Portfolio Selection Tailored implementation Team PST with no individual discretion Risk budgeting and asset allocation Total 44.5bn Active management established an investment process emerging debt.
Our macro-driven with clients on performance Our aim is to add value by and structure which is adaptable to a investment teams interest rate objectives, guidelines and exploiting market inefficiencies wide and changing set of client and currency benefit from local benchmarks.
in the areas of relative value, requirements.
Our use of derivatives market contact with investors, credit, interest rate and currency allows us to separate sources of risk policy makers and economists.
These sources and return, and construct funded or We employ over 100 investment of added value are combined unfunded investment strategies.
Portfolio management professionals across our teams.
to meet individual client return and Our aim is to blend individual They invest within clearly risk objectives across a variety of Proprietary research and investment decisions into a fully delineated parameters with local, global and specialist idea generation diversified local, global or specialist defined reporting lines.
We have dedicated portfolio portfolio with attractive risk-return Strategies can be created for both managers and analysts in the three characteristics.
Flexibility towards constrained and unconstrained main time zones, with a particular client needs and an ability to meet mandates using small teams focused emphasis on relative value and changing market requirements, such on specialist areas.
We have credit, including high yield and as LDI, is essential.
We work closely Aber Aberdeen deen Asset Asset Manag Management ement PLC PLC Ann Annual ual R Repor eport t and and A Accounts ccounts 2007 2007 7 7 n o i t c e l e s t e s a s s R s A e e A t g n r s u t o e l i s e v a t s i c r e s e e A w t l e s m o a p t t i n n C m e a y o i s m c s i g a t t l t s o i e e o p v n m n I e n m t a t n A n a s e g s n e m e a What we do continued Property Aberdeen has two approaches to investment in property, offering direct and indirect property through separate accounts and through collective funds, including fund-offunds.
Propertys distinctive features as an asset class suit our management style, which combines active management with a rigorous investment process.
This is supported by top-class research and a thorough local understanding of the factors that drive performance.
We apply our knowledge by linking the three essential disciplines of allocation, selection and management.
Property investment process Property - AuM by region Netherlands 0.3bn UK 0.1bn France 0.6bn Denmark 0.6bn Norway 2.6b n Indirect 0.8bn Portfolio Belgium 0.9bn Finland 2.2bn Sweden 1.3bn Total fund and mandate property value 9.4bn Active management Local presence Structured investment process Risk adjusted returns We believe in active management.
Although our roots are in the Nordic The principle is to combine an This concept is central in assisting Our approach is research-led and region, we have expanded into advanced top-down approach with a insitutional investors to gain well depends on good local market Continental Europes heartland, pragmatic but structured bottom-up diversified property exposure.
understanding, including with including the UK, and lately, through approach.
The former focuses on With advanced portfolio modelling, planners and consultants.
While we our Singapore office in Asia.
We now active management, the latter on we provide an understanding of the are hands-on in portfolio modelling, have 13 offices in Europe, having managing portfolio risk beta.
risk of different property asset and property management, added London, Paris and St Petersburg investments and their place in we may also outsource day to day in the past 12 months.
We thus have multi-asset structures.
tasks in order to focus on areas an unrivalled local reach and are now where we can best add value to in a position to market effectively client strategies.
cross-border - important given the trend for clients to diversify from their domestic market.
8 8 8 Aber Aber Aberdeen deen deen Asset Asset Asset Manag Manag Management ement ement PLC PLC PLC Ann Ann Annual ual ual R R Repor epor eport t t and and and A A Accounts ccounts ccounts 2007 2007 2007 m t t l s p n e e n v o t n I i t a g s c H t d n r o i n o a l c a t i d l r e i l s p g n t s A y g e a v c i e t r a o l a F e p r p r C o l v i t a e n l y n e g & t m e t b t t r s a a o e r n a t v s r s n a d I c t i o n
