Management board The Management board was Rickard Backlund Ken Fry Gary Marshall established during 2006 as successor CEO, Aberdeen Property Investors Global Head of Technology and Head of Collective Funds to the Executive Committee, with Rickard joined Aberdeen in 2001 Operations Gary is Head of Collective Funds, responsibility for the Groups day having previously been the CEO of Ken Fry graduated from the chief executive of Aberdeen Unit to day operations.
The names and CELEXA Fastighetskapital from University of Essex with a Trust Managers Ltd and chief brief biographies of the board are 1998.
He has a masters degree in BA in Computer Science and executive of Aberdeen Asset detailed below.
Civil Engineering from The Swedish joined Aberdeen with the Management Life and Pensions Ltd. Royal Institute of Technology and acquisition of Fredericks Place He also sits on the boards of the Martin Gilbert completed a course in Business Holdings in 1989 as Group IT Groups Dublin and Luxembourg Chief Executive Administration and Managerial Manager.
He was appointed based offshore fund ranges.
Biography on page 23 Economics at Ume University.
Gary joined Aberdeen following Andrew Laing Rickard is a member of the board the acquisition of Prolific Steve Ilott Chief Operating Officer of FASTIGO, The Federation of Financial Management in 1997.
Head of Fixed Income Biography on page 23 Swedish Real Estate Employers Gary graduated with a BSc Hons Steve is head of Aberdeens and is a member of the Board in Actuarial Mathematics and Bill Rattray fixed income business globally.
of SIPA, the Scandinavian Statistics from Heriot Watt Finance Director He joined Aberdeen via the International Property Association.
University and is a qualified actuary.
Biography on page 23 acquisition of Deutsche Asset Gary Bartlett Managements London and Anne Richards Chief Executive Officer - US Philadelphia fixed income Chief Investment Officer Gary is chief executive officer of businesses in 2005.
Previously, Anne is chief investment officer our US operations and a senior Steve was head of fixed income and head of multi-asset investment.
portfolio manager on the US fixed at Deutsche Asset Management, She was chief investment officer income team.
Gary joined Aberdeen having joined the company and joint managing director via the acquisition of Deutsche in 1998. of Edinburgh Fund Managers, Asset Managements Philadelphia which was acquired by Aberdeen Rod MacRae fixed income businesses in 2005. in 2003.
Prior to joining EFM, Group Head of Risk Previously, he worked for PNC Anne worked for Merrill Lynch Rod is responsible for UK and Financial as an analyst and fixed Investment Managers.
global operational risk including income portfolio manager.
Gary Internal Audit and Regulatory Hugh Young graduated with a BA in Economics Compliance, and serves as Managing Director Asia from Bucknell University in chairman of the Group Risk Hugh is managing director of Lewisburg, Pennsylvania in 1982, Management Committee.
Aberdeen Asset Management and a MBA from Drexel University, Rod joined Aberdeen in 2003, Asia Limited, the Groups regional Philadelphia in 1989, and is a following the acquisition of HQ, and is also Group head of CFA charterholder.
He co-founded SingaporeChris Ellyatt graduated with a MA Hons in based Aberdeen Asia in 1992, having Head of Distribution Economics from the University been recruited in 1985 to manage Chris is Group Head of Distribution, of Edinburgh and is a member of Asian equities from London.
overseeing Business Development, the Institute of Chartered Hugh graduated with a BA Hons client service and marketing staff in Accountants of Scotland.
in politics from Exeter University.
He joined Aberdeen in 2002, initially based in the Singapore office before moving to London in 2003.
Chris has over 18 years experience in financial services sales and marketing, having worked previously for HSBC James Capel and BZW, focused predominantly on Asian and Emerging markets.
24 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007
