Global reach, local presence We conduct business worldwide.
British Isles Our main investment centres are in Aberdeen Head office Edinburgh London, Philadelphia and Singapore, London As our home market, we have several offices around the UK.
By AuM, 38% of our clients are domiciled in the straddling the three main financial UK, accounting for 36.5bn.
The city of Aberdeen is our headquarters, and where we situate many Group time zones.
We have a further functions including legal, group information and human resources: London is the investment centre for UK & 21 offices from where we also European equity and fixed income teams, our largest office by number of staff, and where we locate most UK client servicing and business relationship staff.
manage investments or provide Edinburgh is the investment centre for global equity, multi-asset and structured product teams, as well client servicing and reporting.
as the company secretarial teams for the UK investment trust range.
Other offices reflect longstanding businesses such as private equity and, in the case of Jersey, private client operations.
Our investment teams have flat structures, often with dual reporting, according to function, and across borders.
This encourages local decision-making, which we value, North America Fort Lauderdale but also keeps staff numbers down: Philadelphia Our Philadelphia office is our hub for North America, we employ 1,500 people worldwide.
and includes fixed income, US equity and specialist US equity teams that manage over 19.5bn of domestic investments.
It is also the base for US client servicing staff.
We have a second presence through the recently acquired US mutual fund range from Nationwide.
North American assets currently account for 20% of AuM.
Fort Lauderdale, by contrast, services our insititutional clients in South America.
Key Main investment centres Sales and distribution offices only Key property centres only 20 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Continental Europe Amsterdam Luxembourg Brussels Oslo Cologne Paris Copenhagen Stockholm Frankfurt St Petersburg Helsinki We have been developing our presence across Continental Europe, led by our expanding property division.
From its Nordic base, we have added Paris and most recently St Petersburg.
Amsterdam is a key marketing office for the Dutch pensions market and also European property clients.
The Frankfurt office was opened in January 2007 to prospect for German corporate pension fund clientele.
Luxembourg is the domicile for the Aberdeen Global fund range, a range of pooled funds that is distributed cross-border to 24 countries worldwide.
Continental Europe now accounts for 25% of Group AuM, or 23.9bn.
Middle East The Middle East is an important source of institutional funds, and we have a strong client base there which we service from London.
We currently manage over 5.9 bn of assets for institutional and sovereign wealth entities in the region.
Asia-Pacific Bangkok Singapore Hong Kong Tokyo Kuala Lumpur The Asian headquarters of the Group is in Singapore, and home to most of our Asian fund managers covering the main asset classes, as well as to substantial marketing, client servicing and administrative functions, some 130 staff in all.
Other full service offices are in Hong Kong, Kuala Lumpur and Bangkok: plus we have research and client servicing in North Asia.
Asian clients account for 4.0bn of AuM, yet Asia remains the significant equities competence for the group: regional equities account for 19% of AuM, or 18.3bn.
Australia Sydney With 50 employees and 5.5bn of assets, the Groups Sydney operation has a sizeable presence in this relatively sophisticated retirement savings market.
The acquisition of the majority of DeAMs Australian fund operations in 2007 greatly boosted our resources, which is especially important for penetration of crowded distribution channels.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21
