Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 22 Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1 3 5 8 2 1,2 Charles Irby fca Andrew Laing ma llb Donald Waters obe ca The Rt.
2,3 Chairman Age 62 Chief Operating Officer Age 55 Senior Independent Non Executive Sir Malcolm Rifkind kcmg qc Charles was appointed to the Andrew joined the Group in 1986 Director Age 69 Independent Non Executive Director Board on 1 August 1999 and with responsibility for the private Donald was appointed to the Age 61 became chairman on 14 January equity division.
He was subsequently Board on 1 February 2000.
Sir Malcolm joined the Board 2000.
He is also a director of Great appointed chief operating officer, A chartered accountant, on 1 August 2000.
He is Portland Estates plc, North Atlantic originally joining the Board in 1997 Donald is a director of James Conservative Member of Smaller Companies Investment Trust and then again on 23 January 2004.
Johnston & Co of Elgin Limited.
Parliament for Kensington and plc and QBE Insurance Group Limited Andrew graduated from Aberdeen He was formerly deputy chairman Chelsea having previously served as and a trustee and governor of King University with an MA in Politics and and chief executive of Grampian UK Defence Secretary and UK Edward VIIs Hospital, Sister Agnes.
International Relations and a degree Television plc and a director of Foreign Secretary.
Sir Malcolm is A chartered accountant, Charles in Commercial Law.
Donald is Chairman chairman of ArmorGroup spent 27 years with ING Barings practising law, Andrew entered of the Groups Audit Committee.
Sir Malcolm is Limited, specialising in corporate private equity in Edinburgh, prior to also a consultant to BHP Billiton Plc.
6 finance and is a former member of joining Aberdeen.
Andrew is a director Sir Malcolm is Chairman of the 3 Roger Cornick the Takeover Panel.
Charles is of the Groups property division and Remuneration Committee.
Independent Non Executive Director Chairman of the Groups a number of group subsidiaries.
1,3 4 Roger joined the Board on Giles Weaver fca 2 Bill Rattray ma ca 23 January 2004.
Roger was with Independent Non Executive Director Martin Gilbert ma llb lld ca Finance Director Age 49 Perpetual PLC for over 20 years, Age 61 Chief Executive Age 52 Bill joined the Group in 1985 as serving latterly as deputy chairman.
Giles was appointed to the Board Martin is a founding director and company secretary and subsequently Roger has over 30 years experience on 1 December 2000.
A chartered shareholder of the company became Group Financial Controller.
of sales and marketing in financial accountant, Giles was formerly having been appointed a director He was appointed Finance Director services and is currently a trustee managing director and chairman of on 1 July 1983.
Martin trained as a on 31 January 1991.
Prior to joining of the River and Rowing Museum.
the Murray Johnstone Group until its chartered accountant in Aberdeen the Group, he trained as a acquisition by Aberdeen in 2000.
He 7 prior to moving into investment chartered accountant with is currently chairman of Charter 1,3 Anita Frew ba hons mphil management with an Aberdeen firm Ernst & Whinney in Aberdeen and European Trust PLC, Kenmore Independent Non Executive Director of solicitors.
Martin is chairman of qualified in 1982.
Bill is a director European Industrial Fund Limited Age 50 FirstGroup plc and Chaucer of a number of group subsidiaries.
Giles is also a Anita was appointed to the Board Holdings PLC.
Martin is also a director of Anglo & Overseas PLC, on 1 October 2004.
Anita started her director of Aberdeen Asian Smaller Investec High Income Trust PLC and career at Royal Bank of Scotland Companies Investment Trust PLC, ISIS Property Trust 2 Limited.
before moving to Scottish Provident Aberdeen Asia-Pacific Income Fund, where she became head of UK Inc, Aberdeen Asia-Pacific Income Investment.
Anita then joined WPP Investment Company Limited, Group PLC as director of corporate Aberdeen Development Capital PLC, development and was an executive Aberdeen Football Club plc, Aberdeen director at Abbott Mead Vickers plc Global Income Fund, Inc, Aberdeen in 1997.
Anita is currently a Growth VCT 1 PLC, Aberdeen Growth nonexecutive director of Opportunities VCT PLC, Aberdeen City of London Investment Trust plc, Growth Opportunities VCT 2 PLC IMI plc, Northumbrian Water Limited, and Primary Health Properties PLC.
Securities Trust of Scotland PLC and Victrex PLC.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Nominations Committee 3 Member of the Remuneration Committee Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23
