DIRECTORS REPORT The Directors have pleasure in submitting the Annual Report and Accounts of the Company for the year to 31 December 2007. BUSINESS REVIEW INVESTMENT OBJECTIVE The objective of ASCoT is to achieve a net asset value total return with dividends reinvested greater than on the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies over the long term.
INVESTMENT POLICY The Company aims to achieve its objective and to diversify risk by investing in over 80 small UK quoted companies.
Small companies are those having a market capitalisation, at time of purchase, equal to or lower than the largest company in the bottom 10% of the main UK equity market or companies in the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies.
The upper market capitalisation limit to this index at 1 January 2008 the date of the last annual index rebalancing was 1,099 million, although this limit will change owing to movements in the stockmarket.
The aggregate market capitalisation of the index as at 1 January 2008 was 142 billion and includes 509 companies.
TheCompanymay, at timeof purchase, invest up to15% ofits assetsin anyone securityalthough, in practice, each investment will typically be substantially less and, at market value, represent less than 5% of the portfolio on an ongoing basis.
If any company held by ASCoT no longer falls within the denition of a small company, as dened above, its securities will become candidates for sale.
The Managers aim to keep the Company near fully invested in equities at all times and there will normally be no attempt to engage in market timing by holding high levels of liquidity.
The Companys policy towards companies quoted on the Alternative Investment Market AIM generally precludes investment except in the circumstances where either an investee company moves from the Full List to AIM so as to avoid being a forced seller or where a company quoted on AIM has committed to move from AIM to the Full List so as to enable investment before a full listing is obtained.
The Company does not invest in any unquoted securities or securities issued by investment trusts or investment companies.
The Board, in conjunction with the Managers, is responsible for determining the gearing strategy for the Company.
Gearing is used tactically in order to enhance returns when this is considered appropriate.
The Companys Articles of Association limit borrowings to 100% of Shareholders funds although the Board would anticipate any gearing to be substantially below this limit.
The Board believes that small UK quoted companies continue to provide opportunities for positive total return over the long term.
Any material changes to the Companys investment objective and policy will be subject to Shareholder approval.
A detailed analysis of the investment portfolio is contained in the Managers Report and Portfolio Information contained on pages 9 to 19.
INVESTMENT STRATEGY AND STYLE The portfolio is diversied and will normally comprise investments in over 80 individual companies.
The Managers investment style is to focus on value investing, an approach that has been developed over time that does not use any one style or sub-set of value investing.
In seeking investments, the approach will be fundamental in nature, involving regular contact with the management of prospective and existing investments, in conjunction with rigorous financial and business analysis of these companies.
The Managers recognise that different types of businesses perform better than others depending on the stage of the economic cycle and this is incorporated into the portfolio.
Therefore, the emphasis within the portfolio will reect the desire to invest in companies whose shares represent relatively attractive value within a given stockmarket environment.
The sectoral disposition of the portfolio is a result of the bottom-up stock selection process and there are no sectoral constraints, though a top-down risk assessment is undertaken regularly.
DEBT FACILITY At 31 December 2007, the Company was not geared and had no debt outstanding.
The Company does, however, have a bank debt facility of 80 million which the Company can use as gearing at any time.
22 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE STRUCTURE, GOVERNANCE AND REGULATION The Company is an investment company as dened in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and manages its affairs so as to qualify as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 Section 842.
It has a xed share capital although, subject to Shareholder approval sought annually, it may purchase its own Shares.
The Company is listed and its Shares trade on The London Stock Exchange.
Furthermore the Company is subject to the laws and regulations relating to UK listed companies.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
In common with the majority of investment trusts, the Company has no executive directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external rms to undertake the investment management, secretarial and custodial activities of the Company.
The Corporate Governance Report within this annual report contains a thorough review of the Companys stance on corporate governance.
CONTINUATION OF THE COMPANY The Company has no xed duration.
However, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 March 2008 and, if passed,   an investment trust.
If such resolution is not passed, the Directors will prepare and submit to Shareholders for approval by special resolution proposals for the unitisation or appropriate reconstruction of the Company.
In putting forward such proposals the Directors will seek, inter alia, to provide Shareholders with a means whereby they can defer any liability to capital gains tax on their investment at that time.
If these proposals are not approved, Shareholders will, within 180 days of the relevant Annual General Meeting, have the opportunity of passing an ordinary resolution requiring the Company to be wound up.
On a winding up, after meeting the liabilities of the Company, the surplus assets will be paidto the holdersof Ordinary Shares and distributedamong such holders rateably.
INVESTMENT TRUST STATUS The Company is exempt from corporation tax on capital profits, provided it complies with Section 842.
In summary, Section 842 requires that:.
the Companys revenue including dividend and interest income but excluding profits losses on sale of investments should be derived wholly or mainly from shares and securities:.
the Company must not retain in respect of each accounting period more than 15% of its income from shares and securities:.
no investment in a company may represent more than 15% by value of the Companys investment portfolio at time of purchase:.
realised profits on sale of shares and securities may not be distributed by way of a dividend: and.
the Company must not be a close company.
The Company has been approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust, under Section 842, up to 31 December 2006.
It is the opinion of the Directors that the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 each year.
MANAGEMENT Aberforth Partners LLP, a limited liability partnership, provide investment management, administration and company secretarial services to the Company.
These services can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Compensation fees would be payable in respect of this six month period only if termination were to occur sooner.
Aberforth Partners LLP receive a quarterly management fee, payable in advance, equal to 0.2% of the total net assets of the Company.
However, the total fee paid each year may be slightly higher or lower than 0.8% depending on the movements in the value of the Companys assets during the year.
The Company also pays a quarterly secretarial fee, payable in advance, which amounted to 15,469 excluding VAT per quarter during 2007.
The secretarial fee is adjusted annually in line with the Retail Prices Index and is subject to VAT which is currently irrecoverable by the Company.
23 DIRECTORS REPORT The Board considers the Companys investment management and secretarial arrangements on an ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually by the Audit and Management Engagement Committee the Committee.
The Committee specifically considers the following topics in its review: investment performance in relation to the investment policy and strategy: the continuity of personnel managing the assets and reporting to the Board: the level of service provided in terms of the accuracy and timeliness of reports to the Board: and, the frequency and quality of both verbal and written communications with Shareholders.
Following the most recent review the Board, upon the recommendation of the Committee, is of the opinion that the continued appointment of Aberforth Partners LLP as investment managers, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
CAPITAL STRUCTURE AND SHARE BUY-BACKS At 31 December 2007, the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 98,809,788 were issued and fully paid.
There were no changes in the year and no shares are held in treasury.
Subject to the requirement that purchases by the Company of its own shares will be made only at a level that enhances the net asset value NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Accordingly, it is the Boards intention to use the share purchase facility within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
At Shareholder meetings and on a show of hands, every Shareholder present in person or by proxy has one vote and, on a poll, every Shareholder present in person has one vote for each share he she holds and a proxy has one vote for every share in respect of which he she is appointed.
The deadline for proxy appointments is 48 hours before the time xed for the meeting, or any adjourned meeting.
RETURN AND DIVIDENDS The total return attributable to Shareholders for the year amounted to a loss of 84,625,000 2006 profit of 174,113,000.
The net asset value per ordinary share at 31 December 2007 was 743.87p 2006 843.37p.
Following a review of the dividend payment policy, the Board concluded that the payment of a second interim dividend, in lieu of a final dividend, allowed the dividend to be paid earlier than in previous years.
Therefore, your Board is pleased to declare a second interim dividend of 10.5p, which produces total dividends for the %.
 of 10.5p per share will be paid on 21 February 2008 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 1 February 2008.
000 000 Revenue return for the year available for dividends 18,158 Dividends in respect of the revenue available: First interim dividend of 4.70p per Ordinary Share paid 23 August 2007 4,644 Second interim dividend of 10.5p per Ordinary Share payable 21 February 2008 to Shareholders on the Register at close of business on 1 February 2008 10,375 15,019 3,139 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS TheBoard assessesthe Companys performancein meeting its objectiveagainstthe following key performance indicators: i Net asset value total return ii Share price total return iii Performance attribution iv Share price discount v Revenue and dividend position A record of these measures is shown on pages 11, 20 and 21.
In addition to the above, the Board considers the performance of the Company against its investment trust peer group.
24 DIRECTORS REPORT REVIEW OF PERFORMANCE, ACTIVITY DURING THE YEAR AND THE INVESTMENT OUTLOOK A comprehensive review can be found in the Chairmans Statement and Managers Report.
PRINCIPAL RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT TheDirectorshave  foridentifying,  thekey risks faced by the Company.
This process was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
The Board believes that the Company has a relatively low risk prole in the context of the investment trust industry.
This belief arises from the fact that the Company has a simple capital structure: invests only in small UK quoted companies: has never been exposed to derivatives and does not presently intend any such exposure: and outsources all the main operational activities to recognised, well-established rms.
Investment in small companies is generally perceived to carry more risk than investment in large companies.
While this is reasonable when comparing individual companies, it is much less so when comparing the volatility of returns from diversied portfolios of small and large companies.
The Board believes the Companys portfolio is diversied.
In addition, since returns from small and large companies are not perfectly correlated, there is an opportunity for investors to reduce risk by holding portfolios of both small and large companies together.
As the Companys investments consist of small UK quoted companies, the principal risks facing the Company are market related and include market price, interest rate, and liquidity risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note 17 to the Accounts.
Additional risks faced by the Company, together with the approach taken by the Board towards them, have been summarised as follows: i Investment objective is to achieve a net asset value total return with dividends reinvested greater than on the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies over the long term.
The performance of the investment portfolio will often not match the performance of the benchmark.
However, the Boards aim is to achieve the investment objective over the long term whilst managing risk by ensuring the investment portfolio is managed appropriately.
The Corporate Governance Report provides additional information regarding the various areas considered by the Board.
ii Investment policy a risk facing the Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection leading to underperformance relative to the benchmark.
The Managers have a clearly dened investment  portfolio.
Furthermore, performance againstthe benchmarkandthe peer group is regularly monitored by the Board.
The Company may also be affected by events or developments in the economic environment generally, for example ination or deation, recession and movements in interest rates.
iii Share price discount investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values.
iv Regulatory risk failure to comply with applicable legal and regulatory requirements could lead to suspension of the Companys share price listing, financial penalties or a qualied audit report.
Breach of Section 842 could lead to the Company being subject to capital gains tax.
The Board receives quarterly compliance reports from the Secretaries to monitor compliance with rules and regulations.
v Operational Financial risk failure of the Managers accounting systems or those of other third party service providers could lead to an inability to provide accurate reporting and monitoring, or potentially lead to the misappropriation of assets.
The Board reviews regular reports on the internal controls of the Managers and other key third party providers.
In summary, the Board regularly considers risks associated with the Company, the measures in place to monitor them and the possibility of any other risks that may arise.
25 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER MATTERS GOING CONCERN After making enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future notwithstanding the Resolution on the Companys continuance as detailed above.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
DIRECTORS The Directors who held ofce at 31 December 2007 and their interests in the Shares of the Company as at that date were as follows: Ordinary Shares Directors Nature of Interest 2007 2006 D R Shaw beneficial 37,000 25,000 H N Buchan beneficial 19,474 19,474 M L A Chiappelli beneficial 25,000 25,000 J E G Cran beneficial 28,473 27,137 Prof P R Marsh beneficial 25,000 15,000 Prof W S Nimmo beneficial 25,656 16,444 There has been no change in the beneficial or non-beneficial holdings of the Directors between 31 December 2007 and 23 January 2008.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Following ,  a deed of indemnity with each Director to cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company or costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or required to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
As stated in the separate Corporate Governance Report, the Board wishes to go beyond the minimum requirements of the Companys Articles of Association, the AIC and The Combined Code by having all Directors seek re-election every year.
Therefore, all Directors retire at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 4 March 2008.
All Directors offer themselves for re-election and biographical details for each are shown on page 7.
ELECTRONIC VOTING Your Board is again pleased to offer electronic proxy voting, including CREST voting capabilities, in connection with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
You may therefore complete the enclosed form of proxy and return it to Capita Registrars, the Companys registrar, or alternatively, you may register your vote .
, you will need to enter your name, postal code and ICV code which is given on the form of proxy.
If you are a member of CREST, you may register the appointment of a proxy by using the CREST electronic appointment service.
For further details refer to the CREST manual.
Completion of a form of proxy or the appointment of a proxy electronically will not stop you attending the meeting and voting in person should you so wish.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Purchase of Own Shares % of the Company expires at the end of the Annual General Meeting.
Resolution 11, as set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting, seeks renewal of such authority until the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
The price paid for Shares will not be less than the nominal value of 1p per Share and the maximum price shall be the higher of i 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the trading venue where the purchase is carried out.
Any Shares 26 DIRECTORS REPORT purchased under the authority will be automatically cancelled, rather than being held in treasury, thereby reducing theCompanysissued sharecapital.
Thereare nooutstandingoptions warrants tosubscribe forequity shares in the capital of the Company.
Asmentionedabove,  only at a level which enhances NAV, the principal objective of any such purchase will be to seek to sustain as low a discount between the Companys NAV and share price as seems possible.
Directors Recommendation The Directors consider each resolution being proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be in the best interests of the Company and its Shareholders as a whole and they unanimously recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of them, as they intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial shareholdings.
SUBSTANTIAL SHARE INTERESTS The Board has been informed of the following substantial interests in the voting rights of the Company, which total 98,809,788 votes, as at 23 January 2008.
Percentage Interested person of Voting Rights Held Newton Investment Management Limited 6.95 Rathbone Brothers plc 5.30 Deutsche Bank AB including Tilney Investment Management 5.25 Barclays plc including discretionary investment management 5.20 Legal & General Investment Management 4.09 CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY The Companys creditors payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Companys financial instruments comprise its investment portfolio, cash balances, overdrafts, debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial instruments are disclosed in Note 17 to the accounts.
AUDITORS Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditorsand a resolutionproposing their re-appointment will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make him aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
DONATIONS The Company did not make any political or charitable donations during the year 2006 nil.
By Order of the Board Aberforth Partners LLP, Secretaries 14 Melville Street, Edinburgh EH3 7NS 23 January 2008 27
