COMPANY SUMMARY INTRODUCTION Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc ASCoT is an Investment Trust whose shares are traded on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 31 December 2007, it is the largest trust, based on net assets, within its sub sector of UK Smaller Company Investment Trusts.
OBJECTIVE The objective of ASCoT is to achieve a net asset value total return with dividends reinvested greater than on the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies over the long term.
The Companys performance is measured against the total return of the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies.
Further details regarding the benchmark, investment policy and approach can be found in the Business Review contained in the Directors Report on pages 22 to 27.
MANAGEMENT FIRM Aberforth Partners LLP are contracted as the investment managers and secretaries to the Company.
Both of these contracts can be terminated by either party at any time by giving six months notice of termination.
Further information can be found on page 23.
Aberforth Partners LLP manage 1.9 billion invested in small UK quoted companies.
Further information on the rm is set out on page 8.
SHARE CAPITAL At 31 December 2007 the Companys authorised share capital consisted of 333,299,254 Ordinary Shares of 1p of which 98,809,788 were issued and fully paid.
There were no changes during the year.
WIND-UP DATE The Company has no xed duration.
However, in accordance with the Articles of Association, an ordinary resolution will be proposed at the 2008 Annual General Meeting and at every third subsequent Annual General Meeting that the Company continues to manage its affairs as an investment trust.
Further details are set out on page 23.
ISA STATUS The Companys Ordinary Shares are eligible for inclusion in the Stocks and Shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
PEP STATUS The Companys Ordinary Shares qualify for investment in a Personal Equity Plan and the Company intends to maintain this qualication.
AIC The Company is a member of The Association of Investment Companies AIC.
