DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE INFORMATION DIRECTORS D R Shaw, 59 CA Chairman, appointed as a director on 14 October 1994 David Shaw is Chairman and was previously Chief Executive of Bridgepoint Capital Limited formerly known as NatWest Equity Partners since 1989.
During this period and currently he also sits on the Board of a number of unlisted companies in which clients managed by Bridgepoint Capital Limited are major investors.
H N Buchan, 63 appointed 11 November 2003 and is a Member of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee Hamish Buchan is a consultant in the financial sector and is a Director of Personal Assets Trust plc, Standard Life European Private Equity Trust plc, The Scottish Investment Trust plc and is Chairman of JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
He is also a Director, and previously Chairman, of The Association of Investment Companies.
In August 2000, he became a Director of Aberforth Split Level Trust plc which was placed into members voluntary liquidation on 10 November 2003 under a scheme of reconstruction.
From 1969 until his retirement in 2000 he was an investment trust analyst with Wood Mackenzie & Co and its successor rms.
M L A Chiappelli, 63 CA appointed 17 July 2001 and is Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee Marco Chiappelli joined the regional newspaper company, Johnston Press plc, in 1974 as Company Secretary and was Finance Director from 1980 until his retiral in July 2001.
Before joining Johnston Press he was an Audit Manager with Alexander Sloan & Co.
He is currently Chairman of the Board of Governors of St Margarets School, Edinburgh,  Holdingsplc.
J E G Cran, 56 ACMA appointed 17 July 2001 and is a Member of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee Edward Cran was Chief Executive of Cattles plc, acompany involvedin the consumercredit business, until his retiral in May 2001.
He joined the Board of Cattles plc in 1990 prior to which he held various senior positions in the credit industry.
Professor P R Marsh, 60 appointed 16 July 2004 Paul Marsh is Emeritus Professor of Finance at London Business School.
Within London Business School, Paul has been Deputy Principal, Faculty Dean, Chair of the Finance area, Associate Dean Finance Programmes and an elected Governor.
Paul has advised on several public enquiries, and was previously a Director of Majedie Investments plc until 2006 and M&G Group until 1999.
Paul co-designed the FTSE 100 Index and the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index, produced for ABN AMRO at London Business School.
Professor W S Nimmo, 60 appointed 16 July 2004 Walter Nimmo was previously Chief Executive and Chairman of the Inveresk Research Group until 2004.
He founded Inveresk Clinical Research in 1988.
Currently he sits on the Board of a number of private companies.
CORPORATE INFORMATION INVESTMENT MANAGERS AND BANKERS SECRETARIES Bank of Scotland Aberforth Partners LLP 38 St Andrew Square 14 Melville Street Edinburgh EH2 2YR Edinburgh EH3 7NS Tel: 0131 220 0733 CUSTODIAN Email: enquiries@aberforth.
co. uk The Northern Trust Company Website: www.
co. uk 50 Bank Street Canary Wharf REGISTERED OFFICE AND COMPANY NUMBER London E14 5NT 14 Melville Street Edinburgh EH3 7NS AUDITORS Registered in Scotland No.
126524 Ernst & Young LLP Ten George Street REGISTRARS Edinburgh EH2 2DZ Capita Registrars Northern House SOLICITORS AND Woodsome Park SPONSORS Fenay Bridge Dickson Minto W. S. Hudderseld HD8 0LA 16 Charlotte Square Tel: 0870 162 3131 Edinburgh EH2 4DF Website: www.
com 7 ABERFORTH PARTNERS LLP INFORMATION Aberforth Partners LLP the rm act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company.
The predecessor business, Aberforth Partners, was established in 1990 to provide institutional and wholesale investors with a high level of resources focused exclusively on small UK quoted companies.
Since then funds under management have grown to 1.9 billion as at 31 December 2007.
The rm is wholly owned by seven partners five founding partners and two additional partners, all of whom are investment managers.
The seven investment managers work as a team managing the Companys portfolio on a collegiate basis.
The founding partners have been managing the portfolio since the Companys inception in December 1990.
The partners each have a personal investment in the Company.
The biographical details of the investment managers are as follows: Andrew P Bamford 41 BCom Hons, CA Andy joined Aberforth Partners in April 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Technology Hardware & Equipment: Travel & Leisure: Health Care Equipment & Services: Food Producers: and Industrial Transportation.
Previously he was with Edinburgh Fund Managers for 7 years, latterly as Deputy Head of UK Small Companies, with specic responsibility for institutional clients.
Prior to joining Edinburgh Fund Managers he was a senior investment analyst with General Accident for 2 years supporting the head of UK Smaller Companies.
Before joining General Accident, he was a Chartered Accountant with Price Waterhouse.
John M Evans 50 MA Hons John was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Automobiles & Parts: Chemicals: Construction & Materials: Household Goods: Leisure Goods: Personal Goods: Fixed Line Telecom: Electricity: Gas, Water & Multiutilities: and Mining.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where he was latterly responsible for the management of portfolios whose objectives were income and capital growth from UK equities.
Euan R Macdonald 37 BA Hons Euan joined Aberforth Partners in May 2001, became a partner in May 2004, and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Industrial Engineering and Software & Computer Services.
Previously he was with Baillie Gifford for 10 years where he managed portfolios invested in small companies both in Continental Europe and in the UK.
Richard M J Newbery 48 BA Hons Richard was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Electronic & Electrical Equipment: Beverages: Food & Drug Retailers: and General Retailers.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 9 years where he managed international portfolios for a range of clients including those with a small company specialisation.
David T M Ross 58 FCCA David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Nonlife Insurance: Life Assurance: Real Estate: and General Financial.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 22 years, the last two of which were as Managing Director.
He was a Director of US Smaller Companies Investment Trust plc and served as a member of the Executive Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
David Warnock 50 BCom Hons, CDipAF David was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas General Industrials and Support Services.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 4 years and had responsibility for the management of investment trusts whose objectives were capital and income growth from equities on a global basis.
Prior to joining Ivory & Sime, he was with 3i for 7 years in both Scotland and the USA.
Alistair J Whyte 44 Alistair was a founding partner in May 1990 and is responsible for investment research and stock selection in the following areas Aerospace & Defence: Media: Oil & Gas Producers: Oil Equipment & Services: and Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology.
Previously he was with Ivory & Sime for 11 years where latterly he managed portfolios in Asia.
Prior to that he managed portfolios with the objective of capital growth from smaller companies in the UK and internationally.
Further information on Aberforth Partners LLP and its clients is available on its website www.
