MANAGERS REPORT PERFORMANCE Following very good gains in each of the previous four years, small UK quoted companies decreased in value in 2007: the total return of ASCoTs investment benchmark, the Hoare Govett Smaller Companies Index Excluding Investment Companies HGSC XIC, was 8.3%.
Large companies proved more resilient, with the FTSE All-Share Index achieving a rise of 5.3%.
ASCoTs net asset value total return of 10.4% was below that of its benchmark.
The reasons for this under-performance are set out in the Investment Performance section below.
The 13.6 percentage point gap between the performance of large and small companies makes 2007 the worst relative year for ASCoTs asset class since 1998.
In common with that year, 2007 witnessed remarkable turmoil in the financial markets.
Back then, financial crises in emerging markets culminated in the failure of LTCM, the hedge-fund.
Within the last 12 months, we have witnessed credit and liquidity crunches that have taken place not on the periphery of the financial system but at the heart of the Western economies.
While small UK quoted companies have considerably less direct exposure than the bank-dominated large caps to fall-out from the sub-prime asco, their share prices have certainly been affected by a rising tide of risk aversion.
INVESTMENT BACKGROUND The credit crunch of 2007 cannot be dismissed as solely a phenomenon of the financial markets.
Its roots are tangled in the travails of the US housing market, which for several years had been buoyed by cheap money and the loose lending standards of sub-prime mortgages.
Indications of strain were evident at this time last year, when housing construction activity had already started to slow markedly.
However, it was only in 2007 that losses from sub-prime lending started to be felt in the credit markets.
The impact of these losses was exacerbated both by the layers of leverage inherent in the system and by a break-down in trust along the chain of financial institutions involved in the dissemination of sub-prime risks.
Trends such as securitisation meant that credit risks were not confined to the balance sheets of banks, though this is certainly not to say that the banks escaped unscathed.
Aggravating the problem was the proliferation of derivative structures such as collateralised debt obligations and structured investment vehicles that were designed to spread risk but that have ultimately complicated the identication of where liability really does lie.
Adding more uncertainty is the phasing of disclosure by the holders of the various debt instruments: the process of marking their prices to a prevailing market rate has been tortuously slow, owing partly to the difficulty of establishing a market price in the absence of willing buyers.
This uncertainty meant that pain was not confined to the riskiest tranches of sub-prime risk.
The consequent contagion ensured that prices fell and yields moved up across the spectrum of mortgage related credit risk.
Indeed, spreads expanded in other classes of debt, with the corporate bond and leveraged loan market also affected.
Compounding the Autumns fide facto monetary tightening was a breakdown in trust between the banks themselves, evident in a sharp rise in interbank rates LIBOR, which also form the basis for much corporate lending.
With much of the US economy specifically the consumer and corporate sectors facing a higher market-imposed cost of borrowing, there has been a clear risk that the turmoil in the financial markets spills back into the real economy.
This potential reexivity was evident in movements in government bond yields: 10 year US treasury yields dropped from 5% at the end of June to end the year at 4%, as expectations for real economic growth were revised downwards and the appetite for low risk assets rose.
The means of transmission from the financial sphere back into the real economy would appear to be the housing market, which had itself been inated by the dubious lending practices that fostered the sub-prime bubble.
The Case-Shiller national index shows US house prices to have fallen by 4.5% year on year in the third quarter.
Statistics abound to suggest that the US housing market has not experienced such tough conditions for 20 years.
With consumer confidence thus challenged, there has been speculation about a US recession some time in 2008.
9 MANAGERS REPORT On the other hand ination has not proved sufciently alarming to get in the way of 100 basis points of cuts in interest rates.
The US economy also has dollar weakness working in its favour.
The dollar slid by a further 10% against the euro in 2007 to bring its effective devaluation since late 2000 to 43%.
This movement represents a substantial boost to the competitiveness of US businesses, which has now started to be reected in a declining current account deficit as exports grow.
And, to the extent that a weaker consumer sector in 2008 puts pressure on imports, the current account may see further improvement.
Thus, one of the pieces would appear to be in place for a rebalancing of the global economy, which has been so reliant on the US as the consumer of last resort in recent years.
But this solution to the global imbalances puts pressure on other economies, in particular the Euro-block, which has had to shoulder further euro strength.
The UK sits somewhere in the middle, with a further appreciation against the dollar in 2007 offset by a fall of 9% against the euro.
The UK shares several of the challenges that are presently confronting the US economy, but lacks, as yet, the stimulus of a meaningful devaluation.
The British banking sector has seen its balance sheets weakened by US sub-prime losses and has also had perhaps the highest prole casualty of the credit market turmoil in Northern Rock.
While Northern Rock had limited exposure to sub-prime debt, its reliance on wholesale funding rendered it vulnerable to the credit crunch, as the credit contagion reduced the availability of funding and pushed up its cost.
As one of the more aggressive mortgage lenders in recent years, Northern Rock may also serve to highlight the vulnerability of the UK economy to the housing market.
According to the HBOS survey, UK house prices declined for three consecutive months from September to November, to bring the annual rate of growth down from 11% mid year to 5% in December.
The vulnerability to further falls is brought out by the historical context: over the last 10 years, UK house prices have risen by a cumulative 189% against 116% in the US.
Additional pressure is likely to be forthcoming in 2008, with mortgage applications down sharply and many xed rate mortgages due to reset closer to market rates.
Talk therefore abounds of a slowdown similar to that of the early 1990s.
The Bank of England has responded with a 25 basis point cut in base rates, but at 5.5% rates are still 50 basis points higher than at the start of 2007.
The scope to act has been constrained by inationary pressures.
While the rate of increase in the CPI has fallen back from the April levels that prompted a letter from Mervyn King to the Chancellor, it ended the year on the wrong side of the target 2% rate.
Oil, whose price rose by 50% over the year, has been joined by food price rises as an underlying inationary threat.
Nevertheless, the futures market, which in the mid year had been discounting interest rates of over 6.25% by June 2008, is looking for a cut of at least 25 basis points.
This may, however, prove inadequate to offset mounting pressures on the economy.
Moreover, transmission of monetary stimulus to the consumer and corporate sectors might be inhibited by the banks imperative to rebuild their balance sheets.
So, as things stand today, a repetition of 2005s solitary and quickly reversed cut in interest rates looks unlikely.
Rather a series of cuts seems more probable, though with the precise phasing influenced by the path of ination.
INVESTMENT PERFORMANCE Given the stresses in the credit markets and the impact on banks balance sheets of sub-prime losses, it is perhaps surprising that the FTSE All-Share, with its 15% weighting in the Bank sector, should have out-performed the HGSC XIC, which had no exposure to that sector.
However, offsetting this, large companies boast relatively big weightings in Oil & Gas Producers, which proved resilient in 2007, and Mining, which was spectacular as momentum built on the back of takeover speculation and Far Eastern demand for commodities.
These two sectors account for 27% of the FTSE All-Share against 4% of the HGSC XIC.
In rationalising the weakness of the HGSC XIC, divergent sector weightings can therefore prove helpful.
The other important influence must be the classic perception of smaller companies as higher risk than their larger peers, even though the experience of Northern Rock might reasonably be thought to undermine this 10 MANAGERS REPORT argument.
Nevertheless, events of 1998 suggest that small companies tend to perform relatively poorly in times of financial stress and heightened uncertainty: over the four months to the end of September 1998, the HGSC XIC fell by 26.5% but the FTSE All-Share was down by 15.5%.
Your Managers would usually expect ASCoT to fare relatively well in such circumstances of absolute declines in its benchmark index.
However, while ASCoT started the year well and was ahead of the HGSC XIC at the interim stage, the second half proved more challenging.
The following paragraphs explain ASCoTs 2.1 percentage point under-performance over 2007..
Size can be an important issue even within the confines of the HGSC XIC.
It was a negative influence in 2007 for ASCoT.
With a total return of 65%, the strongest part of the UK stockmarket since the end of 2004 has been the FTSE 250.
The corresponding gures for the FTSE All-Share and the FTSE SmallCap are 50% and 20%.
The HGSC XIC, which includes all of the FTSE SmallCap and 141 members of the FTSE 250, has thus seen a valuation gap open up between its mid cap and its small cap constituents.
For your Managers, with their value investment philosophy, this disparity represented an opportunity to recycle capital from the relatively expensive mid caps in the HGSC XIC to its smaller denizens: at the end of the year, mid caps represented 38% of ASCoTs portfolio against 67% of the HGSC XIC.
However, given the continued strong performance of the FTSE 250, this positioning has so far proved inappropriate and hindered relative returns in 2007.
Stripping out this size effect offers some reassurance about underlying stock picking.
Analysis of last years performance shows that ASCoTs mid cap holdings out-performed the mid cap component of the benchmark and that the small cap holdings out-performed the small cap component..
Consistent adherence to the value investment discipline has served ASCoT and its shareholders well over the long term.
However, the stockmarkets appetite for value waxes and wanes.
Indeed, analysis conducted by Citigroup on its universe of small and mid cap companies suggests that 2007 witnessed a return to favour of growth stocks.
This may be rationalised by rising expectations of tougher trading conditions in 2008: whereas the buoyant economy of recent years has benefited all companies, growth may be in shorter supply going forward and it can be argued that genuine growth should merit a re-rating.
Your Managers would certainly not disagree with the notion of paying up for sustainable growth.
However, consistent with their commitment to value investing, they believe that few growth companies actually live up to the expectations implicit in their often heady valuations and are as a consequence reluctant to expose ASCoTs portfolio to such situations.
Performance Attribution Analysis 12 Months to 31 December 2007 Basis Points Stock selection 349 Sector selection 170 Attributable to the portfolio of investments calculated on a mid-price basis 179 Impact of mid-price to bid-price 8 Cash 24 Management fee charged net of the VAT refund due 35 Other expenses 7 Total attribution based on bid-prices 205 Note: 100 basis points 1%.
Total attribution is the difference between the total return of the net asset value and the Benchmark Index i. e. net asset value 10.38%: Benchmark Index 8.33%: difference is 2.05% being 205 basis points.
The table above analyses ASCoTs relative performance in total return terms.
At the portfolio level, ASCoT was behind its benchmark by 179 basis points.
Within this, sector selection was positive i. e. either a higher exposure than the benchmarks to those sectors that performed well or a lower exposure to those that performed poorly.
The main feature of sector selection was the portfolios positioning in Real Estate, which was 5.3 percentage points lower than that of the benchmark at the start of the year.
This proved advantageous since Real Estate fell by 43% over 2007.
This was in marked contrast to 2006, when excitement about REITs legislation in the UK and cheap debt combined to push valuations of quoted property companies to extravagant and unsustainable levels.
Thus, while your Managers fundamental concerns about Real Estate were unhelpful in 2006, they have been fully vindicated in 2007 timing the stockmarkets mood swings is not easy.. Out-weighing the positive impact from sector selection was a weak contribution from stock selection i. e. the effect of the relative performance of the portfolios investments in a sector against that sectors benchmark return.
At work here were two issues.
The first concerns stocks that your Managers chose to own.
Within a portfolio of 100 stocks over any twelve month period, there will inevitably be several stocks that encounter trading difficulties and as a consequence experience share price falls.
Last year was no exception.
Two of the larger impacts came from companies that felt the indirect effects of the credit crunch.
Weaker than expected profits took these companies into breach of their banking covenants.
A year earlier, the banks and therefore the stockmarket may have been more forgiving but, given the pressure on the banks own balance sheets, a more severe reaction was experienced.
However, the portfolio as a whole retains the bias, noted in the interim report, to companies with strong balance sheets, positioning that your Managers believe will prove assistive in the coming year.
The second issue affecting stock selection were the stocks that were not held.
Last year the HGSC XIC was buoyed by strong performances from an unusually narrow band of stocks.
The twenty companies that made the largest positive contributions to the benchmarks performance enjoyed a remarkable average total return of 60%.
Without these companies, the HGSC XIC would have been down by 14% rather than the actual 8.3%.
However, only five of these companies had valuations that were consistent with your Managers value investment style.
The rest were companies that in many cases had strong underlying businesses but whose share prices had, in general, acquired a momentum of their own.
Indeed, of the five companies held, two were sold during the year as they were re-rated to levels that your Managers considered unsustainable..
Despite the travails of the credit market, fide-equitisation, a term that describes the trend of recent years to replace equity nancing with debt nancing, remained a feature of the UK stockmarket in 2007.
Within the large company world, fide-equitisation had been dominated by the share buy-backs of giants such as BP, but in 2007 large companies also experienced an increase in M&A activity.
Most notably, private equity felt sufciently confident to acquire Alliance Boots, although the transaction was completed before the Autumns deterioration in the credit markets.
However, given the sclerosis in the debt markets, this deal probably marked the high-point of private equitys ambition at least for the time being.
That said, deals within the small cap universe should be more digestible by private equity.
Trade buyers, with the promise of synergies to offset higher borrowing costs, remained active through the year.
In total, 38 companies within the HGSC XIC were acquired in 2007, down from 52 in the previous year, but this should be viewed in the context of a considerably more uncertain period for financial markets.
ASCoT itself benefited from the completion of five deals within its portfolio.
On top of these, three other holdings at the end of the year had received bids and a further holding had been sold after the announcement but before the completion of the bid process.
Your Managers take comfort from the continuing levels of corporate activity over the years corporate transactions have proved a fruitful means of value realisation for ASCoTs portfolio, especially when the stockmarkets appetite for small companies wanes.
12 MANAGERS REPORT Last year was again good for dividends, a somewhat less exciting form of fide-equitisation, though nevertheless important for equity returns over the longer term.
Of ASCoTs 100 holdings at the year end, it was the policy of 21 not to pay a dividend, while another six had only started paying a dividend in 2007, rendering year on year comparisons meaningless.
Of the remaining 73, three cut their dividends, a further eight held them unchanged and 62 reported increases.
The median company within the 73 raised its dividend payment by 10%.
This rate of growth is considerably ahead of that achieved by UK equities over the longer term and hints at the confidence with which management teams view their business prospects in 2008, notwithstanding the likelihood of greater macro economic challenges.
It should be noted that the median gure does not necessarily reect ASCoTs actual receipts, since the portfolio is actively managed and a specic rate of dividend growth is not targeted.
INVESTMENT OUTLOOK Investors in small UK quoted companies are confronted by a conundrum.
Company results reported in 2007 were in general good and management teams to judge by their outlook statements, their purchases of shares and dividend increases tend towards optimism about the year ahead.
On the other hand, the unresolved turmoil of the credit markets combines with deteriorating fundamentals in the wider economy to cast doubt on this rosy outcome.
Given the pressures on the housing market, a so far minor currency stimulus compared with that of the US, and the relatively recent monetary response by the Bank of England that will take some months to lter through to the economy, it would seem prudent to anticipate a slowdown.
This, though, need not mean outright recession, with a period of subnormal economic growth perhaps more likely.
Such a scenario would clearly pose difficulties for the many retailers and building companies within the HGSC XIC that are reliant on the fortunes of the domestic economy.
Large companies, however, face their own challenges, with tremendous uncertainty still hanging over the banking sector.
On the basis of historic PE ratios, small companies have moved to a 3% discount to their larger peers, having begun the year at a 29% premium.
Adjustment for the divergent sector exposures noted earlier would imply a larger discount.
An element of this erosion was due to the under-performance of small companies.
However, also at work was a superior rate of earnings growth from small companies, one of the core attractions of the asset class.
They are presently expected to generate a superior rate of growth again in 2008.
This is plausible, though the outcome will inevitably be influenced by the fortunes of the banks.
31 December 2007 31 December 2006 Characteristics ASCoT Benchmark ASCoT Benchmark Number of Companies 100 509 113 505 Weighted Average Market Capitalisation 439m 577m 450m 570m Price Earnings Ratio Historic 13.1x 11.7x 18.9x 18.5x Net Dividend Yield Historic 2.6% 2.9% 2.2% 2.0% Dividend Cover Historic 2.9x 2.9x 2.4x 2.8x The table above shows that, on the basis of historic PE ratios, ASCoTs portfolio was valued on a premium to the benchmark at the year end.
This is not without precedent, having occurred at four previous year ends over ASCoTs lifetime.
At work is your Managers caution about a probable deterioration in trading conditions during 2008.
This affects the aggregate PE of the portfolio in two ways.
First, the portfolio has been biased towards companies with strong balance sheets, often with net cash: 38 of the 100 companies in the portfolio at the year end had net cash on their balance sheets.
Given the comparatively low return available from cash, this strategy inates the stated average PE ratio of the portfolio.
Second, your Managers have chosen to avoid businesses in several sectors whose profitability is particularly exposed to the economic cycle.
The stockmarket tends to value such companies on low multiples of historic earnings, in anticipation of a drop in future earnings.
