44 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report and Share capital the audited financial statements for the year Other than the holdings of the Directors as ended 31 December 2007. disclosed in the remuneration report, so far as the Directors are aware, or have been notified Business review pursuant to section 198 of the Companies Act The Company is the holding Company for the 1985, the following shareholders have interests Admiral Group of companies.
The Groups in 3% or more of the ordinary share capital of the Company at 4 March 2008: principal activity continues to be the selling and administration of private motor insurance and related products.
Number of shares % The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business review, as required by Section Munich Re 39,579,400 15.07% 234 ZZB of the Companies Act 1985, and which should be treated as forming part of Newton Investment Managers 15,032,472 5.72% this report by reference are included in the following sections of the annual report: Fidelity 13,465,622 5.13% BlackRock Inc 13,019,317 4.96% Chairmans statement.
Capital Group 12,766.870 4.86% Chief Executives statement.
Management 12,361,744 4.71% Principle risks and uncertainties as contained Legal & General in note 18 Group Plc 7,950,924 3.03% Corporate responsibility report.
Financial Instruments The objectives and policies for managing risks Group results and dividends The profit for the year, after tax but before in relation to financial instruments held by the dividends, amounted to 127.4m 2006: Group are set out in note 18 to the financial 103.7m.
The Directors declared and paid dividends of 116.0m during 2007 2006: 70.1m refer to Directors and their interests note 14 for further details.
The present Directors of the Company are shown on the inside cover of this report, The Directors are proposing a final dividend of whilst Directors interests in the share 60.9m 23.2p per share, payable on 7th May capital of the Company are set out in the 2008. remuneration report.
Charitable and political donations During the year the Group donated 87,000 2006: 38,000 to various local and national charities.
The Group has never made political donations.
Refer to the corporate responsibility report for further detail.
ADMIRAL GROUP plc 45 Employee policies pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Detailed information on the Groups Financial Services Authority whereby certain employment practices is set out in the employees of the Company require the Corporate responsibility report.
approval of the Company to deal in the Company's securities.
The Group purchases appropriate liability insurance for all staff and Directors.
The Company has not purchased any of its own shares during the period.
Creditor payment policy There are no agreements between the It is the policy of the Group to pay all Company and its Directors or employees purchase invoices by their due date, and providing for compensation for loss of office appropriate quality measures are in place to or employment whether through resignation, monitor and encourage this.
At the end of the purported redundancy or otherwise that year outstanding invoices represented 15 days occurs because of a takeover bid.
There are a number of agreements that alter Additional information for or terminate upon a change of control of the shareholders Company following a takeover bid, such as Where not provided previously in this commercial contracts.
None is considered Directors' Report, the following provides to be significant in terms of their impact on the additional information required for the business of the Group as a whole except shareholders as a result of the implementation for the long-term co-insurance agreement of the Takeovers Directive into UK law.
in place with Great Lakes Resinsurance UK Plc.
Details relating to this agreement are At 31 December 2007, the Company's issued contained in the Financial Review.
share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the Power to issue shares share capital and shares issued during the year At the last annual general meeting, held on 16 can be found in note 25.
May 2007, authority was given to the Directors to allot unissued relevant securities in the On a show of hands at a general meeting of Company up to a maximum of an amount the Company every holder of shares present equivalent to one third of the shares in issue.
in person and entitled to vote shall have one This authority expires on the date of the vote and on a poll, every member present in annual general meeting to be held on 29 April person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall 2008 and the Directors will seek to renew this have one vote for every ordinary share held.
authority for the following year.
The notice of the general meeting specifies deadlines for exercising voting rights either A further special resolution passed at that by proxy notice or present in person or by meeting granted authority to the Directors to proxy in relation to resolutions to be passed at allot equity securities in the Company for cash, general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted without regard to the pre-emption provisions and the numbers for, against or withheld in of the Companies Act 1985.
This authority relation to each resolution are announced at also expires on the date of the annual general the annual general meeting and published on meeting to be held on 29 April 2008 and the the Company's website after the meeting.
Directors will seek to renew this authority for the following year.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws and: Financial statements 43 - 94 46 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Appointments of Directors Directors responsibilities The Companys Articles of Association the The Directors are responsible for preparing Articles give the Directors power to appoint the Annual Report and the Group and Parent and replace Directors.
Under the terms of Company financial statements, in accordance reference of the Nominations Committee, any with applicable law and regulations.
appointment must be recommended by the Nominations Committee for approval by the Company law requires the Directors to Board of Directors.
The Articles also require prepare Group and Parent Company financial Directors to retire and submit themselves for statements for each financial year.
Under election at the first annual general meeting that law they are required to prepare the following appointment and all Directors who Group financial statements in accordance held office at the time of the two preceding with International Financial Reporting annual general meeting, to submit themselves Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU and for re-election.
applicable law and have elected to prepare the Parent Company financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting Standards Articles of Association and applicable law UK Generally Accepted The Articles may only be amended by special Accounting Practice.
The Group financial statements are required Power of the Directors by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to The Directors are responsible for managing present fairly the financial position and the business of the Company and may performance of the Group: the Companies exercise all powers of the Company subject Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial to the provisions of relevant statutes, to any statements that references in the relevant directions given by special resolution and to part of that Act to financial statements giving the Companys Memorandum and Articles.
a true and fair view are references to their The Articles for example, contain specific achieving a fair presentation.
provisions and restrictions concerning the Companys power to borrow money.
Powers The Parent Company financial statements are relating to the issuing of new shares are also required by law to give a true and fair view of included in the Articles and such authorities the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
are renewed by shareholders at the annual general meeting each year.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial statements, the Directors Annual General Meeting are required to: It is proposed that the next AGM be held at Cardiff City Hall, Cathays Park, Cardiff select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently CF10 3ND on Tuesday 29 April 2008 at 2.00pm, notice of which will be sent to shareholders make judgements and estimates that are with the Annual Report.
reasonable and prudent for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business ADMIRAL GROUP plc 47 The Directors are responsible for keeping Auditor proper accounting records that disclose The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, has with reasonable accuracy at any time the indicated willingness to continue in office and financial position of the Parent Company resolutions to reappoint it and to authorise and enable them to ensure that its financial the Directors to fix its remuneration will be statements comply with the Companies Act proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group By order of the Board, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Stuart Clarke Under applicable law and regulations, the Company Secretary Directors are also responsible for preparing 3 March 2008 a Directors report, Directors remuneration report and Corporate governance statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
