qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 08:46 Page 10 Directors Report Business Review 10 Our strategy Our strategy BG Group is a major integrated gas company with a record of delivering strong growth by BG Group has already identifying and focusing on specic, high secured within its portfolio value markets and securing competitively priced resources to connect to those markets.
the opportunities to This strategy remains fundamentally deliver another decade unchanged because it has proven to be robust of strong growth.
to developments in the business environment and it continues to deliver value.
Frank Chapman Chief Executive BG Group combines a deep understanding of global gas markets with a track record of nding and commercialising reserves.
The Group has the people and skills to capture Our strategy 1 value at any point in the gas value chain, from reservoir right through to burner-tip.
We aim to build enduring relationships with key stakeholders by seeking to align the Groups interests with their objectives and priorities.
This approach enables the Group to respond INTEGRATED GAS MAJOR to market trends and to target opportunities where value can be created.
Portfolio for growth CONNECTING TO SECURING COMPETITIVELY BG Groups strong growth is underpinned by assets already onstream which can sustain HIGH VALUE MARKETS PRICED RESOURCES a rm level of output over a long timeframe.
This foundation enables new and existing Build and access markets Equity reserves opportunities to contribute directly to net Serve customers Contracted resources new growth rather than simply offsetting the decline of legacy assets.
Exploration and Production E&P has assets SKILLS TO SUCCEED ACROSS THE GAS CHAIN that give the Group a strong base for future volume growth.
Assets that were already onstream in 2006 are expected to decline by only around 1% per annum out to 2015.
BG Group has built a diversied portfolio that now includes eight This prole includes rm plans for expansion, core countries of operation: Brazil, Egypt, India, Kazakhstan, which present a signicantly lower risk than developments in new settings.
In the longer Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, the UK and the USA.
Three further term, the Group aims to sustain strong countries, Nigeria, Norway and Oman, have the potential to organic growth through the successful become core, whilst other countries, including those recently exploration and development of its diverse hydrocarbon resource base.
entered, such as Australia, offer potential for future growth.
BG Group has built a durable Liqueed Natural Gas LNG portfolio of supply and market access that benets from longevity, a low cost structure and global exibility.
The Groups existing liquefaction facilities, regasication arrangements and long-term offtake agreements extend out beyond 2020.
Additional value is delivered through a combination of exible supply contracts, www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW BG061 p10-13 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 08:46 Page 11 11 Our strategy Future prospects 1 2 With the skills to capture value at any BG Group has a strategy that has proven point in the gas value chain, BG Group to be robust to changes in the business is well-positioned to identify high value environment.
With its broad and deep markets and secure competitively priced skill base, the Group has built a diversied, resources to connect to those markets.
distinctive, long-life portfolio and secured This integrated approach has enabled the opportunities to meet its ambition of the Group to deliver a decade of growth.
delivering another decade of growth.
access to multiple markets around the world, control of shipping, low cost infrastructure Success in E&P and the Groups global marketing expertise.
In the downstream, BG Group continues to grow successful Transmission and Distribution T&D positions in the developing markets of Brazil and India which complement the development of upstream businesses in these countries.
More recently, BG Group has expanded its Power Generation business into the USA.
This is a focused move that strengthens the integrated gas strategy downstream of the LNG regasication terminals and is aimed at maximising the value captured from BG Groups LNG supplies owing into the worlds largest energy market.
BG Groups growth is driven in large part seismic were acquired, spread over surveys Taken together, the Groups portfolio, by sustained success in Exploration and in ten countries.
encompassing all business segments, can Production.
Excluding discoveries 100% sustain output over a long period purely on In 2007, the Group added around 2 billion operated by National Oil Companies a the basis of assets already onstream and boe to its reserves and resources base, a NOCs, over the last ten years, the Group their associated expansions.
With the 25% increase through the year.
The reserves has been involved in five of the 15 largest a development of new opportunities, this and resources base has increased by 42% discoveries in the world.
portfolio will enable the Group to sustain over the last two years, and now totals growth over the next decade.
2007 was no exception, with an extensive more than 10 billion boe.
exploration programme of drilling and Business environment In aggregate, BG Group now has 46 years seismic activity.
The Group completed a With this strategy and portfolio, BG Group of reserves and resources potential 20 wells, yielding 12 successes, including is positioned positively to respond to key at 2007 production rates, spread across Tupi Sul and Carioca in Brazil, Jasmine trends in the business environment.
a variety of geographical areas and North Terrace in the UK, six wells in plays, within existing operations and Oil and gas prices remain high and may Thailand, and a well on Huacaya in Bolivia.
well have moved to a level which represents Around 10 500 square kilometres of 3D a long-term structural shift.
This enhances seismic and 14 500 line kilometres of 2D the Groups revenue streams and is accompanied by a high rate of conversion For more information visit of price to operating cash ow.
com investors the Group to grow and, at the same time, to continue to increase dividends.
In response, BG Group However, high prices have also driven continues to seek to understand governments increases in costs and project cycle times.
In aims, and, where possible, to align the Groups the face of these trends, BG Groups existing objectives with theirs by bringing an integrated low cost asset base is economically robust approach to realising governments upstream over a wide range of prices and costs.
Demand for LNG has continued to outpace Resource renewal has become strategically the growth in supply, resulting in market important to many in the industry.
BG Group tightness across the industry, and this has has continued to increase its E&P resource enhanced the value of the Groups large, base and is rmly focused on actively low cost and exible supply portfolio.
exploiting this through the delivery of its Meanwhile, governments in resource rich exploration strategy.
countries are increasingly focused on balancing their domestic priorities against the value a For an explanation of these terms, refer to page 125.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BG061 p10-13 vAW.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 08:46 Page 12 Directors Report Business Review 12 Our strategy continued Success in LNG Future prospects 2 BG Group has built a portfolio of long-life assets able to sustain existing levels of performance well into the next decade.
Development activity is focused on enhancing and building new value around these assets whilst also progressing new and existing growth opportunities.
Building core positions Eight countries now form the core of BG Groups portfolio, namely Brazil, Egypt, India, Kazakhstan, Trinidad and Tobago, Tunisia, the UK and the USA.
BG Group has built these significant operations largely BG Group is strongly positioned in help ensure third-party volumes continue through organic growth and by carefully LNG, having established a competitive to be attracted to its facilities under the targeting opportunities with enduring portfolio of assets, largely ahead of right market conditions.
The Group has also the current inationary cost cycle.
The This business model enables the Group developed a diverse range of skills that durability of this competitive, low cost to serve customers in high value markets enable it to compete in onshore and offshore position is supported by the longevity around the world.
For example, in 2007, developments, including conventional of the Groups assets, with commercial BG Group sold cargoes to nine countries environments, deep water, carbonates arrangements and supply agreements and marketed about 50% of all Atlantic and tertiary deltas, high pressure high which extend to 2020 and beyond.
Basin cargoes sent to Asia.
BG Group also temperature HPHT and tight gas plays.
In addition, the Group has a goal to build supplied 55% of the LNG entering the USA Legacy downstream skills have been deployed a supply portfolio of at least 20 mtpa by during 2007. into growing distribution businesses in the middle of the next decade and has developing economies, whilst its technical, already identied a number of expansion commercial, marketing and shipping skills opportunities.
The Groups deep have been deployed to establish the Groups understanding of global LNG markets and global LNG business.
relationships with LNG producers should The combination of this broad and deep skill base, and a portfolio which includes For more information visit projects and opportunities at various stages www.
com investors of development, has the potential to support BG Groups growth ambitions well into the next decade.
For example, at Karachaganak, in Kazakhstan, the fourth stabilisation train is scheduled for start-up in 2009 and is designed to increase export capacity to 10.3 mtpa and gas sales to 9 bcma.
Front-end engineering and design FEED on the significant Phase III project is more than 50% complete and sanction is planned for this year.
The goal is to develop 2.4 billion barrels of additional reserves, targeting first production in 2012.
Brazil demonstrates how the Groups strategy of adding new assets in core countries can enhance growth potential.
qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 08:46 Page 13 13 distribution business continues to deliver development in Europe and South America will In Australia, the Group also recently strong growth at the heart of one of the also add to the Groups global market options.
announced an alliance with QGC, a leading fastest growing economies in the world.
In coal seam gas company with significant Potential material growth areas the upstream, the appraisal success on the assets in the Surat Basin.
This is a proven In Nigeria, BG Group is building an offshore Tupi discovery in the pre-salt carbonate play, hydrocarbon province with substantial exploration portfolio.
The Group currently and exploration success on Carioca, offer the reserves potential.
QGC and BG Group holds licences in two offshore blocks and prospect of a material enhancement in the intend jointly to develop domestic market has signed two separate farm-in agreements Groups future growth prospects.
opportunities and a new LNG liquefaction for which it is currently seeking government plant on the east coast of Australia, and to In the UK, the development of multiple approval.
In addition, work is currently co-operate in further upstream development.
opportunities, such as Jasmine, via the underway to optimise the development Groups existing infrastructure, aims to of the four-train Olokola LNG OKLNG A focus on exploration extend the Groups UK production plateau liquefaction project, in which BG Group Replacing production and accessing new of 50 mmboe to 2012.
With exploration and owns a 14.25% shareholding.
opportunities remains a significant challenge enhancement of existing assets, including for the industry.
However, BG Group has Since entering Oman in 2006, progress the Buzzard eld, there is potential to extend experienced notable success in this area.
has been made on Abu Butabul with this plateau to 2015.
The Groups exploration programme added the acquisition of 3D seismic and the over 2 billion boe to total reserves and Production from the Panna Mukta and commencement of appraisal drilling a resources in 2007.
The most significant Tapti elds in India has doubled since the operations.
The Group has drilled the first a additions were to un-booked resources Group took over technical operations five well in an appraisal programme that it a and to the Groups risked exploration, years ago.
Panna has been a notable success expects to consist of at least eight wells.
which now stands at around 3.4 billion with developments and an extensive inll In Norway, the Group has built a portfolio boe of risked exploration resources.
drilling campaign increasing production by of 22 E&P licences, 14 of which are as about 25% in 2007.
With around 900 mmboe During 2007, seismic surveys were completed operator.
During 2008, a programme of hydrocarbons in place, the Mukta eld also in Algeria, Brazil, Canada, China, Libya, of five wells is planned, consisting of four shows considerable upside potential, and in Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Trinidad and Tobago exploration wells and an appraisal well time, the Group hopes to repeat the Panna and the UK.
A key objective for the Group on the Bream discovery.
in 2008 will be to rm-up further proved a Other countries in the portfolio offering and probable potential within the portfolio.
In Tunisia, the development of the Miskar potential for further growth range from As a consequence, the Group plans to drill eld continues and the Groups second established operations in countries such more than 40 wells during 2008, with development, Hasdrubal, is on schedule as Egypt, Thailand, Trinidad and Tobago and a strong emphasis on appraisal and with first production planned for 2009.
Tunisia to new countries where the Group near-term production.
In Global LNG, the Group believes the outlook is at an early stage of development, for In summary, the Group intends to deliver will continue to be positive, with enhanced example, Algeria and China.
It has already margins from global marketing in a supply BG Group now produces more than 40% of secured within its portfolio the opportunities constrained environment.
In addition, the all gas supplied in Egypt, split broadly equally to achieve this ambition and is now focused Groups US asset base, which was acquired between domestic supply and LNG.
The on delivering this potential.
at a low point in the cost cycle, together West Delta Deep Marine and Rosetta assets with its relationships with producers and continue to be developed, and exploration its marketing skills, provide a sustainable drilling on the El Burg and El Manzala competitive position to attract new supplies.
prospects is planned to start later this year.
For example, there is potential to add up to 4 mtpa from the Groups recently announced A successful exploration campaign on alliance with Queensland Gas Company Bongkot South in Thailand saw estimated a Limited QGC in Australia, as well as further gross reserves increase to 1.2 tcf, sufficient volumes from already identied Nigerian to underpin a stand-alone development, projects at various stages of development.
with sanction planned for this year, and Over time, new import terminals under first production planned for 2011. a For an explanation of these terms, refer to page 125.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
