qxd:Layout 1 15 3 08 11:03 Page 48 Directors Report Corporate Governance 48 Group Executive Committee and Company Secretary 12 3 45 6 The members of the Group Executive 1.
Martin Houston 50 Committee are the Executive Directors and Chief Executive Executive Vice President & Managing those senior managers whose details are set h, i, j, l, m Director, Americas and Global LNG out below.
The Secretary to the Committee Martin Houston joined British Gas in 1983 2.
Ashley Almanza 44 is Keith Hubber.
The Committee has primary and was appointed Executive Vice President Chief Financial Officer authority for the day-to-day management in 2000.
Based in Houston, he is responsible j, k, o of the Groups operations within agreed for the Groups activities in the Americas and limits set by the Board.
Mark Carne 49 Australia, and for the Groups Global LNG Executive Vice President & Managing activities.
His extensive international Director, Europe and Central Asia experience has been gained through various Mark Carne joined BG Group plc in May 2005. commercial and general management roles.
Membership of committees He is responsible for the Groups activities He played a leading role in the development h Portfolio Development in the UK, Italy, Norway and Kazakhstan and of the Groups LNG business.
He is a noni Exploration and Appraisal business development activities elsewhere executive director of Severn Trent Plc and j Investment in the region.
He formerly worked for Shell a fellow of the Geological Society of London.
k Group Performance where he gained extensive international k, l l HSSE industry experience, including general 6.
Charles Bland 58 m People and Organisation management roles in the UK, Europe, Brunei Executive Vice President n Governance and Risk and Oman, covering operations, engineering, Policy & Corporate Affairs o Energy Trading and Credit Risk commercial and business development.
k, l Charles Bland joined BG plc in 1999 and p Reserves 4.
Stuart Fysh 51 was appointed to his current position in 2002. see page 46 for biographical details Executive Vice President & Managing He is responsible for government and public Director, Africa, Middle East and Asia affairs, brand and communications, Corporate Stuart Fysh joined BG plc in 1998 and was Responsibility policy and social performance.
appointed Executive Vice President in His previous roles at BG Group have included November 2003.
He is currently responsible President, BG Kazakhstan, and Vice President, for the Groups activities across Africa, the Government Affairs.
Before joining the Middle East and Asia.
He previously spent Company, he worked in UK Government, 17 years with the mining, steel and petroleum holding various posts in the Ministry of conglomerate BHP, where his various roles Defence.
j, n included commercial, business development, corporate planning and research and development.
He has lived and worked in Australia, Pakistan, India, Singapore and Egypt.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE BG061 p46-49 vAW.
Keith Hubber 43 Executive Vice President & Managing Director General Counsel Company Secretary BG Advance Graham Vinter joined BG Group plc as Keith Hubber joined BG Group plc in 2001 Jrn Berget joined BG Group plc in November General Counsel in November 2007.
He has and is responsible for all matters relating to 2004.
He is responsible for Group strategy, responsibility for the legal affairs of the the Board, its committees and governance.
Prior to becoming General Counsel, Prior to becoming Company Secretary on operations, HSSE and information he spent 27 years with the international law 5 November 2007, he held a number of management.
BG Advance is also providing firm, Allen & Overy LLP.
He was a partner roles within the Groups Legal Department.
the Groups corporate technical and there for just under 20 years and was global He acted as General Counsel from May to commercial assurance and services, including head of projects from 1996-2007.
His November 2007, having previously been Chief resourcing and development of staff experience includes advising on energy Counsel, Corporate from July 2004.
He joined the Company from transactions in Europe, the Middle East, joining BG Group, he worked as a lawyer in Shell and has over 30 years international Asia and elsewhere.
j, n private practice in both London and Bristol experience in the oil and gas industry, following service as an officer in the Royal covering all aspects of the exploration and Navy.
n production business with assignments in the UK, Europe, the Gulf, Far East, South America and the USA.
Peter Duffy 46 Executive Vice President Human Resources Peter Duffy joined BG Group plc in 2001, when he was appointed to his current Rick Waddell 48 position with responsibility for all matters relating to human resources strategy and During 2007, Rick Waddell was Executive Vice President and Managing Director, policy.
He has extensive international human resource management experience, particularly South America.
Shortly after the end of the reporting period he stepped down in the area of organisation development, resourcing and performance enhancement.
from the Group Executive Committee.
He has indicated his intention to pursue his He previously worked for TRW Inc, LucasVarity plc and British Aerospace plc now BAE career outside the Company and will leave in September 2008.
Until then, he will Systems plc.
l, m work with Martin Houston in support of the new Americas and Global LNG region.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007
