Directors Report Corporate Governance Other statutory information 58 RESULTS AND DIVIDEND Directors stating that, after due and careful enquiries, the shareholder is satisfied that none of the shares included in the For the year ended 31 December 2007, the profit before tax was transfer are Default Shares.
Where the Default Shares represent 3 039m 2006 3 285m.
A final dividend of 5.76p per ordinary share 0.25% or more of the existing shares of a class, the Directors can, is proposed 2006 4.20p, making a total dividend for 2007 of 9.36p in their absolute discretion, by notice to the shareholder direct 2006 7.20p.
The results are dealt with more fully in the Financial that a any dividend or other money which would otherwise be Statements pages 73 to 120 and summarised in the Financial payable on the Default Shares shall be retained by the Company Review pages 28 to 37. without any liability to pay interest when that dividend or The trustees of the BG Group New Employees Share Trust and the money is finally paid to the shareholder, and or b the BG Group Share Incentive Plan have waived their right to receive shareholder will not be allowed to choose to receive shares in dividends over 154 978 and 26 618 shares respectively.
place of dividends, and or c no transfer of any of the shares held by the shareholder will be registered unless one of the SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS provisos specified above is satisfied.
At 4 March 2008, the following voting interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules which Variation of rights replaced Part VI of the Companies Act 1985, with effect from If the Companys share capital is split into different classes of shares, 20 January 2007, had been notified to the Directors: subject to the relevant English law and unless the Articles or rights attaching to any class of shares provide otherwise, the special Legal & General Group Plc rights which are attached to any of these classes can be varied and or its subsidiaries 181 148 616 ordinary shares 5.42% or abrogated as provided by those rights or approved by a special resolution passed at a separate meeting of that class.
Alternatively, ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the holders of at least three-quarters of the existing shares of the The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 2.00 pm on class by nominal value can give their consent in writing.
Wednesday 14 May 2008 at the International Convention Centre, Birmingham.
The Notice of AGM is set out on pages 131 to 138 Alteration of share capital of this document.
An explanation of the proposed resolutions, The shareholders can by ordinary resolution a increase the including the proposed amendments to the Companys Articles Companys authorised share capital, b consolidate, or consolidate of Association, is set out on pages 132 to 137. and then divide, all or any of the Companys share capital into shares of a larger nominal amount than the existing shares, c A summary of the business carried out at the AGM will be published cancel any shares which have not been taken, or agreed to be taken, on the BG Group website.
by any person at the date of the resolution, and reduce the amount of the Companys share capital by the amount of the cancelled SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS shares, and d subject to the relevant English law divide some or all Voting rights of the Companys shares into shares which are of a smaller nominal When a shareholder is entitled to attend a general meeting amount than is fixed in the Memorandum.
The shareholders can, and vote, where there is a poll, subject to any special rights or subject to the relevant English law, pass a special resolution to a restrictions attaching to any class of shares, if he is entitled to be reduce the Companys authorised share capital in any way, or b present and to vote, he has one vote for every share that he holds.
reduce any capital redemption reserve, share premium account Shareholders are entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to exercise or other undistributable reserve in any way.
The Company can, all or any of their rights to attend, speak and vote at a general subject to the relevant English law, buy back, or agree to buy back meeting, provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the in the future, any shares of any class.
However, if the Company has rights attached to a different share or shares.
existing shares which are admitted to the Official List of the London To decide who can attend or vote at a general meeting, the notice Stock Exchange and which are convertible into equity shares, then of the meeting can give a time by which people must be entered on the Company can only buy back equity shares of that class if either the Register which must not be more than 48 hours before the the terms of issue of the convertible shares permit the Company to meeting.
Unless provided otherwise in the Articles, the only people buy back equity shares or the buy back or agreement to buy back who can attend or vote at general meetings are shareholders who has been approved by a special resolution passed by such holders.
have paid the Company all calls, and all other sums, relating to the shares that are due at the time of the meeting.
Dividends The shareholders can declare final dividends by ordinary resolution.
Restrictions on shareholders rights No dividend can exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If a shareholder has been properly served with a notice under No interim dividend shall be paid on shares which carry deferred Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 requiring information about or non-preferred rights if, at the time of payment, any preferential interests in shares, and has failed to supply such information within dividend is in arrears.
Unless the rights attaching to shares or the 14 days of the notice, then subject to the Articles and unless the terms of any shares provide otherwise, dividends are paid based Directors otherwise decide the shareholder is not for so long as the on the amounts which have been paid up on the shares in the default continues entitled to attend or vote at a shareholders relevant period.
meeting or to exercise any other right in relation to a meeting as The Directors can recommend the shareholders to pass an ordinary holder of any shares held by the shareholder in default.
Any person resolution to direct all or part of a dividend to be paid by distributing who acquires shares in relation to which a default has occurred specific assets.
The Directors must give effect to such a resolution.
Default Shares is subject to the same restrictions unless: If a dividend has not been claimed for one year, the Directors may x the transfer was an approved transfer pursuant to a takeover invest the dividend or use it in some other way for the benefit of the or one which, to the Directors satisfaction, is a bona fide sale Company until the dividend is claimed.
Any dividend which has not to a person unconnected with the shareholder: or been claimed for 12 years may be forfeited and belong to the Company if the Directors so decide.
x the transfer was by a shareholder who was not himself in default in supplying the information required by the notice and a the transfer is of only part of his holding, and b the transfer is accompanied by a certificate in a form satisfactory to the www.
com DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 59 Winding up DIRECTORS If the Company is wound up, the liquidator can, with the authority Dr John Hood was appointed to the Board as non-executive Director of a special resolution and any other sanction required by relevant on 26 April 2007.
Newly-appointed Directors are required to retire at law, divide among the shareholders all or part of the assets of the the first AGM following their appointment and to seek election by Company or transfer any part of the assets to trustees on trust for shareholders.
He will therefore be seeking election by shareholders the benefit of the shareholders.
No past or present shareholder can at the 2008 AGM.
be compelled to accept any shares or other property under the In addition, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every Articles which carries a liability.
Accordingly, Baroness Hogg will retire and be proposed for re-election by shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
Baroness Hogg Rights of foreign shareholders was first elected by shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
Sir John Coles There are no limitations imposed by the relevant English law or was first elected to the Board of BG plc at its AGM in April 1998 and the Articles on the rights to own securities, including the rights therefore will have served on the Board for more than ten years at of non-resident or foreign shareholders to hold or exercise voting the date of the 2008 AGM.
7.2 of the rights on the securities.
Combined Code, he is subject to re-election on an annual basis.
He was last re-elected at the 2007 AGM.
Further details, including the Notification of the acquisition or disposal of Boards reasons for proposing their re-election, are set out in the major shareholdings Notice of AGM on pages 131 to 138.
Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules requires disclosure to the issuer by a holders of shares with voting rights attached, For information relating to the powers of the Companys Directors b those entitled to exercise voting rights, and c those holding please see page 130. financial instruments which result in a right to acquire shares with voting rights already in issue, when their interests reach, exceed, INDEMNITIES AND INSURANCE or fall below 3%, and every percentage point above 3%.
BG Group maintains liability insurance for its Directors and officers.
The Directors, Company Secretary and members of the Group TRANSFER OF SHARES Executive Committee have also been granted a qualifying thirdUnless otherwise provided in the Articles or the terms of issue party indemnity provision, under Section 234 of the Companies Act of any shares, any shareholder may transfer any or all of his shares.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor However, the Directors can refuse to register a transfer a in insurance provides cover in the event that a Director is proved to certificated form, if such shares are not fully paid up or the evidence have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
of entitlement to such shares is missing, b if it is in respect of more than one class of share, c if it is in favour of more than four persons SIGNIFICANT CONTRACTS CHANGE OF CONTROL jointly, or d if it is not properly stamped where required.
However, There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or if any of those shares have been admitted to the Official List of the terminate upon a change of control of the Company following London Stock Exchange, the Directors cannot refuse to register a a takeover bid.
transfer if this would stop dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
Under the agreement governing the Company's equity investment in Comgas, in the event of a change of control of the Company If the Directors decide not to register a transfer, they must notify the following a takeover bid, Shell Gas B. V. has the right to acquire the person to whom the shares were to be transferred within two months.
Company's equity at market value.
The Directors can decide to suspend the registration of transfers It is possible that the Republic of Kazakhstan may claim to have by closing the Register, but the Register cannot be closed for more than 30 days per year.
In the case of shares in uncertificated a right to acquire BG Groups interest in the Final PSC governing form, the Register must not be closed without the consent of the operation of the Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field the operator of a relevant system currently Euroclear UK & BG Group 32.5% or the shares in the company holding that Ireland Limited, the operator of a relevant system under the interest in the event of a change of control of the Company UK CREST Regulations.
As at 31 December 2007, BG Energy Holdings Limited had bilateral AUDITORS committed multi-currency revolving borrowing facilities with Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors a number of its relationship banks in an aggregate amount of to the Company and to authorise the Audit Committee to determine US$ 1 040 million.
When taken together, their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
these facilities are significant to the ongoing liquidity of the Group and repayment of any or all of them may be demanded upon SHARE CAPITAL a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
In order to enable the Company to return value to shareholders, the Company was given authority at the 2007 AGM to make market No other agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon purchases of up to 340 099 309 of its own ordinary 10p shares at a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid are a maximum price per share of 105% of the average middle market considered to be significant in terms of their potential impact on closing price of the shares for the five trading days prior to the relevant the business of the Group as a whole.
This authority will expire at the 2008 AGM and approval from shareholders will be sought at that meeting to renew the authority for EMPLOYEES a further year.
During February 2008, the Group completed the share Employees are informed about significant business issues and the repurchase programme of 750 million, announced in February 2007, Groups performance using electronic mail, webcasts, the Groups having repurchased 88 million ordinary shares of 10p each at an average intranet and in-house publications, as well as DVDs and briefing price of 8.51 per share.
For further information and details of shares meetings at each business location.
When appropriate, consultation repurchased and those issued during the year, see pages 136-137 and with employee and union representatives also takes place.
note 26 to the accounts on pages 111-112.
BG Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Corporate Governance Other statutory information continued 60 The Group takes the issues of equality and diversity seriously and the agreed budget, are delegated to the Audit Committee Chairman or, in his absence, any other member of the Committee.
encourages its partners to do likewise.
By using the talent and skills The Committee regularly reviews a list of all the non-audit services available in all groups and communities in the countries in which it provided by the external auditors, the specific nature of the work operates, the Group is able to build a strong foundation for the lasting and the fees involved.
This is achieved by using appropriate recruitment and selection techniques, ensuring equality of employment opportunities and equal access to development opportunities.
STATEMENT AS TO DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS As required by Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the The Group is also committed to providing a work environment free Directors has approved this report and confirmed that, so far as from harassment and discrimination.
This commitment is included he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information being in the Groups policy on Human Resources.
The policy is available information needed by the Auditors in connection with preparing on the BG Group website.
The Group remains committed to the their Audit report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, full and fair treatment of people with disabilities in relation to job and he she has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken applications, training, promotion and career development.
Every as a Director in order to make him herself aware of any relevant effort is made to find appropriate alternative jobs for those who audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are are unable to continue in their existing job because of disability.
Equally, the Group encourages its partners to take a similar approach to these issues where Group policies are not able STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES FOR PREPARING THE to be implemented directly.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Employees are encouraged to become shareholders in the Company The Directors are required by the Companies Act 1985 to prepare and a significant number participate in the Groups share schemes.
financial statements and a Remuneration Report for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT of the Group at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss of the Company and the Group for the financial year.
During 2007, the Group donated around 0.3m to registered charities in the UK.
By adding contributions of cash, employee time The Directors consider that, in preparing the Financial Statements and equipment to community groups in the UK in accordance with on pages 73 to 120, the Company has used appropriate accounting the London Benchmarking Group model, this figure rises to around policies, consistently applied and supported by reasonable and 0.4m.
More information on the Groups charitable donations and prudent judgments and estimates, and all applicable accounting community involvement can be found in the 2007 Corporate standards have been followed.
The Company has complied with Responsibility Report, which is available on the Groups website.
UK disclosure requirements in this report in order to present a Under its Business Principles, the Groups policy is not to make consistent picture to all shareholders.
In 2007, no donations were made The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the Company in any EU member state for political purposes, as defined in Section keeps accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy the 364 of the Companies Act 2006. financial position of the Company and of the Group and that enable For further information on BG Groups social investment policy, them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the see page 41.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking such steps as SUPPLIERS are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group The Group aims to adopt fair payment practices in line with and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities, and have each country in which it operates and aims to pay all its creditors adopted a control framework for application across the Group.
promptly and in accordance with contractual and other legal The Directors, having prepared the Financial Statements, have asked obligations.
It is the Groups policy to agree the payment terms the Auditors to take whatever steps and to undertake whatever with each supplier at the start of business and to ensure that inspections they consider to be appropriate for the purposes of they are aware of the terms of payment.
enabling them to give their Audit report.
The Group had 19 days purchases outstanding at 31 December 2007 The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee continues to review 2006 25 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by the adequacy of the system of internal control adopted by the Group.
A copy of the Financial Statements of the Company is placed on the GOING CONCERN BG Group website.
The work carried out by the Auditors does not The Directors are satisfied that the Groups and the Companys involve consideration of the maintenance of the BG Group website activities are sustainable for the foreseeable future, and that the and, accordingly, the Auditors accept no responsibility for any business is a going concern and the accounts have therefore been changes that may have occurred to the Financial Statements since prepared on this basis.
they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of AUDITOR INDEPENDENCE financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
The Audit Committee annually agrees a framework of non-audit activities for the external auditors, which are described with By order of the Board sufficient specificity to enable the Committee to ensure that the Keith Hubber proposed activities will not compromise the independence of the Company Secretary external auditors.
For each activity, the Committee approves a budget for the financial year.
12 March 2008 Accordingly, the Audit Committee is deemed to have given its Registered Office: pre-approval in respect of individual assignments where the fees 100 Thames Valley Park Drive fall within the agreed framework and agreed budget for that service.
Reading Pre-approval of assignments which are either outside the agreed Berkshire RG6 1PT framework, or are within the agreed framework but not within Registered in England & Wales No.
