Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued 24 Our Environment Carbon reduction Policy and strategy In our 2006 CR report we committed to use our carbon footprint Alliance & Leicester recognises that it has a responsibility to act in to improve our understanding and planning of initiatives a way that respects the environment through its products, services targeted at reducing or mitigating our environmental impacts.
We also committed to extending carbon neutrality to gas as well as electricity.
In providing personal and commercial customers with banking services we will seek to ensure that, wherever possible, the design As a bank based in the UK and serving UK customers we were of these products, their sales processes and the way in which the particularly keen to benefit the environment in the areas in services are delivered and used, contribute to the sustainable which our staff and customers live and work.
During 2007, we have met with a wide range of environmental Across the Company we will aim to: organisations and Socially Responsible Investment commentators to discuss the best methods of achieving these goals.
Source environmentally friendly and sustainable products and services, wherever it is practicable to do so: Most commentators advised us to reduce our emissions as far as possible, using offsetting as a last resort, and were also very Minimise energy usage, and encourage awareness amongst all supportive of our aim to focus on our local UK environment.
staff to minimise the environmental impact of their activities by adopting good housekeeping practices: After taking account of all our discussions, we decided to take a two stage approach to offsetting the carbon generated as Incorporate environmental best practice where reasonably a result of the Groups gas usage and reducing the Groups practicable into all decision making processes.
Offsetting carbon generated by the gas we have used: Our Environment Strategy is implemented through our Environmental Management System, a copy of which can be read In 2006 we used 21,700 MWh of gas, generating a total of 1,125 at www.
We continually look for tonnes of carbon.
We estimate that it would have cost 30,000 areas in which we can reduce our environmental impact.
This is to purchase voluntary carbon credits to offset this carbon from aided by a number of processes, including: a verified scheme the emission reductions being verified and certified against the Voluntary Carbon Standard.
Completion of an externally verified carbon footprint: In order to be able to have a direct impact on the environment Participation in external environmental indices: in which our customers, staff and their families live and work Ongoing review of environmental data, for example, energy we have invested that sum of 30,000 in the Heart of the Forest usage, recycled waste, land fill deposits, and water usage.
Carbon Challenge Scheme operated by the Heart of the National Forest Foundation.
Executive responsibility for the environment strategy sits with the The carbon challenge programme has been designed for Group Secretary & HR Director.
companies who are adopting a holistic approach to meeting the Operational responsibility for the environment strategy sits challenge of climate change.
Alliance & Leicesters contribution with an Environment Committee consisting of appropriate senior will be used to develop a series of carbon challenge routes around managers.
In addition to embedding environmental matters Conkers, the National Forests visitor centre, which is close to our within business as usual, the Committee will determine annual Head Office.
The clues and discoveries made en route will all be environmental objectives.
on the theme of what difference can I make to climate change?
Our carbon footprint and will aim to raise peoples awareness of the amount of carbon they generate.
In our 2006 CR report, we committed to understanding better the Groups overall carbon footprint.
Undertaking further actions to reduce our carbon footprint: working with Bureau Veritas during 2007 to calculate and verify our carbon footprint.
The result of the project is that we estimate During 2008, we plan to implement a number of initiatives across the Group, targeted at reducing our carbon footprint and the that in 2006 Alliance & Leicester generated 8,524 tonnes of carbon dioxide CO. carbon footprint of our employees.
These initiatives are expected 2 to focus on travel, as this is the most significant category within We estimate that, over the past three years, we have reduced our our carbon footprint.
footprint by approx 6,500 tonnes of CO per annum, principally as 2 a result of using only renewable electricity.
Our carbon footprint is set out below.
Gas figure uses absolute data, averaged over the 2004-2006 period.
Car travel includes: company cars, private cars, hire cars on business travel.
Rail travel is recorded via bookings made with our official travel agent or tickets purchased via company credit cards.
Air travel is predominantly short haul booked through the appointed agent or by company credit card holders directly.
Waste is based on volumes sent to landfill and includes an estimate for branches.
Our Carbon Footprint excludes: Electricity, all of which is supplied from renewable sources: Fugitive  emissions: Commuter travel: Gas Car Travel Disposal of redundant equipment: Rail Travel Business travel by bus, tube, ferry and taxi: 339 229 Air Travel 81 Supply Chain impacts upstream of arriving at our gates: Waste Small volumes of material such as aluminium cans and fluorescent tubes.
Carbon Footprint tonnes CO 2 Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007
