Directors Report Business Review Corporate Responsibility Report continued 22 Treating customers fairly 85% of employees think that the people they work with We are committed to the principle of treating customers fairly are committed to delivering work of a high standard, UK TCF over the lifecycle of our relationship with them.
a new initiative for the Group, it is part of business as usual and Health & Safety inherent in everything we do.
The Executive Directors accept their responsibility for Health & During 2007, we have continued to embed TCF into our everyday Safety within the Group.
processes in a way that all staff can understand and, most We believe a safe and healthy working environment is a positive importantly, act upon.
As part of this work we have reviewed our business investment and we seek to achieve health and safety brand values, simplifying them as well as defining in more detail excellence through statutory compliance and the collective what we mean by each.
Our brand values are: responsibility and co-operation of our managers and staff.
Better Value our offer to new customers: We have reviewed our Health & Safety Committee terms of Straightforward our approach to doing business: reference and structure, to ensure that the arrangements are appropriate and follow best practice.
We hold two national Friendly our interaction with customers: meetings a year with union and business representatives, as Rewarding existing customers our offer to existing customers.
well as two local meetings in the Northern & Southern regions.
Creditor payment policy International human rights, indigenous rights and forced The Group continues to be a signatory of the Department of child labour Business Enterprise & Regulatory Reforms Better Payment The Groups operations are based in the British Isles and our Practice Code, more details on which can be found at service and product offering is UK and expatriate based.
Our policy is to: model means that international human rights and indigenous rights are not material issues for the Group.
We are not involved Agree the terms of payment at the start of business with in forced or child labour.
a supplier: Freedom of association and collective bargaining Ensure suppliers are aware of the payment terms: The Group recognises two main Unions for collective bargaining Pay in accordance with any contractual and other legal purposes, the Communications Workers Union CWU and the obligations.
Public and Commercial Services Union PCS.
Representatives of the Unions play an active role in many people centred projects, Trade creditors of the Company for the year ended 31 December the Stress Steering Group, Health and Safety Committee and 2007 were 12 days 2006 restated: 16 days, based on the ratio Diversity Partnership Forum.
of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
Pensions During 2007, the Group and the Trustees of the Alliance & Our Workplace Leicester Pension Scheme reviewed the constitution of the Trustee Responsibility for all employee related matters rests with our Board in the interests of transparency, fairer representation Group Secretary & HR Director, who reports to the Group Chief of scheme members and the requirement to comply with new Executive and attends all Board meetings.
The following changes were subsequently agreed and implemented: Alliance & Leicesters employees are the key to our current and future success, and as a business we have a responsibility to One of the five employer nominated trustees was replaced provide a positive and inclusive working environment for them.
We aim to do this through: The four member nominated trustees are now elected from Recognising and rewarding good performance: four defined constituencies, namely: active defined benefit members, active defined contribution members, pensioners Communicating regularly with our employees and responding and deferred pensioners, and any active member or third party.
to their feedback: Bullying and harassment policies Providing training and development opportunities to grow Our policy on bullying and harassment was developed in talent throughout their career: partnership with our Unions.
It has had a high profile this year, Promoting a diverse culture with equality for all: with a number of communications issued, including an internal initiative Bullying its not big and its not clever, during antiProviding a safe and healthy working environment: bullying week in November.
Adopting a fair and consistent approach to change initiatives.
Public interest disclosures How our employees view us In 2007, the Group raised the profile of public interest disclosure Our annual employee opinion survey was carried out in October for all staff, through a communication dropped at each desk and 2007 across all parts of the Group.
The survey is completed online reinforced with intranet communications.
The communications via the Groups intranet.
Kenexa, an independent research served as a reminder that the Group is serious in inviting any company, manage the survey to ensure absolute confidentiality.
person with an anxiety to alert the Group Secretary & HR Director, the Head of Money Laundering or the Chairman of the Group Audit The employee opinion survey is a key tool to aid our Committee, who is a non-executive director.
understanding of the views of our staff and to identify areas where we need to improve.
The number of employees completing the Diversity and equal opportunities survey remained consistently high, with 81% of the workforce Alliance & Leicester believes that diversity is critical to business responding to the survey in 2007, an increase on the previous success, and works hard to create a respectful, safe and productive years response rate.
The results of the 2007 survey were well above the average for We are committed to the principles of equality of opportunity UK based companies.
The 2007 survey found that: and human rights.
We do not condone any discrimination on the basis of gender, race or ethnicity, physical or mental disability, 90% of employees have a clear understanding of what is religion or belief, age, sexual orientation or marital status.
expected of them in their role, UK average 70%.
We work with our recognised Unions to develop, maintain and 86% of employees say there is at least one person at work in ensure the consistent implementation of this policy across whom they can trust and confide, UK average not available.
Alliance & Leicester Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 We have established a Diversity Partnership Forum which acts with sixth form pupils, including offering a number of students as the umbrella group for diversity activity within Alliance & work experience placements.
As a result of these placements, two Leicester.
Members include the Groups Diversity Manager, pupils have already joined the bank, taking on customer advisor representatives from staff unions, employee representatives, roles within our Retail Banking contact centre and Commercial and internal and external technical experts.
Supporting our staff efforts in raising money for charity Our Community During 2007, the Group donated around 90,000 to charities Alliance & Leicester supports a range of good causes and projects through our Matched Donation Scheme, which matches funds in our local communities.
These projects not only provide direct raised by staff and their children.
benefit to those communities, but also provide opportunities for many of our staff to get involved.
Our Director of Corporate Supporting organisations who help those who are experiencing financial difficulties Communications, who reports directly to the Group Chief We recognise that consumers often need specialist help to Executive, is responsible for community affairs.
address financial problems and therefore support the work Our community investment and charitable donations programmes done by organisations who can help resolve these issues.
have continued to focus on four areas: The Group continues to support Payplan, the Consumer Credit Supporting initiatives aimed at improving both local and Counselling Service, the Money Advice Trust and the Towards a national education: National Support Service for Money Advisors initiative, which is led by the Citizens Advice Bureau and the Money Advice Trust.
Supporting our staff efforts in raising money for charity through the Groups matched donation scheme: We continue to work with the Citizens Advice Bureau on both a local and national basis.
In 2007, we were one of the sponsors Supporting organisations that help those who are experiencing of the Citizens Advice Bureau National Conference in Harrogate, financial difficulties: and also continue to support South Leicestershire Citizens Advice Supporting charities and organisations who aim to improve Bureau SLCAB, which is based near our Head Office.
We are the links between businesses and the communities in which working with SLCAB to help develop and deliver financial literacy they operate.
Supporting initiatives aimed at improving both local and Supporting organisations who aim to improve the links between national education business and local communities Our education programme has continued to support a variety We support a variety of organisations who aim to support the local of activities for teachers and pupils of all ages in 2007.
Support economies of the areas where the majority of our staff live and for education forms the core of Alliance & Leicesters community work.
A number of our divisional directors and senior managers activities.
We believe that by improving the standards of financial are directors or trustees of local Chambers of Commerce, literacy in the next generation of adults: education charities and economic development forums.
We will be helping our future customers to understand fully We continue to be a national member of Business in the the financial services products they purchase: Community BITC, and are members of Cares in Leicestershire, Leeds, Liverpool and Manchester.
We will be increasing the quality of our future employees: Alliance & Leicester Commercial Bank is the official Banking We will be improving our local communities in general.
and Finance partner of Liverpools European Capital of Culture Literacy and numeracy skills are core to any childs education.
As part of our 2m sponsorship of the celebrations, Through Right to Read and Number Partners programmes, Alliance we held a programme of events for both staff and the local & Leicester and our staff are helping to improve these skills in business community throughout 2007. local schools.
During 2007, Alliance & Leicester has agreed to Donations and community investment become a corporate supporter of Number Partners on a national In 2007, we continued to support local charities and community basis, supplementing our local support in Liverpool and Leicester.
Donations for charitable purposes in the year amounted to 810,000.
This includes 100,000 donated by the Group to Mymoneymatters.
info, our financial literacy programme for the NSPCC.
secondary school children, has gone from strength to strength in 2007.
Following our initial pilot in the 2006 7 academic year, we In the North West of England the majority of the Groups presented the programme to a seminar of maths and citizenship charitable donations continue to be made via the Alliance & teachers.
As a result of the presentation, a total of 12 Leicester Fund managed on the Groups behalf by the Community Leicestershire schools indicated that they would like to run the Foundation for Merseyside.
In addition, in 2007 we have set up programme in the 2007 8 academic year.
During the past 12 an additional smaller fund managed by the Greater Manchester months we have updated the content and revised the lesson plans Community Foundation, to support community and charitable to assist the teachers and our volunteers in delivering the lessons, organisations in Manchester.
as well as providing quizzes and crosswords that can be used to In addition to the above donations, our corporate community supplement the core material.
Leicestershire Education Business investment programme has given support to a number of local Company continue to co-ordinate the scheme for us, and they organisations.
In 2007, we provided 614,000 of support for continue to deliver the lessons at Lutterworth Grammar School.
local community events and programmes, including 250,000 During 2008, Alliance & Leicester volunteers will support local for our commercial sponsorship of the European Capital of teachers in the delivery of the mymoneymatters lessons, helping Culture Celebrations in Liverpool.
to improve financial literacy as well as developing their own presentation and assertiveness skills.
As well as providing financial support to charities and local community organisations, we also provide support through We continue to support our partner schools, Soar Valley College our staff volunteering efforts and gifts in kind, such as the use in Leicester and Savio High School in Bootle, Merseyside, both of office space for the Community Foundation for Merseyside, of whom have gained specialist status as a result of Alliance who are based in our Bootle offices.
In total it is estimated that & Leicester providing private sector funding.
During 2007, our the cost of office space and other non-financial gifts amounted Human Resources department worked closely with the Principal to 270,000 in 2007, including 250,000 of support for the at Soar Valley College and assisted in implementing a 360 degree European Capital of Culture Celebrations in Liverpool.
We estimate feedback process for him and his staff.
360 degree feedback is a that at least 250,000 of employee time was spent supporting technique which we regularly use in business to help manage and charitable causes and local community activities during 2007. develop staff, and it has proved successful for the Principal and his team.
At Savio High School we undertake a number of activities We do not make any donations to political parties.
