8 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Business review Economic outlook The vast majority of our assets is The oil price rose throughout the first half of last year, reaching a new all-time high of over $77 in August.
Along invested by our in-house investment with higher prices for other commodities, this added to cost managers.
We describe economic pressures facing both households and companies across the world.
Inflation began to rise and growth to slow, giving conditions during the year and our policy makers considerable cause for concern.
outlook for the coming year and the USA investment strategy we adopt in the In the US, the Federal Reserve continued to raise interest light of these economic conditions.
rates, reflecting its view that rising inflation was a bigger We also discuss the contribution to risk than softer growth.
The Federal Funds rate was increased to a level of 5.25% in June, after which point rates were left overall performance of each asset unchanged as signs emerged that economic growth was class, and the principal holdings beginning to slow.
This was particularly evident in the housing market where the build up in inventories of homes within the portfolio.
for sale put significant downward pressure on both prices and activity.
The resulting decline in residential construction had a negative impact on overall economic growth in the autumn.
Nonetheless, consumer confidence and spending both held up relatively well, buoyed by the fall in oil and gasoline prices in the later months of the year.
The price fall was largely the result of unseasonably hot weather and it also provided an unexpected boost to economic activity in the final quarter.
From here, the outlook for the US economy very much depends on the scale of any further correction in the housing market and whether there is any significant rebound in the oil price.
Japan Although Japan is enjoying its longest period of continual economic expansion since World War II, growth has become unbalanced with increased reliance on the export sector.
This has benefited from the recent weakness of the yen, which has fallen to a 20-year low on a trade-weighted basis.
Consumer spending has, however, remained disappointingly weak, as the recent strengthening of the labour market has yet to feed through to wage increases.
A weak consumer Oil price West Texas Intermediate $ per barrel US house price growth Nat.
of Realtors $ % 80 25 20 70 15 10 60 5 0 50 -5 F M A M J J A S O N D J F 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 06 07 Source: EcoWin Source: EcoWin Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 9 background has made it increasingly difficult for companies to appreciation of the euro.
In Germany, in particular, business increase prices.
Inflation and interest rates remain low, which confidence has been strong, encouraging higher levels of has encouraged the carry trade through which investors investment and some growth in employment.
Stronger labour borrow in a low yielding currency, such as the yen, to invest in markets throughout Europe are expected to lead to increased higher yielding currencies or assets overseas.
It is likely this levels of consumer confidence and spending in the year ahead.
trend has exacerbated the weakness in the yen.
Looking forward, the ongoing strengthening of the labour market UK should promote a rise in income levels, which will help to The UK recorded relatively strong growth last year, but this underpin consumer confidence and spending.
was unbalanced, driven largely by the service sector.
Stronger growth was accompanied by higher inflation, caused by China significant increases in the cost of basic goods such as gas, Chinas exports have also benefited from a relatively weak electricity and food.
Retail price inflation recently reached a currency, and this, along with high levels of investment 15-year high, forcing the Bank of Englands Monetary Policy growth, has produced GDP growth in excess of 10%, which Committee to raise interest rates for the third time since has propelled the economy into fourth place in the world, August.
Although inflation is expected to decline over the just ahead of the UK.
However, policy makers have become coming year, the combination of tighter monetary policy and increasingly concerned about an investment bubble being record levels of household debt may act as a restraint on created and have already taken some restrictive steps.
Although China is still expected to exhibit strong growth, the success of these cooling measures could result in the rate of Overall outlook growth for the coming year falling back into single digits.
It is too early to be certain that the US housing market correction has ended, and there is still some risk that it Asia-Pacific may have a negative impact on consumer confidence and The economies of the rest of Asia are also highly reliant on spending, particularly if the labour market shows any signs of exports.
These economies have relatively high exposure to the weakening.
A decline in consumer spending in the US could US market and would be vulnerable to any signs of cooling have some impact on other regions, such as Asia and Europe, US consumer demand brought about by the weakening of the although there may be some compensation from the increased housing market.
Currency appreciation poses a further threat.
levels of intra-regional trade and activity in both areas.
However, Asias intra-regional trade and domestic activity, The other key risk is that a rebound in the oil price adds to which have both increased significantly in recent years should the downward pressure on demand.
Policy makers almost help to compensate if export growth starts to weaken.
everywhere will continue to face the problem of trying to keep policy tight enough to contain inflation, but loose Europe enough to facilitate growth.
In Europe, the corporate sector appears to have coped well with higher commodity prices, rising interest rates and the Currencies Trade-Weighted Indices UK Retail Price Inflation Index % 108 5 4 104 3 100 2 96 1 92 0 J F M A M J J A S O N D J 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 06 07 Sterling Euro Dollar Yen Source: EcoWin Source: EcoWin
