32 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Non-Executive Directors 1 3 5 Remuneration Committee 2 4 Audit Committee Nomination Committee post he held until January 2002.
He is the boards of both HBOS PLC and 1 Lesley Knox currently Chairman of Sagentia AG and Halifax PLC as an executive director Chairman also chairs the Festival City Theatres Trust.
He has MA He will become the Senior Independent experience in many areas of the Joined the board 2001: appointed Director.
financial services business, particularly in Chairman 2004: Chairman of the international banking, corporate and Nomination Committee Other directorships include British Assets commercial banking, treasury and Lesley Knox 53 qualified as a Trust PLC, The Crown Agents finance.
Foundation and John Wood Group PLC.
lawyer and worked in the UK and US advising companies on a range of Other directorships include Scottish Mortgage Investment Trust PLC, commercial matters.
Subsequently she 3 William Jack worked as a corporate finance adviser, Joined the board 2000: Senior JPMorgan Mid Cap Investment Trust PLC and Shaftesbury PLC.
first with Kleinwort Benson where in Independent Director 1996 she became a group director, William Jack 62 joined the General and was then a founder director of 5 Clare Salmon Accident Fire & Life Assurance Company British Linen Advisers.
She was also MA in 1973, and was the Managing Director Head of Institutional Asset Management Joined the board 2005 of GA Life subsequently CGU Life at Kleinwort Benson Investment with responsibility for the UK life and Clare Salmon 43 graduated with an Management which provided unit trust business, from 1991 to 2000.
MA in English from Cambridge.
In 1987 investment services to clients worldwide.
He will stand down from the Board she joined Boston Consulting Group as a following the AGM.
Other directorships include Hays PLC management consultant, working in and HMV Group PLC.
She gained Other directorships include Skipton Group Holdings Limited and Skipton considerable experience in financial services and was Consumer Marketing 2 Christopher Masters Building Society.
CBE FRSE BSc PhD AKC Director for the Prudential before Joined the board 2002: Chairman of the 4 Gordon McQueen joining Avis Europe as Group Marketing Remuneration Committee Director.
After a brief spell at Transacsys BSc Hons CA FCIBS Joined the board 2004: Chairman of PLC she joined Centrica PLC, becoming Christopher Masters 59 took his Managing Director of AA Financial the Audit Committee doctorate in chemistry at Leeds Services before joining the commercial University and worked for Shell in Gordon McQueen 60 graduated in television network ITV as Marketing both the UK and the Netherlands.
chemistry and trained as an equity Director in 2005.
She left ITV in He joined Christian Salvesen as business portfolio fund manager before January 2007. development manager in 1979, embarking on a banking career.
He is a becoming Director of Planning for its US former Chairman and Chief Executive of She is also a member of the operation and Chief Executive from Management Board of The Marketing HBOS Treasury Services PLC.
He was then appointed Finance Director of Bank of Scotland Society and a Trustee of Breast Cancer Executive Chairman of Aggreko PLC, a Campaign.
and, until the end of 2003, served on
