Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 33 Executive Directors 1 3 2 Ansbacher & Co, where he gained 1 Alan Harden Katherine Garrett-Cox considerable experience in corporate Chief Executive Will join the Company as Chief finance and banking and investment Joined the Company as Chief Executive Investment Officer and Director 1 May product development, and became a designate 2003: appointed Chief 2007. director in 1995.
Executive 2004 Katherine Garrett-Cox 39 read History Alan Harden 49 started his career in at Durham University.
Her early career 3 Janet Pope the investment industry in the UK in was spent in US Fund Management Chief Executive Alliance Trust Savings 1978, moving to Europe in 1980 and with Fidelity Investments and UNI MSc MBA then on to Cyprus two years later.
Storebrand before moving to Hill Joined the Company and the board From 1984 to 1990 he was with Wardley Samuel Asset Management as their 2006, as Chief Executive, Alliance Trust Investment Services part of HSBC Investment Director, Head of American Savings group and relocated to Dubai in 1985.
In 2000 she joined Aberdeen In 1988 he moved to Hong Kong as a Janet Pope 46 read Economics at Asset Management becoming an Senior Investment Manager.
In 1990 he the London School of Economics and Executive Director in 2001 and Chief joined Standard Chartered Bank as gained her MBA from City University.
Executive of their operating subsidiary Managing Director of Scimitar Asset Her early career was spent at Girobank Aberdeen Asset Management Limited.
plc as an economist and in corporate In 2004 she became Chief Investment In 1994 he became Global Head of development, including a pivotal role Officer for Morley Fund Management Investment Services.
In 2000 he moved in the successful privatisation of the and a Board Director of a number of to Citigroup Asset Management in company.
In 1990 she joined Standard their subsidiary companies with specific Japan, as Managing Director and Head Chartered Bank where she led multiple responsibility for fund management of the Asset Management business in strategic initiatives and was responsible teams in London, Dublin and Boston.
the Asia-Pacific region and a member of for the bank's retail banking business Katherine Garrett-Cox is a trustee of the Global Executive Committee.
in Africa and the UK, and its outsourced The Baring Foundation.
In 2000 she moved Alan Harden is a director of the Scottish to Visa International where she was Community Foundation.
Executive Vice President, Global Strategy, leading Visa's strategic 2 David Deards development initiatives worldwide.
Finance Director BA Hons ACA Other directorships include nonexecutive positions in the Department Joined the Company and the board 2003, as Finance Director for Work and Pensions and the Department for Communities and David Deards 47 read zoology at Local Government.
Oxford and qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Young now Ernst & Young before joining
