10 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Business review Investment strategy Market Background and Asset Allocation The Asset Liability and Income Committee ALICo was the driver to significant changes to asset allocation over the course of the year.
During the year ALICo took a more cautious approach to asset allocation repaying the small opening gearing position and raising cash from selective asset sales with the intent to protect the Companys capital from an anticipated market correction.
Although our core focus remains very much on equities, we have continued to build exposure to private equity and direct property.
After the very good performance from all the equity portfolios last year, which was repeated at the interim stage in 2006, the final returns for the current year from the various geographical regions were mixed.
The details are contained in the fund managers Portfolio Reviews but the Grant Lindsay strong performance of our UK Small Cap and Asia-Pacific Head of Equities portfolios is again worthy of mention.
We began 2006 with gearing equivalent to 2.7% of gross After steady advances in the first assets, reflecting our positive stance on the world economy few months of the year, equity and stock markets prospects in particular.
In February, we took our highest exposure to equities, taking the view that markets suffered a meaningful absolute and relative valuations were encouraging when correction in May and early June, compared to alternative assets.
Corporate balance sheets and cash flows remained strong and merger and acquisition but recovered sharply thereafter.
activity was helping to underpin the markets.
The sharp rise in High levels of merger and acquisition bond yields in the late spring triggered by inflation concerns and the unwinding of the Japanese yen as a funding currency activity, healthy cash flows and for carry trades introduced a period of volatility into investors willingness to accept risk currencies, commodities, and markets.
This resulted in a sizeable six week sell-off in May and early June with equities have resulted in strong returns from retreating sharply, falling by 11.5% in sterling terms by midglobal stock markets over the last June which was the low point for the year.
As the markets recovered during July and August, oil prices hovered close to twelve months.
When combined with our negative stance on saw some of the biggest gains.
the US housing cycle we concluded that a hard landing for the US economy was becoming a distinct possibility and for the consumer, still such a major force in the world economy, Asset Liability and Income Committee members a probability.
Alan Harden Against this background, we quickly moved to unwind our David Deards gearing and sought to protect capital by raising cash, which at Grant Lindsay one point represented nearly 10.3% of total assets.
Our cash Anthony Muh position was not based on a long term bearish view but on an Neil Tong assessment of the risks then prevailing.
The anticipated stock Matthew Strachan market correction did not occur until after the year end.
Shona Dobbie Indeed, markets continued to move strongly ahead as some of the fundamentals that had encouraged us earlier in the year Raymond Abbott fell back into place.
Energy prices fell and concerns about Hugh MacNish Porter global monetary policy and the earnings outlook abated.
This, in turn, sparked a renewed burst of bid speculation and merger and acquisition activity.
Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 11 Investment Policy Indeed, it was the worst performing major market and proved to be a big disappointment over the year.
The domestic We withdrew some 100m from the North America market economy and the consumer in particular, remained during the reporting period, a decision based on our concerns frustratingly cowed.
We reduced our position in Japan with about the outlook there.
The bulk of this money was realised net sales of 46m and remain cautious for the immediate from the Small Cap sector where our exposure was through outlook but positive for the medium term.
Exchange Traded Funds purchased in late 2005.
We also sold 30m from the Large Cap portfolio.
With the S&P 500 index Our long-term view for the rest of the Asia-Pacific region is returning only 2% to a sterling investor over the year, this far more positive, which is reflected in a positive allocation to move was vindicated on a relative return basis when the region.
Last year, this market rose by 10%.
We added compared with other major markets.
Notwithstanding our a net 8m at a time of material selling elsewhere in the cautious stance, we continued to rebuild exposure to Canada.
The military coup in Thailand and North Koreas With budgetary and trade surpluses and ample supplies of unpredictability served to remind investors during the year of resources Canada is well placed to benefit from growth in the volatile nature of emerging economies.
While any slowdown from its southern neighbour will primarily allocated to Taiwan, which had lagged the other without doubt be negative, the long-term attractions remain.
markets, although we continued to build our holdings in India and South Korea.
We reduced our exposure to Australia on In the UK, we realised 100m from our Large Cap portfolio valuation grounds.
but were net buyers in Small Cap of 6.4m.
Our reduction in Large Cap reflected our overall cautious strategy, our growing Diversification of capital into other asset classes has made unease over the inflationary squeeze on UK households, progress with 23m added to private equity and 35.7m to and the effect of the strength of the pound on dollar earners property.
Our private equity business has taken a step forward and exporters.
However, in Small Cap we continued to find through the acquisition of Albany Ventures and we look attractive ideas and this was borne out by a 20% rise in the forward to building on the experience acquired here as index compared with 8% for Large Cap.
For Europe, we were we move to further increase our presence in this asset class.
more positively inclined adding 24m to the portfolio over Our property assets have already begun to show good returns the year and the market index rose by 14%.
European and the yield on the portfolio compares favourably with companies will benefit from export-led growth and market yields available on much prime property.
valuations appear reasonable following extensive Over the year, we have enhanced the tools available to the restructuring in recent years.
investment teams and continued to adapt the investment Whereas the world economy continued to benefit from the process with changes led by ALICo.
Sources of information, emergent powerhouses of China and India and a sustained which are always vitally important in fund management, were recovery in Europe, Japans progress was disappointing.
strengthened through the introduction of a web-based US gasoline FTSE indices Index US cents per gallon 320 110 300 100 280 260 90 240 220 80 Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan 06 07 06 07 FTSE W United Kingdom FTSE W North America FTSE Japan Source: Datastream Source: Datastream 12 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations investment information package.
Additionally, we remain and the tensions with Iran could yet spill over into implemented the first phase of an operational management the oil markets.
The constant threat of terrorism persists and investment information system.
This will cover our back, and will continue to cast a dark cloud.
middle and front office requirements right through from Equity markets should produce moderate returns over the order management, settlement, compliance, and performance year.
We will take advantage of any opportunities that reporting to portfolio modelling and positioning.
These new occur to reinvest the cash position at attractive valuation systems will not just simplify and assist the investment process levels.
Diversification into private equity and property will and related activities but will also provide the vital continue, again driven by opportunity and suitable management information required to run an investment valuation levels.
Our investment process and new information systems will Looking ahead be used to ensure that capital is deployed into assets with the best potential to deliver long-term returns for Growth should moderate as the US economy slows and shareholders.
China succeeds in reining in growth.
