14 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Business review Portfolio review UK Large Cap 35.3% of net assets at year end Neil Tong Over the year, the UK Large Cap portfolio produced a capital We increased our exposure to the life assurance sector during plus income return of 10.6% compared with a rise of 11% the year, taking a new position in Standard Life initially from the benchmark index.
An overweight position in the oil through the public offering.
Standard Life has performed sector was the main factor that detracted from performance.
We reduced our commitment to High levels of merger and acquisition activity and bid both mining and oil stocks amid evidence that supply was speculation were market features during the year with the increasing and ongoing concerns that we had about company effects spread across various industry sectors.
A new holding in Centrica was established where improving operational performance and the potential We had a considerable investment in financials which for takeover provided an attractive combination for contributed positively to the portfolios performance.
Having previously been through difficult trading We focussed on banks, in particular, where we held positions periods, Rolls Royce and Marks & Spencer were also bought in Lloyds TSB, HBOS and RBS, and on the life assurance sector.
for the portfolio and both have performed well since.
The portfolio suffered from a high exposure to the oil sector Other purchases included new holdings in Hanson and where the fall in the oil price was exacerbated by poor Scottish Power which saw an increase of over 30% since its operational performance, in particular from BP which fell 21% purchase.
Sales made for the portfolio included Wolseley, and to a lesser extent from Royal Dutch Shell.
We benefited Aviva, Slough Estates, Kelda and Next.
Since its disposal Aviva from a reasonable exposure to bid stocks such as BAA, has produced a dull performance.
AB Ports and Scottish Power.
Utilities were strong over the period and the holdings in SSE, Scottish Power, National Grid, At the economic level, we are currently in the middle of a Severn Trent and United Utilities all outperformed with mid-cycle slowdown.
The UK equity market remains well SSE particularly strong, rising by 40%.
In pharmaceuticals, supported by takeover and merger activity, often led by GlaxoSmithKline suffered a fide-rating following consolidation within a particular industry or by private equity disappointment over new drug development and the share funds.
Corporate earnings and dividends should also remain price fell 5%.
However, the shares currently look well healthy and provide upward momentum to the market.
supported by strong cash flows.
Our position in the house Some headwinds to profitability are likely including sterlings builder Persimmon held up well and, in general, we believe recent strength and rising input costs.
After rate rises in both share prices in the housing sector remain attractive as there November and January, UK interest rates are now at their continues to be a shortage of new housing stock.
A belowhighest level for five years and appear unlikely to move down average weighting in telecoms was a negative factor over the for some time.
year since both Vodafone and BT performed very strongly as market conditions stabilised and operational performance improved.
Vodafone rose by 26% and BT by 49%.
Top ten investments Company Sector m GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 70.3 BP Oil & Gas Producers 69.6 Royal Dutch Shell Oil & Gas Producers 62.0 Royal Bank of Scotland Banks 54.8 HBOS Banks 53.6 HSBC Banks 47.9 Lloyds TSB Banks 43.1 Persimmon Household Goods 38.4 Barclays Banks 34.3 Vodafone Mobile Telecommunications 32.1 Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 15 UK Small Cap 8.7% of net assets at year end John Ewart The UK Small Cap portfolio produced a capital return of House builders have proved to be a lucrative investment 22.9% over the year, ahead of the 20.2% return from the FTSE theme in recent years.
Following the bid for Crest Nicholson, World UK Small Cap Index.
Merger and acquisition activity which is held in the portfolio, we purchased a potential helped support equity valuations during the year.
A correction replacement in Barratt Developments.
Both Bellway 23% in the market in May and June presented good buying and Bovis 37% contributed positive performance over the opportunities and we used this to increase our exposure to year.
Early in the year, we added to SIG, the UK and European housebuilders.
Profit expectations for SIG subsequently rose on several occasions as demand for Global economic growth has remained relatively strong improved insulation was evident in commercial and residential and this benefited the companies held in the UK Small Cap properties, in part driven by new legislation.
Engineering companies, in particular, have recorded by over 40% during the course of the year.
strong order books, which improves investor confidence about future profits growth.
Our purchase of shares in The improving operating environment was also a theme in Charter proved well-timed as the company has since upgraded the oil services industry.
With reserve replacement a key its forecasts for profit margins and earnings growth.
objective for the oil majors, demand for oil field services has The share price has risen by over 30% since the original remained strong and this was reflected in the performance of purchase.
The holding in Michael Page, the recruitment Petrofac, which rose by 17%.
specialists, also contributed to outperformance, increasing by While recognising the excellent returns from the small cap over 70%.
The company has benefited from strong demand universe in recent years, we remain confident that stock for job placements in the UK and increased activity in its specific opportunities can be found.
We will continue to expanding international operations.
highlight investment in specific sectors that are experiencing We continued to invest in companies that gain advantage stronger growth than the general economy.
from government outsourcing to the private sector and this has served the portfolio well.
Carillion and Serco have won more contracts over the last twelve months, which gives improved visibility for their prospects over the medium term.
Performance from both companies has been pleasing with gains of over 22% and 32% respectively.
Top ten investments Company Sector m Michael Page Support Services 11.5 Great Portland Estates Real Estate 10.9 Aberforth Smaller Companies Equity Investment Instruments 10.5 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust Equity Investment Instruments 9.9 Charter Industrial Engineering 9.4 Serco Support Services 9.4 Bovis Homes Household Goods 9.0 Spirax-Sarco Industrial Engineering 9.0 Bellway Household Goods 8.9 SIG Support Services 8.8 16 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Europe 13.3% of net assets at year end Christopher Clarke The European portfolio rose 14.4% in sterling terms over the consolidation activity within the industry.
Global demand year under review, in line with the regional benchmark index for capital goods also helped Swedish engineering companies which also returned 14.4%.
Following a sell-off in May and SKF, Sandvik and Atlas Copco which all performed well.
early June, European markets recovered strongly against a We reduced our exposure to these stocks during our more background of strong corporate earnings and persistent cautious stance in the late summer.
The holding in the media merger and acquisition activity.
company, VNU, was taken over by a private equity consortium during the year.
An overweight position in insurance stocks helped performance with good contributions from AXA, Sampo and For the portfolio we purchased a holding in Holcim, a cement CNP.
Sampo, for example, rose 30.5% during the period.
company which is benefiting from global construction Among stocks held in the banking sector, Nordea was one of growth, especially in emerging markets.
We added to the the best performers, the positions in Deutsche Bank, Anglo recruitment business area, where Randstad is already held, Irish Bank and UniCredito Italiano all contributed positively with a new holding in Adecco.
A new position in The Swatch while UBS underperformed.
We were underexposed to Group was established in November, which has done well telecoms, which as a sector was strong, although the since our purchase, rising 14.4% against a background of portfolios holding in Telefnica put in a good performance strong global demand for luxury watches.
Sales of note for late in the year.
In general, the technology stocks within the the portfolio included the German retailer Metro, after it portfolio underperformed the market benchmark.
SAP, for reached our valuation targets.
example, underperformed after disappointing sales growth Our positive view on prospects for Europe is based on for its software licences: we subsequently sold this holding improving growth and the favourable exposure of European and its shares have since fallen further.
Being slightly companies to global growth and exports.
Companies in underweight in oil and gas was a positive factor since Europe have, by and large, undergone restructuring to tidy this area lagged behind the market.
The pharmaceutical up their cost bases and balance sheets and are moving to a sector was weak and we reduced exposure to this sector more expansionary mode.
We take the view that further throughout the year, in particular by reducing Novartis which domestic recovery is also possible, particularly in Germany, underperformed the regional benchmark by 16.9% in sterling and we retain a bias towards this market.
In the leisure area, global hotelier Accor was a notable look reasonable, liquidity remains supportive and merger and winner, gaining 28.9%.
A pick up in trading and restructuring acquisition activity is helping to underpin the markets.
of its asset base was well received by the market.
MAN, the Further strengthening of the euro is a risk which could act as German industrial company, rose 70.6% on the back of a drag on export growth.
continued strength of demand for commercial vehicles and Top ten investments Company Sector m AXA Nonlife Insurance 17.5 BNP Paribas Banks 17.5 UniCredito Italiano Banks 16.7 Total Oil & Gas Producers 16.1 Roche Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 13.7 Accor Travel & Leisure 12.1 Nestl Food Producers 11.9 Deutsche Bank Banks 11.8 UBS Banks 11.7 ENEL Electricity 11.6 Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 17 North America 11.3% of net assets at year end Matthew Strachan In common with other regions, the US market fell back in the investment, as competition continues to increase, through early summer but it rose strongly thereafter.
Over the year, sales of the holdings in Sprint, Verizon and Alltel.
In their the benchmark index returned 12.7% in US Dollar terms.
place, we increased the investment in industrial stocks with However, dollar weakness reduced the actual return for a new holdings in ITT, a leading engineering manufacturer, and sterling investor to 2.4%.
Joy Global, a mining equipment manufacturer.
Performance suffered in the later part of the year from the During the year we also sold our remaining holding in portfolios heavy weighting in oil and gas stocks as the price Wal-Mart, partly over concern that their constituent customer of both commodities fell.
Our holding in Ultra Petroleum base will face tough economic conditions and partly due to a pure gas investment fell 24% for example.
We remain the difficulty the company is having in re-invigorating their underweight in banks as we continue to be concerned over brand.
However, this masks one of our great investments in a pick up in credit losses and a squeeze on profitability from the US.
We first invested in Wal-Mart way back in 1977, a flat interest rate curve.
Healthcare stocks performed well meeting with the eponymous founder Sam Walton, when it helped by the increase in drug sales resulting from new was a fast growing retailer with little more than 100 stores.
Medicare coverage the shareholding in Baxter International, Since then it has grown into the empire we know today, for example, rose 35%, contributing positively to realising substantial profits for us along the way.
Technology shares had mixed fortunes with first purchase to last sale, the stock rose nearly 790 fold.
good performance from Cisco Systems 43% and American Following nearly four years of double digit earnings Tower 29% offset somewhat by Motorola -13%.
growth and a fifty-year high in corporate profitability, we still Concerned by the economic outlook, we reduced our expect US corporate profits to grow, but at a slower pace.
investment in North America in the late summer by selling our Democrat control of Capitol Hill since November brings holdings in Small Cap exchange traded funds.
This move, political uncertainty and possibly a more hostile approach to however, proved somewhat premature as these funds corporations, although markets have coped with this before.
continued to rise in line with the US market.
While we expect the consumer and housing market to be We lightened our exposure to US banks by selling Wells Fargo restrained this year, we do not expect any dramatic and added to Canadian banks, where we expect faster loan deterioration and with company balance sheets in rude growth, with the purchase of Bank of Nova Scotia and Royal health, merger and acquisition activity should remain robust.
In pharmaceuticals, we sold both Pfizer and Bristol-Myers Squibb after disappointment over their ability to get new drugs to market.
We reduced our telecoms Top ten investments Company Sector m Exxon Mobil Oil & Gas Producers 25.4 Abbott Laboratories Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 22.6 Altria Group Tobacco 14.4 Microsoft Software & Computer Services 13.7 Petro-Canada Oil & Gas Producers 13.1 Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 13.1 Motorola Technology Hardware & Equipment 10.3 Bank of America Banks 10.0 Cisco Systems Technology Hardware & Equipment 9.5 CVS Food & Drug Retailers 9.3 18 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Japan 7.1% of net assets at year end Harfun Ven The portfolio fell in value by 12.2% in sterling terms over the New positions added during the year such as Aeon Mall, year, which compares with a fall in the regional benchmark IBIDEN and OSG performed well.
Aeon Mall is Japans leading index of 10.5%.
The weakening of the yen had an adverse shopping mall developer and is seeing positive same-store effect on the overall portfolio, even though exporters gained, sales growth.
Our new holdings in the Small Cap sector, because it caused companies relying on the domestic economy however, performed poorly after earnings downgrades.
Over the year, Japan was the worst Theory, a speciality fashion retailer in which we had a small performing major stock market in the developed world.
holding, saw its earnings deteriorate.
We had overestimated the ability of this companys management to achieve their The pronounced weakening of the yen in 2006 came as a targets.
Works Applications, a package software developer, surprise to many, including us.
Holdings in exporters such also had an earnings downgrade and we were slightly early in as Toyota Motor, Honda Motor and Canon benefited.
By the end of the year, real estate We have an 8.8% weighting in the three companies and their valuations looked rich and we reduced our exposure by 2.0%.
share prices appreciated by well over 30% during the year.
We were overweight in the banking sector because we We believe the Japanese economic recovery will remain on expected more than one interest rate increase from the Bank track, led by industrial production, and backed by exports and of Japan.
This did not happen and our positioning here was investment.
Domestic consumption, which has lagged behind detrimental to performance.
The megabanks were especially recovery elsewhere, should slowly pick up and eventually lead hard hit, falling on average 11.2%.
The low interest rate to a more sustainable and robust economic recovery.
However, environment provided ample liquidity to the real estate sector the timing of this does remain uncertain.
Cash flows from and the portfolios holding in real estate developer Mitsui Japanese corporations are strong, allowing them to stay in Fudosan gained 26.7%.
In December and January, higher the forefront of global competitiveness, so we intend to yielding stocks such as utilities became the focal point of concentrate on stock specifics rather than make investments interest for investors.
We were not exposed to these sectors guided by sector views.
Our preference is for companies that and our resulting underperformance in the last two months can demonstrate a technological advantage in a growing of the period meant we ended the year behind the business market.
Top ten investments Company Sector m Premier Alliance Trust Japan Nonequity Investment Instruments 35.4 Sumitomo Mitsui Banks 11.0 Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Banks 10.1 East Japan Railway Travel & Leisure 9.5 Toyota Motor Automobiles & Parts 8.6 IBIDEN Electronic & Electrical Equipment 7.1 F. C. C. Automobiles & Parts 6.3 Takeda Pharmaceutical Pharmaceuticals & Biotechnology 6.1 Chiba Bank Banks 6.0 OSG Industrial Engineering 5.9 Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 19 Asia-Pacific 8.5% of net assets at year end Tathagata Guha Roy The Asia-Pacific portfolio returned 11.3% in sterling terms in Chinas retail malls and this has outperformed by 9% since over the last twelve months compared to a rise of 9.8% in the our purchase.
In Thailand, we added to stocks with good regional benchmark index.
Stock selection was the main driver individual growth prospects, for example, Bank of Ayudhya of outperformance although country allocation was also which has great restructuring potential following GE Capitals positive.
China and India benefited from strong foreign fund acquisition of a stake in the company.
The stock has inflows during the year as the economies of both countries underperformed by 6% since our purchase along with the continued to do exceptionally well.
weakness in the Thai market.
However, we remain confident of its long term prospects.
Reductions in the Korean holdings Stock selection made a positive contribution with several of included sales of Cheil Communications and Hyundai Motor the portfolios key holdings performing well.
These included a which has underperformed by 35% since our sale.
In Taiwan, 1.1% weighting in Hong Kong Exchange and a 4.1% position we focused on the technology sector and initiated a position in Keppel Corporation which outperformed the benchmark by in High Tech Computer, a smart phone company likely to win 84% and 19% respectively.
Country allocation, in particular business from global operators.
being underweight in Korea and overweight in Hong Kong China for most of the year, also contributed to Looking ahead, we expect lower levels of growth from the outperformance though we have brought down that region in 2007.
Nonetheless, we remain positive on the overweight.
However, being underweight in the South East outlook for corporate profits.
While the strength of markets Asian markets like Indonesia and the Philippines was a over the past year means there are no longer any bargains, negative.
For asset allocation, we maintained our positions in moderate overvaluations are underpinned by ample liquidity India despite some caution about valuations and we kept our and a positive economic backdrop.
Company valuations underweight position in Australia as valuations looked appear reasonable when screened against developed markets stretched for most companies.
In the China A-share market, though Indian and Chinese stock valuations are a cause for strong cash inflows have continued.
We have trimmed our concern.
The risk to the regional markets lies more in external position in the iShares A50 China Tracker after a steep run-up events such as US weakness or Middle East conflict rather than towards the end of 2006.
In Thailand, while valuations are in the region.
In the year ahead, stock selection will be the cheap we remain concerned about the political situation and key to outperformance.
In Hong Kong, we reduced portfolio positions where valuations looked stretched including Caf fide Coral, Hong Kong Exchange, Dairy Farm and Swire Pacific.
We added to Hang Lung Properties which has been expanding successfully Top ten investments Company Sector m Premier Alliance Trust Asia-Pacific Nonequity Investment Instruments 36.9 Keppel Corporation General Industrials 9.9 iShares A50 China Tracker ETF 9.8 Infosys Technologies Software & Computer Services 9.7 Rio Tinto Mining 9.3 Kookmin Bank Banks 7.8 Hang Lung Properties Real Estate 7.5 Brambles Support Services 7.4 Taiwan Semiconductors Technology Hardware & Equipment 6.8 Korea Exchange Bank Banks 6.3 20 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Real Estate 2.8% of net assets at year end Hugh MacNish Porter With a relatively limited number of suitable properties The value of the portfolios US mineral interests rose 40% last available for investment, simple economics of supply and year mainly because of a steep rise in the price of gas, from demand have driven prices higher while at the same time the which most of our royalty income is derived.
We also had a rental income from property has remained broadly static in good year in signing new exploration leases with producers real terms.
accounting for in excess of $600,000 in bonus receipts paid to us when we complete a lease deal.
With gas prices now well For the property portfolio, we have made progress in a off last years peak we do not expect the same kind of capital competitive market and now have some excellent buildings in performance to be repeated but production is still expected Edinburgh, Glasgow and Leeds which we are confident to hold up well.
will generate consistent returns over a sustained period.
We are particularly pleased with our purchase of Edinburgh With the general economy continuing to grow, we expect House, a modern office building in central Edinburgh which rental values to move on a little with office rentals probably has delivered a return in excess of 17% over the year.
In 2007, growing a little faster than retail and industrial.
Property we will look to add further prime assets as we continue investment, however, is still very much about stock selection to steadily build our core portfolio in a competitive and we will remain very much focused on the merits of environment.
Property investments Location Address Type Value m Edinburgh Edinburgh House, 4 North St Andrew Street Offices 18.65 Leeds Kings Court, 12 King Street Offices 17.55 Edinburgh Tigerlily, 125 George Street Hotel 10.61 Edinburgh 6-10 Frederick Street Retail 10.24 Glasgow Monteith House, 11 George Square Offices 10.10 Investing for generations Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts | 21 Private Equity 2.8% of net assets at year end Raymond Abbott The holdings in quoted private equity shares delivered another very strong year, for example, Standard Life European and Candover rose by 30% and 19% respectively.
Among the private equity funds held, Dunedin Buyout Fund continued its good performance.
Our acquisition of Albany Ventures in November takes our Private Equity involvement to a new level.
Over the year, we were active in taking an exposure to KKR Private Equity.
So far the share price has made little progress since the aggressive initial public offering.
We increased our exposure to pooled private equity funds through a 12m commitment to Dunedin Buyout Fund II.
A new exposure was a 6.0m investment in Impax New Energy Investors which complements our holding in quoted Impax Environmental Markets investment trust.
We were pleased to re-establish links with the Fleming family through a 20m commitment to Fleming Family Private Equity where subsequently we saw a drawdown of 5m.
It is partly through these partnerships that we will seek co-investment opportunities.
We have rightly seen media focus on the vast sums now being raised and invested, and the increasing prices at which deals are being struck.
We recognise that excesses do exist in this asset class but we seek to move forward using our own expertise with a focus on specific investment opportunities where we can apply our own strict criteria for quality and value.
The in-house expertise we now have will allow us to participate in co-investment and direct investment opportunities not previously open to us.
Top ten investments Company Sector m KKR Private Equity Investors Private Equity 22.4 Standard Life European Private Equity Private Equity 17.4 Candover Investments Private Equity 11.9 Impax Environmental Markets Private Equity 6.8 Promethean Private Equity 5.3 Fleming Family Private Equity Vehicle Private Equity 4.9 SVG Capital Private Equity 4.7 Albany Ventures Fund III Limited Private Equity 2.1 Dunedin Buyout Fund Private Equity 1.8 Herald Ventures II Limited Private Equity 0.9 22 | Alliance Trust PLC Report & Accounts Investing for generations Fixed Income 0.9% of net assets at year end The fixed income portfolio consists wholly of preference stocks in the UK financial sector.
Against a background of rising interest rates, the capital value of the portfolio declined by 6.6% over the year.
However, taking into account the income yield, the total return was -0.9% which compares with a total return of -1.1% in sterling terms for the MSCI EuroSterling Credit Index over the same period.
Financial markets are currently pricing in a further quarter point rise in UK interest rates during the first half of 2007, with rates then expected to ease in 2008.
Should this scenario transpire, we expect 2007 may be challenging in terms of capital return.
However, the income yield remains intact.
Fixed income investments Company Sector m HBOS 9.25% Fixed Income 9.9 Abbey National 10.375% Fixed Income 8.0 General Accident 8.875% Fixed Income 5.1 Standard Chartered 7.375% Fixed Income 3.7
