Directors Report The information presented by the Directors in this Directors On 2 July 2007, we announced approval of the Pyrenees Report relates to BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and project located in licence block number WA-12-R in the their subsidiaries.
The Chairmans Review on pages 6 and 7, Chief Exmouth Sub-basin, off the northwest Australian coast.
Executive Officers Report on pages 8 and 9, Customer Sector Group First production is expected during the first half of calendar Highlights pages 24 and 25 and Information for Shareholders year 2010.
Project costs for the Pyrenees development are page 84 sections of this Annual Review are each incorporated approximately US$1.7 billion, of which BHP Billitons share is by reference into, and form part of, this Directors Report.
71.43 per cent approximately US$1.2 billion.
The Pyrenees fields of Crosby, Ravensworth and Stickle were discovered in WA-12-R 1.
Principal activities, state of affairs in July 2003 and have estimated recoverable oil reserves in the range of 80-120 million barrels of oil.
The fields are estimated to and business review have an economic life of 25 years and BHP Billiton is the operator.
A review of the operations of the Group during FY2007, and No other matter or circumstance has arisen since the end of the expected results of those operations in future financial years, FY2007 that has significantly affected or may significantly affect is set out in the Chairmans Review on pages 6 and 7, the Chief the operations, the results of operations or state of affairs of the Executive Officers report on pages 8 and 9, the Customer Sector Group in future years.
Group Highlights on pages 24 and 25 and other material in this Annual Review.
Information on the development of the Group and The material risks and uncertainties that could affect us are likely developments in future years also appears in those sections described in section 6 of the Corporate Governance Statement.
The Directors believe that to include further information on those matters and on the strategies and expected 2.
Share capital and buy-back programs results of the operations of the Group in this Annual Review would In February 2007, we announced a US$10 billion increase to the be likely to result in unreasonable prejudice to the Group.
US$3 billion capital management program that was announced Our principal activities during FY2007 were minerals exploration, in August 2006.
This amount will be returned to shareholders development, production and processing in respect of alumina, over the following 18 months through a series of share buy-backs.
aluminium, copper, iron ore, metallurgical coal, energy coal, nickel, As part of our capital management program, we completed an manganese ores and alloys, diamonds, titanium minerals and off-market buy-back of US$2.8 billion of BHP Billiton Limited shares uranium, and oil and gas exploration, development and production.
BHP Billiton Limited repurchased 141.1 million shares, Significant changes in the state of affairs of the Group that representing 2.42 per cent of the issued share capital of the Group.
occurred during FY2007 and significant post-balance date events These shares were acquired at a price of A$24.81 per share, which are set out below and in the Chief Executive Officers Report represented a discount of 14 per cent to the volume weighted pages 8 and 9 and Customer Sector Group Highlights pages average price of BHP Billiton Limited shares over the five days up 24 and 25 section of this Annual Review.
to and including the closing date of the buy-back, 23 March 2007.
There were significant changes to the composition The shares purchased were cancelled.
of the Board and management during the year.
The CEO, In addition, we have in place an on-market share buy-back Mr Charles Goodyear, indicated his intention to resign as program under which up to 349 million shares of BHP Billiton CEO at the end of September 2007.
Former executive Director Limited can be purchased on-market and cancelled, which Mr Miklos Salamon retired in October 2006 and Mr Chris Lynch represents less than 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Limiteds issued retired as an executive Director in June 2007.
Mr Marius Kloppers share capital.
We did not make any on-market share purchases has been appointed CEO with effect from 1 October 2007. during FY2007.
On 13 November 2006, BHP Billiton, with co-venturers Hess At the Annual General Meetings held during 2006, shareholders Corporation and Repsol YPF, announced the purchase of the authorised BHP Billiton Plc to make on-market purchases of up Genghis Khan Oil and gas development in the deepwater Gulf to 246,814,700 of its ordinary shares, representing approximately of Mexico.
Gross costs for the transaction were US$1.326 billion, 10 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital at that time.
with the net share to the Group of US$583 million.
Shareholders will be asked at the 2007 Annual General Meetings On 23 March 2007, BHP Billiton approved capital expenditure to renew this authority.
of US$1.85 billion for the Rapid Growth Project 4 RGP 4 to increase system capacity across its Western Australian iron ore During FY2007, 146.7 million ordinary shares in BHP Billiton Plc, operations to 155 million tonnes per annum.
Initial production with a nominal value of US$0.50 per share and representing from RPG 4 is expected to commence in the first half of 2010.
5.99 per cent of BHP Billiton Plcs issued share capital, were Also on 23 March 2007, BHP Billiton Limited closed purchased.
These shares were bought back at an average price of 1,030.06 pence for an aggregate consideration of US$2,957 million a US$2.8 billion off-market buy-back as part of the capital management program for FY2007, as detailed in section 2 to return value to shareholders under our capital management program.
This represented a discount to the average BHP Billiton of this Directors Report.
Limited share price over the buy-back period being 7 September On 25 March 2007, BHP Billiton officially opened the Spence 2006 to 29 June 2007 of 8.0 per cent.
Most of the shares copper cathode operation in the northern region of Chile.
operation is expected to reach design capacity of 200,000 tonnes of copper cathode per year towards the end of calendar year Some of our executives are entitled to options as part of their 2007.
The capital cost of the construction project for the operation remuneration arrangements.
We can satisfy these entitlements was completed within the US$990 million budget, excluding either by the acquisition of shares on-market or by the issue of foreign exchange impacts of the stronger Chilean peso.
including the impact of foreign exchange was US$1.1 billion.
In April 2007, we announced the acquisition of a 33.3 per cent interest in Global Aluminas refinery project in Guinea, West Africa.
The project comprises the design, construction and operation of a 3.2 mtpa alumina refinery, a 9.6 mtpa bauxite mine and associated infrastructure.
Share capital and buy-back programs continued The shares in column A below were purchased to satisfy awards made under the various BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc employee share schemes, and those shares purchased in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc as part of the capital management program.
b These shares in BHP Billiton Limited may be repurchased pursuant to the on-market share buy-back program, which has been extended by 12 months to 30 September 2008.
On 15 September 2006, BHP Billiton Limited announced the reduction in the maximum number of shares that may be bought back from 358,000,000 to 349,000,000 following the cancellation of 95,950,979 BHP Billiton Limited shares on 3 April 2006. c As at 30 June 2007, 146,721,714 BHP Billiton Plc shares had been bought back 6,600,000 by BHP Billiton Plc and 140,121,714 by BHP Billiton Limited.
Of the BHP Billiton Plc shares purchased by BHP Billiton Limited, 101,685,000 have been cancelled.
As at 30 June 2007, BHP Billiton Limited held 38,436,714 shares in BHP Billiton Plc.
The number of meetings of the Board and its Committees 3.
Results, financial instruments and going concern held during the year and each Directors attendance at those Information about our financial position is included in the meetings are set out in sections 3.12 and 4.1 of the Corporate summary financial report in this Annual Review.
statement set out in this Annual Review shows profit attributable to BHP Billiton members of US$13,416 million compared to 5.
Remuneration and share interests US$10,450 million in 2006.
5.1 Remuneration Details of our financial risk management objectives and policies The policy for determining the nature and amount of emoluments are set out in section 6 of the Corporate Governance Statement, of members of the OCE including the executive Directors and the which is incorporated into, and forms part of, this Directors Report.
non-executive Directors and information about the relationship The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that between that policy and our performance are set out in sections the Group has adequate resources to continue in the operational 3 and 5 of the Remuneration Report.
business for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued The remuneration tables contained in sections 5.5 and 6.2 to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the summary of the Remuneration Report set out the remuneration of financial report.
members of the OCE including the executive Directors and the non-executive Directors.
Directors 5.2 Directors The Directors who served during FY2007 were Mr Don Argus, Mr Charles Goodyear, Mr Paul Anderson, Dr David Brink, The tables contained in section 19 of this Directors Report set Dr John Buchanan, Mr Carlos Cordeiro, Mr David Crawford, out the relevant interests in shares in BHP Billiton Limited and Dr Gail fide Planque, Dr David Jenkins, Mr Marius Kloppers, BHP Billiton Plc of the Directors who held office at 30 June 2007, Mr Chris Lynch, Mr Jacques Nasser, Mr Miklos Salamon and at the beginning and end of FY2007, and at the date of this Dr John Schubert.
Further details of the Directors of BHP Billiton Directors Report.
No rights or options over shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out on pages 28 to 31 of this Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are held by any of the non-executive Annual Review.
These details include the period for which each Directors.
The rights or options held by executive Directors over Director held office up to the date of this Annual Review, their shares in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc are set out in the qualifications, experience and particular responsibilities, the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained in section 5.2 directorships held in other listed companies since 1 July 2004, of the Remuneration Report and the table contained in section 21 and the period for which each directorship has been held.
Except as disclosed in these tables, there have been no other changes in the Directors interests over shares Mr Miklos Salamon retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited or options in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc between and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 26 October 2006, having 30 June 2007 and the date of this Directors Report.
The Directors been a Director since February 2003. did not participate in the off-market buy-back described in Mr Chris Lynch retired as a Director of BHP Billiton Limited section 2 of this Directors Report.
and BHP Billiton Plc with effect from 30 June 2007, having been We have not made available to any Director any interest a Director since January 2006. in a registered scheme.
No new Directors were appointed during FY2007.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 61 Directors Report continued 5.2 Directors continued against all losses, claims, costs, expenses, actions, demands, damages, liabilities or any proceedings liabilities incurred The former Directors of BHP Limited participated in a retirement by KPMG in respect of third party claims arising from a breach plan under which they were entitled to receive a payment on by the Group under the engagement terms: and retirement calculated by reference to years of service.
This plan was closed on 24 October 2003, and benefits accrued to that date for all liabilities KPMG has to the Group or any third party are held by BHP Billiton Limited and will be paid on retirement.
as a result of reliance on information provided by the Group Further information about this plan and its closure are set out that is false, misleading or incomplete.
in section 6.1 of the Remuneration Report.
We have insured against amounts that we may be liable to pay to Directors, Company Secretaries or certain employees pursuant to 5.3 OCE members Rule 146 of the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Article 146 The table contained in section 20 of this Directors Report sets of the Articles of Association of BHP Billiton Plc or that we out the relevant interests held by members of the OCE other than otherwise agree to pay by way of indemnity.
The insurance policy Directors in shares of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc at also insures Directors, Company Secretaries and some employees the beginning and end of FY2007, and at the date of this Directors against certain liabilities including legal costs they may incur in Report.
Interests held by members of the OCE under share and carrying out their duties for us.
option plans are set out in the tables showing interests in incentive plans contained in section 5.2 of this Annual Review.
Further We have paid premiums for this Directors and Officers insurance details of all options and rights held as at the date of this of US$2,882,500 net during FY2007.
Some Directors, Secretaries Directors Report including those issued during or since the end and employees contribute to the premium for this insurance.
of FY2007, and of shares issued during or since the end of FY2007 upon exercise of options and rights, are set out in note 31 Key 8.
Employee policies and involvement management personnel in the financial statements in the We are committed to open, honest and productive relationships BHP Billiton Annual Report.
Members of the OCE did not with our employees based on the values of our Charter and participate in the off-market buy-back described in section 2 aligning the interests of employees with those of our shareholders.
Our approach is to encourage and maintain effective communication 6.
Secretaries and consultation between employees and management through a range of approaches and tools as appropriate to the local Up to 11 July 2007, Ms Karen Wood was the Chief Governance environment.
To facilitate global communications, we have a Officer and Group Company Secretary.
From 11 July 2007, Ms Jane dedicated communications support team, which manages the McAloon was appointed as Group Company Secretary.
Details of release of information to employees across the world.
In addition the qualifications and experience of Ms Wood and Ms McAloon to the regular production and communication of operational and are set out on page 31 of this Annual Review.
The following people global newsletters, bulletins and staff news releases, employees also act as the Company Secretaries of either BHP Billiton Limited are also provided with regular briefings by senior management or BHP Billiton Plc, and report to Ms Jane McAloon: Mr Robert on important issues such as our strategy, performance and health, Franklin, MA, ACIS, Company Secretary of BHP Billiton Plc, safety and environmental matters.
Ms Elizabeth Hobley, BA Hons ACIS, Deputy Company Secretary BHP Billiton Plc, Mrs Ines Watson, ACIS, Senior Assistant Company We also provide information about issues of relevance to employees Secretary BHP Billiton Plc, Mr Ross Mallett, JD BBus FCIS FCPA and through our intranet and email facilities and other media, including Ms Fiona Smith, BSc LLB ACIS, Joint Deputy Company Secretaries newsletters suitable to the local environment.
These are all BHP Billiton Limited.
Each such individual has experience in a important tools for gaining employee feedback and increasing company secretariat role arising from time spent in such roles awareness of corporate and safety performance and other critical within BHP Billiton or other large listed companies.
Other consultative methods are in place to address issues impacting employees, and in addition, 7.
Indemnities and insurance grievance or dispute resolution procedures apply in all businesses.
Rule 146 of the BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and Article 146 All our employees can access our Annual Reports and other of the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association require each key publications via the intranet or hard copy.
Company to indemnify to the extent permitted by law, each All employees are invited to participate in the Shareplus Director, Secretary or executive officer of BHP Billiton Limited and all-employee share purchase plan or, where local regulations limit BHP Billiton Plc respectively against liability incurred in, or arising its operation, cash equivalent schemes.
Employee share schemes out of, the conduct of the business of the Company or the discharge are described in sections 3.4, 5.2 and 5.4 of the Remuneration of the duties of the Director, Secretary or executive officer.
The Directors named on pages 28 to 31 of this Annual Review, the Report.
executive officers and the Company Secretaries of BHP Billiton Incentive and bonus schemes also operate across the Group, Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have the benefit of this requirement, which include targets relating to our overall financial and as do individuals who formerly held one of those positions.
In accordance with this requirement, BHP Billiton Limited and The means by which we communicate with shareholders is BHP Billiton Plc have entered into Deeds of Indemnity, Access described in section 2 of the Corporate Governance Statement.
and Insurance Deeds of Indemnity with each of their respective Directors.
The Deeds of Indemnity are qualifying third party indemnity We have published our commitment to equality in employment in the Equality in Employment Policy and the Guide to Business provisions for the purposes of the Companies Act 1985 UK.
Conduct and the Human Resources Management Standards.
We have a policy that we will, as a general rule, support and We give full and fair consideration to applications for employment hold harmless an employee who, while acting in good faith, made by all people.
Decisions are based on aptitudes and abilities, incurs personal liability to others as a result of working for us.
and not on attributes unrelated to job performance including In addition, where a person chairs a Customer Sector Group Risk disability.
Should employees become disabled during employment, and Audit Committee, and that person is not already indemnified they will be considered for available work within their capabilities, as an officer or a Director, a policy is in place to indemnify that and, where necessary, retraining.
For the purpose of training, chairperson in the same manner as our officers are indemnified.
career development and promotion, disabled employees are This policy has been approved by the Board.
treated in the same way as other employees, although reasonable From time to time, we engage our External Auditor, KPMG, modifications will be made to the physical work environment and to conduct non-statutory audit work and provide other services other arrangements made as appropriate to meet particular needs in accordance with our policy on the provision of other services arising from a disability.
The terms of engagement include an indemnity in favour of KPMG: 62 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 9.
Value of land Particulars in relation to environmental performance are referred Much of our interest in land consists of leases and other rights to in section 22 of this Directors Report and in the Sustainability that permit the working of such land and the erection of buildings Report, available at www.
and equipment thereon for the purpose of extracting and treating minerals.
Such land is mainly carried in the accounts at cost and 10.
Dividends it is not possible to estimate the market value, as this depends on product prices over the long term, which will vary with A final dividend of 27 US cents per share will be paid on market conditions.
Details of the dividends paid and the dividend policy are set out on pages 2, 6 and 84 of this 14.
Political and charitable donations Annual Review.
No political contributions or donations for political purposes 11.
We made charitable donations in the United Kingdom of US$734,578 cash 2006: US$1,137,333 A resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as the auditor of and worldwide, including in-kind support and administrative cost BHP Billiton Plc will be proposed at the 2007 Annual General totalling US$103,362,481 2006: US$81,286,299.
Meetings in accordance with section 385 of the United Kingdom Companies Act 1985.
Exploration, research and development A copy of the declaration given by our External Auditors to Companies within the Group carry out exploration and research the Directors in relation to the auditors compliance with the and development necessary to support their activities.
independence requirements of the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and the professional code of conduct for External Auditors is set 16.
Creditor payment policy out on page 80 of this Annual Review.
When we enter into a contract with a supplier, payment terms No person who was an officer of BHP Billiton during FY2007 was a will be agreed when the contract begins and the supplier will director or partner of the Groups External Auditors at a time when be made aware of these terms.
We do not have a specific policy the Groups External Auditors conducted an audit of the Group.
towards our suppliers and do not follow any code or standard Each person who held the office of Director at the date the practice.
However, we settle terms of payment with suppliers Board resolved to approve this Directors Report makes the when agreeing overall terms of business, and seek to abide by the following statements: terms of the contracts to which we are bound.
As at 30 June 2007, so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit BHP Billiton Plc the unconsolidated parent entity had no trade information of which the Groups External Auditors are unaware: creditors outstanding and therefore had nil days purchases and outstanding in respect of costs, based on the total invoiced by suppliers during FY2007.
the Director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant 17.
Class order audit information and to establish that the Groups External Auditors are aware of that information.
BHP Billiton Limited is a company of a kind referred to in Australian Securities and Investments Commission Class Order No.
Amounts in this Directors Report and the summary financial report, except estimates of future expenditure Details of the non-audit services undertaken by our External or where otherwise indicated, have been rounded to the nearest Auditors, including the amounts paid for non-audit services, million dollars in accordance with that Class Order.
are set out in the table below.
Based on advice provided by the Risk and Audit Committee, the Directors have formed the view 18.
Proceedings on behalf of BHP Billiton Limited that the provision of non-audit services is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors, and that the No proceedings have been brought on behalf of BHP Billiton nature of non-audit services means that auditor independence Limited, nor any application made under section 237 of the was not compromised.
Further information about our policy in Australian Corporations Act 2001. relation to the provision of non-audit services by the auditor is set out in section 5.1 of the Corporate Governance Statement.
Fees payable by the BHP Billiton Group to the Groups auditor during FY2007 for non-audit services US$M a Other services pursuant to legislation 6.542 b Other services relating to taxation 0.198 c Other services relating to corporate finance 0.212 d All other services 0.374 Total non-audit services 7.326 a Mainly includes review of half year reports and audit work in relation to compliance with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
b Mainly includes tax compliance services.
c Mainly includes services in connection with acquisitions, divestments and debt raising transactions.
d Mainly includes advice on accounting matters, health and safety audits, payroll advice and preparatory work in connection with section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 63 Directors Report continued 19.
OCE members shareholdings other than Directors The tables below set out information pertaining to the shares held by Directors in BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
The table below sets out information pertaining to the shares in BHP Billiton Limited held by those senior executives who As at date were members of the OCE during FY2007 other than the BHP Billiton of Directors As at As at executive Directors.
Marius Kloppers 2 Includes 2,945 shares held by nominees, including 929 in the form 2 5 of endowment warrants.
His disclosed holdings 3 as at 30 June 2007 reflect his holdings as at his departure date Jacques Nasser 5,600 5,600 5,600 31 December 2006.
OCE members vested Performance and Deferred Shares and Options The table below shows GIS Performance Shares, Deferred Shares As at date and Options held by those senior executives who were members BHP Billiton of Directors As at As at of the OCE during FY2007 including the executive Directors that Plc shares Report 30 June 2007 30 June 2006 have vested since the end of FY2007, but have not been exercised.
1 Paul Anderson 4,000 4,000 Performance Deferred Don Argus Shares Shares Options 2 David Brink 70,000 70,000 50,000 Charles Goodyear 76,569 John Buchanan 20,000 20,000 20,000 John Fast 39,575 Carlos Cordeiro Robert Kirkby David Crawford Marius Kloppers 52,771 Gail fide Planque Chris Lynch 76,069 2 4 Charles Goodyear 2,000 2,000 2,000 Marcus Randolph 32,199 David Jenkins 10,000 10,000 10,000 Miklos Salamon 2 Marius Kloppers 396,683 396,683 335,333 Alex Vanselow 25,633 5 Chris Lynch Karen Wood 20,462 Jacques Nasser J. Michael Yeager 2 6 Miklos Salamon N A 1,434,686 1,302,085 John Schubert 1 66,000 BHP Billiton Limited shares are held in the form of 33,000 American Depositary Shares.
4,000 BHP Billiton Plc shares are held in the form of 2,000 American Depositary Shares.
2 Includes shares held in the name of spouse, superannuation fund and or nominee.
3 All BHP Billiton Limited shares are held in the form of American Depositary Shares: C Cordeiro 3,275, G fide Planque 1,790 and J Nasser 2,800.
4 82,604 BHP Billiton Limited shares are held in the form of 41,302 American Depositary Shares and 2,000 BHP Billiton Plc shares are held in the form of 1,000 American Depositary Shares.
5 C Lynch retired as a Director with effect from 30 June 2007 and left the Group on 31 August 2007.
His disclosed holdings as at the date of this Directors Report reflect his holdings as at 31 August 2007.
6 M Salamon left the Group prior to 30 June 2007.
His disclosed holdings as at 30 June 2007 reflect his holdings as at the date he retired as a Director 26 October 2006.
Performance in relation to environmental regulation An environmentally significant incident is one with a severity rating of 3 or above based on our internal severity rating scale tiered from 1 to 5 by increasing severity.
There have been no significant incidents during FY2007.
Fines and prosecutions The following fines were imposed during FY2007: BHP Billiton business Description of fine or prosecution Base Metals In November 2006, an infringement notice and citations were received for breach of DS148 04 handling Cerro Colorado of hazardous waste regarding incorrect container labelling.
Additionally, in April 2007, a fine was received regarding the condition of the hazardous waste warehouse roof and lack of information in the Hazardous Waste Container Register.
The fine for both the November 2006 and April 2007 infringements was US$30,253.
Energy Coal In May 2007, a notice and fines were received for six violations totalling US$6000 of the Borough Regulations Western Arctic Coal and BHP Billiton Permits.
Unreported 2030 gallon spill on Omalik ice strip: 2.
Pink dye not being used in fuel: 3.
Open burning refuse without open burn permit: 4.
Drip pans not being properly used beneath a generator: 5.
Unreported tundra damage by dozer at south end of ice airstrip: and 6.
Unapproved helicopter landings outside Point Lay airport apron.
Metallurgical Coal In December 2006, a penalty notice was received from the Department of Environment and Conservation for Dendrobium Colliery non-compliance with licence condition 02 Maintenance of plant and equipment at the ventilation shafts 2 and 3 construction site.
Further information about our performance in relation to environmental regulation can be found in the Sustainability Report, available at www.
The principles embodied in the Sharing Agreement are that: 23.
Share capital, restrictions on transfer the two companies are to operate as if they were a single unified of shares and other additional information economic entity, through Boards of Directors that comprise the Information relating to BHP Billiton Plcs share capital structure, same individuals and a unified senior executive management: restrictions on the holding or transfer of its securities or on the and exercise of voting rights attaching to such securities and certain the Directors of the two companies will, in addition to their agreements triggered on a change of control are set out in this duties to the Company concerned, have regard to the interests section 23 of the Directors Report.
of holders of shares in BHP Billiton Limited and holders of shares in BHP Billiton Plc as if the two companies were a single unified 23.1 Organisational and share capital structure economic entity and, for that purpose, the Directors of each DLC structure Company shall take into account in the exercise of their powers The BHP Billiton Group consists of the BHP Billiton Limited the interests of the shareholders of the other: and Group and the BHP Billiton Plc Group as a combined enterprise.
the DLC equalisation principles must be observed.
On 29 June 2001, BHP Billiton Limited then known as BHP Limited Pursuant to the BHP Deed Poll Guarantee and the Billiton Deed and BHP Billiton Plc then known as Billiton Plc merged by way Poll Guarantee, those creditors entitled to the benefit of the of DLC structure.
To effect the DLC, BHP Limited and Billiton Plc Deed Poll Guarantees will, to the extent possible, be placed entered into certain contractual arrangements that are designed in the same position as if the relevant debts were owed by to place the shareholders of both Companies in a position where both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc combined.
they effectively have an interest in a single Group that combines the assets, and is subject to all the liabilities, of both Companies.
It is expected that the Sharing Agreement, the Special Voting BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc have each retained their Shares Deed, the BHP Deed Poll Guarantee and the Billiton Deed separate corporate identities and maintained their separate stock Poll Guarantee will remain in effect until such time as a change exchange listings, but they are operated and managed as if they in control of the Group may occur.
are a single unified entity, with their Boards and senior executive management comprising the same people.
Australian Foreign Investment Review Board FIRB conditions The Treasurer of Australia approved the DLC merger subject BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc entered into various to certain conditions, the effect of which was to require that agreements to effect the DLC, including the: BHP Billiton Limited continues to: Sharing Agreement be an Australian company, which is managed from Australia: and Special Voting Shares Deed ultimately manage and control the companies conducting the BHP Deed Poll Guarantee business that was conducted by it at the time of the merger, for Billiton Deed Poll Guarantee.
as long as those businesses form part of the BHP Billiton Group.
In addition, BHP Billiton Limited adopted a new corporate The conditions have effect indefinitely, subject to amendment of Constitution and BHP Billiton Plc adopted a new Memorandum the Foreign Acquisitions and Takeovers Act 1975 Cth Takeovers and Articles of Association.
Act or any revocation or amendment by the Treasurer.
BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 65 Directors Report continued Retirement of Directors 23.1 Organisational and share capital structure continued Currently, a person who has attained the age of 70 may Equalisation of economic and voting rights by special resolution be appointed or reappointed as a Director BHP Billiton Limited shareholders and BHP Billiton Plc shareholders of BHP Billiton to hold office until the conclusion of BHP Billitons have economic and voting interests in the combined BHP Billiton next Annual General Meeting.
A person who has attained the age Group.
The economic and voting interests represented by a share of 70 during that persons tenure as a Director may continue to in one Company relative to the economic and voting interests of act as a Director during the period that starts on the day on which a share in the other Company is determined by reference to a ratio they turn 70 and ends at the conclusion of the first Annual General known as the Equalisation Ratio.
Presently, the economic and Meeting of BHP Billiton after that day.
We are, however, seeking voting interests attached to each BHP Billiton Limited share and shareholder approval at our 2007 Annual General Meetings to each BHP Billiton Plc share are the same, since the Equalisation amend the Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and Articles of Ratio is 1:1.
The Equalisation Ratio would change if either Association of BHP Billiton Plc to remove the requirement that BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc returned value to only Directors cannot be appointed beyond the age of 70 unless the its shareholders and no matching action was taken.
appointment is approved by a special resolution of shareholders.
Under the terms of the DLC agreements, the BHP Billiton Limited The Board will continue to have a policy that requires a nonConstitution and the BHP Billiton Plc Articles of Association executive Director who has served on the Board for nine years special voting arrangements have been implemented so that from the date of their first election to stand for annual re-election the shareholders of both Companies vote together as a single from the first Annual General Meeting after the expiration of their decision-making body on matters affecting the shareholders current term.
of each Company in similar ways such matters are referred to In relation to retirement generally, at every general meeting one as Joint Electorate Actions.
For so long as the Equalisation Ratio third of the Directors or, if their number is not a multiple of three, remains 1:1, each BHP Billiton Limited share will effectively have then the number nearest to but not less than one-third, must the same voting rights as each BHP Billiton Plc share on Joint retire from office.
Further, a Director must retire from office at Electorate Actions.
the conclusion of the third Annual General Meeting after which In the case of certain actions in relation to which the two bodies the Director was elected or re-elected.
of shareholders may have divergent interests referred to as Class Rights Actions, the Company wishing to carry out the Class Rights Power to issue securities Action requires the prior approval of the shareholders in the other BHP Billiton may, pursuant to the Constitution and Articles of Company voting separately and, where appropriate, the approval Association, issue any shares or other securities with preferred, of its own shareholders voting separately.
deferred or other special rights, obligations or restrictions as and when the Directors may determine and on any other terms These voting arrangements are secured through the constitutional the Directors consider appropriate, provided that any such issue: documents of the two Companies, the Sharing Agreement, the does not affect any special rights conferred on the holders Special Voting Shares Deed and rights attaching to a specially of any shares: and created Special Voting Share issued by each Company and held in each case by a Special Voting Company.
The shares in the is subject to the provisions regarding shareholder approval in the Constitution and Articles of Association: Special Voting Companies are held legally and beneficially by Law Debenture Trust Corporation Plc.
and the rights attaching to a class other than ordinary shares are expressed at the date of issue.
Restrictions on takeovers of one Company only The BHP Billiton Limited Constitution and the BHP Billiton Plc 23.4 Share ownership Articles of Association have been drafted to ensure that a person Neither the Constitution nor the Articles of Association impose cannot gain control of one Company without having made an any limitations on the rights to own securities other than equivalent offer to the shareholders of both Companies on restrictions that reflect the takeovers codes under relevant equivalent terms.
Sanctions for breach of these provisions Australian and UK law.
The Australian Foreign Acquisition and would include withholding of dividends, voting restrictions and Takeovers Act 1975 imposes a number of conditions, which the compulsory divestment of shares to the extent a shareholder restrict foreign ownership of Australian-based companies.
and its associates exceed the relevant threshold.
Neither BHP Billiton Limited nor BHP Billiton Plc is directly or 23.2 Constitution indirectly controlled by another corporation or by any government.
The Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of 23.5 Share capital Association of BHP Billiton Plc are, so far as possible, identical for ease of administration, and can only be amended where such The total number of BHP Billiton Limited shares of all classes amendment is approved as a Class Right Action.
A resolution is 3,357,698,574, of which 99.99 per cent are ordinary shares fully in respect of a Class Right Action is voted on separately by the paid.
The total number of BHP Billiton Plc shares of all classes is shareholders of BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc and is 2,898,365,002, of which 99.99 per cent are authorised ordinary only passed if 75 per cent of the votes cast at the general meetings shares of US$0.50 par value.
The remaining 0.002 per cent of Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc respectively are in favour comprises the 50,000 5.5 per cent Preference shares of 1 each, of the resolution.
the Special Voting Share and the Equalisation Share.
Further information regarding BHP Billitons share capital and its 23.3 Directors buy-back programs is set out in section 2 of this Directors Report.
The management and control of the business and affairs of BHP Billiton are vested in the Board of Directors, which, in addition 23.6 Rights attaching to shares to the powers and authorities conferred on it by the Constitution Dividend rights and Articles of Association, may exercise all powers and do Under law, dividends on shares may only be paid out of profits everything that is within the power of BHP Billiton, other than available for distribution.
The Constitution and Articles of what is required to be exercised or done by BHP Billiton in a Association provide that payment of any dividend may be made general meeting.
in any manner, by any means and in any currency determined Information regarding the review of the Directors and their by the Board.
re-election and renewal is set out in section 4 of the Corporate All unclaimed dividends may be invested or otherwise used by Governance Statement, which is incorporated into, and forms part the Board for the benefit of BHP Billiton until claimed or otherwise of, this Directors Report.
disposed of according to law.
66 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 Voting rights Various rights attaching to all shares issued by either BHP Billiton Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied where such variation Voting at any general meeting of BHP Billiton Plc is in the first is approved as either a Class Rights Action or a Joint Electorate instance to be conducted by a show of hands unless a poll is Action, depending on the type of right to be varied.
The demanded by any of the following: Constitution of BHP Billiton Limited and the Articles of Association the Chairman: of BHP Billiton Plc set out those rights that may only be varied not less than five members present in person or by proxy as a Class Rights Action, and those rights that may only be and entitled to vote: varied as a Joint Electorate Action.
a member or members present in person or by proxy and representing not less than 5 per cent of the total voting rights 23.8 Employee share ownership plans of all the members having the right to vote at the meeting: or In respect of employee share awards, the BHP Billiton Group the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share.
utilises the following trusts: In addition, at any general meeting a resolution, other than a The Billiton Employee Share Ownership Plan Trust Trust a procedural resolution, put to the vote of the meeting on which is a discretionary trust for the benefit of all employees of BHP the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share is entitled to vote Billiton Plc and its subsidiaries.
The trustee is an independent shall be decided on a poll.
The Trust uses funds provided by BHP Billiton Plc and or its subsidiaries as appropriate to acquire On a show of hands, every shareholder present, except the ordinary shares to enable awards to be made or satisfied holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share, has one vote.
Where a under the Long Term Incentive Plan, Group Incentive Scheme, shareholder has appointed more than one person as representative, Restricted Share Scheme, Co-Investment Plan and other proxy or attorney for that shareholder, none of the representatives, employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Plc from time proxies or attorneys are entitled to vote on a show of hands.
The ordinary shares may be acquired by purchase in a poll, however, votes may be given either personally or by proxy.
the market or by subscription at not less than nominal value.
Rights to share in BHP Billiton Plcs profits b The BHP Performance Share Plan Trust PSP Trust is a The holders of the cumulative preference shares shall be entitled, discretionary trust established to distribute shares under in priority to any payment of dividend to the holders of any other selected BHP Billiton Limited employee share plan schemes.
class of shares, to be paid a fixed cumulative preferential dividend The trustee of the trust is BHP Billiton Employee Plan Pty Ltd, Preferential Dividend at a rate of 5.5 per cent per annum, to be an Australian company.
The trust uses funds provided by paid annually in arrears on 31 July in each year or, if any such date BHP Billiton Limited and or its subsidiaries to acquire shares on shall be a Saturday, Sunday or public holiday in England, on the market to satisfy exercises made under the Long Term Incentive first business day following such date in each year.
Payments of Plan, Group Incentive Scheme, and Performance Share Plan.
Preferential Dividends shall be made to holders on the register c The BHP Bonus Equity Plan Trust BEP Trust is a discretionary at any date selected by the Directors up to 42 days prior to the trust established for the purpose of holding shares in BHP relevant fixed dividend date.
Billiton Limited to satisfy exercises made under the BHP Billiton Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference Limited Bonus Equity Share Plan.
The trustee is BHP Billiton shares, but in priority to any payment of dividends on all other Employee Plan Pty Ltd. classes of shares, the holder of the Billiton Special Voting Share d The BHP Billiton Limited Executive Incentive Schemes Trust shall be entitled to be paid a fixed dividend of US$0.01 per annum, BEIS Trust is a discretionary trust established for the purposes payable annually in arrears on 31 July.
of holding shares in BHP Billiton Limited to satisfy exercises Subject to the rights attaching to the cumulative preference made under the BHP Billiton Limited Group Incentive Scheme, shares and the Billiton Special Voting Share, but in priority to any BHP Billiton Limited Long Term Incentive Plan and other payment of dividends on all other classes of Shares, the holder of employee share schemes operated by BHP Billiton Limited the Equalisation Share shall be entitled to be paid such dividends from time to time.
as the Board may decide to pay thereupon.
23.9 Other information Any surplus remaining after payment of the distributions under In addition to other sections expressly specified in this the above distributions shall be payable to the holders of the BHP Directors Report, the following sections of this Annual Review Billiton Plc ordinary shares in equal amounts per BHP Billiton Plc are each incorporated by reference into, and form part of, this ordinary share.
Directors Report: 23.7 Changes to rights of shareholders Our people page 14 Rights attached to any class of shares issued by either BHP Billiton Our licence to operate page 15 Limited or BHP Billiton Plc can only be varied where such variation Our world-class assets page 17 is approved both: Our BHP Billiton way pages 18 by the Company that issued the relevant shares, as a special Our financial strength and discipline page 19 resolution: and Our project pipeline page 22 by the holders of the issued shares of the affected class, either Our growth options page 23 at a special meeting by resolution passed by not less than The Directors Report is made in accordance with a resolution three-quarters of the holders present at the meeting and of the Board.
by voting, or in writing signed by the holders of at least three-quarters of the issued shares of that class.
The Board may determine that the resolution to be passed by the relevant Company is either a Class Rights Action or a Joint Electorate Action, and accordingly the resolution may need to be passed by the shareholders of both BHP Billiton Limited and BHP Billiton Plc.
D R Argus C W Goodyear Chairman Chief Executive Officer Dated: 6 September 2007 BHP BILLITON ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 67
