Review Delivering our strategy A clear vision which is recognised internally and externally.
A robust process for delivery of our vision and a transparent mechanism.
for measuring progress towards it.
Good advancement towards our 2009 vision.
Understanding our strategy We believe that a clearly articulated vision that is well understood by internal and external stakeholders is a key part of positioning Amlin to deliver shareholder value over the medium and long term.
Our five business focus areas allow us to manage operations and work flow over a shorter time horizon in the context of our longer term goal.
Goal Amlins goal is simple: we aim to deliver value to our shareholders.
As an organisation, everything that we do has this goal at its core.
Shareholder value Financial targets We set two over arching long term financial targets to measure our 15% cross cycle success in delivering our goal.
return on equity Profitable throughout the insurance cycle Vision Our vision for 2009 is to become the Global reference point for global reference point for quality in our markets.
This is a challenging mission, but one which has quality in our markets actively engaged our employees in positively differentiating Amlin from our competitors.
Strategic priorities These are the key things that we believe we need to deliver to Profit Improved First class client Effective be successful.
focused understanding of service standards cycle underwriting clients needs and management excellence market trends Underwriting Clients Risk management People Financial Business management Pricing, portfolio Focusing on their needs Clearly identifying risks Having people with focus and exposure and our ability to deliver to the achievement of expertise, experience Successfully management, the level of service to our ambitions and and motivation to meet balancing capital and allocation of which we aspire.
successfully the standards we to support the business capital to classes addressing them.
with the aim of beating of business over the our return on equity underwriting cycle target and continuing to deliver superior total shareholder returns.
10 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Review Delivering the strategy and Our vision measuring progress Amlins approach to strategy development, Economic Insurance market Our vision implementation and measurement is summarised factors developments in the adjacent diagram.
The starting point for the strategic process is the Boards annual strategy review which focuses on Amlin plc Board the strategic progress made in the past twelve months, Annual strategy review significant internal and external developments, including Quarterly economic, market and corporate events, and key strategic strategic actions for the forthcoming period.
The review scorecard provides the foundations to our strategic development.
Executive Management Group EMG KPIs Development of implementation plans EMG monitors market developments, considers options for delivery of the strategic direction agreed by the Quarterly Board and develops implementation plans for actions.
operational At a lower level, OMG and other business managers update develop detailed complementary objectives generated Operational Management Group OMG within business and operational areas and these are Detailed monitoring agreed by EMG.
Strategic progress is tracked using a combination of key performance indicators and quarterly operational objective monitoring.
More recently a strategic scorecard is being developed to provide a detailed quarterly strategic update to the Board.
Operational objectives Amlin Bermudas Board independently considers Key performance indicators Relevance any strategic actions on a quarterly basis.
Key performance indicators At an operational level, we employ key performance indicators to measure performance within each area of focus.
We set performance targets and monitor against these on a monthly basis.
Our KPI hierarchy is summarised in the table below and other supporting measures are also employed across the different focus areas as referred to in the following sections of this Review.
Actual KPI results are also shown in those sections.
Key performance indicators Relevance Shareholder value Top quartile total shareholder return relative to peer groups.
Measures the total value created for shareholders, including cash returns and share price performance.
Average cross cycle return on equity 15%.
Measures how effectively we use capital.
Reflects the cash returned to shareholders.
Underwriting Gross written premium plan.
Measures Amlins gross underwriting income against expectations.
Measures Amlins underwriting profitability against expectations.
Rate movement within 2.5% of plan.
Reflects the impact of price changes on Amlins expected profitability.
Clients Indicates the level of customer satisfaction.
Indicates quality of service provided to customer.
Key driver of customer satisfaction.
90% of claims turned around 4 days.
Risk management Incurred claims ratio within 5% variance from expectation.
Incurred ratios are a measure of variability of plan against actuarial best estimate.
Realistic disaster scenarios remain within risk appetite.
RDS modelling and clear risk appetite principles control risk exposure.
People Measures staff motivation and retention of expertise.
Measures senior underwriter motivation and retention of expertise.
Shows depth and experience of underwriting resource.
Average years insurance experience of senior underwriters 15 years.
Training expenditure targeted at 3% of salary costs.
Measures the extent of personal and professional development.
Financial management Return on equity within 5% of plan.
Cash and investments at least double shareholders equity.
Reflects profitable trading, liquidity and the ability to pay large claims quickly.
Operational objectives Each year we set shorter term objectives to support our strategic ambitions.
Objectives are identified through a detailed planning process across business and operational areas.
We track progress against these objectives on a quarterly basis through our Operational Management Group.
Progress achieved against 2007 objectives and objectives set for 2008 are detailed in the relevant business focus sections of this Review.
Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 11 Review Delivering our strategy Progress towards our vision for 2009 We believe we are making good progress towards our 2009 vision across each of our areas of business focus.
The table below provides an overview of progress made in 2007, but more importantly it identifies those areas upon which we will focus our efforts in the next two years.
Our four strategic priorities are shown in bold.
Vision for 2009 Global reference point for Overview of progress in 2007 Areas of focus in 2008 09 quality in our markets Underwriting We will be renowned for profit focused Enhancement of technical pricing models.
Complete further review of technical pricing to standardise underwriting excellence.
and improve methodologies where appropriate.
Improved management information capabilities Implementation of Genus underwriting system to for underwriters.
provide UK Commercial with materially enhanced underwriting information.
Data Warehouse and underwriter workbench, to provide faster, more reliable and more comprehensive underwriting management information.
Growth and development of Amlin Bermuda Continuity is assured by a flexible business platform, with Continued growth of Amlin Bermuda.
an ability to write business both in and out of Lloyds.
Set up Amlin Singapore to gain exposure to Asian market.
Review select overseas markets for potential opportunities.
Acquired Allied Cedar to facilitate growth of UK property business.
Continue to review capital market developments for potential opportunities.
Clients We will be renowned for a thorough understanding Formal review of underwriting and claims Review goals, plans and resourcing for UK sales of client needs combined with an ability to identify and marketing, so that when the UK commercial process with key brokers to confirm operational progress market trends and opportunities ahead of our aimed at improving broker service.
market turns positive, we are able to grow the competitors.
Contract certainty moved from project to business as We will successfully leverage our expertise through Expansion of UK Commercials electronic trading usual mode.
maximising access to empowered underwriters, having capability through Genus.
Expanded electronic trading capability to wider London the very best systems to support underwriting and claims Develop our online web presence for St. Margarets.
and the effectiveness of our operational support.
Continue to roll out ECF so that all London market Successfully rolled out Electronic Claims Files ECF claims are handled in this way by the end of 2008. so that 75% of London market claims are now handled using ECF.
We will be renowned for consistently delivering Continued strong relationships with key brokers Implementation of a management information system first class client services.
in support of our Treating Customers Fairly policy.
Independent consultants, Gracechurch, rank Amlin Review synergies between our interface with second in the London market for claims service.
brokers and clients of Amlin Insurance Services Average 3.4 days for London market claims turnaround.
and our London Market Service Companies.
Risk management We will demonstrate first class enterprise wide risk DFA model developed for the Group including Amlin Develop risk appetite framework.
management methodologies to identify, understand Bermuda and investments.
Improve aggregate capture across all relevant classes and govern risk.
Aggregate data capture and analysis capabilities have of business so that Amlin has an increased modelling been enhanced.
capability and enhanced reporting against exposure limits.
Recruited new Head of Investment Risk.
Delivery of new risk assessment and reporting framework, Review and development of risk definitions.
including implementation of a new risk reporting tool.
People Amlins achievements are underpinned by a culture Roll out and reinforcement of Amlin Values.
Continued reinforcement of Amlin Values.
which, together with our enviable business reputation Leadership assessment centres held for future succession Continue roll out of Compass leadership programme and first class employment practices, make Amlin the candidates enabling development programmes to be and build a tailored development plans for key place to work.
Staff are proud to belong to the established.
They commit and align their long term Defined and developed core competency frameworks Complete competency frameworks for Wordings, career development to the ambitions of the Group.
Internal Audit, Information Services and Business Recruitment of additional underwriters for Amlin Projects Group.
Bermuda and in selected other areas.
Design and procure training and development to support relevant competencies in competency frameworks.
Review resource in classes where we would like to grow market share when time is right.
Financial management Continue to review business opportunities for Shareholders consider Amlins cycle management, Leading industry return on equity achieved.
which combines underwriting, reinsurance, capital Returned capital to shareholders via special dividend investment to broaden and develop the business.
Monitor levels of capital in the business against and investment strategies, as second to none.
Treasury management system developed, requirements and adjust as necessary.
12 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Review Unpredictable
