Review Clients understanding and responding to their needs David Harris Chief Operating Officer Our client profile percentage of renewal business generated each Amlin provides insurance solutions to a diverse year and the market leadership role that Amlin range of clients worldwide, with the majority of maintains in each area.
We aim to be flexible in our business sourced through brokers.
We prefer specific direct risk a global distribution network and, because of their and treaty reinsurance, where we have full control knowledge of Amlins products and standards, over the acceptance of risk and tend to have a working together provides an efficient channel relationship with the ultimate insured, or reinsured.
However, we are prepared to partner managing general agents, or brokers, in underwriting where The graphs below show the continuity of broker their controls are perceived to be good and our relationships year-on-year, the significant ability to influence the business accepted is high.
Gross premium income by broker 2005 2006 2007 Strong continuity of 45 relationships within our 40 35 client base.
30 Responding to changes 25 20 in distribution.
15 10 At the forefront of change in 15 17 17 11 13 13 10 11 12 15 14 16 42 36 32 5 79 10 the London market to meet 0 Marsh Aon Willis Benfield Next 6 Remainder our client needs.
Source: Amlin Business source by division Renewal New 100 19 20 19 24 28 23 19 20 15 16 13 15 26 90 80 70 60 50 81 80 81 76 72 77 81 80 85 84 8787 85 100 98 74 40 30 20 10 2 0 Non-marine Marine Aviation UK commercial Amlin Bermuda 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 Source: Amlin Method of acceptance 2005 2006 2007 45 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 21 17 18 37 32 29 31 41 42 5 55 7 0 65 4 Binding Lineslips Facultative Excess Pro rata authorities of loss Source: Amlin Business led Key Performance Lead Follow Indicators 100 90 12 14 15 Retention ratio of 77%: 80 70 49 50 51 61 66 59 55 49 56 within 1% of plan 60 50 100 100 100 Average 3.4 days for London 40 30 market claims turnaround 51 50 49 39 34 41 45 51 44 88 86 85 20 10 85% contract certainty, 0 Non-marine Marine Aviation UK commercial Amlin Bermuda but 100% for lead business 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 Source: Amlin 18 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Percent Percent Percent Percent Review Our distribution channels The following flowchart shows the different distribution channels used by our businesses.
Amlin distribution channel Client Regional broker London broker International broker AMLIN INSURANCE SERVICES NON-MARINE Started writing commercial combined business in 2000.
We offer a range of policies including a St Margarets is a well recognised brand in the single product which comprises commercial AMLIN UK yacht and pleasure craft market and property, liability, motor and professional sources business directly from policyholders indemnity.
All business is underwritten SINGAPORE for values up to 500,000. through a select network of regional brokers.
MARINE ALLIED CEDAR Acquired in July 2007, Allied Cedar Group is a UK property specialist offering both commercial and personal lines products from offices in London and Norwich.
The business has now been integrated into Amlins UK Commercial division.
Boatinsure is an online service offering insurance for six types of vessels: dinghy, AVIATION speed boat, small yacht, cabin cruiser, canoe and windsurfer within mainland UK.
Amlin Plus, our bloodstock and equine jointventure, was formed in 2003 with the aim of providing a full spectrum of insurance products for the horse owner.
Amlin Plus specialises in cover for thoroughbred breeding and racing Summit has been a well-respected brand at stock, together with high value sports horses.
Lloyds since 1963 and forms part of Amlin Insurance Services, our UK Commercial division.
Summit provides a wide range of motor insurance products ranging from agricultural vehicles to AMLIN CREDIT fleets of commercial vehicles, coaches and taxis.
Amlin Credit was launched in 1998 and is a market leader in the delivery of on-line credit insurance solutions.
The company provides fixed and variable premium credit insurance polices covering insolvency and default.
UK COMMERCIAL Comprising liability, professional indemnity and financial institutions business.
Haven Knox-Johnston began trading in 1992 and sources a portfolio of small yacht and pleasure craft business with values up to 500,000.
The majority of business is produced from brokers and intermediaries.
AMLIN TRANSIT Amlin Transit, formed in October 1997, sources marine cargo, goods in transit and hauliers liability businesses via UK brokers, predominantly from small to medium size enterprises.
Syndicate 2001 The Box Amlin Bermuda at Lloyds Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 19 Review Clients Real non-life forecast premium growth Value of catastrophe linked transactions Amlin accepts commercial business from Lloyds outstanding and issued 1997-06 brokers, regional brokers, managing general agents in emerging markets 2005-2011 forecast via binding authorities and a small amount of personal lines business on a direct basis.
2005 2011 forecast 2006 Lloyds market GWP Outstanding Cat bonds New Cat bonds Sidecars The relationships are varied and subject to varying 100 16 competitive pressures.
However a common thread 14 80 is the pressure for change, albeit to varying degrees, 12 60 20 across the distribution chain.
The causes of pressure 10 20 15 40 are varied but require Amlin to be flexible in its 8 15 10 20 approach to meeting brokers needs.
6 5 10 0 0 4 5 To understand the changes it is necessary to split Asia E. Europe Lat.
Mid East Africa 2 0 our markets into three distinct categories: the UK Growth 30 31 22 37 24 0 2006-11 % insurance market, the global speciality insurance 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 Expressed in 2005 prices market and the reinsurance market.
Source: Swiss Re economic research & consulting: L. E. K. Source: Goldman Sachs In the UK, the pace of retail broker consolidation has been extraordinary.
Consolidation dynamics Singapore has been a good example of this To date, capital markets products have not provided originate from consolidators of brokers into development, with the Singaporean authorities, protection to clients at a level which we believe networks, such as Towergate.
Greater control over determined to develop Singapore as an Asian would materially reduce demand for our traditional distribution has given the larger, emerging groups insurance hub.
In November, we opened our reinsurance products.
However, we are maintaining market power over traditional insurance carriers, Singapore office operating as part of the Lloyds a close watch on developments.
Subsequently we have witnessed Asia platform which allows risks sourced by our Kevin Allchorne Leading Class Underwriter insurance carriers buying material stakes in Singapore office to be carried by our Lloyds independent brokers to defend their position.
Much syndicate in London, a very efficient means of of this activity has been in mainstream insurance, operating.
Amlin Singapore will provide regional away from our specialist markets.
However, it is clients, many of whom would not take their inevitably putting greater pressure on wholesale business to the London market, with coverage in brokers introducing business to the London market.
marine energy, cargo, property and terrorism business.
However, we expect that the larger and UK commercial lines by type of broker more complex risks will continue to be underwritten in London.
Total gross premium bn 16.4 21.9 100 The reinsurance market has seen continual structural Small 80 independents change over recent years, first with the emergence of the Bermudian markets and latterly with the pick 60 Large UK-only independents up in capital markets activity.
Fundamental to these & consollidators 40 changes has been the desire for investors to marry Innovation brings rewards for our clients 20 International up capital and risk more efficiently.
brokers Mountain States Insurance Group provides property 0 and casualty insurance products and services to 2001 2005 The traditional response of investment markets to business owners through an expanding network of Total gross premium bn reported by ABI members only for opportunities in reinsurance markets, typically professional independent agents in Colorado, New commercial motor, commercial property, pecuniary loss, general arising due to capital depletion following a Mexico, Texas and Utah.
The company approached liability and accident & health may include personal insurance.
Amlin, through Lloyds broker Towers Perrin Claytons, in catastrophic event or series of events, has been to Source: ABI, Cornell Consulting, L. E. K search of an innovative solution to a problem which was invest permanent capital in the industry.
This was making it difficult for them to compete in the property evident in the initial start up of Bermudian insurance market.
The company had repeatedly to Amlin is well respected and recognised as a leader companies in the 1980s in response to a lack of approach and solicit the facultative property in its markets.
For UK commercial insurance we available capacity for casualty insurance and reinsurance market for coverage limits that exceeded have historically focused on commercial motor and reinsurance.
Similarly, following the 11 September the amounts covered by property treaties.
For retail insurance we have a terrorist attacks a number of new reinsurance around 50% of the business they were attempting to strong franchise in yacht and bloodstock insurance.
companies were set up to provide property write and, due to the particular nature of the facultative Using these strengths we have begun to improve catastrophe cover.
However the hurricane events of property reinsurance market, these approaches were time-consuming, frustrating and often unsuccessful.
our local engagement with regional brokers and to 2005 exposed the mismatch of risk and capital adopt a more clearly defined sales and marketing within many of these companies, largely due to the In 2007 Amlin structured a risk excess programme, approach.
A strategic aim for the UK Commercial lack of diversification of perils written.
tailored specifically for Mountain States portfolio, which business is to increase its commercial property allows the company to cede business as required on a account into the next hardening insurance cycle in While a number of new companies were set up post pay as you go basis with preset rates for property and inland marine business.
This enables Mountain States the UK.
Consequently, in July 2007, we acquired 2005, capital market investment has begun to take to provide certainty of cover in support of their agents Allied Cedar Group, with the aim of expanding our a structurally different and less permanent form.
UK property account, developing new SME business There are many possible routes to transfer and selected new niche personal lines property catastrophe insurance risk to capital markets Glen A. Walters, Vice President of Mountain States products.
including pure financial instruments catastrophe Insurance Group explained: since Amlin devised this program, the company has been able to increase property bonds, industry loss warranties and catastrophe premiums by 74.2%.
In addition, 98% of the property Affecting our global speciality lines, we are seeing swaps or hybrid instruments which require an risks now fall within the coverage limits of the property the emergence of stronger local markets which are insurer, such as the so called sidecar.
treaties and the Coded Property and Inland Marine Per being developed to service increased local needs Risk Excess of Loss Reinsurance Program, reducing resulting from strong economic growth.
This We believe that a key structural trend in the the need for us to use the facultative property reinsurance provides both a risk to the flow of business into reinsurance market will be further convergence with market to 2% of risks submitted.
Other benefits of the London as well as an opportunity to use Amlins the capital markets.
The graph above shows the new approach have been a substantial growth in the hit expertise to capture new business overseas.
growth in value of catastrophe linked transactions.
ratio, growth and profitability of the property book, together with decreased administrative expenses.
20 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Percent US Dollars $bn US Dollars $bn Review How we appeal to our clients without the need to refer to an underwriting Claims service We believe that there are a number of common committee.
Our wordings specialists work within As the lead manager of 47% of the London market attributes that are critical in our service proposition the underwriting teams to provide flexibility and a business we wrote in 2007, Amlin also takes lead for many classes of insurance written within the fast response on placement and endorsements.
responsibility for a high volume of claims.
With much of the insurance written being committed to efficient and timely claims large and complex in nature, financial strength, Given the focus that Amlin places on underwriter management and we constantly seek experience of our teams and access to decision service, we were pleased that Syndicate 2001 won improvements to our claims handling models to makers are differentiating factors for many of our clients.
Underwriter of the Year 2007 at the Insurance Day ensure that our brokers and clients receive a London Market Awards.
This award is given in focused and competitive service.
The increased focus on client service across the recognition of the strength and expertise of both market has led several of our brokers to institute underwriting and management and is particularly Despite a 5% increase in volumes over 2006, the insurer service measures, such as the Willis Quality satisfying given that we were nominated by our average claims file turnaround time from initial Index.
In response, Amlin has engaged with brokers market peers.
notification to agreement with the broker has to share and compare data.
These discussions improved from 4.1 working days in 2006 to 3.4 have proved invaluable in identifying exactly where Policy issuance working days in 2007.
We do not control the claims processes can be improved and in helping gain The quality of wordings and speed of policy process from start to finish, being dependent on traction for implementing new technology.
issuance had historically been poor across the brokers and market shared services for some London market, leading to the FSA demanding elements.
We therefore view the speed of our claims We have continued to work hard during 2007 to significant and rapid improvement in this area in turnaround as the key measure of Amlins claims service.
improve the operational performance of our service December 2004.
The FSAs challenge to the market Lead claims volumes and average to ensure that we become easier for our clients to was to achieve a position of full contract certainty, turnaround times deal with.
During the year, we also strengthened defined as the complete and final agreement of all relationships with our key brokers by instituting terms between the insured and insurer before Volumes 2006 Volumes 2007 formal reviews of the main elements of the inception of the risk.
File turnaround 2006 File turnaround 2007 underwriting placement and claims process with our key brokers.
Amlin tracks each stage of the underwriting and 4000 6 claims processes using workflow systems, but we 3500 5 Financial strength have targets for contract certainty which contribute 3000 Strong financial strength ratings are important to all to the speed of contract documentation.
Our 2007 4 2500 counterparties, but particularly in the area of objective was to move contract certainty from its 2000 3 reinsurance.
In October 2007 AM Best upgraded 2006 project status to business as usual.
Our 1500 2 both Syndicate 2001 and Amlin Bermuda to A operational statistics show we have successfully 1000 1 Superior and A Excellent respectively.
500 upgrades, together with our existing strong ratings 0 0 JF M A M J J A S O N D from Moodys and Standard & Poors, mean that our The client service proposition for our UK Month clients can be confident in our ability to manage commercial and service company clients is Source: Amlin their risks and pay their claims.
Since we underwrite 100% of these risks and issue our own policies, there is no reliance on The capital base, including regulatory debt capital, external third parties in getting contracts agreed or There remains huge scope for further improving the of the Group is in excess of 1 billion.
We issue quotes or renewal offers at least claims service by changing market practices and shown our ability to access capital in order to three weeks before the expiry of the policy, which enhancing the quality and timeliness of shared provide capacity to our clients in times of insurance sets out our terms so we are normally contract services.
We are pushing Lloyds and others hard market crisis: for example with the set up of Amlin certain before inception.
Importantly, our risk management practices have ensured that in these Peer to peer processing times of crisis our balance sheet strength has not In 2007 we have made further progress with been materially eroded and we have been able to developing peer to peer electronic messaging provide a consistent strong financial performance.
capability as a way of streamlining the risk This underpins the security offered to our placement process.
Benefits arising out of this policyholders.
change include savings in time and expense for brokers and underwriters and an improved audit Experience and leadership trail of information passed before the underwriting of Specialist insurance requires a depth of knowledge a policy.
Working originally as part of the G6 market which is borne of years of experience.
Hence, as reform group and now, on a bilateral basis with each explained in the people section of this review, the broker, we are ensuring that our systems are experience of our teams is a key performance compatible in order to improve speed and accuracy indicator for the Group.
of service to our mutual clients.
While we have developed our capability in this area, we have been Amlin continues to lead a significant proportion of disappointed by the level of take up among brokers the risks that we underwrite in the London market, to the streamlining offered by peer to peer which gives us primary control of the quality and processing.
Nevertheless, in the recent January speed of the placement and claims service we renewal season Aon placed a significant percentage provide to brokers and to their clients.
of its reinsurance risks, using RI3K, an electronic hub with which we have electronic connectivity.
Underwriting access Underwriting access and speed of decision making are two criteria which regularly feature in London market surveys.
Direct broker feedback indicates that Amlin provides good access to underwriters, who are empowered to underwrite.
All underwriters have authority to bind risks, within agreed limits, Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 21 File units Average turnaround time days Review Clients Matthew Maxwell Leading Class Underwriter Our insureds, both individuals and companies, are often status of the claim via a dedicated website.
The highly leveraged and, with machines costing between programme is flexible and the Amlin underwriting and US$50,000-US$250,000 each, plant represents a claims teams are required to research new vehicle types significant proportion of their assets.
and make frequent adjustments for new units and new insureds.
Both EPG and Southern States Claims Income is measured by the hour and they need to Services play an active role in industry risk management operate machinery around the clock in order to realise including operator and safety training, and theft acceptable profits.
prevention, to the benefit of all programme participants.
Amlins underwriting and claims professionals, in John Shepherd, Chief Executive of EPG Insurance consultation with specialist Lloyds broker, EPG Services Limited explained: Insurance of heavy Insurance Services, constructed a coverholder equipment which is in continual use in some hostile and programme through EPG Memphis in which the speed inaccessible regions has traditionally proved a volatile and efficiency of the claims service was a primary driver.
In Amlin, the programme has a specialist risk From the outset, the team appointed a specialist advisor, carrier with the skill, strength and portfolio diversity to Southern States Claims Services, to handle all claims on manage this volatility, coupled with a real understanding the programme following pre-agreed procedures.
Claims service makes the difference of the industry.
In 1999, Amlin assumed the lead and restructured a The entire claims process is handled electronically, T. Gillis Morgan III, President of Tidewater, the worlds programme to provide cover to franchised dealers with underwriter, broker and adjuster able to access a largest Tigercat dealer, comments: EPGs physical supplying heavy equipment to the logging industry in the common system at any time.
This avoids duplication and damage insurance program has been very beneficial to United States.
They are thus able to offer point-of-sale saves some 4-5 days over the traditional serial method both Tidewater and its customers.
It meets a definite physical damage insurance for forestry and construction of claims advice.
New claims can be reviewed within 24 need for our customers and the claims processing has equipment, extended service contracts for heavy equipment hours, a full report with recommendations prepared been very smooth.
When downtime costs our and loss damage waivers for rental equipment.
within 10 days and settlement achieved in customers money, EPG and Amlins commitment and Logging is a major US industry and this programme 12-14 working days.
Amlin lodges funds with Southern speed of response to claims has made this a service covers around 25% of the physical damage cover to States so that adjusted claims can be paid locally and second to none.
heavy equipment in that industry.
Logging is also highly quickly, thereby saving around 5-7 days in transfer time.
sensitive to economic change and runs on tight margins.
Finally, the policyholder can track the 2007 claims performance study There remains huge scope for further improving the The survey indicated that claims service has claims service by changing market practices and increased in importance since 2005.
61% of Lowest rating Market average Amlin Market leader enhancing the quality and timeliness of shared services.
respondents now formally monitor claims We are pushing Lloyds and others hard to move on in performance 2005: 47%, with 48% rating it as very Commitment to paying this area.
influential in their decision on where to place fair claims business 2005: 39%.
Amlins claims service was Claims staff deliver excellent service Historically, London market claims have been managed ranked second overall for the 25 Lloyds and Speed of processing by brokers and underwriters using paper files and London market insurers participating in the survey claims manual agreements.
Clearly with technology advances and was highly rated in relation to the quality of our Prompt decisions in recent years this was a sub-optimal process.
The third party claims specialists.
Whilst we broadly Expertise resolving London market has targeted a move to the use of tracked the market average on each service criteria, complex claims electronic claims files ECF to improve this situation, we have identified areas for improvement, notably Wording quality clarity making use of a central market claims repository.
the lower than average score for our commitment to Establish good paying fair claims, as we seek to regain the market relationships During 2007 we have continued our move to ECF leader status we attained in 2005.
Keep informed technology, piloted in 2006 and which links to our on progress Strong back-up bespoke claims workflow system implemented in The majority of claims on our UK business are and resources 2005.
The move from paper-based to electronic handled in-house from initial notification to issuing Help you to manage expectations processing reduces the total time taken from initial the settlement cheques.
We use a 24-hour help line Quality third party advice to final settlement and brokers are able to service run by a third party to take initial calls on motor claims specialists reduce costs.
It also facilitates greater sharing of claims and to deal with the immediate issues, but Effective technology information with other participant underwriters where thereafter each case is managed internally.
We 6 6.5 7 7.5 8 8.5 Rating out of 10 Amlin is the lead underwriter on a risk and vice versa.
maintain the case files, monitor the workflow on each claim and focus on keeping the client informed Source: Gracechurch Consulting Our 2007 objective was to handle electronically of progress.
75% of new claims within a targeted range of business classes and we achieved 94%.
Amlin has Progress against operational objectives been heavily involved in the drive to handle claims 2007 priority Achievement electronically within the London market and in 2008 Build upon interoperability to develop two way Our underwriters are capable of trading we are accepting this same business 100% trading using peer to peer data transmission.
electronically on a peer to peer basis and we are electronically.
live with a number of key brokers.
In 2007 we participated in the second Claims Move contract certainty from project status to Contract certainty has been operative in the business Performance Study conducted by Gracechurch business as usual.
since H1 and targets continue to be met with 99% Consulting, which tracked service performance of risks written to date having wording agreed against the first study undertaken in 2005.
Once either prior to inception or at the time of writing.
again, 100 brokers were interviewed, 85 of whom were specialist claims brokers and 15 of whom Optimise use of ECF and build its use to cover 94% of claims processed by ECF for targeted were placing brokers who deal directly with the 75% of all new claims.
classes at 31 December 2007. claims functions of London market insurers.
2008 priorities Expansion of UK Commercial electronic trading capability through Genus.
Develop our online presence for St. Margarets.
Roll out ECF so that all London market claims are handled in this way by the end of 2008.
22 Amlin plc Annual Report 2007 Review Unlikely
