Directors report The directors present their annual report and financial to shareholders on the register on 9 November 2007 statements for the year ended 30 June 2007. ex-dividend date being 7 November 2007.
The Company, formerly registered as a private company and named Ashmore Group Limited, was Related party transactions re-registered as a public limited company on Details of related party transactions are set out in 3 October 2006, changing its name on that date to note 20 to the financial statements.
The Company was admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange Post balance sheet events Admission on 17 October 2006.
This is the Groups As set out in note 23 to the financial statements there first annual report as a public limited company.
were no post balance sheet events.
The financial statements have been prepared in Directors accordance with International Financial Reporting The members of the board together with biographical Standards as adopted by the EU IFRS.
details are shown on page 20.
Mark Coombs and Jon Moulton both served as directors throughout the Principal activity and business review year.
Michael Benson and Nick Land were appointed The principal activity of the Group is the provision of directors on 3 July 2006.
Jim Pettigrew was appointed investment management services.
The Company is director on 7 August 2006, but submitted his resignation required to set out in this report a fair review of the on 3 July 2007.
His contractual termination date is business of the Group during the financial year ended 2 July 2008, although an earlier termination date may 30 June 2007 and of the position of the Group at the be agreed.
end of that financial year and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Details of the service contracts of the current directors referred to as the business review.
The information are shown in the remuneration report on page 32. that fulfils the requirements of the business review The Companys Articles require the newly appointed can be found in the financial highlights on page 1, directors, Michael Benson, Nick Land and the Chief Executive Officers review on pages 3 to 7, Jim Pettigrew to retire from office at the first annual the business review on pages 8 to 19 and the general meeting following their appointment.
corporate governance report on pages 25 to 30.
Additionally, excluding new directors, a minimum of The principal risks facing the business are detailed in one third of the board is required to retire by rotation the business review on pages 16 to 19 and in the annually.
Accordingly, Mark Coombs and Jon Moulton corporate governance statement, internal control, will retire by rotation at the forthcoming annual general on pages 29 and 30. meeting.
All directors being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
Results and dividends The results of the Group for the year are set out in Details of the constitution and powers of the board the consolidated income statement on page 38. and its committees are set out in the corporate governance report on pages 25 to 30.
The corporate The directors recommend a final dividend of 6.7p per governance report also summarises the Companys share which, together with the interim dividend of rules concerning appointment and replacement of 2.3p per share already declared, makes a total for directors.
Details of the interim dividend payment Directors interests are set out in note 8 to the financial statements.
The interests of directors in the Companys shares Subject to approval at the annual general meeting, and in options over the Companys shares are shown the final dividend will be paid on 7 December 2007 on page 35 within the remuneration report.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 21 Directors report continued Restrictions on transfer of shares Number of Number of Percentage Employees of the Company who held ordinary shares shares options interest in the Company or who held options in respect of Jerome Paul Booth 42,250,000 3,500,000 6.45 ordinary shares at the time of Admission are, subject to certain exceptions, restricted by lock-in Carey Pensions and arrangements from selling, pledging or otherwise Benefits Limited as disposing of their holding of or options in respect of Trustee of the Ashmore such shares at the time immediately following 2004 Employee Admission Lock-in Shares.
The restriction is lifted in Benefit Trust 38,725,000 5.46 respect of one third of the relevant persons holding Seumas Dawes 28,440,000 4.01 of Lock-in Shares on the date of publication of each of the full-year results of the Company in 2007, FMR Corp 35,639,517 5.02 2008 and 2009.
Julian Redvers Green 40,162,500 5.67 Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by persons discharging managerial responsibilities, Note: In addition to the interests in the Companys ordinary shares referred to above, each director and senior manager who is an employees of the Company and, in each case, employee of the Group has an interest in the Companys ordinary their connected persons, are subject to the Groups shares held by Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited under the Dealing Code which adopts the Model Code of the terms of the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust.
Listing Rules contained in the Financial Services Authoritys Handbook.
Share capital Certain restrictions, customary for a listed company, The Company has a single class of share capital which apply to transfers of shares in the Company.
is divided into ordinary shares of 0.01 pence each of The board may, in its absolute discretion, decline to which rank pari passu in respect of participation and register any transfer of a share which is not fully paid voting rights.
The shares are in registered form.
or where there are more than four joint holders.
In the case of certificated shares, registration of a Details of structure of and changes in share capital transfer may also be refused where i the instrument are set out in note 14 to the financial statements.
of transfer is not duly stamped unless exempt from stamping : ii insufficient evidence of title is Restrictions on voting rights produced in respect of a transfer: and iii the A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general transferor has been served with a restriction notice meeting or class meeting in respect of any share as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the held by him if any call or other sum then payable by Company with information concerning interests in him in respect of that share remains unpaid or if a those shares required to be provided under the member has been served with a restriction notice Companies Acts, unless the transfer is shown to the as defined in the Articles after failure to provide board to be pursuant to an arms length sale.
the Company with information concerning interests Registration of a transfer of shares may be refused in those shares required to be provided under the in the case of uncertificated shares in the Companies Acts.
Votes may be exercised in person circumstances set out in the Uncertificated or by proxy.
The Articles currently provide a deadline Securities Regulations as defined in the Articles.
for submission of proxy forms of 48 hours before the meeting.
Substantial shareholdings At 6 September 2007 the Company had been notified Purchase of own shares of the following significant interests over 3%, other The Company is, until the date of the next annual than those of the directors, in the Companys ordinary general meeting, generally and unconditionally shares of 0.01p each: authorised to buy back up to 70,892,500 of its own 22 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 issued shares.
No such purchase has been made or Company must also comply with the Listing Rules is currently intended.
The Company will seek renewal and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules issued of this authority at the 2007 annual general meeting.
by the United Kingdom Listing Authority UKLA.
Listed companies are expected to comply as far as Power to issue and allot shares possible with the Financial Reporting Councils The directors are generally and unconditionally Combined Code on Corporate Governance, and to authorised to allot unissued shares in the Company state how its principles have been applied.
A report up to a maximum nominal amount of 19,107.50. on corporate governance and compliance with the A further authority has been granted to the directors provisions of the Combined Code is set out on to allot the Companys shares for cash, up to a pages 25 to 30. maximum nominal amount of 3,544.62, without regard to the pre-emption provisions of the Charitable and political contributions Companies Acts.
No such shares have been issued During the year, the Group made no charitable or allotted under these authorities, nor is there any donations 2006: nil.
Note 3 to the financial current intention to do so, other than under employee statements refers to charitable donations that will be share schemes.
These authorities are valid until the date of the next It is the Groups policy not to make contributions for annual general meeting.
A resolution for the renewal political purposes.
of such authorities will be proposed at the 2007 annual general meeting.
Creditor payment policy The Groups policy and practice in the UK is to follow Amendment of Articles of Association its suppliers terms of payment and to make payment Any amendments to the Articles of the Company in accordance with those terms subject to receipt of may be made in accordance with the provisions of satisfactory invoicing.
Unless otherwise agreed the Companies Acts by way of special resolution of payments to creditors are made within 30 days of the Companys shareholders.
At 30 June 2007, the amount owed to the Groups trade creditors in the UK represented approximately 35 days average Employees purchases from suppliers 2006: 30 days.
Details of the Companys employment practices including the employment of disabled persons can be Auditors and the disclosure of information found in the corporate governance report on page 30. to auditors Carey Pensions and Benefits Limited as trustee of The directors who held office at the date of approval the Ashmore 2004 Employee Benefit Trust the EBT of this directors report confirm that, so far as they has discretion as to the exercise of voting rights over are each aware, there is no relevant audit information shares which it holds in respect of employee share of which the Companys auditors are unaware, options that have not vested and other restricted and each director has taken all the steps that they share awards.
The current arrangement is that the ought to have taken as directors to make themselves EBT considers the Companys recommendation s aware of any relevant audit information and to before voting such shares at a general meeting of establish that the Companys auditors are aware the Company, subject to an overriding duty to act in of that information.
Resolutions will be proposed at the annual general Corporate governance meeting to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors The Company is governed according to the and to authorise the directors to agree their applicable provisions of company law and by the remuneration.
Note 4 to the financial statements sets Companys Articles.
As a listed company, the out details of the auditors remuneration.
ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 23 Directors report continued remuneration report comply with the Companies 2007 annual general meeting Acts and, as regards the Group financial statements, The 2007 annual general meeting of the Company will Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also be held at 10.30am on Wednesday 31 October 2007 responsible for safeguarding the assets of the at the offices of UBS AG, 1 Finsbury Avenue, Company and the Group and hence for taking London EC2M 2PP.
Details of the resolutions to be reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of proposed at the annual general meeting are given in the fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance Statement of directors responsibilities and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in The directors are responsible for preparing the the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Annual Report, the remuneration report and the dissemination of financial statements may differ from financial statements in accordance with applicable legislation in other jurisdictions.
Going concern UK company law requires the directors to prepare After making enquiries, the directors are satisfied that financial statements for each financial year.
the Company and the Group have adequate Under that law the directors have prepared the resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable Company and the Group financial statements in future and confirm that the Company and the Group accordance with IFRS.
For this reason they continue to The financial statements are required by law to give a adopt the going concern basis in preparing these true and fair view of the state of affairs of the financial statements.
Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
Companies Act 2006 This directors report on pages 21 to 24 inclusive has In preparing those financial statements, the directors been drawn up and presented in accordance with are required to: and in reliance on English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with that report select suitable accounting policies and then apply shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions them consistently: provided by such law.
make judgements and estimates that are References in this directors report to the financial reasonable and prudent: highlights, the business review, the corporate governance report and the remuneration report state that the financial statements comply with are deemed to be included by reference in this IFRS as adopted by the EU: and directors report.
prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in business.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
Approved by the board and signed on its behalf by The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable Mark Grimwood accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Secretary Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the 12 September 2007 24 ASHMORE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
