Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Board of directors 1 7 2 8 3 9 76 Governance 4 10 5 11 6 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 1 7 Andrew Moss Mary Francis CBE Group chief executive Independent non-executive director Age 49 Age 59 Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Joined as group finance Appointed to the Board in October 2005.
Currently senior independent director in May 2004 and became group chief executive in July 2007. director of Centrica plc utilities, a non-executive director of Alliance & Previously director finance, risk management and operations in Leicester plc banking, a non-executive director of St Modwen Properties Lloyds insurance and formerly held a number of senior management plc property development and a director of Almeida Theatre Company positions at HSBC plc banking.
A member of the advisory board of the National Consumer Council and Governor of the Pensions Policy Institute.
Formerly Director Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
General of the Association of British Insurers, non-executive director of the 2 Bank of England and Fund Distribution Limited and a senior civil servant.
Philip Scott FIA Chairman of the risk and regulatory committee and a member of the Group finance director remuneration and audit committees.
Age 54 8 Richard Karl Goeltz Appointed to the Board in May 2000 and became group finance Independent non-executive director director in July 2007.
Joined Norwich Union in 1973 and held a number of senior positions before joining the Norwich Union board in 1993.
Age 65 Formerly, responsible for the groups insurance businesses outside Europe and Morley, the groups UK fund management operations.
Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive director Currently a non-executive director of Diageo plc drinks.
of the Warnaco Group Inc clothing, Delta Air Lines, Inc. transport, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Freddie Mac financial 3 Lord Sharman of Redlynch OBE services, New Germany Fund investment trust and a director of The London School of Economics and Political Science.
Former chief Chairman financial officer of American Express Company financial services, NatWest Group plc banking and The Seagram Company Ltd drinks Age 65 and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board UK.
Appointed to the Board in January 2005 and became chairman in Chairman of the remuneration committee and member of the January 2006.
Currently chairman of Aegis Group plc media services, audit committee.
an independent non-executive director of BG Group plc utility and 77 an independent non-executive director of Reed Elsevier plc publishing.
9 Carole Piwnica Former chairman of KPMG International auditors, former deputy Governance chairman of Group 4 Securicor plc security services, former member Independent non-executive director of the supervisory board ABN AMRO N. V. banking and a former Age 50 independent non-executive director of Young & Co. s Brewery PLC drinks and AEA Technology plc commercial technology.
Appointed to the Board in May 2003.
A member of the New York Chairman of the Board and nomination committee and member and Paris bars, practising law in Europe and the United States specialising of the corporate social responsibility committee.
in private equity and EU regulatory matters.
Currently a non-executive director of Toepfer International GmbH trading, Dairy Crest Group plc 4 dairy foods and a member of the biotech advisory board of Monsanto Nikesh Arora biotechnology.
Former non-executive vice-chairman of governmental Independent non-executive director affairs for Tate & Lyle plc agricultural industrial and S A Spadel N. V. food and beverages and former chairman of Amylum Group Age 40 agricultural industrial.
Appointed to the Board in July 2007.
Currently President, Europe, Member of the audit, remuneration and corporate social Middle East and Africa Operations at Google consumer services.
Formerly chief marketing officer and a member of the management board at T-Mobile communications and held senior management 10 Russell Walls positions at Deutsche Telekom, Fidelity Investments financial services and Putnam Investments financial services.
Independent non-executive director Member of the risk and regulatory committee.
Age 64 5 Guillermo fide la Dehesa Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
Currently a non-executive director of Signet Group plc retail and chairman of its audit committee.
Chairman Independent non-executive director of Delphic Diagnostics Limited medical and treasurer and trustee of The British Red Cross.
Former group finance director of BAA plc transport, Age 66 Wellcome plc pharmaceuticals and Coats Viyella plc textiles.
Former Appointed to the Board in May 2000.
Joined the board of Norwich Union senior independent non-executive director of Stagecoach Group plc as a non-executive director in 1999.
Currently non-executive chairman transport and Hilton International Group plc leisure and a former nonof Avivas operations in Spain, a director of Campofrio consumer and executive director of the Mersey Docks and Harbour Company transport.
of Banco Santander banking and also International Advisor of Goldman Chairman of the audit committee and a member of the risk and regulatory Sachs.
Chairman for the Centre of Economic Policy Research CEPR and nomination committees.
and of the Instituto fide Empresa Business School and a member of the Group of Thirty consultative group on international economic 11 Scott Wheway and monetary affairs.
A former deputy general manager of the Bank of Spain and former Secretary of State of Finance in Spain.
Independent non-executive director Member of the nomination and corporate social responsibility committees.
Age 41 6 Wim Dik Appointed to the Board in December 2007.
Former director of The Boots Company plc now known as The Boots Company Limited Senior independent non-executive director pharmacy and managing director of Boots the Chemist at Alliance Boots plc.
Formerly held a number of senior management positions Age 69 at Tesco plc retail services.
Appointed to the Board in December 1999.
Currently chairman of the Member of the remuneration and corporate social responsibility committees.
supervisory board of Zesko Holding B. V. telecommunications and Tele Atlas N. V. information systems, a non-executive director of Unilever N. V. Graham Jones and Unilever plc consumer and of LogicaCMG plc computer services.
Former Minister for Foreign Trade in the Netherlands.
Former chairman of Group Company Secretary Nederlandse Unilever Bedrijven B. V. consumer and former chairman and chief executive officer of KPN Royal Dutch Telecom telecommunications.
Former chairman of the supervisory board of Holland Casino gaming and a former member of the supervisory boards of TNT Post Group mail services and ABN AMRO N. V. banking.
Chairman of the corporate social responsibility committee and member of the risk and regulatory and nomination committees.
