Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Executive management Andrew Moss Anupam Sahay Group chief executive Group strategy and development director Age 49 Age 38 See page 77 Joined the Group in 2007.
Formerly a partner with the global financial services group at McKinsey & Company, advising leading insurers and banks in Europe, USA, Asia and Australia.
Holds an undergraduate degree Philip Scott FIA in Engineering and an MBA from the Indian Institute of Management.
Group finance director John Ainley Age 54 Group HR director See page 77 Age 51 Mark Hodges Joined the Group in 1999.
Formerly held senior HR positions with WH Smith plc, ICL plc, Priory Hospitals Group and General Electric plc.
Chief executive, Norwich Union Life Previously also Group HR Director for Norwich Union plc and HR Director Age 42 for Norwich Union Insurance and Norwich Union Life.
Holds a law degree and is a companion of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development.
Formerly managing director of Norwich Union General Insurance, finance director of Norwich Union Insurance and finance director of Aviva general insurance international.
A chartered certified accountant FCCA and holds an MBA from Cranfield Business School.
Simon Machell Chief executive, Aviva Asia Pacific Age 44 Joined the Group in 1994.
Formerly chief executive of Norwich Union 78 Insurance in the UK, Managing Director of RAC and auditor and management consultant at Ernst & Young.
Holds an Economics Governance degree and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Alain Dromer Chief executive, Aviva Investors and Morley Age 53 Joined the Group in September 2007.
Formerly global head of group investment businesses at HSBC, senior executive vice president and head of asset management and insurance at Credit Commercial fide France and director of capital markets at La Compagnie Financire Edmond fide Rothschild.
Previously at the French Treasury in the Ministry of Finance and the French Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies.
Educated at lcole Polytechnique, Paris and lcole Nationale fide la Statistique lAdministration conomique.
Thomas Godlasky Chief executive, Aviva North America Age 52 Joined the Group in 2006.
Formerly chairman, president and chief executive officer of AmerUs Group and chief investment officer of AmerUs Capital.
Previously with Providian Corporation, Federated Investors, Inc and Mellon Bank.
Holds a Bachelor of Science degree in urban and regional planning from Indiana University of Pennsylvania and a masters degree in public administration from the University of Pittsburgh.
A graduate of Harvard Business Schools Advanced Management Program and is a Chartered Financial Analyst.
Igal Mayer Chief executive, Norwich Union Insurance Age 46 Joined the Group in 1989.
Formerly chief executive officer of Aviva Canada, chief financial officer and executive vice-president.
Previously finance director Norwich Union and managing director for CGU Insurance in London.
Holds a BA Honours in Commerce and Economics from the University of Toronto, is a chartered accountant and has received an honorary Chartered Insurance Professional designation from Insurance Institute of Canada.
