Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report The directors submit their report and accounts for Aviva Where, under an employee share plan operated by the plc, together with the consolidated accounts of the Aviva Company, participants are the beneficial owners of shares, Group of companies, for the year ended 31 December but not the registered owners, the voting rights are 2007.
The Business review for the Company is contained normally exercised at the discretion of the participants.
on pages 10 to 73 and includes a review of the Groups No person holds securities in the Company carrying operations, current position and future prospects together special rights with regard to control of the Company.
with a description of the principal activities of the Group The Company is not aware of any agreements between and other information required to be included.
Details of holders of securities that may result in restrictions in the material acquisitions and disposals made by the Group transfer of securities or voting rights.
Unless expressly during the year are contained in note 3 to the accounts.
specified to the contrary in the articles of association of the Company, the Companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys Results shareholders.
There are a number of agreements that take The Group results for the year are shown in the effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the consolidated income statement on page 126.
Company, such as commercial contracts and joint venture agreements.
None is considered to be significant in terms Dividends of their potential impact on the business of the Group The directors are recommending a final dividend as a whole.
All of the Companys share plans contain of 21.10 pence per share 2006: 19.18 pence, which provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding together with the interim dividend of 11.9 pence paid awards and options would normally vest and become on 16 November 2007 2006: 10.82 pence, produces exercisable on a change of control, subject to the a total dividend for the year of 33.00 pence per share satisfaction of any performance conditions.
The total cost of ordinary dividends paid in 2007, was 801 million 2006: 693 million, Authority to purchase own shares leaving 472 million to be transferred to reserves 2006: 79 At the Companys Annual General Meeting held 1,468 million to reserves after tax, minority investments, on 26 April 2007, shareholders renewed the Companys Governance preference dividends and payments in respect of the direct authorities to make market purchases of up to capital instrument.
The final dividend for 2007 will be 3 256 million ordinary shares, up to 100 million 8 4% paid on 16 May 2008 to all holders of ordinary shares 3 preference shares and up to 100 million 8 8% preference on the Register of Members at the close of business on shares.
These authorities were not used during the 28 March 2008.
The Companys Scrip Dividend Scheme year and, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, will be available to shareholders in respect of the payment shareholders will be asked to renew them for another of the final dividend.
In addition, a local currency payment year.
Details are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
service will be available to shareholders residing in certain The Company held no Treasury shares during the year.
participating countries outside the UK.
Further details of these arrangements can be found in the shareholder services section on pages 270 to 272.
Post balance sheet events On 5 February 2008, the Groups UK long-term business operation Norwich Union Life, announced a one-off, Share capital special bonus worth 2.3 billion.
Further details can The issued ordinary share capital of the Company was be found in Note 59 on page 235. increased by 56 million ordinary shares during the year.
56,039,397 shares were allotted under the Groups employee share and incentive plans and the Aviva Scrip Directors Dividend Scheme.
At 31 December 2007 the issued The following persons served as directors of the Company ordinary share capital totalled 2,622 million shares of during the year: 25 pence each and the issued preference share capital Nikesh Arora appointed 1 July 2007 totalled 200 million shares of 1 each.
Accordingly, Guillermo fide la Dehesa the issued ordinary share capital constituted 76.6% of Wim Dik the Companys total issued share capital and the issued Mary Francis preference share capital constituted 23.4% of the Richard Karl Goeltz Companys total issued share capital at 31 December Richard Harvey retired on 11 July 2007 2007.
All the Companys shares are fully paid up and Andrew Moss quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
Details of the Carole Piwnica Companys share capital and shares under option at Philip Scott 31 December 2007 and shares issued during the year Lord Sharman of Redlynch are given in notes 28 to 31 to the financial statements.
Patrick Snowball resigned 8 May 2007 The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Tidjane Thiam appointed 1 May 2007, resigned ordinary shares and preference shares as well as the 21 September 2007 powers of the Companys directors, are set out in the Russell Walls Companys articles of association, copies of which can Scott Wheway appointed 5 December 2007 be obtained from Companies House or by writing to the The biographical details of the persons currently serving as Company Secretary.
With the exception of restrictions on directors appear on page 77. transfer of shares under the Companys share incentive plan while the shares are subject to the plan, there are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares or the transfer of securities in the Company.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report continued The Companys articles of association require one-third Financial instruments of the directors to retire by rotation each year and also Aviva Group companies use financial instruments to require each director to retire at intervals of not more than manage certain types of risks including those relating three years.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to credit, foreign currency exchange, cash flow, liquidity, Lord Sharman, chairman and non-executive director, and interest rates, and equity and property prices.
Details of Andrew Moss and Philip Scott, both executive directors, the objectives and management of these instruments will retire and, being eligible, will offer themselves for are contained in the Business review and an indication re-election.
Guillermo fide la Dehesa and Wim Dik who of the exposure of the Group companies to such risks were re-elected by shareholders at last years Annual is contained in note 55 to the accounts.
General Meeting will retire on 31 December 2008, in line with the Boards plans to renew and refresh its Health and safety composition.
Andrew Moss and Philip Scott are executive The health and safety of the Groups employees is a directors and each has a service contract with the priority and is reviewed at regular intervals.
Each business Company, details of which can be found in the Directors within the Group has an appointed health and safety renumeration report.
Nikesh Arora and Scott Wheway will representative, whose role is to bring to the attention offer themselves for election by the shareholders at the of senior management any areas of concern that should forthcoming Annual General Meeting being the first such be addressed within the health and safety programme.
Information on health and safety matters is communicated to staff through the normal communication channels.
Directors interests and Under the Groups Business Protection Policy the Group Chief Executive is accountable for health and safety.
indemnity arrangements At no time during the year did any director hold a material interest in any contract of significance with the Company Charitable donations or any of its subsidiary undertakings other than an Aviva has continued to support community initiatives 80 indemnity provision between each director and the and charitable causes worldwide and the total Group Governance Company and service contracts between each executive commitment during the year, as measured in accordance director and a Group company.
The Company has with Business in The Communitys Community Investment purchased and maintained throughout the year directors Survey, was 6.8 million 2006: 6.3 million.
and officers liability insurance in respect of itself and its In 2007, the Groups community investment in the United directors.
The directors also have the benefit of the Kingdom totalled 4 million 2006: 3.7 million of which indemnity provision contained in the Companys articles 1.4 million 2006: 1.4 million was given in the form of association.
The Company has executed deeds of of donations to charitable organisations.
The Company indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company, allocates a part of its budget to matching contributions and each person who was a director of the Company raised by staff and to providing financial support to during the year, in respect of liabilities that may attach to charities and communities where members of staff give them in their capacity as directors of the Company or of a personal commitment in terms of their time.
These indemnities were granted at the Company provides a significant level of support to a different times according to the law in place at the time number of national charities.
During 2007, the Company and where relevant are qualifying third-party indemnity continued its commitment to Breakthrough Breast Cancer, provisions as defined by Section 309B of the Companies Wheelpower the British wheelchair sports association, Act 1985.
These indemnities were in force throughout The Princess Royal Trust for Carers and NCH the childrens the year and are currently in force.
In support of its Forward Thinking initiative remuneration, service contracts and interests in the the Company has continued with the partnership shares of the Company are set out in the Directors of the Oxfam 365 Alliance which provides immediate remuneration report.
humanitarian aid to disasters occurring throughout the world.
The Company has committed to support Substantial shareholdings the Oxfam 365 Alliance for three years from 2006.
During 2007 the Company maintained a register of substantial shareholdings in accordance with the provisions In addition, the Groups businesses are committed to supporting their local communities.
For example, of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
As at 27 February 2008 the Company Aviva Canada has launched a two year partnership with ThinkFirst Canada, a national non-profit charity dedicated had received notifications that the holdings exceeding the 3% notification threshold were those of Barclays plc to injury prevention, particularly those associated with the brain and spinal cord and Aviva Global Services, together which held directly 133,026,405 voting rights representing 5.08% of the total voting rights attaching with the Akanksha Foundation, has opened the first of four Aviva Akanksha schools in Pune, India.
to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company, Legal & General Group plc which held directly 104,107,838 voting rights 4.01% and Axa S. A. and Political donations its Group companies which held a total of 259,452,649 At the Annual General Meeting held in 2004, voting rights 9.99% of which 28,520,097 1.10% shareholders passed a resolution, on a precautionary were held directly and 230,932,552 8.89% were basis, to authorise the Company to make donations held indirectly.
to EU political organisations and to incur EU political expenditure as such terms are defined in Section 347A of the Companies Act 1985 not exceeding 100,000.
During the year the Company made no donations to EU political organisations and incurred no political expenditure.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 It is the Companys policy not to make political donations Reappointment of the auditor and of the type caught by the Companies Acts although disclosure of information to the auditor overseas subsidiaries do make other donations such In accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act as those made through Political Action Committees, 1985, a resolution is to be proposed at the Annual and the Company does not intend to change this policy.
General Meeting to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP However, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting as auditor of the Company.
A resolution will also be of the Company the shareholders approval will again be proposed authorising the directors to determine the sought to authorise the Group to make political donations auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews and or incur political expenditure as such terms are the appointment of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness defined in Sections 362 to 379 of the Companies Act and relationship with the Group, including the level of 2006 which superseded Section 347A of the Companies audit and non-audit fees paid.
Further details on the Act 1985 in amounts not exceeding 100,000. work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set The definitions used in the Companies Act 2006 are out below in the Audit Committee report.
broad in nature and this authority is being sought to The directors in office at the date of this report confirm ensure that any activities undertaken throughout the Groups businesses which could otherwise be construed that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Ernst & Young LLP are to fall within these provisions can be undertaken without inadvertently infringing them.
Further details of this are unaware and each director has taken all steps that ought to have been taken as a director to be aware contained in the Notice of Meeting.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that Ernst & Young are aware of that information.
Group employees The Groups statement on its employees is set out in the Business review.
Annual General Meeting The 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Company In summary, the Groups commitment to communication 81 will be held on 1 May 2008 at The Barbican Centre, and dialogue with employees continues.
A strong Silk Street, London EC2Y 8DS at 11am.
A separate Governance emphasis is placed on the provision of news through a document accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts variety of media, including intranets both a Group-wide contains the Notice convening the Meeting and a intranet, Arena, and local business unit intranets, description of the business to be conducted thereat.
Aviva radio, which can be accessed via mobile phone By order of the Board.
or computer, and poster campaigns.
Employees have opportunities to voice their opinions and ask questions Graham Jones through intranet sites, opinion surveys and the Groups Group Company Secretary climate survey which is open to all employees.
Face-to-face 27 February 2008 Registered Office: St. Helens briefings and team meetings are actively encouraged 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ Registered in England No.
2468686 and are held in all business units across the Group.
The Groups businesses in the United Kingdom have established employee consultative forums and a European Consultative Forum convenes annually to discuss matters impacting the business across Europe.
Employee practice Aviva Group companies are committed to providing equal opportunities to all employees, irrespective of their gender, sexual orientation, marital status, race, nationality, ethnic origin, disability, age, religion or union membership status.
Aviva is an inclusive employer and values diversity in its employees.
These commitments extend to recruitment and selection, training, career development, flexible working arrangements, promotion and performance appraisal.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and to provide specialised training where this is appropriate.
Creditor payment policy and practice It is the Groups policy to pay creditors when they fall due for payment.
Terms of payment are agreed with suppliers when negotiating each transaction and the policy is to abide by those terms, provided that the suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and conditions.
The Company has no trade creditors.
In respect of Group activities in the UK, the amounts due to trade creditors at 31 December 2007 represented approximately 23 days of average daily purchases through the year 2006: 22 days.
