Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Finance Finance Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Dear Shareholder, Allocate capital We completed our work on the individual capital During my first year as Group Finance assessment ICA of the group for 2006 Director there has been significant activity We achieved an AM Best upgrade for the US business across the Aviva finance community and to A superior from A excellent.
Additionally, our major achievements are set out on Standard & Poors have reaffirmed their rating of our the right.
core subsidiaries as AA AAvery strong including 53 We have made significant progress upgrading the Aviva USA rating to AA-, all with a stable outlook on the development of the global finance Business review strategy this year.
This will enable us to lay firm foundations for future growth, Manage risk meet future regulatory requirements and The risk management framework and guidance prepare for financial reporting change.
was rolled out across the group during 2007 In 2007 we focused on two areas: We appointed Marcelo Cruz as our new chief risk officer the creation of robust governance to secure the timely and efficient delivery of the strategy: and the development of the Financial reporting policies, frameworks and guidelines that We introduced a new approach to reporting our we will use in 2008 to deliver and embed life operating profit on an IFRS basis, which enables us to monitor underlying performance without the the change group-wide.
distortions caused by market volatility At the end of August, I chaired the first We continued to participate in development of finance directors forum since the creation IFRS Phase II and submitted our feedback on the of our regional structure.
Its representatives International Accounting Standards Board preliminary come from every business and region and views in November have a key role in defining our finance agenda.
Our first meeting focused on Looking forward managing our considerable finance talent We will build on the progress made to date to developing leaders for the future and deliver and embed the Global Finance strategy finance professionals with the skills and across the group experience to support our challenging plans.
In line with other CFO forum members, we are working to roll out market consistent embedded The global finance conference at value reporting for year end 2008 the beginning of October gave the finance We will continue to embed ICA into our business leadership team the chance to see the decision making process for investment assessment benefits of working together to deliver and for capital allocation financial clarity and simplicity across the group.
We are committed to creating a One Finance team and to play our part in achieving one Aviva, twice the value.
Philip Scott Group finance director Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Capital management Management Committee.
These processes incorporate Capital various capital profitability metrics, including an assessment of return on capital employed and internal Capital management objectives rates of return in relation to hurdle rates to ensure capital Avivas capital management philosophy is focused on is allocated efficiently and that excess business unit capital capital efficiency and effective risk management to support is repatriated where appropriate.
a progressive dividend policy and earnings per share growth.
Rigorous capital allocation is one of the Groups Different measures of capital primary strategic priorities and is ultimately governed by In recognition of the requirements of different stakeholders, the Group Executive Committee.
the Group measures its capital on a number of different 54 The Groups overall capital risk appetite is set bases, all of which are taken into account when managing and managed with reference to the requirements of a Business and allocating capital across the Group.
These include range of different stakeholders including shareholders, review measures which comply with the regulatory regimes within policyholders, regulators and rating agencies.
In managing which the Group operates and those which the directors capital we seek to: consider appropriate for the management of the business.
maintain sufficient, but not excessive, financial The primary measures which the Group uses are: strength to support new business growth and satisfy the requirements of our stakeholders: i Accounting bases The Group reports its results on both an IFRS and a optimise our overall debt to equity structure to European Embedded Value basis.
The directors consider enhance our returns to shareholders, subject to our that the European Embedded Value principles provide a capital risk appetite and balancing the requirements more meaningful measure of the long term underlying of the range of stakeholders: value of the capital employed in the Groups life and retain financial flexibility by maintaining strong related businesses.
This basis allows for the impact of liquidity, including significant unutilised committed uncertainty in the future investment returns more explicitly credit lines and access to a range of capital markets: and is consistent with the way the life business is priced allocate capital rigorously across the Group, to drive and managed.
Accordingly, in addition to IFRS, we analyse value adding growth in accordance with risk appetite: and measure the net asset value and total capital employed for the Group on this basis.
This is the basis on increase the dividend on a basis judged prudent, while which Group Return on Equity is measured and against retaining capital to support future business growth, which the corresponding Group target is expressed.
using dividend cover on an IFRS operating earnings after tax basis in the 1.5 to 2.0 times range as a guide.
ii Regulatory bases Individual regulated subsidiaries measure and report Capital resources solvency based on applicable local regulations, including in the UK the regulations established by the Financial Services The primary sources of capital used by the Group Authority FSA.
These measures are also consolidated are equity shareholders funds, preference shares, under the European Insurance Groups Directive IGD to subordinated debt and borrowings.
We also consider calculate regulatory capital adequacy at an aggregate and, where efficient to do so, utilise alternative sources Group level.
The Group has fully complied with these of capital such as reinsurance and securitisation in addition regulatory requirements during the year.
to the more traditional sources of funding.
Targets are established in relation to regulatory solvency, ratings, iii Rating agency bases liquidity and dividend capacity and are a key tool in The Groups ratings are an important indicator of financial managing capital in accordance with our risk appetite strength and maintenance of these ratings is one of the and the requirements of our various stakeholders.
key drivers of capital risk appetite.
Certain rating agencies Overall, the Group has significant resources and have proprietary capital models which they use to assess financial strength.
The ratings of the Groups main available capital resources against capital requirements, operating subsidiaries are AA AAvery strong with a as a component of their overall criteria for assigning ratings.
stable outlook from Standard & Poors, Aa3 excellent In addition, rating agency measures and targets in respect with a stable outlook from Moodys and A Superior of gearing and fixed charge cover are also important in with a stable outlook from AM Best.
These ratings reflect evaluating the level of borrowings utilised by the Group.
the Groups strong liquidity, competitive position, While not mandatory external requirements, in practice capital base, increasing underlying earnings and strategic rating agency capital measures tend to act as one of and operational management.
The Group is subject to the primary drivers of capital requirements, reflecting the a number of regulatory capital tests and also employs capital strength required in relation to our target ratings.
economic capital measures to manage capital and risk.
iv Economic bases The Group also measures its capital using an economic Capital allocation capital model that takes into account a more realistic set Capital allocation is undertaken based on a rigorous of financial and non-financial assumptions.
This model has been developed considerably over the past few years and is analysis of a range of financial, strategic, risk and capital factors to ensure that capital is allocated efficiently to increasingly relevant in the internal management and external assessment of the Groups capital resources.
The economic value adding business opportunities.
A clear management decision-making framework, incorporating ongoing capital model is used to assess the Groups capital strength in accordance with the Individual Capital Assessment ICA operational and strategic performance review, periodic longer term strategic and financial planning and robust requirements established by the FSA.
Further developments are planned to meet the emerging requirements of the due diligence over capital allocation is in place, governed by the Group Executive Committee and Group Capital Solvency II framework and other external agencies.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Further details regarding the use of economic capital Net internal debt represents the balance of the above in risk management are set out in the Risk management amounts due from corporate and holding entities, section on page 58. less the tangible net assets held by these entities.
Financial leverage, the ratio of the Groups external senior and subordinated debt to EEV capital and reserves was Accounting basis and capital 17% 2006: 20%.
Fixed charge cover, which measures employed by segment the extent to which external interest costs, including The table below shows how our capital, on an EEV basis, subordinated debt interest and preference dividends, is deployed by segment and how that capital is funded.
are covered by EEV operating profit was 9.8 times 2006: 10.3 times.
2007 2006 55 m m Long-term savings 23,272 20,094 Business Regulatory bases General insurance and health 5,487 5,176 review Regulatory basis Group: Other business including fund management 1,056 1,059 Corporate 31 19 European Insurance Groups Directive IGD Total capital employed 29,784 26,310 31 December 31 December Financed by: 2007 2006 Equity shareholders funds 20,253 17,531 Insurance Groups Directive IGD excess solvency 3.1 bn 3.5 bn Minority interests 3,131 2,137 Cover times over EU minimum 1.6 times 1.8 times Direct capital instrument 990 990 Preference shares 200 200 The Group has a regulatory obligation to have positive Subordinated debt 3,054 2,937 solvency on a regulatory IGD basis at all times.
The Groups External debt 1,257 1,258 risk management processes ensure adequate review of Net internal debt 899 1,257 this measure.
At 31 December 2007, the estimated excess 29,784 26,310 regulatory capital was 3.1 billion 31 December 2006: Net asset value per share EEV basis 772p 683p 3.5 billion.
This measure represents the excess of The Corporate net liabilities represent the element of the pension the aggregate value of regulatory capital employed scheme deficit held centrally.
in our business over the aggregate minimum solvency Minority interests have increased to 3,131 million 2006: 2,137 million requirements imposed by local regulators, excluding the due to foreign exchange movement, capital contributions from property investment vehicles and acquired subsidiaries, primarily Cajamurcia surplus held in the Groups UK Life funds.
The minimum solvency requirement for the Groups European businesses is based on the Solvency 1 Directive.
At 31 December 2007 the Group had 29.8 billion In broad terms, for EU operations, this is set at 4% and Restated 31 December 2006: 26.3 billion of total capital 1% of non-linked and unit-linked life reserves respectively employed, in its trading operations measured on an EEV and for Avivas general insurance portfolio of business is basis.
The significant increase in shareholders funds reflects the higher of 18% of gross premiums or 26% of gross the strong operational performance in the period and claims, in both cases adjusted to reflect the level of foreign exchange impacts.
Net asset value per ordinary reinsurance recoveries.
For the Groups major nonshare, based on equity shareholders funds, has grown European businesses the US, Australia and Canada to 772 pence per share 2006: 683 pence per share.
a risk charge on assets and liabilities approach is used.
Total capital employed is financed by a combination The IGD is a pure aggregation test with no credit given of equity shareholders funds, preference capital, for the considerable diversification benefits of Aviva.
In addition to Our excess solvency of 3.1 billion reflects a net our external funding sources, we have certain internal decrease of 0.4 billion since 31 December 2006, driven borrowing arrangements in place which allow some of by increased capital resource requirements due to changes the assets that support technical liabilities to be invested in regulatory rules and a strengthening of the Groups in a pool of central assets for use across the Group.
approach to the calculation of the resource requirement.
These internal debt balances allow for the capital allocated These additional requirements offset the growth to business operations to exceed the externally sourced in resources due to strong operational performance.
capital resources of the Group.
Although intra-group in nature, they are included as part of the capital base for Regulatory basis General insurance the purpose of capital management.
These arrangements and International arise in relation to the following: Certain subsidiaries, subject to continuing to satisfy Our principal UK general insurance regulated subsidiaries standalone capital and liquidity requirements, loan are AII and Norwich Union Insurance NUI.
During 2007, funds to corporate and holding entities, these loans NUI was transferred to become a subsidiary of the satisfy arms length criteria and all interest payments AII Group, bringing all of the UK general insurance are made when due.
The combined businesses of the AII Group have a strong solvency position as set out in Aviva International Insurance AII Ltd acts as both the table below.
On an aggregate basis the estimated a UK general insurer and as the primary holding excess solvency margin representing the regulatory value company for the Groups foreign subsidiaries.
Internal of excess available assets over the required minimum capital management mechanisms in place allocate a margin amounted to 3.7 billion 31 December 2006: portion of the total capital of the company to the UK 3.8 billion after covering the minimum capital base general insurance operations.
These mechanisms also of 5.5 billion 31 December 2006: 4.5 billion.
allow for some of the assets backing technical liabilities to be made available for use across the Group.
Balances in respect of these arrangements are also treated as internal debt for capital management purposes.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Capital management continued 31 December 31 December 31 December December 2007 2006 2007 2006 AII Group Estimated Estimated pro forma Estimated realistic risk AII Group including NUI realistic Realistic inherited capitalEstimated Estimated Capital resources 9.2bn 8.3bn assets liabilities estate margin excess excess Capital resources requirement 5.5bn 4.5bn bn bn bn bn bn bn Solvency surplus 3.7bn 3.8bn CGNU Life 14.5 13.1 1.4 0.3 1.1 2.0 Cover 1.7 times 1.8 times CULAC 13.9 12.7 1.2 0.4 0.8 2.0 NUL&P 26.1 24.2 1.9 0.6 1.3 1.2 Aggregate 54.5 50.0 4.5 1.3 3.2 5.2 Regulatory basis Long-term businesses 56 These realistic liabilities include the shareholders share of future bonuses of For the Groups non-participating worldwide life assurance 1.2 billion 31 December 2006: 0.7 billion.
Realistic liabilities adjusted Business businesses, our capital requirements, expressed as a to eliminate the shareholders share of future bonuses are 48.8 billion review 31 December 2006: 48.6 billion.
percentage of the EU minimum, are set for internal These realistic liabilities make provision for guarantees, options and management and embedded value reporting purposes promises on a market consistent stochastic basis.
The value of the as the higher of: provision included within realistic liabilities is 0.7 billion, 0.8 billion and 3.0 billion for CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively Target levels set by reference to internal risk 31 December 2006: 0.5 billion, 0.7 billion and 3.0 billion for assessment and internal objectives, taking account of CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively.
the level of operational, demographic, market and Estimated realistic inherited estate at 31 December 2006 was currency risk.
2.5 billion, 2.5 billion and 1.8 billion for CGNU Life, CULAC and NUL&P respectively.
The distribution has resulted in a 2.3 billion Minimum capital level ie level of solvency capital at reduction in the estimated realistic inherited estate.
which local regulator is empowered to take action.
The risk capital margin RCM is 3.5 times covered by the inherited estate 31 December 2006: 4.2 times.
The RCM is lower as a result The required capital across the Groups life businesses of fide-risking the cost of guarantees.
varies between 100% and 250% of EU minimum or The NUL&P fund includes the Provident Mutual PM fund which equivalent.
During the year, we reduced the required has realistic assets and liabilities of 2.1 billion and therefore does capital for the UK annuity business from 150% to 100% not impact the realistic inherited estate.
of required minimum margin, bringing it into line with Investment mix the remainder of the non-profit portfolio.
The weighted The aggregate investment mix of the assets in the three average level of required capital for the Groups nonmain with-profit funds at 31 December 2007 was: participating life business, expressed as a percentage 31 December 31 December of the EU minimum or equivalent solvency margin has 2007 2006 decreased to 130% 31 December 2006: 134% reflecting % % the reduction in the level of required capital for the UK Equity 37% 42% annuities business.
Property 13% 16% These levels of required capital are used in the Fixed interest 37% 36% calculation of the Groups embedded value to evaluate Other 13% 6% 100% 100% the cost of locked in capital.
At 31 December 2007 the aggregate regulatory requirements based on the EU The equity backing ratios, including property, minimum test amounted to 5.1 billion 31 December supporting with-profit asset shares are 75% in CGNU 2006: 4.3 billion.
At this date, the actual net worth Life, and CULAC and 70% in NUL&P.
New with-profit held in the Groups long-term business was 10.5 billion business is mainly written through CGNU Life.
31 December 2006: 8.9 billion which represents A fide-risking strategy has been implemented in CGNU 205% 31 December 2006: 206% of these minimum Life and CULAC to protect the estate from variations in requirements.
While the asset mix for funds backing policyholder liabilities were unchanged by this, Regulatory basis UK Life with-profit funds the fide-risking involved the reduction of the equity The available capital of the with-profit funds is represented proportion of the assets backing the cost of guarantees by the realistic inherited estate.
The estate represents the and the inherited estate by approximately 2 billion.
assets of the long-term with-profit funds less the realistic Potential reattribution of the inherited estate liabilities for non-profit policies within the funds, less asset Avivas negotiations with the Policyholder Advocate, shares aggregated across the with-profit policies and any Clare Spottiswoode, regarding the potential reattribution additional amounts expected at the valuation date to be of the remainder of the inherited estates of CGNU paid to in-force policyholders in the future in respect of Life and CULAC continue.
We are keen to bring this smoothing costs, guarantees and promises.
Realistic to a conclusion soon so that we can put an offer to balance sheet information is shown below for the three policyholders as early as possible.
We will only complete main UK with-profit funds: CGNU Life, Commercial Union this process if we are able to negotiate an arrangement Life Assurance Company CULAC and Norwich Union Life that is fair to policyholders and shareholders.
These realistic liabilities have been included within the long-term business provision and the liability for insurance and investment contracts on the Groups IFRS balance sheet at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2006.
Aviva recently announced a one off, special bonus of 2.3 billion in respect of the CGNU Life and CULAC with-profits funds, the impact of this special bonus is reflected in the numbers presented below.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Regulatory basis - Solvency II Tests covering investment and insurance scenarios are specified centrally to provide consistency across businesses Solvency II represents new legislation which proposes a and to achieve a minimum standard.
Where appropriate, fundamental review of the capital adequacy regime for the businesses may also supplement these with tests specific European insurance industry.
It aims to establish a revised to their own situation.
In aggregating the various risk tests set of EU-wide capital requirements and risk management at business unit and Group level, we allow for correlation standards that will replace the current requirements effects between different risks as well as diversification applicable to European insurance firms and Groups.
This means that the aggregate sum of the Solvency II is a unique opportunity to modernise the risks is less than the sum of all of the individual risks.
regulation of insurance companies and groups.
Aviva is Financial modelling techniques enhance our practice of fully committed to contributing to the success of Solvency 57 active risk and capital management, ensuring sufficient II and continues to play an active role in its development capital is available to protect against unforeseen events Business through participation in the consultation and quantitative and adverse scenarios.
Our aim continues to be the review impact studies run by the European Commission and optimal usage of capital through appropriate allocation European Regulators, as well as working with industry to our businesses.
We continue to develop our economic forums and working parties.
Solvency II has the potential capital modelling capability for all our businesses as to align regulatory capital with internal risk processes and part of our development programme to increase the measures, provided the possible problems and pitfalls are focus on economic capital management.
While the proposed regime is still at an early stage, the progress has been encouraging: the European Capital management actions Commission published its draft proposal for the high level principles, Level 1 Framework Directive, in July 2007 and During the year, we have undertaken a number of it is envisaged that the full suite of rules will be in place by proactive actions in relation to capital management: the end of 2010, with full implementation by 2012.
In the UK, Norwich Union generated operational capital of 0.3bn through financial reinsurance, Rating agency bases improving the returns for shareholders through the Ratings are important in supporting access to debt capital use of leveraged capital.
Norwich Union also recently markets and in providing assurance to business partners completed a capital transaction transferring to and policyholders over the financial strength of the Swiss Re an economic interest in part of the UK Life Group and its ability to service contractual obligations.
policy book to be administered by them under the In recognition of this, the Group has solicited rating outsourcing agreement made earlier in 2007, relationships with a number of rating agencies.
which comes into effect as this business migrates Rating agencies generally assign ratings based on an to Swiss Re over 2008 and 2009. assessment of a range of financial e. g. capital strength, In the US, our Life business completed a transaction gearing and fixed charge cover ratios and non financial to offset the onerous capital requirements imposed e. g. competitive position and quality of management by regulation AXXX.
The transaction relates to equity factors.
Managing our capital and liquidity position in indexed life contracts including a no lapse guarantee.
accordance with the Groups target rating levels is a core At the end of 2007, approximately 0.1bn of liability consideration in all material capital management and was ceded to a captive reinsurance company.
The amount ceded is expected to grow significantly in future years.
Economic bases Consistent with a focus on EPS growth, we have The Group uses a risk based capital RBC model to assess also announced the withdrawal of the current scrip its economic capital requirements and to aid in risk and dividend scheme and the introduction of a Dividend capital management across the Group.
This model is used Reinvestment Plan, which avoids new share issuance, to support the Groups Individual Capital Assessments from the 2008 interim dividend onwards.
ICA which are reported to the FSA for all UK regulated We also continue to actively manage our exposure insurance businesses.
to investment risk and in the second half of 2007 This model is based on a framework for identifying we reduced our exposure to equity market volatility the risks that business units, and the Group as a whole, by selling 2.6bn and 0.8bn of equities in our are exposed to.
The FSA now uses the results of our ICA general insurance shareholder funds and the staff process when setting target levels of capital for the UK pension schemes respectively.
These actions are regulated businesses.
In line with FSA requirements, the consistent with our ongoing focus on efficient capital ICA estimates the capital required to mitigate the risk of management and enhancing returns to shareholders.
insolvency to a 99.5% confidence level over a one year time horizon equivalent to events occurring in one out of 200 years against financial and non-financial tests.
Currently our ICA uses a mixture of scenario based approaches and stochastic economic capital models.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Risk management Risk management is coordinated by a central Group team, The Groups approach to risk led by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
Within our regional and capital management structure, each regional support office is in the process of As part of our overall corporate governance framework appointing regional risk officers will that work under the described on pages 82 to 87 we operate a risk leadership and coordination of Group Risk to ensure that the management structure, under the leadership of a risk profile within the regions is under the limits established Group Chief Risk Officer whose primary objective is to and agreed by the Group centre.
The regional risk officers align the strategic decisions of the group with shareholder work with the business unit risk officers to ensure that the risk appetite.
Group Risk has a mission also to manage risk management framework is embedded and working risks by protecting the group from events that can appropriately in our businesses, and work with the Group 58 hinder the achievement of our objectives, our financial senior management to communicate and coordinate risk performance, or cause us to fail to exploit opportunities.
management decisions that are taken at a group level.
Business Risk management incorporates an integrated group-wide review Additionally, we operate a number of oversight approach to identify, assess, measure, manage, committees to monitor aggregate risk data, take risk and monitor the risks to which our businesses are management decisions, and to ensure the implementation exposed.
Group Risk is also responsible for regulatory of the risk policies.
Our risk management committee risk and relationship with our regulators worldwide, structure is set out below.
for managing the corporate governance and for Group Risk also reports to the Chairman of the business continuity programmes.
Risk & Regulatory Committee assuring independence of We have established a number of policies that the function.
Our governance structure and policies are deal with the management of both financial and regularly reviewed to reflect the changing commercial and non-financial risks.
These policies define our risk appetite regulatory environment, and our own organisational structure.
and set out risk management and control and business In 2007 we have reviewed our group policy set.
conduct standards for the groups worldwide operations.
The policies have been refreshed, and set out in consistent They enable a broadly consistent approach to the language both the inherent risks Aviva faces and the management of risk by business units.
For each policy, minimum standards of control required to mitigate them.
a member of senior management is responsible for The policies clearly set out the roles and responsibilities of overseeing compliance with that policy throughout businesses, regions, policy owners, and group oversight the group.
committees, reflecting the change in organisational structure that has taken place in Aviva.
These policies became effective on 1 January 2008, and will become fully embedded during 2008.
Risk Committees: Financial and Operating Risk Board Risk & CSR Audit Regulatory Committee Committee Committee Executive Committee Asset Liability Operational Risk Management Committee Committee Life Insurance Capital Management IT Compliance Corporate Reputation Business General Insurance Reserving & Stakeholder Protection Engagement Investment HR Derivatives Credit Reinsurance Security Our governance structure and policies are regularly reviewed to reflect the changing commercial and regulatory environment, and our own organisational structure.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our business has market risk from fluctuations in both Risk and capital management the values of assets held and the value of liabilities.
We believe that the measurement of economic capital At a group level, we have market risk from owning a provides a clear and consistent way to monitor and portfolio of international businesses whose values can compare the risks in our businesses.
change, and from assets that support the liabilities of As previously explained, we have developed a capital our staff pension scheme.
management framework using Individual Capital We recognise that market risk is part of the businesses Assessment ICA principles for identifying the risks that that we run, and that a certain level of market risk is business units, and the group as a whole are exposed acceptable in order to deliver benefits to both policyholders to, quantifying their impact on economic capital.
For each type of market risk, we have 59 ICA analysis is now incorporated into our key decision developed clear policies and procedures on how that risk making processes.
Our ICA models inform us about the should be monitored and managed, either within our Business relative impact on economic capital from the risks we face, business units or at a group level.
Our group investment review enabling us to formulate mitigating strategies.
committee GIC is responsible for overseeing market We also use financial condition reports which risk.
For example, the GIC identifies the levels of market cover the medium-term financial outlook of the business, movement at which mitigating actions should be taken.
including forecasts of the overall financial position and Actions could include buying downside protection key performance indicators under a variety of economic against movements in equity prices or interest rates.
and operating scenarios, allowing for new business sales, The GIC also considers aggregation of market risk, to inform our capital and risk management decisions.
including indirect market risk exposure from our staff We monitor specific risks on a regular basis through pension schemes, and formulates risk appetite decisions our risk monitoring framework.
Our businesses are for the amounts invested in different types of asset, required to disclose all material risks along with and where appropriate reduces or increases exposure information on the likelihood and severity of these risks to asset classes.
and the mitigating actions taken or planned.
This process We manage market risk and apply our market risk enables us to assess the overall risk exposure of the policy to all of the groups financial assets, including both group, to develop a group-wide risk map identifying policyholder assets those assets supporting the technical concentrations of risk and to define the risks that we liabilities and shareholder assets the surplus assets held are prepared to accept.
This risk map is continually within the businesses and Aviva group centre not required monitored and is refreshed quarterly.
to meet policyholder benefits, and any additional assets held to cover regulatory margins.
In practice assets can The risks facing Aviva move between these categories.
The total of policyholder and shareholder assets will account for all the investments Aviva faces a wide variety of financial, insurance, and of the business.
other risks from our businesss operations, which we Asset liability management is ultimately overseen have categorised in four groups.
These are shown in by the Group Asset Liability Management Committee the chart below: in which all the members of the Executive Committee The types of risks in our business and the way in are members.
which we manage them are discussed in detail below.
We also continually monitor the financial impact of changes to market values through a number of Market risk measurements of economic capital or sensitivities to key performance indicators.
We are exposed to potential adverse financial impact Several of our long term savings businesses sell from variation in the values of our investments, caused by products where the majority of the market risk is changes in equity and property prices, credit risk, borne by the policyholder.
Any market risk attributable interest rates, liquidity, and foreign exchange rates.
to policyholders is prudently managed to satisfy the policyholders objectives for risk and reward.
Risk Insurance risk Credit risk Market risk Operational risk Life General Equity Interest Liquidity Property Foreign insurance insurance risk rate risk risk risk exchange risk risk Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Risk management continued Our market risk policy sets out the minimum principles Interest rate risk that business units are expected to follow in managing Interest rate risk is the risk that arises from both the the assets backing the technical insurance liabilities.
products we sell and the value of our investments due We have set standards for the way businesses should to changes in the level of interest rates.
For example, match their liabilities with appropriate assets, and have long-term debt and fixed income securities are both a clear decision-making and monitoring process to be exposed to fluctuations in interest rates.
We are exposed followed when liabilities cannot be matched or a degree to reductions in interest rates on business carrying of mismatching is desired.
We regularly monitor how investment return guarantees, and to interest rate business units are performing asset liability management increases on business carrying surrender value guarantees.
ALM at both the group investment committee and group A 1% decrease in interest rates would increase 60 asset liability management committee.
ALM issues are shareholders funds on an IFRS basis by 939 million considered as part of our business risk reporting, and in Business pre-tax and on an EEV basis would increase embedded review determining ICA and Risk Based Capital requirements.
value by 685 million, net of tax.
Sensitivities to increases in interest rates are shown in note 55 and the section Equity price risk on EEV reporting.
Our largest market risk exposure is to changes in equity We manage our interest rate risk in a number of prices.
However, recent equity market rises in the past ways.
In some categories of our long-term business, few years resulted in our equity risk rising to a level we reduce interest rate risk through the close matching that was not optimal when compared to risk appetite, of assets and liabilities.
On short-term business such as and so the equity holdings were reduced within a number general insurance business, we require a close matching of our general insurance shareholder funds.
Equity risk of assets and liabilities by duration to minimise this risk.
was also reduced within the UK Staff Pension fund in the If we cannot entirely remove exposure through third quarter of 2007.
This reduced our equity exposure matching, we also use a variety of derivative instruments by 3.5 billion.
including futures, options, swaps, caps and floors in A 10% decrease in equity prices causes a order to hedge against unfavourable market movements 775 million pre-tax decrease in the level of shareholders in interest rates.
funds on an IFRS basis and on an EEV basis would reduce embedded value by 1,155 million, net of tax.
Property price risk Our GIC continually monitors exposure against We invest in physical property assets, in a variety of a risk appetite set and agreed by the Board, and has locations worldwide that are exposed to fluctuation a process in place to manage the exposure in different in values.
We believe investing in these assets provides market conditions, including extreme movements.
long-term benefits for our businesses and clients.
We monitor concentrations of equity risk, Investment in property is managed locally by our business for example from material shareholdings in our strategic units, subject to the risk appetite of that business unit, business partners, or from equities held in our staff pension and within any local regulations on asset admissibility schemes.
We formulate our equity risk management strategy or liquidity.
taking into account the full range of our equity holdings.
Liquidity risk Maintaining sufficient available liquid assets to meet our obligations as they fall due is an important part Shareholders equity holdings by currency of our financial management practice.
Our businesses must all operate controls to identify sources of liquidity 1 risk, monitor potential exposures, and manage their 4 liquidity requirements.
At group level, we maintain a prudent level of 3 liquidity consistent with the expectations of the FSA and the investment community.
We also maintain a % buffer of liquid assets to cover unforeseen contingencies 2 1 Sterling 27 including the provision of temporary funds to any of 2 Euro 52 our business units that experience temporary liquidity 3 US dollar 9 4 Other 12 shortfalls, and the group maintains significant committed Total 100 borrowing facilities from a range of highly rated banks to further mitigate this risk.
Credit risk exposures Foreign currency exchange risk 1 We operate internationally and we are therefore % exposed to the financial impact arising from changes 1 AAA 30 in the exchange rates of various currencies.
Over half 2 AA 16 3 A 13 of our premium income arises in currencies other than 4 BBB 6 sterling and our net assets are denominated in a variety 5 Speculative Grade 1 of currencies, but predominantly in sterling, euros and 6 Not rated 34 US dollars.
Total 100 2 6 Note: Not Rated includes 5 mortgages and other debt 4 that does not attract an 3 external rating.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 We generally do not hedge foreign currency revenues, Insurance risk as we prefer to retain revenue locally in each business Our core business is insurance, and we carefully manage to support business growth, to meet local and regulatory the risks arising from the life and general insurance business market requirements, and to maintain sufficient assets that we write.
in their local currency to match local currency liabilities.
We are also exposed to some exchange risk from assets Life insurance risk held in staff pension schemes, as a part of the investment strategy agreed with the scheme trustees, although this Our life insurance businesses are exposed to the full range has now been largely hedged.
of life insurance risks from the products that they have Movements in exchange rates may affect the value written, typically longevity, mortality, and morbidity risk, 61 of consolidated shareholders equity, which is expressed in as well as experience on persistency and unforeseen expenses.
This aspect of foreign exchange risk is monitored Our policy on life insurance risk sets out the practice Business centrally against limits that we have set to control the review standards we expect our business units to follow in extent to which capital deployment and capital requirements underwriting such risks, and our life insurance risk are not aligned.
We use currency borrowings and derivatives committee regularly monitors its application, when necessary to keep currency exposures within these and develops detailed guidance on managing the predetermined limits, and to hedge specific foreign major areas of risk, and sponsors the sharing of best exchange risks when we feel it is appropriate: for example, practice between businesses.
in any acquisition or disposal activity.
Longevity risk We have a significant exposure to annuity business and Derivatives risk our most significant life insurance risk is associated with longevity.
Longevity statistics are monitored in detail, We use derivatives in a number of our businesses to enable efficient investment management, to hedge investment risks, compared with emerging industry trends, and the results are used to inform both the reserving and pricing of or as part of structured retail savings products.
Derivatives can involve complex financial transactions and to minimise annuities.
Inevitably, there remains uncertainty about the development of future longevity that cannot be removed.
the risks involved we have set minimum standards we expect our businesses to adopt when using derivatives Should our annuitant mortality assumptions worsen by 5% then shareholders equity would decrease by and our group derivatives committee monitors exposures, the control framework, and approves any proposed 295 million pre-tax on an IFRS basis and decrease embedded value by 210 million on an EEV basis, transactions that fall outside the local business delegated authorities.
A number of our investment management net of tax.
businesses operate hedge funds: these are subject to Mortality and morbidity risk the same Aviva control framework for using derivatives Our business units manage mortality and morbidity in addition to local regulatory supervision of such funds.
risk on protection business using reinsurance and while they can select reinsurers locally, we review reinsurance Credit risk coverage across the group and our overall reinsurance programme is assessed centrally to manage group-wide We have a significant exposure to credit risk through our risk exposures.
Sensitivity tests show that we are not investments in corporate bonds, commercial mortgages, materially affected by mortality risk.
Our equity reduces by and other securities.
We hold these investments for the only 20 million for a 5% worsening in assurance mortality benefit of both our policyholders and shareholders.
experience on an IFRS basis and decreases embedded We monitor and manage two types of credit risk.
value by 145 million on an EEV basis, net of tax.
Firstly, we manage the exposure to individual counterparties, by measuring exposure against centrally set Persistency risk limits.
The aggregate exposure we are prepared to accept Persistency risk affects all of our life insurance businesses takes account of credit ratings issued by rating agencies and is managed at a business unit level through frequent such as Standard & Poors.
We also manage the level of monitoring of current experience, benchmarked against risk we are prepared to take, and we are using increasingly local market information.
Actual experience against detailed analysis to define our optimal balance between the expected level of lapses is also assessed within risk and reward, monitoring the types of investment the analysis of embedded value operating profit.
available to us to achieve best our aims.
Where possible, the financial impact of lapses is reduced We also consider the risk of a fall in the value of fixed through appropriate product design.
The group life interest securities from changes in the perceived credit insurance risk committee has developed guidelines worthiness of the issuer which is typically recognised through on persistency management, sharing best practice changes in the fixed interest securities credit spreads.
on the setting of lapse assumptions, product design, Our group credit committee GCC takes responsibility experience monitoring, and management action.
for monitoring credit exposures to individual counterparties Expense risk and determining who we are prepared to work with.
Expenses are managed at a business unit level, as part of Our GIC sets the credit risk appetite as part of our overall general day-to-day business management, and expense management of market risk.
In 2008 we will be enhancing management is a key part of a business ability to meet our capability to monitor and manage credit risk through financial targets.
the development of credit risk management systems.
We are also exposed to credit risk through our use of reinsurance.
Our reinsurance security committee, part of our GCC, verifies that reinsurance arrangements are only placed with providers who meet our counterparty credit standards.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: Risk management continued General insurance risk Emerging insurance risks Our general insurance businesses are exposed to a Both life and general insurance business are subject to typical range of general insurance risks from the business new types of risk which may emerge.
By their very nature that they underwrite.
these risks are evolving, uncertain, and difficult to quantify.
Recent developments relating to avian flu and other Such risks include: pandemic risks have raised considerable interest in the Fluctuation in the timing, frequency and severity life insurance market.
Our life insurance risk committee of claims and claim settlements compared to that monitors developments in these risks based on published expected when the business was written industry research, and makes assessments of the impact on the group through stress and scenario testing.
62 Unexpected claims arising from a single source In general insurance potential risks include the impact Inadequate reinsurance protection or other risk Business of climate change.
Emerging claims types are considered transfer techniques review when setting latent claims reserves, and through the Inadequate reserves underwriting and pricing process.
Our group general insurance risk committee GIRC Operational risk oversees the risk management framework, within a clearly communicated underwriting strategy.
We have, We are also exposed to operational risk arising from as a group, made a clear statement on the target for inadequately controlled internal processes or systems, the combined operating ratio COR.
To achieve this human error and from external events.
This includes goal, we operate technical management committees all risks that we are exposed to, other than the financial focusing on each of our key general insurance risks in risks described above and strategic and group risks.
detail for example, underwriting, claims management, Operational risks include risks relating to: and reinsurance.
Regulation, information technology, financial crime, Catastrophe Risk business protection, human resources, outsourcing, Our largest risk is claims incurred from catastrophic events.
purchasing, communications, and legal This risk is controlled through monitoring risk aggregations Brand management, customer management, and using catastrophe reinsurance cover.
products, sales management and distribution Reinsurance cover Financial processes including financial reporting We actively use reinsurance to help reduce the financial and taxation impact of a catastrophe and to manage the volatility of External developments our earnings.
Reinsurance purchases are reviewed annually at both business unit and group level to verify that the Our businesses are primarily responsible for identifying, protection we have purchased matches the level of managing and reporting these risks as part of our quarterly exposure.
Reinsurance arrangements are only placed with risk reporting processes.
Each operational risk is assessed providers who meet our counterparty security standards.
by considering the potential impact and the probability of We use extensive financial modelling and actuarial analysis the event occurring.
Impact assessments are made against to optimise the cost and risk management benefits from financial, operational and reputational criteria.
Business management teams must be satisfied that We cede much of our worldwide catastrophe risk to all material risks falling outside our risk appetite are being third-party reinsurers, but retain a pooled element for our mitigated, monitored and reported at an appropriate own account, gaining diversification benefits.
Any risks with a high impact level are continually retained risk increases as catastrophe events become more monitored centrally.
remote, so that our total loss from our most concentrated Our operational risk committee ORC determines exposure northern European wind storm is approximately the risk appetite that the group can work within for 370 million for a one in ten year event, compared to these types of risk, assesses and monitors overall approximately 700 million for a one in 100 year event.
operational risk exposures, identifying any concentrations of operational risk across the group, and in particular Claims ratios verifies that mitigating action plans are implemented.
Another material risk is the impact of worsening claims ratios.
This risk is actively managed through business unit focus on underwriting discipline, control of claims management, and finding innovative solutions to the way we measure and price the risk we underwrite.
For example, our UK business has developed digital flood mapping to understand better the risk to household insurance from flood damage, and has developed telematics, our Pay As You Drive technology to provide a closer link between risk and pricing.
Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounting basis of preparation Previously this methodology has been applied to our International Financial Reporting general insurance and health businesses but following the Standards IFRS adoption of a new operating profit definition in November Our consolidated financial statements are prepared 2007, this has been extended to our long-term savings under IFRS, using standards issued by the International business.
Further details of this change are set out in note Accounting Standards Board IASB and endorsed 2 to the financial statements on page 132. by the EU.
In addition to fulfilling this legal obligation, the group has also complied with IFRS as issued by Critical accounting policies the IASB and applicable at 31 December 2007. and estimates The financial data contained in the report and 63 accounts has been prepared using the groups accounting The preparation of financial statements requires the policies set out on pages 114 to 125.
Where applicable, Group to select accounting policies and make estimates Business the financial statements have also been prepared in and assumptions that affect items reported in the review accordance with the Statement of Recommended Practice consolidated income statement, balance sheet, SORP on accounting for insurance business issued by other primary statements and notes to the financial the Association of British Insurers ABI in December 2005, statements.
These are set out on pages 114 to 125. as amended in December 2006.
Following a review of certain balance sheet items, Critical accounting policies we have restated the 2006 comparative figures to The major areas of judgement on policy application are gross up for cash collateral items and to reclassify certain considered to be over whether Group entities should be certificates of deposit.
Details are given in note 2 to the consolidated set out in policy D, on product classification financial statements.
set out in policy F and in the classification of financial investments set out in policy S. European Embedded Value EEV basis of reporting Use of estimates We present the results and financial position of our All estimates are based on managements knowledge life and related businesses on an EEV basis, in addition of current facts and circumstances, assumptions based to the IFRS basis.
The directors consider that the EEV on that knowledge and their predictions of future events methodology represents a more meaningful basis and actions.
Actual results can always differ from those of reporting the underlying value of the Groups life estimates, possibly significantly.
and related businesses and the underlying drivers of The table below sets out those items that we consider performance than IFRS methodology.
This basis allows particularly susceptible to changes in estimates and for the impact of uncertainty in the future investment assumptions, and the relevant accounting policy.
returns more explicitly and is consistent with the way Item Accounting policy the business is priced and managed.
Insurance and participating investment contract liabilities F & K The EEV methodology adopted is in accordance Goodwill, AVIF and other intangible assets N with the EEV Principles introduced by the CFO Forum Impairment of financial investments S in May 2004, and updated in October 2005.
Under the Fair value of derivative financial instruments T EEV methodology, the total profit recognised over the Deferred acquisition costs and other assets W full lifetime of an insurance policy is the same as under Provisions and contingent liabilities Z the IFRS basis of reporting.
However, the EEV basis Pension obligations AA gives a fairer indication of the profitability of business Deferred tax AB on inception.
Additionally, shareholders funds on an EEV basis incorporate internally generated additional Future accounting developments value of in-force business AVIF, which is excluded We continue to take an active role in the development for IFRS reporting.
Our incentive schemes and internal management reporting are largely aligned to the EEV of new accounting standards, via industry forums and working parties, and reviewing and providing comment basis.
These financial statements include supplementary information on EEV reporting in the Alternative method on proposals from the IASB.
Phase II of the IASBs project on insurance contracts remains the most significant of reporting long-term business section.
area of development to us.
We fully support the timely development of a global standard for insurance Longer term investment return accounting that reflects the economics of our business.
The long-term nature of most of our operations means A discussion paper setting out the IASBs preliminary that short-term realised and unrealised gains and losses view was published in May 2007 and we responded both are shown as an adjustment to operating profit.
We focus directly and through the CFO Forum of leading European instead on operating profit incorporating a longer term insurers, in which we play an active role.
This is the first investment return LTIR.
Our rates of return that we stage in the development of the IASBs standard and use for equity and property in our LTIR methodology it is unlikely to be finalised before the end of 2010 at the are aligned with the rates that we use under EEV earliest.
These developments are still at a relatively early principles.
For fixed interest securities, we include stage so it is too soon to assess the impact this change the amortisation of premiums or discounts arising on in accounting will have.
While this standard is under purchase, thereby producing an LTIR that is equivalent development, we will continue to focus on EEV as the best to the gross redemption yield.
measure of value for our long-term business.
We continue to monitor other major IASB projects including financial statement presentation, liabilities, revenue recognition and fair value measurement.
