Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: North America Total sales 5,014m 2006: 2,273m PVNBP 3,602m Net written premiums 1,412m 5,014m EEV operating profit 408m 2006: 183m Long-term savings 255m Fund management 3m General insurance 154m Other operations 4 m 408m IFRS operating profit 256m 2006: 164m Employees and locations 4,717 2006: 4,659 Canada United States Major operating brands Aviva USA ranks first and second in the indexed life and indexed annuity markets, respectively Aviva Canada is ranked second in the Canadian general insurance market North America Region: North America Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Our strategic priorities are: Double scale Grow in new and existing markets and geographies Optimise our new regional business model Engage our people and customers 41 How will we achieve this?
Business Meet the retirement needs of the baby boomer generation review Deliver competitive advantage through product innovation Build upon the recent re-rating of our US life business to widen distribution Leverage group expertise to expand asset management capabilities in the region Streamline back-office processes, enhance risk selection and pricing sophistication Build brand awareness across the region, including employee brand Instill customer centricity Progress in 2007: Delivered on target integration benefits Our life operations located in Boston were successfully combined with those of the former AmerUs companies Exceeded our target of 23 million in cost savings within our cost target of 25 million Implementing specific local initiatives to improve service to attract and retain customers Our Canadian business is the only insurer in the world to have achieved accreditation by the Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities, an independent, non-profit accreditor of service providers in many areas of healthcare, community programme and medical rehabilitation Capture opportunities presented by retirement of the baby boomer generation Launched innovative market leading products such as Wellness for Life Achieved ratings upgrade from AM Best which will help us be more competitive Continuing to strengthen our relationship with key brokers and other partners Achieved exceptional satisfaction scores from our brokers in Canada, with 88% responding that they would recommend Aviva to their customers Exploiting and sharing our knowledge and skills in multi-channel distribution, product development and service delivery Joined forces with colleagues in Asia Pacific on product design and industry trends Led discussions on the potential for equity indexed annuity products in other Aviva businesses Looking forward: Our medium-term targets are to: Double the volume of US life new business sales within three years of the acquisition of AmerUs, while maintaining margins Realise the benefits of our strategic investments in our general insurance business to accelerate growth and improve profitability Further expand distribution and continue to deliver innovative products Continue to meet or beat a 98% combined operating ratio Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: North America continued Long-term savings Dear Shareholder, IFRS IFRS EEV New New profit operating operating business business Aviva North America is an exciting place before tax profit profit PVNBP contribution margin m m m m m % to be.
The Americas region is of major 2007 137 103 255 3,602 154 4.3 global importance being home to some of 2006 17 13 32 884 20 2.3 the worlds largest and richest economies Stated before the effect of required capital.
with almost half of world general insurance General insurance premiums and a quarter of life premiums.
IFRS IFRS Combined Net Our focus on this important geographical 42 profit operating operating writtenUnderwriting before tax profit ratio premium result region provides us with significant m m % m m Business 2007 147 154 98 1,412 18 opportunities to drive relentless profitable review 2006 169 148 98 1,389 27 growth in our life business through the huge demand for retirement products from Total sales the baby-boomer generation and deliver improved and sustained profits from our 5,000 5000 general insurance business.
4,000 The US is home to our rapidly growing life business and our general insurance 3,000 business is based in Canada.
These great 2,000 businesses currently serve their home markets and we are exploring possible 1,000 cross-border selling opportunities across General insurance Life and Pensions 0 the North American region.
2004 2005 2006 2007 Strengthening the Aviva brand across the North America region is a strategy Operating profit that will figure prominently in our growth 450 ambitions.
We will continue to deliver 400 high-value propositions for our customers 350 and, as a leader in our sector, will set 300 high standards.
We shall excel in product 250 innovation and be disciplined about 200 expense management.
150 100 Were in the right markets, with the 50 right products, at the right time.
We have IFRS operating profit EEV operating profit 0 achieved terrific growth in the last year 2004 2005 2006 2007 and I am confident that our growth and profitability will continue to enhance shareholder value into the future.
Tom Godlasky Chief executive, North America m m Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Avivas presence in the North America Region is USA underpinned by two highly successful and diverse Aviva USA has had a record year with sales of businesses, the Aviva USA life business and the Aviva 3,602 million pro forma 2006: 2,821 million up Canada general insurance business.
The Aviva USA 39% on a pro forma basis following the acquisition operation ranks first and second in the indexed life and of the former AmerUs Group completed in late 2006. indexed annuity markets respectively, having achieved This excellent performance was achieved through significant growth and market penetration during the the introduction of new products and our expanding year.
Aviva Canada continues to perform strongly through distribution network.
We are on track to double the insurance cycle and has maintained its number two the size of the business within three years following position in the Canadian market and remains the leading 43 the acquisition.
insurer in Canadas largest province, Ontario.
Our annuity sales increased 47% on a pro forma basis The outlook for the region is strong and we operate Business to 2,600 million pro forma 2006: 1,921 million which in some of the largest and richest economies in the world.
This performance has been achieved We will continue the rapid and profitable growth in our against a backdrop of an annuity market which has been life business and deliver sustainable profitable growth unsettled by equity volatility and a low yield environment.
in our general insurance business.
We will achieve our The outlook remains compelling particularly as the ambitions by leveraging the strengths of our existing baby boomer generation reach and enter retirement businesses, exploiting cross-border opportunities and over the coming years.
through developing the Aviva brand across the region.
Other sales grew by 21% on a pro forma basis In the fourth quarter of the year we opened to 1,002 million pro forma 2006: 900 million, our regional head office in Chicago.
This was an including funding agreement sales of 429 million important step, providing a focal point for our businesses pro forma 2006: 330 million which are large corporate across the North American region and a central hub transactions.
The US life market has grown by 8% from which business development opportunities across in the year, fuelled by increasing consumer demand the Americas can be pursued.
North American life new business and general Innovation in product design has been a key part insurance premiums grew to 5,014 million 2006: of our success.
We launched the second generation 2,273 million and regional EEV operating profit for of the Guaranteed Lifetime Withdrawal Benefit rider, North America was up 131% to 408 million 2006: improving a product already recognised as market leading, 183 million accounting for 11% of the Aviva group.
and introduced a new suite of products to our proprietary distribution network.
In addition we are now offering a variety of wellness products and services through an exclusive relationship with Mayo Clinic Health Solutions.
These services are core to our new Wellness for Life programme, an innovative industry leading product expected to differentiate and enhance the Aviva brand in the United States.
We successfully launched a new national marketing campaign to build Aviva brand awareness across the United States through television, print media and trade magazines.
Continuing to raise customer awareness of Aviva in the eyes of both our existing and prospective customers is an important part of our plans for 2008.
Rating upgrades were announced in October and November 2007, with AM Best increasing our rating to A superior, and Standard & Poors and Fitch to AA-.
These upgrades recognise Aviva USA as being USA Product split of total long-term savings sales core to the Aviva group and reflect the strength of our business in indexed markets, strong earnings 1 performance and strong capitalisation.
The upgrades 3 are very important to our customers and agents and will help us continue to grow by being more competitive 2 in existing distribution channels as well as through accessing a broader product and distribution platform.
% 1 Life 16 2 Annuities 72 3 Funding agreements 12 Total 100 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review continued: North America continued Our success in 2007 has been achieved by remaining focused on our customers, agents and employees while going through a major transformation integrating our businesses following the acquisition of AmerUs in November 2006.
The operations located in Boston have now been successfully combined with those of the former AmerUs companies, with all of the goals associated with the integration of those operations met, including exceeding the key financial target of achieving 23 million of annualised savings at a cost of 25 million.
44 Our people are our greatest resource and remain at the heart of what we do.
We successfully managed the Business review integration of our two businesses, minimising job losses while retaining our key people during this challenging period of time.
Being part of Aviva enabled us to benefit from the talent pool across the global organisation through the sharing of information, best practices and people.
In addition, recruitment at our life headquarters in Des Moines was at an all time high, reflecting the significant growth in the business.
Over 245 new positions have been created and we were successful in attracting new talent locally, regionally and from across the US.
This is an exciting time for our people in Aviva USA.
The increase in EEV life operating profit to 255 million 2006: 32 million reflects the benefit of the AmerUs acquisition and improved new business profits following the excellent sales performance.
The acquistion also contributed to the increase in IFRS operating profit Product innovation to 103 million 2006: 13 million.
During the year, our total assets grew by 10% to 20 billion.
Wellness for Life The future for the US business remains exciting.
The attractiveness of our products, coupled with our expanding distribution and excellence in product innovation when set in the context of a long-term growth market, puts us in a great position going forward.
The strong momentum upon which we finished 2007 will continue to fuel our performance in the year ahead.
Canada Aviva Canada provides innovative, market-leading products to clients across Canada.
Supported by over An innovative new product is 3,000 independent brokers, we operate through a our Wellness for Life Programme.
multi-channel, multi-distribution network including This first-of-its-kind life insurance retail customers, groups, affinities, small to medium product has been developed with commercial and programme business.
the world-renowned Mayo Clinic, We achieved growth without compromising rewarding consumers for leading profitability.
Net written premiums were 1,412 million a healthy lifestyle.
2006: 1,389 million, an increase of 4%, reflecting growth in both personal and commercial lines.
Customers have the opportunity Our operating profit improved to 154 million to reduce the cost of their life 2006: 148 million which is a good result in challenging insurance by meeting some market conditions.
A reduction in underwriting profit wellness-oriented criteria, was offset by an increase in investment return, resulting such as having regular physical from higher fixed income yields and higher average examinations by a doctor or by asset balances.
maintaining their body weight within a range established at the time they purchase the policy.
Wellness for Life is consistent with our commitment to improving the lives of our customers and providing them with the best possible products and services.
For more information visit www.
com Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Canada operating profit and COR Looking ahead, we expect that the Canadian general insurance market will continue to experience low growth 160 driven by a softening of commercial lines rates and greater 98 140 stability for rates in personal lines.
Motor insurance rate increases in Ontario will positively impact the outlook for 120 96 premium and profit growth.
100 In 2008 to 2009, we will start realising the benefits 80 of the strategic investments we have made over the 94 60 past few years.
This will allow management to accelerate the growth of the business and improve underwriting 40 92 45 performance.
We are also making a strong investment 20 in communicating the Aviva brand.
The launch of Operating profit Business COR 90 0 our brand campaign in 2008 will significantly raise review 2004 2005 2006 2007 consumer awareness.
In personal lines, our premiums increased by 3% in a market with flat rates in Ontario and auto reform impacting several provinces.
Our warranty business experienced organic growth of over 60%.
In the specialty personal lines market we continued as the number one ThinkFirst and Aviva provider of leisure and lifestyle insurance products.
Commercial lines net written premiums increased by Canada Insurance 6% in a softening market.
In particular, Fastrax, our broker portal for small commercial business, achieved good Safety for Canadian Kids growth of 29%.
Utilising this technology and with further growth, we expect to become the leader in this market.
Management of claims costs is a core expertise.
We proactively manage claims costs through our Premiere Healthcare programme and have partnered with the University Health Network to deliver ground-breaking research on treatment for soft tissue injuries.
Our claims satisfaction is exceptional and stands at an impressive 93%.
We are the only insurer in the world to have achieved accreditation by CARF Commission on Accreditation of Rehabilitation Facilities, an independent, non-profit accreditor of service providers in many areas of healthcare, Aviva Canada launched a signature community programmes and medical rehabilitation.
partnership in 2007 with ThinkFirst, In 2007 we achieved exceptional satisfaction scores a charitable organisation devoted from our brokers with 88% responding that they would to the prevention of injury in recommend Aviva to their customers.
We remain children and young people.
committed to supporting the independent broker We have committed to C$500,000 channel in Canada and we have invested significantly in sponsorship over the next two in helping brokers to protect their business and develop years which will help to strengthen new growth opportunities.
existing local ThinkFirst chapters and We are making substantial investments in the assist in the creation of new ones.
business to secure our future profitability and growth.
Our investments will help us streamline back-office The partnership will provide processes, enhance risk selection and pricing sophistication opportunities for Aviva employees and improve the overall broker and consumer experience.
to volunteer at special events and Through investment and engagement Aviva Canada with local chapters.
It will connect continues to be successful in attracting, building and Aviva and our employees with retaining the best talent in the industry.
Our approach the concept of protection in the to training has won international acclaim with our community at large.
Core Insurance Skills programme recognised by Skillsoft For more information visit a global provider of e-learning content.
