A Av viva plc iva plc Annual Report and Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Accounts 2007 Business review Basis of preparation This business review complies with the recommendations Forward-looking statements of the European Union EU Modernisation Directive, the Companies Act 1985 Operating and Financial Review This business review contains forward-looking and Directors Report Regulations 2005 the Companies statements about: Act and is in line with current best practice.
It is addressed Our future plans to, and written for, the members of Aviva plc with Our current goals the aim of providing a fair review of our business development, performance and position at the current Our expectations of our future financial condition, time.
In producing this review, we aim to present a performance and results view that is balanced and comprehensive and that is 10 By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve consistent with the size and complexity of our business.
risk and uncertainty because they relate to future events The review is written in the context of the risks and Business that are beyond our control.
For example, certain review uncertainties facing our business.
We anticipate that insurance risk disclosures are dependent on our choices the format and content of the review will evolve over about assumptions and models, which by their nature time, along with developments in our business and the are estimates.
As such, actual future gains and losses external environment.
could differ materially from those that we have estimated.
Other factors that could cause actual results to differ Key Performance Indicators materially from those estimated by the forward-looking The Companies Act requires that a fair review of statement include, but are not limited to: the business contains financial and, where applicable, Global economic business conditions non-financial key performance indicators KPIs.
Monetary and interest rate policies We consider that our financial KPIs are those that communicate to the members the financial Foreign currency exchange rates performance and strength of the group as a whole.
Equity and property prices These KPIs comprise: The impact of competition, inflation and deflation Earnings per share IFRS basis Changes to regulations, taxes and legislation Operating profit European Embedded Value basis The timing and impact of acquisitions and business Operating profit International Financial Reporting combinations in relevant industries Standards basis Natural and other disasters Long-term new business sales PVNBP Changes to consumer saving and spending habits Proposed ordinary dividend per share and Our success in managing the above factors dividend cover Return on equity shareholders funds Consequently, our actual future financial condition, performance and results could differ materially from Management also use a variety of Other Performance the plans, goals and expectations set out in our Indicators OPIs in both running and assessing the forward-looking statements.
We undertake no obligation performance of individual business segments and units, to update the forward-looking statements contained rather than the group as a whole.
OPIs include measures in this review or any other forward-looking statements such as new business margins, combined operating we make.
In addition to reporting on our financial performance, Accounting basis of preparation it is important that as a forward thinking company we are aware of our wider responsibilities and report on the In addition to presenting our results and financial non-financial aspects of our performance.
We consider position on an International Financial Reporting Standards that our employees and customers are fundamental to basis, we also use European Embedded Value EEV the success of our business: as such, they form the basis as an alternative performance measure.
Details of for our non-financial measures, and include: the accounting basis of preparation are set out in the financial reporting section of this business review Leadership and employee engagement on page 63.
