20 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors risk.
The Manager has the flexibility to invest in any The directors present their report and the geographic region and has no set limits on individual audited accounts for the Group for the country or sector exposures, although the Board regularly year ended 31 October 2007. monitors the Companys investments and the Managers investment activity.
The Manager primarily employs a bottom Status up value based investment process to identify suitable The Company is incorporated in England and Wales and opportunities and pays particular regard to cash generation domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is an investment company and dividends.
as defined in Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and operates as an investment trust in accordance with Section While the Company will mainly invest in international equities, 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is there is the flexibility to invest in debt securities, such as required to seek Inland Revenue approval of its status as an convertibles, corporate bonds or sovereign debt, if it is investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a particular every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
HM period, enhance the performance of the Company in the Revenue & Customs HMRC approval of the Companys status pursuit of its objectives.
The use of any derivative instruments as an investment trust has been received in respect of the year such as financial futures, options and currency hedges will ended 31 October 2006 although this approval is subject to only be for the purposes of efficient portfolio management.
there being no subsequent enquiries under Corporation Tax The Company will not invest more than 15% of its Self Assessment.
The directors are of the opinion that the investment portfolio in any single investment on Company has continued to conduct its affairs in a manner acquisition, nor will it invest more than 15% of its that will enable it to continue to gain such approval.
The investment portfolio in any other UK listed investment Company has no employees.
PEPs and ISAs The Company will at times borrow money, both short and The Company intends to continue as a fully qualifying long term, in order to enhance performance.
The draw investment trust company under the regulations governing down of borrowings may be in currencies other than Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Accounts.
Sterling, provided that the borrowings do not exceed the assets in that particular currency.
The gearing range is Activities and Business Review between 0% and 20% and gearing will not exceed 20% This section of the Report of the Directors provides a review of Net Asset Value at the time of draw down of the of the Groups business for the year ended 31 October 2007 relevant borrowings.
and describes the principal risks facing the Group.
The The Company achieves an appropriate spread of investment Group comprises the Company and its wholly owned risk principally through a broadly diversified portfolio which subsidiary undertaking, The Army & Navy Investment at 31 October 2007 contained over 200 individual Company Limited.
At 31 October 2007 the largest single A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement investment was BP which accounted for 4.6% of total on pages 3 and 4, in the Managers Review on pages 5 to 16 investments, while the top 25 holdings totalled 33.6% of and also below.
Investment risk may be further reduced through the use of currency hedging, foreign borrowings Company Objectives & Investment Policy and derivatives.
The Companys objectives are to achieve long term asset Information regarding the Companys investment exposures growth in excess of the FTSE All-Share Index and regular can be found on page 18, and performance attribution dividend growth in excess of the increase in the Retail Prices against our composite benchmark is contained on page 17.
To achieve these objectives the Companys investment Further information regarding investment risk and activity policy is to invest its assets in a portfolio primarily composed throughout the year can be found in the Managers Review of international equities.
The portfolio is broadly diversified and accompanying regional pages.
by both geography and sector in order to reduce investment The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 21 Report of the Directors continued Performance for the year and dividend Performance against the Companys peer group Total net assets at 31 October 2007 amounted to In addition to comparison against the Companys 571,020,000 compared with 515,363,000 at 31 October benchmark and various indices, the Board also considers the performance of its AIC peer group at each Board 2006 and the net asset value per ordinary share increased meeting.
Total expense ratio TER Group net profit after taxation for the year was 13,078,000, The TER is a measure of the total expenses incurred by an increase of 9.9% from the previous year.
the Company including those charged to capital, 2007 2006 % Change expressed as a percentage of the average shareholders Net assets as at 31 October 571.0m 515.4m 10.8 funds over the year.
The TER is defined here as the total Revenue earnings for the year 13.1m 11.9m 9.9 annual pre tax operating expenses management fee Dividend payable per share excluding VAT and other administration costs expressed for the year 10.24p 9.48p 8.0 as a percentage of average shareholders funds over the year.
The TER before performance fees and borrowing The Board aims to achieve regular dividend growth in excess costs, amounted to 0.39% 2006: 0.41% of the assets of the increase in the Retail Prices Index.
of the Company, and including performance fees was 0.71% 2006: 0.60%.
The Board regularly monitors all The final dividend, if approved by shareholders at the AGM, Company expenses.
will be paid on 29 February 2008 to shareholders on the register at 25 January 2008.
The Companys shares go Management Arrangements ex-dividend on 23 January 2008.
Investment management, accounting, company secretarial and administrative services are provided to the Group by Performance measurement and key performance indicators wholly owned subsidiary companies of Henderson Global In order to measure the success of the Company in meeting Investors Holdings plc Henderson and by BNP Paribas its objectives and to evaluate the performance of the Fund Services UK Limited.
From 1 November 2005: Manager, the directors take into account the following key performance indicators: i the basic annual management fee was reduced from 0.45% to 0.30% of gross assets per annum: Performance measured against the Benchmark The Board reviews and compares, at each meeting, the ii the Manager is eligible for a fee based on the degree of performance of the portfolio as well as the net asset outperformance, calculated on the basis of the average value and share price for the Company and its net asset value total return over a rolling three year Benchmark.
period compared to a composite index representing in equal proportions the FTSE All-Share Index and the FTSE Discount to Net Asset Value NAV World ex UK Index: At each Board meeting, the Board monitors the level of the Companys discount premium to NAV and reviews iii payment of a performance fee in any year is subject to the average discount premium for the Companys an outperformance hurdle rate of 1.5% per annum: relevant Association of Investment Companies AIC sector.
iv for the first 1% of outperformance in excess of the hurdle rate, a performance fee of 0.15% of average The Board considers the use of share buy-backs to gross assets will be paid, and in respect of each further enhance shareholder value.
During the year 2,285,576 1% of outperformance, a fee of a further 0.2% of shares were purchased.
The Company publishes a NAV average gross assets up to a maximum performance fee per share figure on a daily basis, through the official in any one year of 0.55% of average gross assets, so newswire of the London Stock Exchange.
This figure is that the maximum total fee payable in any one year is calculated in accordance with the AIC formula and 0.85% of average gross assets.
This is subject to a excludes current financial year revenue items.
This means transition arrangement whereby the maximum fees that it is on a different basis to the NAV per ordinary payable in the years to 31 October 2006 was 0.5% and share calculated within the year end financial statements, to 31 October 2007 is 0.675%.
which does include current financial year revenue items.
22 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued v no performance fee will be paid in any year if either the Share Capital Companys net asset value or its share price is lower at At 31 October 2007 the Company had in issue 114,175,564 the end of the financial year than at the end of the ordinary shares of 25p each.
The market price per share at that previous financial year: date was 439.0p, giving the Company a market capitalisation of 501.2 million.
Equity shareholders funds totalled 571.0 vi no performance fee will be paid if in any financial year million, the net asset value per share at that date being 500.1p distributable income plus revenue reserves is lower than per share inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
the gross dividends payable in the previous financial Accordingly, the market price per share stood at a discount of year: and 12.2% to the net asset value inclusive of retained revenue for the year.
The Company seeks shareholder authority annually vii the notice period for termination of the contract is six to buy back its shares in the market for cancellation.
the year the Company bought back 2,285,576 of its ordinary All publications of the Companys NAV take account of any shares at an average discount of 12.2%.
performance fee owing or potentially owing.
Future developments During the year under review the Manager used certain While the future performance of the Company is dependent, services which were provided by or paid for by, various to a large degree, on the performance of international brokers.
In return it placed business, which may have financial markets, which, in turn, are subject to many included transactions relating to the Company, with external factors, the Boards intention is that the Company these brokers.
will continue to pursue its stated investment objective in accordance with the strategy outlined earlier.
Further Internal controls and management of risks comments on the outlook for the Company for the next There are in place extensive internal controls to evaluate twelve months are set out in both the Chairmans Statement and manage the major financial, operational and on pages 3 and 4 and the Managers Review on page 5. compliance risks facing the Company.
Details of the internal controls system and how the Board undertakes the analysis Directors of the Companys business risks are contained in the The names and biographies of the directors holding office at Corporate Governance Report on pages 30 to 34. the date of this report are listed on page 19.
All directors The risk of the portfolio is monitored regularly by the Board served throughout the year.
and mitigated by stock diversification.
By its nature as an The Combined Code requires that every director retires by investment trust, the Companys business activities are rotation at least every three years.
The Companys Articles of exposed to market price risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk, Association provide that one third of directors retire by foreign currency risk and counterparty risk.
The Companys rotation each year.
Directors are also required to retire if they policies for managing these risks are set out in note 16 to have served more than nine years on the Board, but may the accounts.
then offer themselves for re-election.
Mr R D Brewster and Mr F I Sumner are the directors retiring at the forthcoming Gearing AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Board has in place facilities which allow it to borrow as and when appropriate.
At 31 October 2007 the Company Mr R D Brewster and Mr F I Sumner are retiring either by had committed short term facilities of 40m.
The facilities rotation or because they have served on the Board for more are subject to regular review.
Actual gearing at 31 October than nine years.
Mr J Morley will be retiring from the Board 2007 was 1.9%.
at the conclusion of the AGM.
Gearing is the difference between the values of quoted Directors Remuneration investments and equity shareholders funds, divided by A report on directors remuneration is on pages 28 and 29. equity shareholders funds x 100.
The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 23 Report of the Directors continued Directors Interests in Shares participants in the Henderson Investment Trust Share Plan Ordinary shares of 25p and 1.49% on behalf of participants in the Henderson PEPs 31 October 1 November and ISAs schemes.
2007 2006 With beneficial interest: The participants in these plans are given the opportunity R D Brewster 55,305 45,214 to instruct the relevant nominee company to exercise the R R J Burns 25,000 25,000 voting rights appertaining to their shares in respect of all R W Killingbeck 25,000 25,000 general meetings of the Company.
In accordance with the J Morley 28,869 27,035 revised terms and conditions of Itshenderson, issued by F I Sumner 5,500 5,500 Henderson recently, Henderson has stated that it will D G Thomas 12,000 12,000 instruct its nominee company to exercise the voting rights Non beneficial interest: of any shares held through Itshenderson that have not R R J Burns 35,000 20,000 been exercised by the individual participants in Itshenderson.
It will do so by voting for or against all resolutions to be put at all general meetings of the The interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company or by withholding votes on such resolutions Company at the beginning and end of the financial year are pro rata to the aggregate voting instructions for each shown in the table above.
Since the year end, the following resolution received from those participants who have directors have become interested in further shares: chosen to exercise their voting rights.
Mr Brewster 24 shares and Mr Morley 354 shares.
There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of Annual General Meeting AGM the year in which a director of the Company is or was The AGM will be held on Wednesday 27 February 2008 materially interested and which is or was significant in at 12 noon.
The Notice of Meeting is set out on pages 57 relation to the Companys business.
No director has a service and 58. contract with the Company.
Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Pre-emption Directors Indemnity Rights Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place in On 1 March 2007 the directors were granted authority to respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of allot a limited number of authorised but unissued ordinary Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK shares.
This authority will expire at the forthcoming AGM in legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs February 2008.
Authority was also given to the directors to which they may incur relating to the defence of any allot securities of a limited value for cash without first proceedings brought against them arising out of their offering them to existing shareholders in accordance with positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or statutory pre-emption procedures.
This too will expire at the judgement is given in their favour by the Court.
Appropriate resolutions to renew both authorities will be Substantial Share Interests proposed at the 2008 AGM and are set out in full in the Shareholder % of voting rights Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages 57 and 58.
An Legal & General 4.1% ordinary resolution will be proposed to authorise the Barclays Plc 3.9% directors to allot shares up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 1,419,260 being 5% of the issued Declarations of interests in the issued share capital of the share capital as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
A Company, at 10 January 2008, are set out above.
special resolution will also be proposed to give the directors authority to allot securities for cash on a non pre-emptive In addition, the Board is aware that, at 31 October 2007, basis up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 14.56% of the issued share capital was held on behalf of 24 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued 1,419,260 being 5% of the Companys issued share provisions which facilitate communications in electronic form capital as at the date of the Notice of the AGM.
Similar amendments to facilitate communications with shareholders in electronic form and by The directors do not intend to allot shares pursuant to these means of a website have been introduced into the UK authorities other than to take advantage of opportunities in Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the market as they arise and only if they believe it to be advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do The shareholder electronic communications provisions in the so and when it would not result in any dilution of NAV per Companies Act 2006 and the UK Disclosure and share, the NAV being calculated with debt at fair value.
Transparency Rules are intended to make it easier and cheaper for UK companies to communicate with their If renewed, both of these authorities will expire at the shareholders.
In particular, the new Act and the UK conclusion of the AGM in 2009.
Disclosure and Transparency Rules extend the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 by enabling a company, subject to Authority to Make Market Purchases of the Companys certain conditions, to treat its shareholders as having Own Shares deemed to agree to communication by means of a website.
At the AGM held on 1 March 2007, the Company was The waiver is conditional on obtaining shareholder approval authorised and sanctioned to make market purchases of by the passing of Resolution 11 to be proposed at the AGM.
up to 17,428,211 of the Companys own issued ordinary shares.
Since the AGM the Company made market The passing of Resolution 11 will enable the Company to take purchases for cancellation of 2,724,739 ordinary shares of advantage of the deemed agreement procedure for electronic 25p.
The reason for the buy backs was to enhance the net communications by means of a website, which works as asset value per share.
For a Shareholder to be deemed to have agreed to receive communications by means of a website, in addition to Since 31 October 2007 the Company has made purchases the passing of Resolution 11, the Shareholder must also be for cancellation of 634,716 ordinary shares.
asked individually to agree that the Company can communicate with them by way of its website.
In the event The Board is seeking shareholder approval to renew the that a Shareholder does not respond with an objection to the authority to purchase on the London Stock Exchange up to a Companys request to communicate by means of a website maximum of 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in within 28 days from the date of the request, the Shareholder issue at the date of the AGM equivalent to 17,019,773 will be deemed to have agreed to receive notices, documents ordinary shares of 25p each at 10 January 2008, the date of or information from the Company by means of a website.
Shareholder may indicate their wish to continue to receive The directors do not intend to use this authority unless to do printed documents at any time and any agreement to receive so would result in an increase in the net asset value per documents or information electronically or by means of a ordinary share and would be in the best interests of website can be revoked at any time.
Every Shareholder who shareholders generally.
The authority being sought provides has agreed to receive communications by website will be an additional source of potential demand for the Companys notified when a document is available on a website.
The Company may utilise the authority to purchase Shareholder has provided the Company with an email address shares by either a single purchase or a series of purchases for the purpose of receiving communications in electronic when market conditions allow, with the aim of maximising form that notification will be sent by email.
If a Shareholders the benefit to shareholders.
email address is not held by the Company, a printed notice will be sent advising that a document is available on the Electronic communications with Shareholders Companys website.
Resolution 11 In the event that Resolution 11 is passed, Shareholders will Certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 have already be contacted in writing to request their consent for the use come into effect.
New provisions have been introduced with of electronic communications by means of a website for effect from 20 January 2007 dealing with, inter alia, conveying information.
company communications to shareholders and other The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 25 Report of the Directors continued The effect of sending hard copy financial reports and Summary of Amendments to the Articles of Association other information to only those who wish to receive Amendments to take effect from the date of the information in that way will avoid unnecessary waste and, Annual General Meeting, conditional on the passing of accordingly, reduce the detrimental impact on the Resolution 12 environment of such waste.
The Company would reduce its consumption of paper, ink and related chemicals and its 1 Articles which duplicate statutory provisions consumption of energy both for the production of the Provisions in the current Articles which replicate provisions reports and their transportation and distribution.
At the contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main same time the Company will be achieving cost savings for amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act the benefit of Shareholders, many of whom are telling us 2006.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions they do not want to receive hard copies of the documents as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights, that we distribute.
the requirement to keep accounting records and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general Changes to the Companys Articles of Association meetings.
The main changes made to reflect this approach Resolution 12 Alterations to the Articles are detailed below.
To reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 brought into force on 1 January 2007, 20 January 2007, 2 Form of resolution 6 April 2007 and 1 October 2007, it is proposed that The current Articles contain a provision that, where for any certain alterations be made to the Articles of Association.
purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or Further information in relation to these proposed alterations extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an is set out in paragraphs 1 to 9 of the Summary of extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is Amendments below.
This provision is being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained Resolution 13 Further alterations to the Articles under the Companies Act 2006.
Certain of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, in particular those relating to Directors conflicts of interests, 3 Redeemable shares will be brought into force on 1 October 2008.
It is proposed At present if a company wishes to issue redeemable shares, that, in order to reflect these enactments, amendments be it must include in its articles the terms and manner of made to the Articles.
These amendments, if approved, redemption.
The Companies Act 2006 enables directors to would come into force from 1 October 2008 or such later determine such matters instead, provided they are so date as section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 is brought authorised by the articles.
The amended Articles contain into force.
Further information in relation to these proposed such an authorisation.
The Company has no plans to issue alterations is set out below in paragraph 10 of the Summary redeemable shares but if it did so the directors would need of Amendments.
shareholders authority to issue new shares in the usual way.
The remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 are 4 Convening extraordinary and annual general expected to come into force during 2009.
In addition, meetings various regulations that relate to certain of these provisions The provisions in the current Articles dealing with the have yet to be finalised.
Consequently, it will be necessary convening of general meetings and the length of notice for the Company to undertake a further review of its Articles required to convene general meetings are being amended to of Association in due course in order to reflect these other conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
As these changes to the Articles of Association particular an extraordinary general meeting to consider a will be reasonably substantial in number, it is anticipated special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice that the Company will adopt a further new set of Articles of whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Association at its Annual General Meeting in 2009.
26 The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors continued 5 Votes of members website communication, the relevant member must be asked Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote individually by the Company to agree that the Company may on a show of hands whereas under the current Articles send or supply documents or information to him by means proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
Further, the time of a website, and the Company must either have received a limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy positive response or have received no response within the appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the so that the articles cannot provide that they should be request was sent.
The Company will notify the member received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the either in writing, or by other permitted means when a case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, relevant document or information is placed on the website more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll.
and a member can always request a hard copy version of the Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy document or information.
is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
Multiple corporate 9 Directors indemnities and loans to fund representatives may be appointed but if they purport to expenditure exercise their rights in different ways, then the power is The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the treated as not being exercised.
The New Articles reflect all scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors of these new provisions.
and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of 6 Age of directors on appointment The current Articles contain a provision limiting the age at funding a directors defence in court proceedings now which a director can continue to be a director or be expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to appointed.
Such provision could now fall foul of the associated companies.
Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed from the amended Articles.
Amendments to take effect from 1 October 2008, conditional on the passing of Resolution 13 7 Notice of Board meetings 10 Directors interests Under the current Articles, when a director is abroad he can The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties.
request that notice of directors meetings are sent to him at The provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some a specified address and if he does not do so he is not changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October entitled to receive notice while he is away.
This provision has 2008 a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can been amended, as modern communications mean that there have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may be no particular obstacle to giving notice to a director may conflict with the Companys interests.
The requirement who is abroad.
It has been replaced with a more general is very broad and could apply, in some cases, if a director provision that a director is treated as having waived his becomes a director of another company or a trustee of entitlement to notice, unless he supplies the Company with another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows the information necessary to ensure that he receives notice directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and of a meeting before it takes place.
potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows 8 Electronic and web communications the articles to contain other provisions for dealing with Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate amended Articles which it is proposed will come into effect with members by electronic and or website communications.
on 1 October 2008 give the directors authority to approve The amended Articles continue to allow communications to such situations and to include other provisions to allow members in electronic form and, in addition, they also conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the permit the Company to take advantage of the new current position.
provisions relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 27 Report of the Directors continued There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide information and to establish that the Companys auditors whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, are aware of that information.
only independent directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the Corporate Governance relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the A formal statement on Corporate Governance is set out on directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will pages 30 to 34. be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when Environmental Policy giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The Company has no employees and outsources its investment management and company secretarial services to From 1 October 2008, it is also proposed that the amended subsidiaries of Henderson Group plc Henderson.
Articles should contain provisions relating to confidential Henderson has implemented environmental management information, attendance at board meetings and availability practices, which include systems to limit the use of nonof board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty renewable resources and minimise the impact of operations if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
on the environment, and is focused on reducing greenhouse These provisions will only apply where the position giving gas emissions and to minimise waste, where possible.
rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
Payment of Suppliers It is the payment policy for the financial year to 31 October The governing law of the New Articles is expressed to be 2008 to obtain the best possible terms for all business and, English law.
therefore, there is no single policy as to the terms used.
In general the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on Auditors which business will take place and it is the Companys policy  LLP have indicated their willingness to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at to continue in office.
Accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint 31 October 2007 2006: nil.
 LLP as auditors to the Company, and to authorise the directors to determine their Going Concern remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM.
The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts as Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities which Auditors are readily realisable and, accordingly, the Group has The directors who were members of the Board at the time of adequate financial resources to continue in operational approving this Report are listed on page 19.
Each of those existence for the foreseeable future.
directors confirms that: By order of the Board to the best of his knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of W J King FCIS which the Companys auditors are unaware: and For and on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited Secretary he has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit 10 January 2008
