The Bankers Investment Trust PLC Report & Accounts 2007 19 Directors Richard Brewster Richard Burns Richard Killingbeck James Morley Francis Sumner David Thomas Richard Brewster FCA Chairman Age 62 was appointed as a James Morley FCA Age 58 was appointed as a director in 1994. director in 1991 and became Chairman in 2005.
Having qualified as a After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen, he has chartered accountant he has spent over 30 years in industry.
From 1983 spent most of his career in the travel and financial services industries, he was Chief Executive Officer of D. S. Smith plc until 1991 when he firstly with Avis Europe and then with Guardian Royal Exchange, the became Chief Executive Officer of Jarvis Porter plc until 1998.
Since international composite insurance company, in both cases as Group then he has extended his interests in private equity investment and was Finance Director.
Following the acquisition of GRE by AXA in 2000, Mr until November 2006 Chief Executive Officer of Interbrandpro Holding Morley left to become Group Finance Director of Arjo Wiggins Appleton.
GmbH, an international promotional print and speciality board business.
In June 2002 he was appointed Group Finance Director of Cox Insurance He is also Chairman of Merrill Lynch British Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Mr Morley left Cox in June 2006 following its acquisition by the Fieldstreet Group.
From May 2006 until October 2007 Mr Morley was Richard Burns Age 61 was appointed a director in 2006.
He is a Chief Operating Officer of Primary Group, a privately owned insurance former joint senior partner of Baillie Gifford & Co and former fund group.
Mr Morley is also a non-executive director of W S Atkins plc, manager of Monks Investment Trust plc.
He is also a director of Adaptive where he is Chairman of the Audit Committee and Senior Independent Venture Managers Ltd, EP Global Opportunities Trust plc, Euronova Director.
He is also a non-executive director of The Innovation Group and European Smaller Companies Fund, JPMorgan Indian Investment Trust Costain Group plc.
plc, Mid Wynd Investment Trust plc and Standard Life Equity Income Trust plc.
From 1999 to 2006 he was a director of the AIC formerly Francis Sumner Senior Independent Director Age 65 was called the AITC.
He spent most of his working life as a City solicitor specialising in corporate finance.
He was for many years a Richard Killingbeck Age 45 was appointed as a director in 2003. partner in Norton Rose, Bankers having been one of his plc clients.
He is He has been involved in the financial services industry for 20 years, currently the Deputy Chairman of the Crown Agents, Vice Chairman of primarily as a fund manager.
He has held a number of senior positions in The City and Guilds of London Institute and Vice Chairman of The the industry both in London and New York including being the Chief Assessment and Qualifications Alliance.
Executive Officer of Singer & Friedlander Investment Management.
He joined the asset management subsidiary of Close Brothers Group plc in David Thomas FIA Age 63 was appointed as a director in 2000.
He 2005 and was appointed deputy Chief Executive of Close Investments was Director and General Manager of Investments of The Equitable Life in 2006.
For two years from August 1996 he was Chairman of the Investment Committee of the Association of Member of the Management Engagement Committee British Insurers and at that time was also a member of the Hampel Member of the Audit Committee Committee on Corporate Governance.
In addition he sat on the Member of the Nominations Committee Institutional Investors Advisory Group of The Stock Exchange for several years and was a member of the Lord Chancellors Honorary Investment Advisory Committee which assisted the Public Trustee.
Currently, he is a trustee of the pension fund for the staff of Westminster Abbey and is Chairman of the Abbeys Investment Committee, as well as being an investment adviser to the Staffordshire County Council Pension Fund.
Management Alex Crooke Tim Stevenson Antony Gifford Mike Kerley Michael Wood-Martin Wendy King The portfolio is managed by Alex Crooke who is engaged full time in investment trust management.
He is assisted by Tim Stevenson Europe, Antony Gifford North America, Michael Kerley Pacific ex-Japan and Michael Wood-Martin Japan.
Wendy King acts as the Company Secretary and is the representative of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, the corporate secretary to the Company.
