Risk management Supervision and regulation Outside the UK, the Group has operations and main regulators located in Supervision and regulation continental Europe, in particular France, Germany, Spain, Switzerland, The Groups operations, including its overseas offices, subsidiaries and Portugal and Italy local central banks and other regulatory authorities : associates, are subject to rules and regulations, including reserve and Asia Pacific various regulatory authorities including the Hong Kong reporting requirements and conduct of business requirements, imposed Monetary Authority, the Financial Services Agency of Japan, the Australian by the relevant central banks and regulatory authorities.
Securities and Investments Commission, the Monetary Authority of In the UK, the FSA is the independent body responsible for the regulation Singapore, the China Banking Regulatory Commission and the Reserve of deposit taking, life insurance, home mortgages, general insurance Bank of India : Africa and the Middle East various regulatory authorities and investment business.
The FSA was established by the Government including the South African Reserve Bank and the Financial Services Board and it exercises statutory powers under the Financial Services and and the regulatory authorities of the United Arab Emirates and the United Markets Act 2000.
States of America the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System FRB, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC and the Barclays Bank PLC is authorised by the FSA to carry on a range of regulated Securities and Exchange Commission.
activities within the UK and is subject to consolidated supervision.
In its role as supervisor, the FSA seeks to ensure the safety and soundness of In Europe, the UK regulatory agenda is considerably shaped and financial institutions with the aim of strengthening, but not guaranteeing, influenced by the directives emanating from the EU.
A number of EU the protection of customers.
The FSAs continuing supervision of financial directives have recently been implemented, for example the Capital institutions authorised by it is conducted through a variety of regulatory Requirements Directive and the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive tools, including the collection of information from statistical and prudential MiFID.
These form part of the European Single Market programme, an returns, reports obtained from skilled persons, visits to firms and regular important feature of which is the framework for the regulation of meetings with management to discuss issues such as performance, risk authorised firms.
This framework, which continues to evolve, is designed management and strategy.
to enable a credit institution or investment firm authorised in one EU member state to conduct banking or investment business through the The FSA adopts a risk-based approach to supervision.
The starting point establishment of branches or by the provision of services on a crossfor supervision of all financial institutions is a systematic analysis of the risk border basis in other member states without the need for local profile for each authorised firm.
The FSA has adopted a homogeneous authorisation.
Barclays operations in Europe are authorised and regulated risk, processes and resourcing model in its approach to its supervisory by a combination of both home the FSA and host regulators.
responsibilities known as the ARROW model and the results of the risk assessment are used by the FSA to develop a risk mitigation programme Barclays operations in South Africa, including Absa Group Limited, are for a firm.
The FSA also promulgates requirements that banks and other supervised and regulated by the South African Reserve Bank SARB and financial institutions are required to meet on matters such as capital the Financial Services Board FSB.
SARB oversees the banking industry adequacy, limits on large exposures to individual entities and groups of and follows a risk-based approach to supervision whilst the FSB oversees closely connected entities, liquidity and rules of business conduct.
Certain the non-banking financial services industry and focuses on enhancing of these requirements derive from EU directives as described below.
consumer protection and regulating market conduct.
Banks, insurance companies and other financial institutions in the UK are In the United States, Barclays PLC, Barclays Bank PLC, and certain US subject to a single financial services compensation scheme the Financial subsidiaries and branches of the Bank are subject to a comprehensive Services Compensation Scheme where an authorised firm is unable or is regulatory structure, involving numerous statutes, rules and regulations, likely to be unable to meet claims made against it because of its financial including the International Banking Act of 1978, the Bank Holding circumstances.
Different levels of compensation are available to eligible Company Act of 1956, as amended, the Foreign Bank Supervision claimants depending upon whether the protected claim is in relation to a Enhancement Act of 1991 and the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001.
Such laws deposit, a contract of insurance or protected investment business and and regulations impose limitations on the types of businesses, and the certain types of claims are subject to maximum levels of compensation.
ways in which they may be conducted, in the United States and on the Most deposits made with branches of Barclays Bank PLC within the location and expansion of banking business there.
The Banks branch European Economic Area EEA which are denominated in Sterling or other operations are subject to extensive federal and state supervision and EEA currencies including the euro are covered by the Scheme.
Most regulation by the FRB, the New York State Banking Department and the claims made in respect of designated investment business will also be OCC in the case of Barclays Global Investors, NA : and the Delaware State protected claims if the business was carried on from the UK or from a Banking Commissioner and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in branch of the bank or investment firm in another EEA member state.
The the case of Barclays Bank Delaware.
The investment banking and asset arrangements for compensating depositors and for dealing with failed management operations are subject to ongoing supervision and banks are currently subject to consultation by the UK Tripartite Authorities regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC as well as a HM Treasury, the FSA and the Bank of England.
The Government has comprehensive scheme of regulation under the US federal securities laws, committed to presenting proposals for legislation to Parliament on these as enforced by, for example, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority matters in the course of 2008.
126 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 Governance Governance Board and Executive committee 128 Directors report 130 Corporate governance report 133 Remuneration report 144 Accountability and audit 159 2 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2007 127
