Board of directors Executive directors Andrew Beazley Andrew Horton Nicholas Furlonge aged 54 is the chief executive of aged 45 is the group finance aged 57 is responsible for the the company.
Andrew is a co-founder director and joined the board in June risk management of the Beazley of Beazley Furlonge and the active 2003.
Andrew was previously UK group.
Nicholas is a co-founder of underwriter for the managed chief financial officer at ING and, Beazley Furlonge, and has 35 years syndicates 2623 and 623.
He has prior to January 2001, was deputy experience at Lloyds and has 32 years experience at Lloyds.
global chief financial officer and recently been appointed as a nonglobal head of finance for the equity executive director of the Lloyds markets division of ING Barings, Franchise Board.
He is also Chairman having held various financial positions of the Lloyds Community Programme with ING Barings since January Management Board and a director 1997.
He qualied as a chartered of the Lloyds Market Association accountant with Coopers and LMA.
He is also responsible for Lybrand in 1987. brand and communications and the ceded reinsurance department.
Jonathan Gray Neil Maidment Johnny Rowell Clive Washbourn aged 54 is head of the groups aged 45 is head of the groups aged 46 is head of the groups aged 47 is head of the groups property division.
Neil has 23 specialty lines division and chairman marine division.
Clive has 24 years 33 years of experience at Lloyds, years of Lloyds experience.
He joined of the group underwriting committee.
experience in the marine insurance joining Beazley in 1992.
He is an Beazley in 1990 and remains an Johnny has 22 years experience, industry and actively underwrites active underwriter in his area of active underwriter on the account.
joining the market as a broker.
He marine hull, marine liability and expertise, open market commercial joined Beazley in 1992 and continues marine war risks.
He is a member property risks.
as an active underwriter with a of the LMA Marine Committee, the principal focus on professional liability.
LMA Underwriting and the Claims Committee, and is the chairman of the Joint War Committee.
com Non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew Dudley Fishburn Andy Pomfret Marty Becker aged 66 is the chairman of the aged 61 is chairman of HFC Bank aged 47 was appointed chief aged 55 is currently chairman and company.
Jonathan was formerly a Limited and a non-executive director executive of Rathbone Brothers Plc CEO of Max Capital Group Ltd managing director of Morgan Stanley of HSBC Bank plc.
He is a nonin 2004 having held the position of Nasdaq MXGL and LaSalle Re Ltd. and subsequently chief executive executive director of Altria Inc. in finance director since 1999.
Prior He was formerly chairman and CEO of Kleinwort Benson now Dresdner the US.
to that, he held positions at Peat, of Orion Capital Corporation, Kleinwort.
He has been chairman of Marwick, Mitchell & Co now KPMG president and CEO of McDonough Limit plc, Gerrard Group plc and the and Kleinwort Benson now Dresdner Caperton Insurance Group, and Nationwide Building Society.
interim chairman and CEO of currently chairman of Ashmore Global Trenwick Group Ltd.
He is currently a Opportunities Limited, the Cayenne director of Selective Insurance Group, Trust plc and LMS Capital plc and Inc. Nasdaq SIGI.
a senior independent director of Rightmove plc.
He was a member of the Council of Lloyds from 1995 to 1998.
Gordon Hamilton Dan Jones aged 62 recently retired as a senior aged 56 retired in 2003 as viceaudit partner in Deloitte & Touche chairman for Marsh, Inc. responsible LLP after more than 30 years, for non-North American operations, principally involved with listed multistrategic planning, and mergers national company audits and major acquisitions, based in London.
He is currently 2006 he re-entered the broking a director of the listed South African business as chief executive for the group, Barloworld Limited, and is a broking operations of Fred A. member of the Financial Reporting Moreton & Co. a Salt Lake CityReview Panel FRRP.
based regional financial services concern focusing on the western United States.
