BlueBay Asset Management plc 28 Annual Report 2007 Directors Report The Directors submit their report together with the audited Annual General Meeting Financial Statements for the year ended 30 June 2007.
The Companys AGM will be held at 11.00 am on Wednesday Directors responsibilities are set out on page 51.
14 November 2007 at Sofitel St James, 6 Waterloo Place, London SW1Y 4AN.
Principal activities and business review BlueBay Asset Management plc is the parent company of an Capital structure independent asset management group which provides investment On 1 November 2006, written resolutions of the Company were management services to institutions and high net worth individuals.
passed such that in advance of the Companys re-registration as a The Company was admitted to the Official List of the UK Listing public limited company in connection with the application for Listing Authority and to trading on the main market of the London Stock and to trading on the London Stock Exchange, a bonus issue Exchange on 22 November 2006.
This is BlueBay's first Annual of shares was authorised to be made to the A, B and D class Report as a public limited company.
shareholders at a ratio of 9 new equivalent shares of 1 pence each for each A, B or D share held.
Further, the nominal value of the A review of BlueBay's business during the financial year 2007, likely C shares was increased from 1 pence each to 10 pence each.
future developments and the information which fulfils the Business Review requirements is contained in the following sections of the On 1 November 2006 written resolutions were passed that the authorised Annual Report, which are incorporated into the Directors report A, B, C and D shares would at a future date prior to Listing be by reference: split into ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each and subsequently consolidated into one class of ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each.
Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7 Chief Executives Review on pages 8 and 9 On 6 November 2006, amendments were made to the D share Business Review on pages 11 to 24 Subscription Arrangements.
As a result, the D shares have been Principal risks and uncertainties on pages 46 to 48 reclassified as equity in accordance with IAS 32.
Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 49 and 50 Disclosure of information to auditors on page 51 On 17 November 2006, conditional dealings in the ordinary shares as unlisted securities of the Company commenced on the London Results and dividends Stock Exchange.
The profit attributable to equity holders for the year ended 30 June 2007 amounted to 35.2 million 2006: 21.6 million.
On 22 November 2006, immediately prior to Listing, the written resolution passed on 1 November 2006 was invoked and each A, The Directors recommend a final dividend in respect of the period B, C and D share was split into ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each post Listing of 6.0 pence per ordinary share.
Subject to shareholder and consolidated into one class of ordinary share of 0.1 pence each.
approval at the AGM, the proposed dividend will be paid on 23 November 2007 to shareholders on the register on 26 October On 22 November 2006, Listing became effective and unconditional 2007: the ex dividend date being 24 October 2007. dealings in the shares of the Company commenced.
The Company has one class of shares: ordinary voting shares with a nominal value During the financial year, the Company paid 14.4 million in of 0.1 pence each.
The authorised share capital at the time of Listing dividends to shareholders on the register prior to Listing.
The issued share capital was 190,310,000 ordinary shares of 0.1 pence each.
No new ordinary shares were issued prior to or at Listing.
The issued share capital as at 30 June 2007 was 190,372,500 ordinary shares.
BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 29 The Companys shares are held subject to the terms of the certain of the Company's employee benefit schemes and within this Companys Articles of Association.
There are no restrictions on the holding three employees of the Company, Gina Germano, Alberto holding, transfer and voting of shares which are not contained in the Francioni and Simon Treacher, each have disclosable interests in 3.15% Articles of Association, a copy of which is available to shareholders of the ordinary share capital.
Interests of the Directors are set out in the on request from the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Report on page 42, and include those shares held by Strand Nominees on behalf of certain executive directors.
The Company does not anticipate an increase in its authorised share capital except to the extent as required in order to satisfy the Details of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company exercising of options under the Unapproved Share Option Plan.
and details of Directors share options are set out in the Remuneration Report.
For further details refer to pages 40 to 45 of the Own shares Remuneration Report.
There have been no changes in the Directors During the year, the number of own shares purchased by employee share interests between 30 June 2007 and the date of this report.
trusts and share incentive plans was 1,085,275, at a cost of 1.2 million 2006: nil.
The Group also disposed of 38,512 shares Directors realising proceeds of 155,000.
Own shares are held by employee During the year the composition of the Board was re-organised.
Two trusts and share incentive plans for the purposes of satisfying certain new executive directors, Nick Williams and Alex Khein were equity-based awards where shares have not vested unconditionally appointed to the Board on 1 November 2006.
On Listing two new to employees of the Group.
non-executive directors, Tom Cross Brown and Terence Eccles were also appointed.
Prior to Listing, the Board received and accepted The Company also holds own shares through its arrangements with resignations from two non-executive directors: Roger Jenkins and a number of employees who have subscribed for shares which have Mark Militello.
Hugh Willis and Mark Poole remain executive directors not vested unconditionally.
Under the terms of each subscription, and have entered into new service agreements and Hans-Jrg Rudloff the shares are held in a nominee account on behalf of each also remains as Chairman under a new letter of appointment.
As a employee until such shares are no longer subject to forefeiture.
consequence of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance and The number of own shares held under such arrangements was the Articles of Association, Hans-Jrg Rudloff, Terence Eccles, Tom 69,587,000 2006: 49,610,000.
Appleby Trust Jersey Limited has Cross Brown, Hugh Willis, Mark Poole, Nick Williams and Alex Khein waived its entitlement to receive dividends from the Company in will retire at the next Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, respect of shares held to meet future award requirements under the offer themselves for re-appointment.
The Nomination Committee and Companys employee benefit arrangements.
the Board recommends to the shareholders the re-appointment of all seven directors retiring at the meeting and offering themselves for reSubstantial shareholdings appointment, on the basis that they are all effective Directors of the As at 10 September 2007 the following voting interests in the ordinary Company and demonstrate the appropriate level of commitment in share capital of the Company, disclosable under the Disclosure and their respective roles.
Transparency Rules of the FSA which replaced Part VI of the Companies Act 1985 with effect from 20 January 2007 had been notified to the The names and biographical details of the Directors of the Company Company being that of Pershing Keen Nominees Limited 36.57%, are given on pages 26 and 27.
As at 30 June 2007, the Board Strand Nominees Limited 21.00%, Shinsei Bank, Limited 5.25%, comprised four executive directors and three non-executive directors Lehman Brothers International 4.99%, Janus Capital Management LLC including the Chairman.
There have been no changes to the Board 3.74% and Artemis Investment Management Ltd UK 3.61%.
Pershing Keen Nominees Limited hold 36.57% as nominee in relation to BlueBay Asset Management plc 30 Annual Report 2007 Directors Report continued Directors interests and indemnity arrangements Employees, political and charitable donations At no time during the year did any Director hold a material interest The Groups policies in relation to employees and details of the in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its Groups charitable donations in the year are included in the subsidiary undertakings other than service contracts between each Corporate Responsibility Report set out on pages 49 and 50. executive director and the Company and letters of engagement No political donations or contributions were made or expenditure between each non-executive director and the Company.
incurred by the Group during the year 2006: nil.
The Company maintains appropriate directors and officers liability Credit payment policy insurance and has entered into a deed poll of indemnity in favour It is the Groups policy to honour all of its contractual commitments of the executive and non-executive directors.
The Directors also have and this includes paying suppliers according to agreed payment the benefit of the indemnity provision in the Companys Articles terms.
Average creditor days at 30 June 2007 were eight days of Association.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party 2006: 13 days.
indemnity provisions as defined by s. 309A of the Companies Act 1985, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
By Order of the Board Details of Directors remuneration, service contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report.
James Brace Company Secretary Company Secretary James Brace, the Companys General Counsel, was appointed as 24 September 2007 Company Secretary on 13 July 2007.
The position was previously held by Nick Williams, executive director and Chief Financial Officer.
"Auditors  LLP ""PwC"" have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution will be proposed at the AGM to reappoint them as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration for the current year."
BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 31
