BlueBay Asset Management plc 26 Annual Report 2007 Board of Directors Hans-Jrg Rudloff Mark Poole 1 2 3 Non-Executive Chairman Chief Investment Officer Hans-Jrg Rudloff, aged 66, was appointed Chairman of the Mark Poole, aged 46, is one of the co-founders of the Company and Company on 3 July 2001.
Hans-Jrg is also Chairman of the Executive has been a director and Chief Investment Officer of the Company Committee of Barclays Capital.
He is also Vice Chairman of Novartis, since inception.
He spent several years at Credit Suisse First Boston is a Board member of Thyssen-Bornemiza Group and Rosneft OJSC, and JPMorgan, latterly as Co-Head of its European Credit Arbitrage sits on the Advisory Board of Landeskreditbank Baden-Wrttemberg, Group.
He has subsequently held senior positions within the Global and is a member of the Beirat of Energie Baden-Wttemberg.
Credit Arbitrage Group of Kleinwort Benson and the Fixed Income Management Groups of both BSI and DSTB.
Terence Eccles 1 2 3 Non-Executive, Senior Independent Director Nick Williams Terence Eccles, aged 61, was appointed non-executive senior Chief Financial Officer independent director of the Company upon the Companys listing Nick Williams aged 51, was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Company in October 2001 and an executive director of the on the London Stock Exchange.
He is currently non-executive director of The Paragon Group of Companies PLC.
He was formerly Company on 1 November 2006.
Prior to this he spent 15 years at Vice Chairman of JPMorgan Cazenove, having previously been Vice Goldman Sachs, latterly as Chief Financial Officer of Goldman Sachs Chairman of Investment Banking at JPMorgan Chase, following the Asset Management Europe.
He previously served as Chief Financial merger between Chase Manhattan and JPMorgan.
He started his career Officer and was a member of the Management Committee of at JPMorgan in 1970 and has worked in JPMorgans London, New York Goldman Sachs & Co Bank, Zurich.
He qualified as a chartered and Hong Kong offices.
During his career, he has advised on numerous accountant with Ernst & Young.
transactions, specialising in the European financial services industry.
Alex Khein Tom Cross Brown Chief Operating Officer 1 2 3 Non-Executive, Independent Director Alex Khein, aged 38, is Chief Operating Officer of the Company Tom Cross Brown, aged 59, was appointed non-executive director with responsibility for Operations, IT, Risk and Performance, Treasury of the Company upon the Companys listing on the London Stock and Structured Products and was appointed an executive director of Exchange.
Until 2003, he was Chief Executive Officer of ABN AMRO the Company on 1 November 2006.
He joined the Company in June Asset Management and prior to joining ABN AMRO Asset Management 2004 as Head of Structured Products before taking up the role of in 1997, he was Chief Executive Officer of Lazard Brothers Asset Chief Operating Officer in October 2005.
Previously he spent seven Management.
He is currently non-executive Chairman of Pearl years at Morgan Stanley where he was an executive director within Assurance plc, National Provident Life Limited, NPI Limited, London the Securitized Products Group.
Life Limited and Just Retirement Holdings Plc.
He is also a nonexecutive director of Pearl Group Limited and of Artemis Alpha 1 Trust plc, and a director of P. A. T. Pensions Limited.
Member of the Nomination Committee 2 Member of the Audit Committee 3 Hugh Willis Member of the Remuneration Committee Chief Executive Officer Committee Chairman Hugh Willis, aged 47, is one of the co-founders of the Company and has been a director and Chief Executive Officer of the Company since inception.
He spent eight years at JPMorgan, latterly as Co-Head of its European Credit Arbitrage Group.
He has subsequently held senior positions within the Global Credit Arbitrage Group of Kleinwort Benson and the Fixed Income Management Groups of both Banca della Svizzera Italiana BSI and Daiwa Securities Trust and Banking DSTB, London.
BlueBay Asset Management plc Annual Report 2007 27 Hans-Jrg Rudloff Terence Eccles Tom Cross Brown 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 Non-Executive Chairman Non-Executive, Senior Independent Director Non-Executive, Independent Director Hugh Willis Mark Poole Nick Williams Chief Executive Officer Chief Investment Officer Chief Financial Officer Alex Khein Chief Operating Officer
