Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 22 22 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 Directors report Our Board 1 Rod Kent MA, MBA Director of a number of companies including businesses including Sears.
He is a member Chairman JIB Group plc, MAI plc and Charterhouse of the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Rod age 60 joined the Board in September Japhet.
He is Chairman of Kiln plc and a NonCommittee and the Nominations Committee.
2002 and became Chairman in November 2002. executive Director of ICAP plc and Hornby plc.
He was Managing Director of Close Brothers for He is Chairman of the Balance Sheet 6 Robert Dickie MBA, FCIBS, FRSA 28 years until 2002, a Non-executive Director of Management Committee, a member of the Group Operations Director Close Brothers Group plc for four years and was Audit Committee and the Nominations Robert age 48 joined Bradford & Bingley on 2 appointed Chairman in November 2006.
He is Committee and the recognised Senior January 2003 and was appointed to the also Chairman of Grosvenor Limited and BT Independent Director.
He joined from Zurich Pension Scheme Trustees Ltd and a governor of Financial Services Group UK Ltd where he the Wellcome Foundation.
He is Chairman of the 4 Stephen Webster FCA was Managing Director, UK Enterprise.
Prior to Nominations Committee and a member of the Non-executive Director this, Robert held a variety of senior positions Remuneration Committee, and Balance Sheet Stephen age 55 joined the Board in May at National Australia Bank which he joined Management Committee.
He is Group Finance Director of Wolseley from Clydesdale Bank.
He is responsible for plc, the building materials distribution the information technology, property and 2 Steven Crawshaw MBA, LLB company.
He is a chartered accountant and procurement, lending operations, retail Group Chief Executive was formerly a Partner at Price Waterhouse.
operations, customer relations, collections Steven age 46 joined Bradford & Bingley from He is a member of the Hundred Group and change delivery functions.
Lloyds TSB in 1999 as Flotation Director before Financial Reporting Committee.
He is he was appointed to the Board in January Chairman of the Audit Committee and a 7 Louise Patten MA 2002, taking responsibility for Group Strategy, member of the Nominations Committee.
He became Managing Director, Louise age 54 joined the Board in December Lending in January 2003.
He was appointed 5 Ian Cheshire MA, FRSA 2003.
She is currently Non-executive Group Chief Executive in March 2004.
He is a Non-executive Director Chairman of Brixton plc and a Non-executive member of the Nominations Committee.
Ian age 48 joined the Board in August 2003.
Director of Marks and Spencer Group plc as He was appointed Chief Executive of well as senior adviser to Bain & Co. She 3 Nicholas Cosh MA, FCA Kingfisher in January 2008, where he was began her career at Citibank and remained in Non-executive Director previously Chief Executive of B&Q, prior to financial services until 1993, when she joined Nicholas age 61 joined the Board of Bradford which he was Chief Executive, International the management consultancy, Bain & Co, as & Bingley Building Society in July 1999 and the and Development.
Her previous experience as a Nonplc Board in April 2000.
He is a chartered he worked for Boston Consulting Group, executive Director includes the Hilton Group, accountant and was formerly Group Finance Guinness plc and a number of retail Great Universal Stores and Somerfield.
She is 1 2 3 4 5 Directors report B19557 R&A 2007 FRONT 25 2 08 16:53 Page 23 Bradford & Bingley Annual report & accounts 2007 23 Our Board bring a wide range of banking and commercial experience to the Group Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 10 Mark Stevens MA, MBA and a member of the Nominations Committee.
Group Sales Director Group committees Mark age 38 joined Bradford & Bingley as 8 Chris Willford BA, ACMA Managing Director, Group Strategy in 2003 after The Board Directors serve on a number Group Finance Director spending three years as a Principal at Apax of committees and information about Chris age 45 was appointed to the Board as Partners and six years as a partner at Mercer the Audit, Balance Sheet Management, Group Finance Director in October 2005.
In May 2004 Mark Remuneration and Nominations a chartered management accountant and became a member of the Executive Committee.
Committees is included pages 25 to 26. previously held senior finance roles at Abbey, He joined the Board on 1 May 2007 as Group In addition, Bradford & Bingley has other Barclays Bank and British Airways.
He is Sales Director with responsibility for management committees that focus on responsible for the finance, compliance, risk, intermediary sales, the branch and branch type day-to-day matters, including the audit, legal and company secretarial functions.
agency network, direct channels, partnerships Executive Committee.
This Committee and Bradford & Bingley International.
generally meets on a weekly basis and 9 Roger Hattam BA, MBA is the key collective decision making Managing Director Group Product 11 Michael Buckley MA, LPh, MSI, FCIB RoI body with regard to the operational and Marketing Non-executive Director issues within the Group.
The members Roger age 39 was appointed to the Michael age 62 joined the Board in July 2007. of this Committee are the Executive Board on 1 May 2007 as Group Product He is Non-executive Director and Senior Directors: Steven Crawshaw, Robert and Marketing Director, with additional Independent Director at DCC plc and Dickie, Roger Hattam, Mark Stevens and responsibility for credit management, strategy a Non-executive Director of both M&T Bank Chris Willford together with Ian Anderson and commercial lending.
Roger has worked Corporation in the USA and Bramdean Group HR Director.
Information about extensively within the Company for 17 years, Alternatives Limited.
Michael is senior adviser the committees focused on the including roles in credit management, Group to a number of privately held Irish and compliance and risk areas of our strategy, and the retail salesforce, during international companies and is an Adjunct business is included on page 19. which time he launched the relationship with Professor at the Department of Economics at Legal & General.
He completed his MBA in NUI University College Cork.
He is a member of the Balance Sheet Chief Executive of Allied Irish Banks plc from Management Committee.
2001 to 2005 having earlier served as Managing Director of AIB Capital Markets and AIB Poland.
Previously, he was Managing Director of the NCB Group and a senior public servant in Ireland and the EU.
He is a member of the Audit and the Nominations Committees.
