Report of the Directors The Directors submit the Annual Report and subsequent to the date of the meeting or adjourned Accounts of the Company for the year ended meeting, no later than 24 hours before the time 30 September 2007. appointed for the taking of the poll.
In the calculation of these time periods, no account is Results and Dividends taken of any part of a day that is not a working day.
The results for the year are set out in the attached accounts.
Business Review First, second and third interim dividends, each of The Board of Directors is responsible for the overall 1.356p per Ordinary Share, were paid on 10 April, stewardship of the Company, including investment 6 July and 5 October 2007 respectively.
The Board and dividend policies, corporate strategy, corporate recommends a final dividend for the year of 1.638p governance, and risk management.
Biographical per Ordinary Share payable on 11 January 2008 to details of the Directors, all of whom are nonshareholders on the register at close of business on executive, can be found on page 18.
Objective and Investment Policy Principal Activity and Status The Companys investment objective is to achieve a The Company is registered as a public limited total return in excess of a composite index, weighted company in terms of the Companies Act 1985 and as to 75 per cent FTSE All-Share Index and 25 per is an investment company as defined by cent FTSE World ex UK Index, by investing Section 266 of that Act.
Its shares are quoted on principally in a diversified international portfolio of the London Stock Exchange.
equities and equity related securities.
Within this overall objective, the Company aims to maintain a The Company has been approved by HM Revenue progressive dividend policy which will be dependent & Customs as an investment trust under upon, interalia, the rate of revenue growth within the Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes portfolio and the level of dividend cover.
Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2006.
As a result, it is not liable to corporation tax on The Company invests globally and has not set capital gains.
In the opinion of the Directors, the maximum exposures for any geographical regions.
Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so However, it would normally be expected that the as to enable it to continue to obtain approval as an majority of its total assets will be invested in UK investment trust.
The Company also invests in the markets of North America, Europe ex UK, Pacific ex The Company is required to comply with company Japan, and Japan although it may invest in the law, the rules of the UK Listing Authority, UK markets of other countries or regions.
It also invests Financial Reporting Standards, and its Articles of in a portfolio of corporate bonds.
It would normally be expected that the majority of The Company is a member of the Association of the Companys investments will be in equities and Investment Companies the AIC.
fixed interest securities including corporate bonds.
Capital Structure However, the Company is not prohibited from The Companys capital structure is set out on investing in other types of securities.
It would, page 17. however, not normally invest in unlisted securities.
If a shareholder wishes to appoint a proxy to vote at No more than 10 per cent of the Companys total a meeting on his or her behalf, a valid appointment assets may be invested in other listed closed-ended is made if the form of proxy is received by the investment companies unless such investment Company no later than 48 hours before the start of companies themselves have published investment the meeting or, in the case of an adjourned meeting, policies to invest no more than 15 per cent of their no later than 48 hours before the holding of that total assets in other closed-ended investment adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken companies, in which case the limit is 15 per cent.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Report of the Directors continued Investment risk is spread through holding a wide Chairmans Statement on pages 3 to 5 and in the range of securities in different countries and Managers Review on pages 7 to 13, both of which industrial sectors.
There is no maximum exposure form part of this Business Review.
for any industrial sectors but no investment in the Principal Risks and Risk Management portfolio may exceed 10 per cent of the Companys The Companys assets consist mainly of listed total assets.
The Company may use derivatives securities and its principal risks are therefore marketwhich will be principally, but not exclusively, for the related.
The Company is also exposed to currency purpose of efficient portfolio management i. e. for risk in respect of overseas markets in which it the purpose of reducing, transferring or eliminating invests.
More detailed explanations of these risks investment risk in its investments, including and the way which they are managed are contained protection against currency risks.
The Company in notes 18 to 21 to the accounts.
uses gearing to enhance income and capital returns over the long term and may borrow in sterling or Other risks faced by the Company include the other currencies.
The Companys Articles of following: Association contain a borrowing limit equal to the External events such as terrorism, protectionism, value of its adjusted total of capital and reserves.
inflation or deflation, economic recessions and However, equity gearing represented by equity movements in interest rates and exchange rates investments as a percentage of shareholders funds could affect share prices in particular markets.
would not normally be expected to exceed 20 per Investment and strategic incorrect strategy, cent of shareholders funds.
asset allocation, stock selection and the use of An explanation of how the Company has invested its gearing could all lead to poor returns for assets with a view to spreading investment risk in shareholders.
accordance with its investment policy is contained Regulatory breach of regulatory rules could lead under the heading Management of Assets and to suspension of the Companys Stock Exchange Shareholder Value below.
An analysis of the portfolio listing, financial penalties, or a qualified audit is contained on pages 8 and 16 and the 50 largest report.
Breach of Section 842 of the Income and investments are shown on pages 14 and 15.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could lead to the Strategy Company being subject to tax on capital gains.
As part of its strategy, the Board has contractually Operational failure of the Managers accounting delegated the management of the investment systems or disruption to the Managers business, portfolio, and other services, to F&C Investment or that of third party service providers, could lead Business Limited FCIB.
to an inability to provide accurate reporting and The investment strategy employed by the Managers monitoring, leading to a loss of shareholders in meeting the investment objective focuses on confidence.
regional asset allocation, with reference to the Financial inadequate controls by the Managers Companys investment objective, coupled with active or third party service providers could lead to stock selection in the regional sub-portfolios.
As part misappropriation of assets.
Inappropriate of this process the Managers are cognisant of the accounting policies or failure to comply with Companys requirement for an above average level accounting standards could lead to misreporting of investment income, which is generated principally or breaches of regulations.
Breaching bond from UK equities and corporate bonds.
covenants could lead to a loss of shareholders The Companys performance in meeting its confidence and financial loss for shareholders.
objectives is measured against key performance indicators as set out below.
A review of the The Board seeks to mitigate and manage these risks Companys returns during the financial year, the through continual review, policy setting and position of the Company at the year end, and the enforcement of contractual obligations.
It also outlook for the coming year is contained in the regularly monitors the investment environment and 20 British Assets Trust plc the management of the Companys investment the discount and enhance the net asset value per portfolio, and applies the principles detailed in the share for continuing shareholders.
Communication of internal control guidance issued by the Financial up-to-date portfolio information is made through the Reporting Council.
Details of the Companys internal Companys website.
controls are described in more detail on page 25.
Key Performance Indicators Management of Assets and Shareholder Value The Board uses a number of performance measures As stated above, the Board has contractually to assess the Companys success in meeting its delegated the management of the investment objectives.
The key performance indicators are as portfolio to FCIB.
follows: The Company invests worldwide in companies Net asset value total return against the which the Managers believe will generate a benchmark index and comparable investment combination of long-term growth in capital and trusts.
The selection of Discount of share price to net asset value.
investments is based on analysis of, amongst other things, market positioning and competitive Earnings and dividend per share, and dividend advantage, financial strength and cashflow yield relative to the market.
Total expenses as a ratio of shareholders funds.
Investment risks are spread through holding a wide A historical record of these indicators is contained in range of securities in different countries and the Financial Highlights for the Year on page 2 and industrial sectors.
As at 30 September 2007, the in the Ten Year Record on page 17.
Additional portfolio was made up of 393 investments comments are provided in the Chairmans in 29 different countries.
The Managers make use of Statement on pages 3 to 5. third party risk systems to monitor investment risk and the Board receives quarterly risk reports.
At Charitable Donations each Board meeting, the Board receives a During the year the Company made donations to presentation from the lead fund manager and at various local charities totalling 10,000 2006 least once a year receives presentations from the 10,000. regional and bond sub-portfolio managers who outline strategy, recent portfolio activity and market Directors outlooks.
The Directors who held office at the end of the year The Companys borrowings consist of two and their interests in the shares of the Company at 60 million Bonds, which are described in more the beginning and end of the year were: detail in notes 11 and 12 to the accounts.
The Board receives recommendations on gearing levels 2007 2006 Ordinary Ordinary from the Managers and it is responsible for setting Shares Shares the gearing range within which the Managers may operate.
W R E Thomson Beneficial 9,600 9,600 The Board and Managers recognise the importance J M Long Beneficial 8,160 4,871 of both marketing and share buy-backs in J S MacLeod Beneficial 35,000 35,000 enhancing shareholder value.
In terms of marketing, the Managers offer a range of private investor Non-Beneficial 9,500 9,500 savings schemes, details of which can be found on Dr C Masters Beneficial 19,825 19,373 page 47.
In addition, meetings are held regularly L C Ruddick Beneficial 33,501 33,343 with current and prospective shareholders and stockbroking analysts covering the investment trust J G West Beneficial 12,000 12,000 sector.
Share buy-backs help reduce the volatility of Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Report of the Directors continued Since 30 September 2007 the number of shares Substantial Interests in Share Capital held by Mr J M Long has increased to 9,010 and As at 16 November 2007 the following holdings Ms L C Ruddick has acquired a non-beneficial representing 3 per cent or more of the Companys interest in 410 shares.
There have been no other issued share capital had been reported: changes in the interests of the Directors in the Number of Ordinary Shares of the Company between Ordinary Shares Percentage Held Held 30 September 2007 and 16 November 2007 other AXA Investment Managers 49,902,898 16.6 than as a result of the quarterly reinvestment of dividends.
Friends Provident Group 24,800,379 8.3 Legal & General Group 12,257,596 4.1 In addition to the above interests, Mr J S MacLeod had a beneficial interest in 50,000 units of the Includes discretionary retail products.
No other Director Management and Management Fees had an interest in the Companys Bonds as at FCIB provides management and secretarial services 30 September 2007 or 1 October 2006. to the Company.
A summary of the management agreement between the Company and FCIB in Ms L C Ruddick retires by rotation and, being eligible, offers herself for re-election.
As explained in respect of those services is provided in note 3 to the accounts.
more detail under Corporate Governance on page 23, the Board has agreed that Directors who Since the end of the year, the Management have served on the Board for more than nine years Engagement and Remuneration Committee has will retire annually.
Accordingly, Mr J S MacLeod, reviewed the appropriateness of the Managers Dr C Masters, Mr W R E Thomson and Mr J G West appointment.
In carrying out its review the will retire at the Annual General Meeting and, being Committee considered the past investment eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
performance of the Company and the capability and The Board confirms that, following formal resources of the Managers to deliver satisfactory performance evaluations, the performance of each income growth and investment performance.
It also of the Directors seeking re-election continues to be considered the length of the notice period of the effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
investment management agreement and the fees The Board believes, therefore, that it is in the payable to the Managers, together with the standard interests of shareholders that these Directors be of other services provided which include company re-elected.
No Director has a contract of service with the Following this review the Directors are satisfied with Company or any material interest in any contract to the Managers ability to deliver satisfactory income which the Company is a party.
growth and investment performance, and the quality of other services provided.
It is therefore their Directors Deeds of Indemnity opinion that the continuing appointment of the The Company has entered into deeds of indemnity Managers on the terms agreed is in the interests of in favour of each of the Directors.
each Director the benefit of an indemnity to the extent permitted by the Companies Act 1985 Corporate Governance against liabilities incurred by each of them in the Arrangements in respect of corporate governance, execution of their duties and the exercise of their appropriate to an investment trust, have been made powers.
A copy of each deed of indemnity is by the Board.
The Board has considered the available for inspection at the Companys registered principles and recommendations of the AICs Code office during normal business hours and will be of Corporate Governance issued in May 2007 the available for inspection at the Annual General AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Meeting.
Governance Guide for Investment Companies the 22 British Assets Trust plc AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Code and the Combined Code will seek AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in re-election annually.
The Board subscribes to the Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate view expressed in the AIC Code that long-serving Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Directors should not be prevented from forming part Council in June 2006 the Combined Code, as of an independent majority.
It does not consider that well as setting out additional principles and a Directors tenure necessarily reduces his or her recommendations on issues which are of specific ability to act independently and, following formal relevance to investment trusts.
performance evaluations, believes that each Director is independent in character and judgement and that The Board considers that reporting against the there are no relationships or circumstances which principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, are likely to affect the judgement of any Director.
and by reference to the AIC Guide which The Boards policy on tenure is that continuity and incorporates the Combined Code, will provide better experience are considered to add significantly to the information to shareholders than if it had adopted strength of the Board and, as such, no limit on the the Combined Code.
overall length of services of any of the Companys Except as disclosed below, the Company has Directors, including the Chairman, has been complied throughout the year with the imposed.
recommendations of the AIC Code, and the relevant The Company has no executive Directors or provisions of the Combined Code.
A management agreement between the Directors are non-executive, and in accordance with Company and its Managers, FCIB, sets out the the AIC Code and the preamble to the Combined matters over which the Managers have authority and Code, the provisions of the Combined Code on the the limits beyond which Board approval must be role of the chief executive and, except in so far as sought.
All other matters, including strategy, they apply to non-executive Directors, on Directors investment and dividend policies, gearing, and remuneration are not relevant to the Company and corporate governance procedures, are reserved for are not reported on further.
the approval of the Board of Directors.
The Board In view of the requirement in the Articles of currently meets seven times a year and receives Association that all Directors retire by rotation, the full information on the Companys investment Board considers that it is not appropriate for the performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant Directors to be appointed for a specified term as information in advance of Board meetings.
The recommended by principle 3 of the AIC Code and Managers, in the absence of explicit instructions provision A.
However, from the Board, are empowered to exercise the Board has agreed that each Director will retire discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
and, if appropriate, seek re-election after each three All shareholdings are voted at all meetings years service, and annually after serving on the worldwide where practicable in accordance with the Board for more than nine years.
Managers own corporate governance policy, which The Board consists solely of non-executive is to seek to maximise shareholder value by Directors.
Mr W R E Thomson is Chairman and constructive use of votes at company meetings and Mr J G West is the Senior Independent Director.
All by endeavouring to use their influence as investors Directors are considered by the Board to be with a principled approach to corporate governance.
independent of the Companys Managers.
New Throughout the year a number of committees have Directors receive an induction from the Managers on been in operation, namely the Audit Committee, the joining the Board, and all Directors receive other Management Engagement and Remuneration relevant training as necessary.
Committee, and the Nomination Committee.
Mr W R E Thomson, Mr J S MacLeod, Dr C Masters and Mr J G West have served on the Board for The Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J S more than nine years and, as recommended by the MacLeod, operates within clearly defined written Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 Report of the Directors continued terms of reference, which are available upon comprises the full Board and reviews the request, and comprises all of the Directors except appropriateness of the Managers continuing Mr W R E Thomson.
The duties of the Audit appointment together with the terms and conditions Committee in discharging its responsibilities include thereof, on a regular basis.
reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, the The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr W R E system of internal controls, and the terms of Thomson, comprises the full Board and is convened appointment of the auditors together with their for the purpose of considering the appointment of remuneration.
It is also the forum through which additional Directors as and when considered the auditors report to the Board of Directors.
In considering appointments to the meets at least twice yearly.
The objectivity of the Board, the Nomination Committee takes into auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which account the ongoing requirements of the Company also reviews the terms under which they are and the need to have a balance of skills and appointed to perform non-audit services.
The experience within the Board.
Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence During the year the performance of the Board, committees and individual Directors was evaluated and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to through a formal assessment process, led by the Chairman.
This involved the completion of 12,000 for the year ended 30 September 2007 2006: 11,000 and related principally to the questionnaires tailored to suit the nature of the Company, and follow-up discussions between the provision of a review of the interim accounts and taxation services.
Notwithstanding such services Chairman and each of the Directors.
The performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the the Audit Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP other Directors under the leadership of the Senior to be independent of the Company and that the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat Independent Director.
to the objectivity and independence of the conduct The following table sets out the number of Board of the audit.
and Committee meetings held during the year ended 30 September 2007 and the number of meetings The Management Engagement and Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr W R E Thomson, attended by each Director.
Management Engagement and Remuneration Board of Directors Audit Committee Committee Nomination Committee Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended W R E Thomson Chairman 7 7 n a n a 1 1 1 1 J M Long 7 6 2 2 1 1 1 1 J S MacLeod 7 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 C Masters 7 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 L C Ruddick 7 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 J G West 7 7 2 2 1 1 1 1 Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Going Concern Company, seek independent professional advice on After making enquiries, and bearing in mind the nature any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of of the Companys business and assets, the Directors their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate consider that the Company has adequate resources Directors and Officers liability insurance.
to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable 24 British Assets Trust plc future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the systems and procedures employed by the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Managers, which are reported on by a firm of external auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a Internal Control sound system of internal control, to safeguard the The Board is responsible for the Companys system Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
function specific to the Company is therefore The Board has therefore established an ongoing considered unnecessary.
process designed to meet the particular needs of Relations with Shareholders the Company in managing the risks to which it is The Company places great importance on exposed, consistent with the internal control communication with shareholders and welcomes guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council their views.
The Managers hold meetings with the in October 2005.
The process relies principally on Companys largest shareholders and report back to the Managers existing risk-based approach to the Board on these meetings.
The Chairman and internal control whereby a test matrix is created that other Directors are available to, and do, meet identifies the key functions carried out by the shareholders.
The Annual General Meeting of the Managers and other service providers, the individual Company provides a forum, both formal and activities undertaken within those functions, the risks informal, for shareholders to meet and discuss associated with each activity and the controls issues with the Directors and Managers of the employed to minimise those risks.
The notice for the forthcoming Annual rating is then applied.
The test matrix is regularly General Meeting, to be held on 18 December 2007, updated and the Board is provided with regular is set out on pages 48 and 49.
The Annual Report reports highlighting all material changes to the risk and Notice of Annual General Meeting are, where ratings and confirming the action which has been, or practicable, sent to shareholders at least 20 working is being, taken.
A formal annual review of these days before the Meeting.
procedures is carried out by the Audit Committee and includes consideration of internal control reports Financial Instruments issued by the Managers and other service providers.
The Companys financial instruments comprise its Such review procedures have been in place investment portfolio, bonds, foreign exchange currency contracts, cash balances, overdrafts and throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, and the Board is debtors and creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales and purchases awaiting satisfied with their effectiveness.
These procedures are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk settlement and accrued income.
The financial risk and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable, management objective and policies arising from its financial instruments and the exposure of the but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
At each Board meeting the Company to risk are disclosed in notes 1, 18, 19, 20 and 21 of the accounts.
Board monitors the investment performance of the Company in comparison to its stated objective, the Directors Authority to Allot Shares benchmark index, and against comparable The Directors are seeking authority to allot shares.
The Board also reviews the Resolution 10 will, if passed, authorise the Directors Companys activities since the last Board meeting to to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal ensure that the Managers adhere to the agreed amount of 7,500,307, being 10 per cent of the total investment policy and approved investment issued shares as at 16 November 2007. guidelines and, if necessary, approves changes to Resolution 11 will, if passed, authorise the Directors the guidelines.
to allot new shares up to an aggregate nominal The Board has reviewed the need for an internal amount of 3,750,153, being 5 per cent of the total audit function.
The Board has decided that the issued shares as at 16 November 2007, for cash Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Report of the Directors continued without first offering such shares to existing Disclosure of Information to Auditors shareholders pro rata to their existing holdings.
These The Directors confirm that, so far as each of them is authorities will continue until the conclusion of the aware, there is no relevant audit information of Annual General Meeting in 2008.
The Directors will which the Companys auditors are unaware and the only allot new shares pursuant to these authorities if Directors have taken all the steps that they ought to they believe it is advantageous to the Companys have taken as Directors in order to make themselves shareholders to do so and will not result in a dilution of aware of any relevant audit information and to net asset value per share.
The Directors consider that establish that the Companys auditors are aware of the authorisations proposed in resolutions 10 and 11 that information.
are necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not Auditors intend to exercise the powers conferred by these Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness authorisations at the present time.
to continue in office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment will be submitted at Directors Authority to Buy Back Shares During the year the Company purchased for the Annual General Meeting.
cancellation 7,500,000 Ordinary Shares with an Individual Savings Accounts and Personal aggregate nominal value of 1,875,000 for a total Equity Plans consideration of 11,210,000, representing 2.4 per The Companys shares are qualifying investments as cent of the Ordinary Shares in issue at the previous defined by HM Revenue & Customs regulations for year end.
Individual Savings Accounts and Personal Equity The current authority of the Company to make Plans.
It is the current intention of the Directors that market purchases of up to 14.99 per cent of the the Company will continue to conduct its affairs to issued Ordinary Shares expires at the end of the satisfy this requirement.
Annual General Meeting and Resolution 12, as set Creditor Payment Policy out in the notice of the Annual General Meeting, The Companys payment policy is to settle seeks renewal of that authority.
The renewed investment transactions in accordance with market authority to make market purchases will be in practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices respect of a maximum of 14.99 per cent of the in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did issued Ordinary Shares of the Company on the date not have any trade creditors at the year end.
of the passing of the resolution approximately 45 million Ordinary Shares.
The price paid for Environment shares will not be less than the nominal value of 25p The Companys Managers are leaders in the field of per share nor more than 5 per cent above the socially responsible investment and, with the support average of the middle market values of those shares of the Board, actively engage with investee for the five business days before the shares are companies.
Environmental factors are, therefore, purchased.
This power will only be exercised if, in where appropriate, taken into consideration with the opinion of the Directors, a purchase will result in regard to investment decisions on behalf of the an increase in net asset value per share and is in Company.
the interests of the shareholders.
Any shares purchased under this authority will be cancelled.
By order of the Board This authority will expire on the later of 18 June G R Hay Smith 2009 and the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Secretary Since the year end the Company has purchased for 80 George Street cancellation 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares and there Edinburgh EH2 3BU were 300,012,282 Ordinary Shares in issue as at 16 November 2007.
16 November 2007 26 British Assets Trust plc
