BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 13 11 07 11:25 Page 9 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Investment Managers Review During the year, British Empires NAV rose 17.5% and the share price rose 6.2% on a total return basis.
This compares with a return of 15.9% on the Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index and 11.6% on the MSCI World Index on a total return basis.
The global equity markets made a strong gain during the financial year despite two sharp corrections in February March and July August.
Markets have been unsettled by fears of a slowing US economy driven by a weak housing market.
A fall in US ACE Aviation is the holding company mortgage backed securities led to a general credit crunch in late summer.
Because of for Air Canada.
It also these concerns and a lack of deep discount opportunities, your Company has held a holds stakes in Jazz Air, a regional low-cost net cash position throughout the year.
British Empires NAV finished its financial year airline, Aeroplan, an ahead of its benchmark with the aid of a relatively high weighting in materials and airmiles scheme and energy stocks and the Far East ex-Japan.
ACTS, an aircraft maintenance company.
The company is The value on offer in investment holding companies was relatively good and we exploring ways of simplifying its structure increased our weighting during the year.
Investment trust discounts, on the other hand, and returning value remained fairly tight and we reduced our investment in the sector.
The other area that to shareholders.
increased was commodity and resource stocks where companies are reaping the benefits of continued strong demand for natural resources.
Our weighting in property-related stocks was relatively unchanged and we maintained a bias towards Asian property exposure.
Land Securities invests in and develops retail property and offices throughout the UK.
It also owns Trillium, the UKs leading property outsourcing company, operating in the public and corporate sectors.
It trades at a 25% discount to the value of its March 2007 NAV and it is possible Trillium could be spun off creating an uplift in the share price.
9 BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 12 11 07 13:12 Page 10 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued Novagold explores and develops gold and copper mining opportunities in Alaska and Western Canada and will soon commence production.
Photo courtesy of Novagold Resources Inc. Paris Orlans Manufaktura shopping centre and hotel-office complex in Lodz, Poland, is part owned by Paris Orlans, and The weighted average discount on the portfolio at 17.8% is now wider than last year.
has transformed the city centre.
Paris Orlans is Increased volatility and two sharp equity market corrections have led to bigger the holding company for discounts in some areas and have increased the opportunity to find mis-priced the banking assets of the Rothschild Family.
We have re-invested some of our liquidity back into the market and we ended the year with 15.5% cash as a percentage of total assets.
Portfolio Review On an individual stock basis, the largest contributors to our 17.5% NAV total return performance during the year were Murchison Metals 3.3%, Hang Lung Group 1.6%, Petro-Canada 0.9%, Jardine Matheson 0.9% and Paris Orlans 0.8%.
10 BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 12 11 07 13:16 Page 11 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Strong economic growth, especially in the developing world, contributed to gains in commodity-related and Asian stocks.
The largest detractors from performance were Tokyu Corp - 0.35%, Holmen - 0.33%, JP Morgan Japanese Investment Trust - 0.25%, JP Morgan Fleming Japanese Smaller Companies - 0.24%, Fording Canadian Coal - 0.23%.
The Japanese stock market was a conspicuous underperformer, despite our conviction that good value can be found in Japanese stocks.
Investment Holding Companies 36.4% The weighted average discount to NAV on our investment holding companies was 24%.
There is still the opportunity to buy quality portfolios on meaningful discounts.
We believe that discounts are still attractive in the investment holding company area and there is scope for them to narrow through simplification of company structures and improving transparency.
22.0% of our exposure was to Europe, 13.3% to Asia and 1.1% to North America.
Groupe Bruxelles Lambert Pargesa Holding Compagnie Nationale Portefeuille These three listed companies form part of the Frere group in Belgium.
The ownership structure is fairly complicated, but in basic terms, Frere uses these three groups to hold his interests in six listed European companies: Total, Suez, Imerys, Lafarge, Pernod Ricard and Iberdrola.
The three companies trade on discounts to NAV ranging from 20% to 30%.
Albert Frere has an enviable long term track record as an investor and we are able to invest alongside him at substantial discounts to NAV.
Our exposure to the group through the three companies represents 5.4% of our gross assets.
Lundbergforetagen Lundbergforetagen is a Swedish holding company controlled by Frederik Lundberg.
The majority of its portfolio is invested in Swedish listed companies Hufvudstaden, Investor AB Swedish holding Holmen, Industrivarden, NCC and Cardo.
In addition it holds a portfolio of company Investor AB residential properties, representing approximately one quarter of its total value.
It owns shares in trades on a discount of 16% to its Net Asset Value.
Scania, the Swedish manufacturer of large trucks and other heavy BIP Investment Partners vehicles including fire engines, as shown.
BIP is a Luxembourg listed investment company with a portfolio of investments Scania was subject to a focused on the Benelux Region.
At present, roughly 58% of its portfolio is invested in bid from Man AG at the listed equities including Fortis, SES and Arcelor Mittal, with the remainder in private beginning of the year, but Investor AB, as the equity and cash.
It is currently trading on a discount of 19% to our estimate of its NAV.
second largest shareholder with 20% of the voting rights, was ACE Aviation influential in preventing ACE Aviation is the holding company for Air Canada.
ACE is comprised of holdings the takeover, which it in 5 companies Air Canada, Aeroplan, Jazz Air, Air Canada Vacations and ACTS felt undervalued Scania.
ACE trades on a discount of 21% to its NAV.
It is the Photo courtesy of Scania 11 BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 12 11 07 13:16 Page 12 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued stated intention of the holding company to distribute all its assets to shareholders as cash or shares within the next year.
Investment Trusts and Funds 15.4% Discounts on our investment trust holdings average 10%.
Discounts have remained fairly low but portfolios run by good managers can still be bought at attractive prices.
Electra Private Equity Electra is a private equity investor and has had a good year with a series of disposals and re-financings contributing to continued growth in NAV.
Key transactions include the sales of interests in Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad Corporation, and Capital Safety Group, as well as the refinancing of Allflex Holdings II Inc. Net Asset Value increased by 17.2% in the first 6 months of the financial year and we estimate that the transactions announced could add a further 10% to the NAV by the end of 2007.
Herald Investment Trust Herald invests in technology, communications and multi-media companies.
Most of Holmen the portfolio is invested in UK based companies, where there have been several bids manufactures newsprint over the year at significant premiums.
The portfolio looks good value.
At the half year and magazine paper, paperboard as well as point at the end of June, the company stated that earnings growth on the portfolio was sawn timber.
It owns expected to be 42.5% in 2007 and the 2007 p e of profitable companies in the portfolio approximately 1 million was 16.9x.
The trust is currently trading on a discount to NAV of 12.5%.
hectares of forest in Sweden.
Property-related 12.6% The weighted average discount to NAV was 24%.
We have had a bias towards Asian property in recent years but we are now starting to see some value again in the UK and Europe following sharp declines in share prices.
Deutsche Wohnen Following the merger with Gehag, Deutsche Wohnen owns around 50,000 residential units split roughly 50 50 between Berlin and Frankfurt Rhine-Main.
Oaktree Capital will own 24% of the company following the transaction and will be an active investor with board representation.
There is ample scope for rental increases and cost cutting in the portfolio and Gehag management have a successful track record in Berlin.
The 2 portfolio is valued at 931 euros per m, which is well below cost of construction.
The company trades on a discount of 25% to its NAV.
Land Securities Along with the other major UK property investment companies, Land Securities share price has fallen sharply during the year.
This reflects concern that we have reached the end of the bull run in the UK property market and the next moves in valuations are likely to be downwards.
At current levels however, the shares are trading at roughly a 12 BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 12 11 07 13:16 Page 13 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Cameco is the worlds largest uranium producer accounting for 20% of world production from its mines in Canada and the US.
It also provides processing services to produce fuel for nuclear power plants.
There may be scope to realise value from Trillium, its outsourcing business.
Katakura This Japanese company operated silk worm farms and silk spinning factories in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.
The factory sites are no longer required for the textile business and the real estate is being turned to alternative uses.
Some sites have been re-developed into shopping centres.
Much of the income comes from a single shopping centre in Saitama, and there is scope to increase cash flows from other land holdings.
We estimate that the shares are trading at a 50% discount to the value of its land assets.
Commodity Resources 14.8% Demand for natural resources continues to be buoyant, especially from the emerging markets.
Prices for commodities have been correspondingly high during the year.
We believe that it is still possible to find companies trading on discounts to their net present value given conservative commodity price assumptions.
Novagold Resources Novagold is a gold and copper company with one of the largest resource bases of any junior mining company.
The company is due to start commercial production by the end of the year at Rock Creek, Alaska, which should help the perception of the 13 BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 12 11 07 13:16 Page 14 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Investment Managers Review continued company in the market.
Novagold trades on a discount to its net present value and has high quality partners for its various projects in Rio Tinto, Teck Cominco and Barrick Gold.
Its projects are located in British Columbia and Alaska.
Addax Petroleum Addax Petroleum is an oil company with rapidly expanding production in offshore West Africa as well as an exploration interest in Kurdistan.
The CEO, Jean Claude Hang Lung Group Hang Lung Group, through a subsidiary, invests in and develops properties in mainland China and Hong Kong.
Their portfolio includes residential properties, offices, shopping centres, car parks and hotels.
14 BEST p1-21 07 P5:BEST p1-23 P2 12 11 07 13:16 Page 15 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Gandur, is a major shareholder in the company and is building a valuable asset in times of a scarcity of sources of new production for oil majors.
Liquidity 15.5% Liquidity stood at 15.5% of gross assets at the end of the year.
The bulk of our liquidity is held in short-dated UK Gilt Bonds.
Other 5.3% Geographical Profile Gross Assets of 847m were distributed on a look-through basis as follows: Continental Europe 26.4%, UK 6.6%, Asia Pacific 15.2%, Japan 10.5%, North America 11.4%, Other 14.4% and Liquidity of 15.5%.
Outlook The US economy will likely slow in the face of falling residential real estate market Sofina Around 13% of the net and a seizing up of the market for mortgage backed securities.
The questions for asset value of Belgian investors are the extent of the US slowdown and the ability of the rest of the world holding company Sofina is made up of to fide-couple from a slowing US economy.
Official interest rates have begun to come Richemont, the Swiss down in the US and may do so elsewhere.
The outlook is challenging because a US luxury goods company.
slowdown could be contagious and cause a general equity market decline while, on the Richemont owns a number of well known other hand, lower interest rates could further pump up buoyant markets in brands including commodities and emerging markets.
Montblanc, Cartier and Alfred Dunhill.
Sofina holds a portfolio of Discounts are wider in our universe of companies and equities in general look reasonable blue-chip companies value compared with alternative investment classes, assuming the US economy avoids a on a wide discount.
There will undoubtedly be further fallout from tighter credit conditions and we should expect higher volatility in equity markets than in recent years.
While we are mindful of the investment risks, Central Banks are likely to cushion economic weakness in the short-term by lowering interest rates.
Performance may not be so uniform across equity markets and it may be that this will provide chances for stock-pickers to add value.
Under these conditions, we anticipate that there may be the opportunity to become more fully invested during the year.
John Pennink Asset Value Investors Limited 12 November 2007 15
