BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 14 11 07 13:39 Page 22 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 30 September 2007.
Investment Objective, Policy, Restrictions and Business Review The objective of the Company is to achieve capital growth through a focused portfolio of investments, particularly in companies whose share prices stand at a discount to estimated underlying net asset value.
Investments are principally in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges in the UK and or overseas, which may include investment holding companies, investment trusts and other companies assessed to be trading inexpensively compared to their estimated net asset value or intrinsic worth.
Although listed assets make up the bulk of the portfolio the Company may also invest in unlisted assets with the prior approval of the Board.
The Company generally invests on a long-only basis but may hedge exposures through the use of derivative instruments.
The Company may also hedge its foreign currency exposures into sterling.
There are no geographic limits on exposure as the Company invests wherever it considers there are opportunities for capital growth.
Risk is spread by investing in a number of holdings, many of which themselves are diversified companies.
The Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more than 15% of the value of its total investments at the time of investment.
Potential investments falling within the scope of the Companys investment objective will differ over the course of market cycles.
The number of holdings in the portfolio will vary depending upon circumstances and opportunities within equity markets at any particular time.
The Companys borrowings are limited by covenant to 150% of its nominal capital and reserves.
Except for short-term day to day borrowing requirements, Board approval is required for any increase in the borrowing levels reported in these accounts.
Reviews of the Companys NAV performance in comparison to the benchmark the Companys key performance indicator during the year are contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Investment Managers Review on pages 9 to 15.
The principal financial risks facing the business and how these are managed are set out in note 19 in the Notes to the Accounts on pages 44 to 48.
The non-financial risks which can impact on performance include: market, economic, regulatory and political influences: loss of personnel particularly within the investment management team : failure of systems: breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988: breach of the UKLA Listing Rules.
The value of the Companys shares will additionally be subject to the interaction of supply and demand, prevailing net asset values and the general perceptions of investors.
The share price will accordingly be subject to unpredictable fluctuations and the Company cannot guarantee that the share price will appreciate in value.
Results and Dividends Group profit for the year was 122,797,000 of which 9,046,000 is attributable to revenue 2006: 88,635,000 of which 8,520,000 was attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: 000 000 Revenue available for dividends Company and Group 9,046 9,046 Interim dividend of 1.40p per Ordinary Share paid on 8 June 2007 2,241 2,241 Recommended final dividend payable on 4 January 2008 to Shareholders on the Register as at 7 December 2007 ex dividend 5 December 2007 : - Final dividend of 3.60p per Ordinary share 5,763 5,763 - Special dividend of 0.50p per Ordinary share 800 800 8,804 8,804 22 BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 12 11 07 13:51 Page 23 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Status The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
It is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
The Company has been approved as an investment trust company under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 30 September 2006.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 30 September 2007 so as to be able to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 for that year.
The Company is a qualifying trust for the purposes of Personal Equity Plans and Individual Savings Accounts.
Subsidiary Companies The Company owns one active dealing subsidiary, BEST Securities Limited.
In the year to 30 September 2007, BEST Securities Limited made a loss before taxation of 219 2006: loss 2,234.
Directors The present members of the Board are listed on page 21.
Having served as a Director since October 1995 and as Chairman of the Board from December 2002, Mr I S Robertson has decided to retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and not seek re-election.
The Board thanks Mr Robertson for the leadership and contribution he has provided during his time in office.
Mr JM May retires by rotation in accordance with Article 100 2 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Having conducted a review of his performance during the year, the Board considers that he has provided both commitment and a full contribution to the affairs of the Company throughout the year.
The Board accordingly recommends that Shareholders vote in favour of his re-appointment.
The interests all beneficial of the current Directors and their connected persons in the securities of the Company as at 30 September 2007 are set out below: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Loan Stock Loan Stock 30 9 07 1 10 06 30 9 07 1 10 06 IS Robertson 25,000 25,000 PR Allen 5,000 5,000 SAR Bates 20,000 13,000 - R Blomfield-Smith 3,100 1,554 PSS Macpherson 40,000 40,000 JM May 6,900 - There have been no changes to the interests disclosed above between the year end and date of this report.
Mr JM May is a Director of Caledonia Investments plc which owned at 1 November 2007 18.49 per cent of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
Save as aforesaid, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company.
Information on the appointment of Directors and their compensation for loss of office, as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on page 49.
23 BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 13 11 07 11:21 Page 24 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued Interests in Share Capital Information on the structure, rights and restrictions relating to share capital, as required by the Takeover Directive, is given on pages 19 and 20.
At 1 November 2007 the following holdings representing more than 3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital had been reported to the Company: Number of Percentage Shares held Held Caledonia Investments plc 29,593,979 18.49 Funds managed by Brewin Dolphin Securities Ltd 9,837,374 6.15 Legal and General 6,943,829 4.34 The Cayzer Trust Company Limited is deemed to be interested in a total of 29,593,979 Ordinary Shares representing 18.49 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital by virtue of its interest in Caledonia Investments plc.
The Investment Manager AVI is the Companys appointed Investment Manager Manager and is engaged under the terms of a Management Agreement, effective from 1 October 2003.
Throughout the year to 30 September 2007 the Manager operated in accordance with the terms of the Management Agreement.
The Management Agreement was reviewed by the Management Engagement Committee of the Company during the year under review and no amendments to its terms were considered to be necessary.
The Management Agreement is terminable on a minimum of one years notice by either party.
The Manager is entitled to a base management fee of 0.55% of the net assets of the Company as at the end of the financial period, increasing to 0.6% for any financial period in which the Company out-performs the benchmark or underperforms by no more than 5%.
The first 0.3% of the base management fee is charged to revenue and the remainder of the base management fee, together with any performance fee, is charged to capital.
A performance element may also be payable under which the Manager is paid 4% of any out-performance in the net asset value per share on a total return basis over the benchmark the Thomson Financial Datastream Global Growth Investment Trust Index at the year end, with a cap on aggregate fees of 1% of net assets of the Company per annum.
Any outperformance in excess of the cap or under-performance in any year will be carried forward for use in the next three years fee calculations on a first-in first-out basis.
Details of fees paid and payable can be found in note 3 in the Notes to the Accounts on page 37.
The Directors have reviewed the performance of the Manager and are satisfied that the continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed is in the best interests of Shareholders and the Company.
In June 2007 the European Court of Justice ruled that investment management fees should be exempt from VAT, and in early November HM Revenue & Customs decided not to contest that ruling.
The Board had ensured that appropriate steps were taken to reclaim Back VAT and, following the decision by HM Revenue & Customs, will be quantifying those claims and their impact on the management contract with AVI.
It is not possible to estimate the quantum with any accuracy at present but they are unlikely to have a material impact on Net Asset Value.
Accordingly the Directors consider it is inappropriate to recognise any recoverable VAT in these financial statements.
Registrar With effect from 1 October 2007 the business of LloydsTSB Registrars was acquired from Lloyds Bank PLC by Advent International Corporation and changed its name to Equiniti Registrars Limited Equiniti.
The Board approved the novation of its existing Agreement with LloydsTSB Registrars to Equiniti and will keep the continued provision of registration services under review in the light of the change of ownership.
24 BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 12 11 07 13:51 Page 25 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Corporate Governance The Terms of Reference for all Committees of the Board are available from the office of the Company Secretary.
Amendments to the Companys constitution or Articles of Association and material changes to the Companys Investment Policy require the approval of Shareholders in general meeting.
The Board consists entirely of non-executive Directors all of whom, with the exception of Mr John May who represents a major shareholder, are independent.
Arrangements are in place to ensure that the level of corporate governance is appropriate to an investment trust and, taking account of the matters referred to below, the Company has complied with the Revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code 2006.
Section 1 of the Code has been complied with throughout the period covered by this Report.
The Board has regard for the Association of Investment Companies code of corporate governance as amended for investment trusts and adheres to its principles and recommendations except where otherwise disclosed.
As all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required to comply with the principles of the Code relating to Directors remuneration.
In addition the Board has elected not to designate a senior non-executive Director, as the Board considers that each Director has different strengths and qualities on which they may provide leadership.
The Company has a defined list of matters specifically reserved for decision by the Board of Directors.
The Management Agreement between the Company and AVI sets out the matters over which the Investment Manager has authority and the limits above which Board approval must be sought.
Because the Investment Manager conducts extensive research into companies the Company invests in, the Board considers the Investment Manager to be most appropriately qualified to exercise voting rights attaching to investee company shares in the best interests of the Company.
However, where an investee company proposes a contentious or sensitive issue, the Investment Manager will seek instruction from the Board before using a vote.
As the Company has no employees and invests in diverse corporations and intermediate holding companies, it has no direct impact on social or economic or environmental matters.
However, where the Board deems an issue to be of importance or sensitivity it may, through the Investment Manager, use its voting rights and contact with senior executives of an investee company to make its views known.
The Board normally meets eight times per year and receives full details of the Companys income, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of meetings.
The Investment Manager and Company Secretary are in regular contact with Directors on a less formal basis and individual Directors have direct access to the Company Secretary.
Directors may seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them, at the expense of the Company, in the furtherance of their duties.
The Management Engagement Committee, comprises three independent Directors, Mr I S Robertson Chairman, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith and Mr P S S Macpherson.
From the conclusion of the 2007 Annual General Meeting the Committee will be chaired by Mr PSS Macpherson and Mr SAR Bates will join the Committee.
The Management Engagement Committee reviews both the terms of the Management Agreement to ensure they are appropriate for the Company and compliant with good industry practice and the remuneration of the Investment Manager.
It also reviews the services and performance of the Companys other third party service providers and found these to be satisfactory.
The Management Engagement Committee met once during the year.
25 BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 12 11 07 13:51 Page 26 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued The Nomination Committee comprises the whole Board and convenes to consider the appointment of Directors in accordance with its defined terms of reference.
Candidates for nomination may be sourced from outside of the Company using third party search and selection services as well as potential candidates known to Directors through their extensive knowledge of the industry.
The Nomination Committee met four times during the year.
Newly appointed Directors receive such tailored training and induction as they consider are suited to their needs.
The Board considers that, in view of its non-executive nature, it is not appropriate for Directors to be appointed for a specified term of not more than three years as recommended by the Code.
The Articles of Association require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board abides by the spirit of the Code by ensuring that each Director stands for re-election at least once every three years.
The Board considers that a long association with the Company and experience of a number of investment cycles can be valuable to its deliberations, and is not of the view that serving as a Director for nine or more years automatically results in that Director losing his her independence.
However, after nine years of service a Director will be subject to annual re-election.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference, copies of which are available from the office of the Company Secretary and are reviewed annually.
The Committee comprises Mr PR Allen Chairman, Mrs R Blomfield-Smith, Mr PSS Macpherson, Mr IS Robertson retiring at the AGM and Mr SAR Bates.
All members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committees main functions are: To review and monitor the internal financial control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: To consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: To monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing and challenging, where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Investment Manager and Administrator: To meet with the external Auditors to review their proposed audit programme of work and their findings.
The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the Audit process: To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external Auditors and to negotiate the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external Auditors on both audit and nonaudit work: To monitor and review annually the external Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The Committee confirms that the external auditor satisfies the tests of independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
In assessing the independence of the auditor the Committee has particular regard for the extent and levels of fees paid in respect of both audit and non-audit work.
26 BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 12 11 07 13:51 Page 27 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The key components designed to provide effective internal control which the Company has in place are: The Investment Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: The Board and Investment Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board.
The Investment Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence: As a matter of course the Investment Managers compliance department continually reviews the Investment Managers operations: Written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Manager and other third party service providers: At its September and November meetings, the Audit Committee carries out assessments of internal controls for the year by considering documentation from the Investment Manager and the Administrator, including their compliance function and taking account of events during the year.
The results of the assessments are reported to the Board.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place at the Investment Manager and Administrator, it is satisfied that reliance can be placed on their systems and procedures.
Also, as neither the Company nor the Group have any employees the Board does not feel that whistleblowing procedures need to be put in place.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against mis-statement and loss.
Since the year end, evaluations of the performance of the Board as a whole, the Committees and individual Directors were undertaken using structured questionnaires.
The evaluations were led by the Chairman who, after receiving analyses of the results of the questionnaires, discussed the findings with each Director individually.
The Board are satisfied from the results of the evaluation that the structure, mix of skills and operation of the Board continue to be satisfactory and appropriate for the Company.
After making enquiries and bearing in mind the nature of the Companys business and assets, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Directors welcome the views of all Shareholders and place considerable importance on communications with Shareholders.
Board representatives and the Investment Manager meet with the Companys major Shareholders throughout the year.
The Board recommends that Shareholders attend the Companys Annual General Meeting on 18 December 2007 and use the opportunity to ask questions of their Board and the Investment Manager either formally at the Meeting or informally at the buffet luncheon afterwards.
At the Annual General Meeting the Investment Manager will make a brief presentation to Shareholders covering the investment performance and strategy of the Company.
Owing to the short period of time between the Companys financial year end, the annual report and accounts becoming available and the calendar year end, the Company is unable to comply with the recommendation in the Code that the accounts be sent out at least 20 working days prior to the Annual General Meeting.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys payment policy is to settle investment transactions in accordance with market practice and to ensure settlement of supplier invoices in accordance with stated terms.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
27 BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 12 11 07 13:51 Page 28 British Empire Securities and General Trust plc Report of the Directors continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with those International Financial Reporting Standards which have been adopted by the EU IFRS and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
The Group and Company financial statements are required by law and IFRS to present fairly the financial position of the Group and Company and the financial performance and cash-flows of the Group and Company for the relevant period.
The Companies Act 1985 Act provides in relation to such financial statements that, references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the Group and Company financial statements the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared in compliance with IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained therein: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner which provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures where compliance with the specific requirements of IFRS are considered to be insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, events and conditions on the financial position and performance: and prepare financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group or Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act and Article 4 of International Accounting Standards.
The Directors also have a general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably available to them, and for ensuring their third party service providers take similar reasonable steps, to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable laws and regulations the Directors are responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement which comply with those laws and regulations.
Directors Confirmation The Directors listed on page 21, being the persons responsible within the Company, hereby confirm to the best of their knowledge: that the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company: and the Chairmans Statement, Business Review and Investment Managers Report collectively comprise the Management Report and includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business, and the position of the Company together with the principal risks and uncertainties that the Company faces.
Auditor Information Each Director has taken all steps that they ought to have taken in order to: make himself herself aware of any information relevant to the audit: establish that the Group and Companys auditors are aware of that information: and ensure that, as far as the Director is aware, there is no information relevant to the audit of which the Group and Companys auditors are not aware.
28 BEST p22-60 07 P5:BEST p24-54 P2 12 11 07 13:51 Page 29 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Auditor Ernst & Young LLP, Chartered Accountants, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a Resolution will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to re-appoint them as auditor and authorise the Directors to determine the auditors remuneration for the ensuing year.
Special Business at the Annual General Meeting Resolution 7 - Authority to allot Shares Before a Company can allot shares it must have authority under Section 80 Companies Act 1985 Act which may be sought for periods up to 5 years.
Under Resolution 7 the Company seeks to renew the general and unconditional authority already granted to it to allot up to 2,400,000 in nominal value of Ordinary Shares of 10p each, representing approximately 15 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they considered it to be in the best interests of the Company generally.
Resolution 8 - Authority to issue Shares outside of pre-emption rights The Directors are seeking to renew their limited authority to allot Shares other than on a pre-emptive basis.
This authority will be limited to allotments of new Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of 800,400 being approximately 5 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital currently in issue and to the transfer or sale of Shares held in treasury.
The Directors would only exercise this authority if they believed it to be advantageous to the Companys Shareholders to do so and would not result in a diminution of net asset value per Share.
Resolution 9 - Share Buy-Back Facility This Resolution is to renew the authority granted to the Directors each year to make market purchases of up to 23,996,005 Ordinary Shares in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act and Listing Rules representing approximately 14.99 per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital at the date of this Report.
The minimum price which may be paid shall be 10p per Ordinary Share and the maximum shall be 5 per cent above the average of the mid-market values for Ordinary Shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the five business days immediately preceding purchase.
Under the Companies Act Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003, Ordinary Shares bought back up to a ceiling Ceiling of 10 per cent of the Ordinary Share capital then in issue, may be held in treasury for cancellation or re-sale at a future date rather than being cancelled upon purchase.
Any Ordinary Shares bought back which exceed the Ceiling are automatically cancelled.
The Directors would not buy back Ordinary Shares at a price below the prevailing net asset value at the date of purchase nor exercise the authority granted under this Resolution unless they considered it to be in the best interests of Shareholders or would result in an increase in net asset value per Share.
Treasury shares would not be re-sold at a price below the net asset value per Ordinary Share for the day preceding such sale.
Registered Office: Bennet House By Order of the Board, 54 St Jamess Street For and on behalf of London Phoenix Administration Services Limited 12 November 2007 Secretary 29
