REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS STATUTORY INFORMATION The directors submit their report and the audited financial So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant statements of the company, British Telecommunications plc, and information that has not been disclosed to the companys auditors the group, which includes its subsidiary undertakings, for the 2007 and each of the directors believes that all steps have been taken financial year.
that ought to have been taken to make them aware of any relevant It is BTs policy to achieve best practice in our standards of audit information and to establish that the companys auditors have business integrity in all our operations, in line with our published been made aware of that information.
statement of business practice The Way We Work and we are committed to enhancing our positive impact on society through Employees leadership in corporate social responsibility and by doing business in The company is an equal opportunities employer.
It is committed to a sustainable way.
developing a working culture that enables all employees to make their own distinctive contribution regardless of their race, sex, Introduction religion beliefs, disabilities, marital or civil partnership status, age, The business review and financial review on pages 2 to 24 form sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression or caring part of this report.
The audited financial statements are presented responsibilities.
Employees are provided with opportunities to acquire shares in During the year interim dividends of 2,330 million have been the ultimate holding company, BT Group plc, through that paid to the parent company, BT Group Investments Limited 2006: companys various share option and share investment plans of 2,553 million.
which the company is a participating employer.
Most of our employees are members of the BT Pension Scheme or BT Principal activity Retirement Plan, which are both controlled by independent The company is the principal trading company of the BT group.
The groups principal activities include networked IT services: An extensive range of communications and consultative local, national and international telecommunications services: arrangements, instigated by the companys ultimate holding higher-value broadband and internet products and services: and company, help ensure that employees are kept fully informed about converged xed mobile products and services.
developments in the BT group, including the groups financial performance.
Directors As part of the BT group, employees have access to a full range The directors at 31 March 2007 were Ben Verwaayen and Hanif of training and career development programmes.
Lalani who both served throughout the financial year.
John Wroe was appointed as a director on 27 November 2006.
Larry Stone Policy on the payment of suppliers served as a director until 27 November 2006 and John Wroes BT subscribes to the Better Payment Practice Code for all suppliers, appointment as alternate to Larry Stone ceased with effect from 27 the four principles of which are: to agree payment terms at the November 2006. outset and stick to them: to explain payment procedures to suppliers: to pay bills in accordance with any contract agreed with Directors interests in shares the supplier or as required by law: and to tell suppliers without Ben Verwaayen and Hanif Lalani are directors of BT Group plc, the delay when an invoice is contested and settle disputes quickly.
Their interests in the 5p Details of this code can be found at www.
BTs ordinary shares of BT Group plc are disclosed in its Annual Report normal payment terms are 42 calendar days from date of receipt of and Form 20-F which is available to the public.
John Wroe who is a due and valid invoice.
BT will make payment to the supplier on not a director of BT Group plc, had, at 31 March 2007 an interest the next payment run following expiry of this term.
The ratio, in 42,309 5p ordinary shares of BT Group plc 2006: 33,747 expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the company shares.
by its suppliers in the 2007 financial year and the amounts owed to In addition, share options under the BT Group Employee its trade creditors at the end of the year was 44 calendar days.
Sharesave Scheme and BT Group Global Share Option Plan held by, granted to or exercised by John Wroe or which had lapsed during Financial instruments the 2007 financial year were: Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the group and exposure to interest risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and 31 March price risk are given on pages 21 and 22, and note 33 on pages 72 1 April 2006 Granted Exercised Lapsed 2007 to 78.
J Wroe 309,338 309,338 John Wroe also had at 31 March 2007 contingent awards under the Auditors BT Group Incentive Share Plan and the BT Group Deferred Bonus A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors Plan of 5p ordinary shares of BT Group plc totalling 209,531 shares of the company and authorise the directors to settle their 2006: 145,226.
At 31 March 2007 John Wroe, as potential remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
beneciary, had non-beneficial interests in: s 20,797,976 2006: 24,809,976 shares held in trust by Ilford US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 Trustees Jersey Limited for allocation to employees under the The company has debt securities registered with the US Securities employee share schemes: and Exchange Commission SEC.
As a result, BT is obliged to s 33,726 2006: 50,342 shares held in trust by Halifax Corporate comply with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable Trustees Limited for participants in the BT Group Employee to foreign issuers.
The company will comply with the legal and Share Investment Plan.
regulatory requirements introduced pursuant to this legislation, in so far as they are applicable to the company.
Financial statements A statement of the directors responsibilities for preparing the financial statements is included on page 27.
Report of the Directors Statutory information British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 25 The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of BTs disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report and Form 20-F, have concluded that, as of such date, BTs disclosure controls and procedures were effective to ensure that material information relating to BT was made known to them by others within the group.
The principal executive officer and the principal financial officer have also provided the certications required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002.
There were no changes in BTs internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the year ended 31 March 2007 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, BTs internal control over financial reporting.
Following the SECs announcement on 15 December 2006, BT has taken advantage of the twelve months extension for reporting under section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Therefore, BTs first report under section 404 will be as of 31 March 2008.
By order of the Board Heather Brierley Secretary 16 May 2007 Registered Ofce: 81 Newgate Street, London EC1A 7AJ Registered in England and Wales No.
1800000 26 British Telecommunications plc Annual Report and Form 20-F 2007 Report of the Directors Statutory information
