Business review Caledonia also backs listed companies seeking Business highlights cornerstone investors in equity fundraisings.
Polar Capital Begbies Traynor Where we have originally backed a business and its management In March 2007, we invested 11.4m for a 9.3% stake in Begbies team as a private company our permanent capital base and Traynor plc, the AIM listed UK corporate insolvency and recovery flexibility do not oblige us to predetermine an IPO as a required specialists.
We first met the management team, who founded the exit.
An excellent example of this is Polar Capital, a fund business and are major shareholders, in 2006.
We were impressed management business in which we were founder shareholders in by their achievements and business model and spent time 2001, providing assistance for the management team in developing our understanding of the companys management and establishing the company and using our capital over the following business.
We were pleased to be able to provide a cornerstone years to provide seeding for a number of Polar Capitals hedge and investment in a 22.0m equity placing and look forward to equity funds.
We have worked closely with management ever since supporting the development of this successful business.
to facilitate an ownership structure and entrepreneurial culture which enabled them to attract top quality fund managers to expand their business which now manages over $3bn of assets.
The culmination of this stage in Polar Capitals development was its successful flotation on AIM in February which placed a value on our 16.8% holding of 20.3m compared to our equity investment cost of 0.7m.
We continue to have board representation in the listed company and remain as convinced as we have been from the start of the long term potential of Polar Capitals business.
20 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 Caledonia is applying its investment approach and philosophy to develop its business in fast growing Asian economies.
We believe that Caledonias India investment model, which seeks to We now have Indian investments totalling 71.8m.
During the identify good management teams year, we increased our investment in three India listed companies and provided cornerstone funding to two AIM listed funds and develop strong long term investing in India.
relationships, is particularly well Our India listed investments include Alok Industries, a textile manufacturer in which we hold a 14.9% stake valued at 17.0m, suited to the growing markets of India Varun Shipping, a shipping company transporting LPG, crude oil and petroleum products in which we hold an 11.1% stake valued at and China.
In both countries we have, 9.6m, and Dewan Housing Finance, a provider of housing finance over recent years, been working with in which we hold a 2.2% stake which, together with our holding of convertible bonds issued by the company, is valued at 7.0m.
local partners to identify companies, We also hold stakes in two AIM listed funds investing in India.
usually with high levels of family or We hold a 26.3% stake valued at 16.7m in India Capital Growth Fund, a strategic investor in small to mid-cap Indian companies, management ownership, which are and a 19.6% stake valued at 11.0m in Eredene Capital, a specialist Indian property fund.
We are building up our investment exposure and experience in a controlled way which also addresses the inherent risks of investing in commercial environments which are less well developed than the UK and other industrialised economies.
Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007 21 Business review Business highlights China Vietnam In China, we have invested or committed 13.6m.
We are a More recently we have been researching investment opportunities significant strategic investor in a Shanghai-based growth capital in Vietnam, working closely with local business advisors.
private equity fund, Capital Today, where we helped an experienced team establish their first fund with a 10.2m cornerstone investment commitment, of which 1.2m was drawn at the year end.
We also invested 3.4m in 2005 in a private textile company, Kingdom Group, which is one of the worlds leading producers of linen yarn.
Kingdom Group was floated on the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in December 2006 and we have retained our investment, now worth 8.0m, through a 10.7% stake in the listed company.
22 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
