Business review Objectives and strategy Objectives Caledonia will invest part of its portfolio in third party managed Caledonia aims to achieve a long term total shareholder return in funds.
Again, a core skill is our ability to assess the capabilities and excess of the FTSE All-Share Total Return index, whilst maintaining commitment of the fund management team and we will often seek a progressive annual dividend, through a focused portfolio of to obtain a significant stake in the management company, thereby significant stakes in companies where we believe there to be good potentially enhancing returns to shareholders.
Caledonia seeks to work closely and constructively with the Caledonia measures its performance over the long term by managements of companies that it has backed and to make comparing its total shareholder return against the FTSE All-Share available the considerable experience of our own team to help the Total Return index over five and ten year periods.
investee companies managements to address their business issues.
In addition, Caledonia aims to achieve a positive total return The strategy for each investment, including the returns and the over rolling five year periods.
timing of eventual disposal, is reviewed regularly.
Investments are realised when we believe that the funds released can provide better Strategy long term returns, but in a manner consistent with Caledonias Caledonias strategy is to invest in and actively manage significant reputation as a supportive long term investor.
stakes in 30 to 40 companies and situations where we believe there Whilst the source of funding for new investments generally to be good opportunities for building value.
Active management comes from its own resources, Caledonia may at times seek to will usually be achieved by working closely and constructively with enhance returns by taking on moderate levels of gearing.
the investee management, and usually with board representation, Tight control is exercised over costs, notwithstanding as a long term supportive shareholder.
We self-manage our Caledonias active and participative management style.
Cost portfolio, using in-house expertise, as well as using third party containment is significantly aided by managing the large majority managers who specialise in particular asset classes or geographical of investments through our in-house management team.
We will in particular seek to increase our level of investment in Asia.
Caledonia seeks new investments with a typical size of 10m to 25m, although we may invest up to 100m in exceptional circumstances.
Although Caledonia usually aims to have an influential minority stake, we will, on occasion, be prepared to take a controlling interest where we believe that this will maximise shareholder value.
When considering an investment opportunity, we take particular care in appraising the capabilities and commitment of the management team of the prospective investee company.
The anticipated total return from the investment, the strategy in relation to it, and the overall risks, are carefully analysed as part of the investment process.
08 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2007
