BUSINESS REVIEW: VALUATION POLICY Investments have been valued by When valuing on an earnings multiple When investments have obtained an the directors in compliance with the basis, profits before interest and tax exit after the valuation date but before principles of IAS 39 Financial Instruments: of the current year will normally be used, finalisation of Candovers relevant Recognition and Measurement and depending on whether or not more than accounts interim or final, the valuation the International Private Equity and six months of the accounting period is based on the exit valuation adjusted Venture Capital Valuation Guidelines as remain and the predictability of future where appropriate for changes in recommended by the BVCA.
Such profits will be adjusted circumstances and discounting for to a maintainable basis, taxed at the the time value of money.
Principles of valuation of full corporation tax rate and multiplied unlisted investments by an appropriate and reasonable In arriving at the value of an investment, Investments are stated at amounts price earnings multiple.
This is normally the percentage ownership is calculated considered by the directors to be a related to comparable quoted companies after taking into account any dilution reasonable assessment of their fair value, or recent transactions, with adjustments through outstanding warrants, options subject to the requirement to apply a made for points of difference between and performance related mechanisms.
degree of caution in making the necessary the comparator and the company being estimates.
Fair value is the amount at valued, in particular for risks, earnings Principles of valuation of which an asset could be exchanged growth prospects and surplus assets listed investments between knowledgeable, willing parties in or excess liabilities.
Where a company Investments are valued at the bid price an arms length transaction.
In estimating is loss-making, or the value is derived last recorded on the balance sheet date fair value, the directors use a methodology mainly from the underlying value of its without discount.
which is appropriate in light of the nature, assets rather than its earnings, the facts and circumstances of the investment valuation may be calculated with regard to Valuation review procedures and its materiality in the context of the the underlying net assets.
Where there has Valuations are initially prepared by the total investment portfolio.
been a subsequent recent investment by relevant investment executive.
These a third party in a new financing round that valuations are then subject to review All investments are valued according to is deemed to be at arms length this may by senior management and external one of the following bases: be used as the basis of valuation.
In cases auditors, prior to approval by the directors.
transaction value where an exit is actively being sought, then less any provision required any offers from potential purchasers would earnings multiple be relevant in assessing the valuation of an net assets investment and are taken into account in price of recent investment arriving at the valuation.
Where appropriate, a marketability Investments are only valued at transaction discount in the range of 10% to 30% may value for a limited period after the date be applied to the investment valuation, of acquisition, otherwise investments based on the likely timing of an exit, the are valued on one of the other bases influence over that exit, the likelihood of described above, and generally the achieving conditions precedent to that earnings multiple basis of valuation will be exit and general market conditions.
used unless this is inappropriate, as in the case of certain asset-based businesses.
