REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS The directors present their report together with the audited Application of investment policy financial statements for the year ended 31st December, 2007.
The summary information on page 7, the Chairmans statement on page 8, the operational and financial reviews on pages 13 and Principal activities 16 and the descriptions of new investments on page 14 and of the Candover Investments plc is an investment company within the 20 largest investments on pages 18 to 24 explain and demonstrate meaning of Section 833 of the Companies Act 2006 as well as an how Candover has invested its assets with a view to spreading investment trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation investment risk in accordance with its investment policy.
Taxes Act 1988, the tax status of which is shown on page 30.
Results and review of business Candover is engaged principally in the identification, The Group profit for the financial year after taxation was 14,119,000 implementation and monitoring of large buyouts and buyins.
Candover Investments plc makes investments either under a Administrative expenses charged to revenue were 37,920,000 co-investment agreement alongside third party managed funds 2006: 39,841,000.
The changes in fixed asset investments or on its own account.
The third party managed funds, established are described, together with a review of the Groups activities, with commitments from a wide range of international institutional in the Chairmans statement, operational review and financial investors, are managed by Candover Partners Limited, which is review on pages 8 to 17. regulated by the Financial Services Authority and is wholly-owned by Candover Investments plc.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company are as follows: Candover participates in the profit made in certain of these funds Net asset value growth subject to an overall minimum return having first been generated Profit and dividend growth.
for investors in the funds.
Candover Investments plc will be entitled to between 2% and 5% of any profit made by the Candover 2005 Details of the financial KPIs are shown in the financial review Fund.
The exact percentage received by Candover Investments plc on page 16. will be determined by a ratchet based on the investment multiple achieved by the Fund.
Return of cash In May 2006 a resolution was passed at the Annual General These funds and their investment activities are set out on page 6.
Meeting authorising the return of 100 million in cash to shareholders.
Most of this sum was paid to shareholders in As referred to in the Chairmans statement on page 9 the Candover May 2006, and the remaining 5 million was paid in May 2007 2005 Fund is now 72% committed and Candover Partners Limited through the purchase of 1,093,460 C preference shares at have therefore commenced marketing the Candover 2008 Fund.
Further details are contained in note 27 to the The target for this new Fund is 5.0 billion.
The objectives, scope accounts on page 69. and principal terms of this new Fund are expected to be essentially the same as those of the Candover 2005 Fund.
Dividend and proposed transfer to reserves The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend Investment policy of 8,743,000, equal to 40.0p per ordinary share Candover Investments plcs principal investment focus is investing 2006: 7,868,000, equal to 36.0p per share giving a total alongside funds managed by Candover Partners Limited, its dividend for the year of 13,115,000, equal to 60.0p per ordinary wholly-owned subsidiary.
These funds focus on mid-to-large share 2006: 11,874,000, equal to 54.0p per share.
Payment European buyouts with an enterprise value typically in excess of of the dividend will be made on 22nd May, 2008 to shareholders 500 million, although investments may also be made in larger on the register at the close of business on 25th April, 2008. or smaller businesses, both inside and outside Europe.
Typically, The dividend details are shown in note 7 on page 51. the Company invests25 million to 100 million in these buyouts.
In accordance with IFRS, proposed dividends are provided for The funds managed by Candover Partners Limited have a strategy in the period in which they are formally declared and approved.
to invest in a wide range of industries and countries, mainly in As a result, the final dividend for 2007 will be recognised in 2008.
Europe, to ensure there is diversity in the portfolio.
As a result, at any given time, Candover Investments plcs portfolio will contain a Directors risk profile that is balanced both by geography and investment Except where otherwise indicated the directors listed below sector.
served on the Board throughout the year and were in office at the end of the year.
Additionally, the Company makes direct investments, and makes commitments to other funds, inside and outside Europe.
Mr Gerry Grimstone Chairman Mr Stephen Curran resigned 6th December, 2007 Candover Investments plc will not invest, on acquisition, more than Mr Antony Hichens 15% by value of its investments in a single business or company or Lord Jay appointed 1st January, 2008 more than 15% of its total assets in any other listed closed-ended Mr Nico Lethbridge died 16th August, 2007 investment funds.
Mr Chris Russell Mr Richard Stone Candover Investments plc actively manages its balance sheet and Mr Jimmy West levels of gearing in light of prevailing economic conditions.
Net gearing is not expected to exceed 20% of net assets over the investment cycle and at no time will it be greater than 40% of net assets, at the time any gearing is taken out.
28 Candover Report and accounts 2007 As announced on 7th March, 2008 Nicholas Jones will join the Annual General Meeting Board on 14th April, 2008.
Nicholas Jones, who is 61, is Vice The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Chairman of Lazard in London.
He was previously a director of Wednesday 14th May, 2008 at 12 noon at Founders Hall, J. Henry Schroder Wagg & Co. Ltd and, prior to that, a chartered 1 Cloth Fair, London EC1A 7HT.
The notice of the Annual accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co.
He is a nonGeneral Meeting appears on page 70. executive director of Ladbrokes plc and Newbury Racecourse plc.
Resolutions 4-7 concern the election or re-election of certain In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and in directors.
Biographical details for those directors are given on pages compliance with the Combined Code Lord Jay and Nicholas Jones 26, 27 and 29.
Each of the directors standing for re-election, namely will seek election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and Antony Hichens and Chris Russell, has demonstrated a strong Antony Hichens and Chris Russell will retire and, being eligible, will commitment to Candover and the ability to bring a wide ranging and offer themselves for re-election at the AGM.
Jimmy West will retire valuable set of skills, knowledge and experience to the Company at the AGM and will not seek re-election.
and each such director has been the subject of an annual appraisal.
The biographical details of the serving directors and those seeking In addition to the ordinary business of the Annual General Meeting, election or re-election appear on pages 26 and 27 and, in the case the following special business will be put to shareholders: of Nicholas Jones, on page 29.
Each of those seeking election or re-election has or in the case of Nicholas Jones, whose appointment Resolution 10, if passed, authorises the Company to purchase up takes effect on 14th April, 2008 will have a letter of appointment, to 3,276,306 of its ordinary shares.
This authority will expire at the the terms of which are described in the directors remuneration next Annual General Meeting of the Company, or on 14th August, report on page 38.
2009 if the next Annual General Meeting has not been held by then.
This resolution also sets out the highest and lowest price at which Share capital structure the shares can be bought.
Note 18 to the accounts, on page 57, sets out details of the Companys capital structure.
There are no shares in issue other In the event that ordinary shares are purchased, they would either be than ordinary shares.
cancelled and the number of shares in issue reduced accordingly or, subject to the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Notifiable interests in the Companys shares Shares Regulations 2003 S. I.
2003 1116 the Regulations, be The names of those persons who, insofar as the Company is retained as treasury shares.
The Regulations permit companies to aware, are interested directly or indirectly in 3% or more of the hold shares repurchased as treasury shares with a view to possible issued share capital of the Company as at 17th March, 2008 re-sale at a future date rather than having to cancel them.
are shown in note 18 to the accounts on page 57.
The Company would consider holding any of its own ordinary Directors interests shares repurchased pursuant to the proposed resolution in The statements in respect of directors interests in the share treasury rather than cancelling them, subject to a maximum capital of the Company are contained in note 18 to the accounts of 10% of the issued share capital immediately prior to such on page 58.
Other matters requiring disclosure by the directors purchase.
By holding its shares in treasury, the Company is are contained in the directors remuneration report on page 36. afforded the ability to reissue treasury shares quickly and cost effectively, and gains additional flexibility in the management of its Political and charitable donations capital base.
It should be noted that no dividends would be paid During the year the Company made donations of 21,000 to on shares while held in treasury, no voting rights would attach various charities 2006: 5,800.
In addition, Candover Partners to them and the shares would be treated as if cancelled.
The Limited committed 125,000 to the Private Equity Foundation, resolution follows the rules set down by the Companies Act 1985 as referred to on page 11.
There were no political donations made and the UK Listing Authority.
The directors are committed to managing the Companys capital Share buyback efficiently and will keep under review the possibility of buying back Although authority to buy back the Companys ordinary shares the Companys shares.
However, they will only do this if they was granted to the directors at the AGM in 2006 and 2007, there believe that it is in shareholders best interests.
were no buybacks of ordinary shares during the year.
The authority granted in 2007 is limited to 3,276,306 ordinary shares and will last There were 211,140 options outstanding at 17th March, 2008 to until the AGM in 2008 or until 16th August, 2008, if earlier.
The subscribe for ordinary shares, as set out in note 2 to the accounts minimum price that the Company may pay is 25.0p per share and on page 49.
Those represent 0.97% of the issued share capital of the maximum price excluding expenses is 5% over the average the Company as at 17th March, 2008 and would represent 1.14% mid-market price of the ordinary shares of the Company based on of such issued share capital if the full authority to buy back shares the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business pursuant to resolution 10 was used.
days immediately before the day on which the Company buys the ordinary shares.
Resolution 10 set out in the Notice of Meeting on Resolution 11 seeks shareholder approval to the change of the page 70 will be proposed as a special resolution to renew this Companys name from Candover Investments public limited authority.
The purchase of C preference shares in May 2007 is company to Candover Investments plc.
Shareholdings will be described under Return of cash on page 28. unaffected by this name change.
Where ordinary shares are held in certificated form, existing share certificates will remain valid and new certificates will not be sent to existing shareholders.
29 Candover Report and accounts 2007 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS CONTINUED Resolution 12 seeks shareholder approval to the adoption of Rights attaching to shares new Articles of Association the New Articles in place of the The rights attaching to the Companys shares are set out in the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles.
The New Articles will take account of changes in English company law and practice since the adoption of the Current Articles and in Subject to any restrictions referred to in the next section, members particular those changes brought about by the Companies Act may attend any general meeting of the Company.
The Company is also proposing further changes, effective attaching to the ordinary shares are described in the next section.
on 1st October, 2008, concerning directors interests and conflicts.
Members can declare final dividends by passing an ordinary The principal changes are summarised in the Appendix to the resolution but the amount of the dividends cannot exceed the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 73.
Other changes, amount recommended by the Board.
The Board can pay interim which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some dividends provided the distributable profits of the Company justify more changes which merely reflect changes made automatically such payment.
The Board may, if authorised by an ordinary by the Companies Act 2006 have not been noted in the Appendix.
resolution of the members, offer any member the right to elect to The New Articles showing all the changes to the Current Articles receive new shares, which will be credited as fully paid, instead of are available for inspection, as noted in note 12 to the Notice of their cash dividend.
Any dividend which has not been claimed for Annual General Meeting on page 72.
12 years after it became due for payment will be forfeited and will then revert to the Company.
The directors consider the passing of the above resolutions to be in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as If the Company is wound up the liquidator can, with the sanction a whole.
of the members, divide among the members all or any part of the assets of the Company and can value any assets and determine Supplier payment policy how the divisions shall be carried out as between the members or The Company negotiates payment terms with its suppliers on different classes of members.
The liquidator can also transfer the an individual basis, with the normal arrangements being within whole or any part of the assets to trustees upon any trusts for the 14 to 30 days from receipt of invoice.
Trade creditor days of the benefit of the members.
No members can be compelled to accept Company for the year ended 31st December, 2007 were 21 days any asset which would give them any liability.
based on the ratio of Company trade creditors at the end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Company's shares.
ISA status The Board has considered the ISA status of Candovers shares Voting at general meetings and for the time being considers that a decision to make Subject to any restrictions below, on a show of hands every Candovers shares eligible for inclusion in an ISA will impose member who is present at a general meeting has one vote on constraints on the Companys investment criteria that will not be each resolution and, on a poll, every member who is present has in the overall interests of shareholders.
one vote on each resolution for every share of which he is the registered member.
Auditors Grant Thornton UK LLP offer themselves for reappointment as A resolution put to the vote of a general meeting is decided on a auditors in accordance with section 385 of the Companies Act show of hands unless before or on the declaration of the result of 1985 and an appropriate resolution will be put to the shareholders the show of hands, a poll is demanded by the chairman of the at the Annual General Meeting.
meeting, or by at least two members present in person and having the right to vote, or by any members present in person having at Tax status least one tenth of the total voting rights of all members, or by any The board of Her Majestys Revenue and Customs has approved members present in person holding shares on which an aggregate the Companys status as an investment trust, under section sum has been paid up of at least one-tenth of the total sum paid 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, for the year up on all shares.
In the opinion of the directors, the Companys affairs since that date have been conducted so as to A member may vote personally or by proxy at a general meeting.
enable it to continue to be treated as an investment trust.
Any form of proxy sent by the Company to members in relation to any general meeting must be delivered to the Company not less Financial risk factors than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or The Groups investment activities expose it to a variety of financial adjourned meeting at which the person named in the appointment risks: market risk including currency risk, price risk and interest proposes to vote.
No instrument of proxy shall be valid after the rate risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Groups overall risk expiration of 12 months from the date of its execution except at management programme focuses on the unpredictability of an adjourned meeting originally held within such 12 month period.
financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise on the Groups financial performance.
such person as it thinks fit to act as its representative at any general meeting of the Company.
Further information on financial risk management is contained in note 24 on page 61.
30 Candover Report and accounts 2007 In the case of joint holders, the vote of the senior who tenders Employee share schemes the vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the Shares in the Company may be held, from time to time, by the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders.
For this purpose trustee of the Candover Investments SMP Trust the SMP Trust seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names established in connection with the share matching plan referred stand in the register of members.
No member shall be entitled to to in the directors remuneration report on page 36, which is an attend or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting in employees' share scheme.
The trustee of the SMP Trust may not respect of any share if any call or other sum presently payable by vote shares that are held in the trust.
As at 31st December, 2007 him to the Company in respect of such share remains unpaid.
no shares were held by the trustee of the SMP Trust.
The Board may direct that a member shall not be entitled to attend Additional information or vote either personally or by proxy at a general meeting in respect No agreements between the holders of securities are known to of some or all of the shares held by him the Default Shares if he the Company which may result in restrictions on the transfer of or any person with an interest in shares has been sent a notice securities or on voting rights.
under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a respect to interests in their voting shares and he or any interested party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control person fails to supply the Company with the information requested of the Company following a takeover bid, other than i certain within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
These restrictions end financing agreements, under which borrowings may become seven days after receipt by the Company of all the information prepayable and ii in relation to the employee share schemes required by the relevant section 793 notice.
referred to in the directors remuneration report on page 36.
Awards and options under those schemes will vest or become Restrictions on the transfer of shares exercisable upon or shortly after a change of control, although the The Board may refuse to register a transfer of a share which is not number of shares comprised within those awards or options may fully paid.
The Board may decline to recognise any instrument of be reduced.
transfer unless i it is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by There are no agreements between the Company and its directors the Board, accompanied by the certificate for the share to which or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person The Companys Articles of Association provide that each director on behalf of the transferor, the authority of that person to do so : will seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting at least and ii it is in respect of only one class of shares.
The Board may every three years.
Additionally, new directors may be appointed also refuse to register any transfer of a share in favour of more than by the Board but are subject to election by members at the first four transferees.
The Articles of Association limit the number of directors to not less than two and not more than Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using 12 save where members decide otherwise.
Members may remove CREST and the Board can refuse to register a transfer of an any director subject to the giving of special notice and, if desired, uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing replace such removed director by ordinary resolution.
The Articles of Association of the Company may be amended by The Board may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, special resolution.
Resolution 12 set out in the Notice of Annual for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of members.
General Meeting on page 70 will be proposed as a special The Board cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any resolution seeking shareholder approval to the adoption of new uncertificated shares without gaining consent from CREST.
There are no conditions contained in the Board may direct that, subject to certain exceptions set out in memorandum in relation to the alteration of the Articles of the Articles of Association a Permitted Transfer, no transfers Association of the Company.
of Default Shares as defined in the section entitled Voting at general meetings above shall be permitted if the Default Shares By order of the Board represent at least 0.25% in nominal value of the issued shares of the relevant class the Transfer Restrictions.
The Transfer Restrictions end seven days after receipt by the Company of all Andrew Moberly information required by the relevant section 793 notice or, in the Company Secretary case of a Permitted Transfer, upon receipt by the Company of 20 Old Bailey notice of such a transfer.
London EC4M 7LN There are no other restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in 31st March, 2008 the Company other than restrictions imposed from time to time by laws and regulations e. g. insider trading laws or pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in ordinary shares.
