BUSINESS REVIEW: NEW INVESTMENTS IN 2007 Name: Ferretti Name: Parques Reunidos Sector: Industrials Sector: Leisure Location: Italy Location: Spain Date of investment: January 2007 Date of investment: March 2007 Deal size: Not disclosed Deal size: Not disclosed Ferretti is a classic marque in the world Parques Reunidos is the third-largest of luxury motor yachts.
It is also a well European operator of attraction parks.
managed business with a proven track The group currently operates 60 parks, record.
Over 40 years, through organic including amusement parks, animal parks growth and acquisition, Ferretti has and water parks across Europe, as well developed the broadest portfolio of any as the US and Argentina.
luxury motor yacht manufacturer, with nine famous brands that enjoy leading Parques Reunidos was a classic buy positions in most of their market and build opportunity.
management team had been at the forefront of European consolidation When Candovers Milan office heard of in the sector.
Their growth strategy a proposed listing for the company, we of acquiring and integrating undersuggested an alternative deal, finally performing parks was highly backable emerging as the preferred bidder in a and we supported their clear objective limited auction.
of doubling the size of the business within a few years.
Parques Reunidos The dynamics of the market were is well on the way to achieving that instrumental in our investment decision.
objective just one year later.
The market for luxury yachts is growing by 11% per annum, and as Ferrettis clients The company has made five acquisitions are mainly ultra high-net-worth individuals, since March, including the Candoverthey are less cyclical in their spending backed purchase of Palace habits.
The company has an exceptionally Entertainment, the largest operator of strong order book and recently invested water parks and family entertainment significantly to meet increased demand.
The combined group We were confident that this left them wellis now the worlds leading water parks placed to take advantage of the predicted operator.
This acquisition was an sales growth over the next few years.
important milestone in Parques Reunidos strategy of becoming a leading player in Since the buyout, Candover has helped the global leisure parks market.
develop the company by strengthening the central management team with the recruitment of a new CEO and other senior executives.
We are also supporting new business lines, including a servicing and repair function which will strengthen its brands and build closer customer links.
14 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Name: Alma Consulting Group Useful links: Name: Capital Safety Group Sector: Industrials Sector: Financials www.
com Location: UK Date of investment: June 2007 Date of investment: December 2007 www.
com Deal size: Not disclosed www.
com Deal size: 415.0 million Capital Safety Group CSG makes Alma provides a wide range of tax recovery and cost reduction services to businesses harnesses, lifelines and anchors used by people who work at height in industries which would not ordinarily be able to achieve these on their own.
Over 20 years such as oil and gas, construction, manufacturing and telecoms.
The company it has carved out a sizeable market in France where its 10,000 clients include owns two leading brands, DBI-SALA and Protecta, and its products are sold globally, 60% of Frances top 200 companies.
Its unique business model delivers services on a success fee basis: Price sensitivity is limited due to the safety-critical nature of the equipment it a highly attractive value proposition for its clients, who typically commit to provides: these products save lives, help companies avoid law suits and can also three year contracts.
The average length of customer relationships is ten years Almas business is unrelated to GDP: it depends instead on increasing change and CSG has an outstanding customer satisfaction score 98% of its customers and complexity in the regulatory arena, and this offers fertile ground for future are satisfied or very satisfied.
Tax and regulatory regimes differ between countries but the Alma Products tailored to the high growth oil and gas sector are an area of particular business model is readily transferable.
The management team saw the success for CSG and Candovers experience in this field, following opportunity to build on its domestic success by expanding internationally.
successful investments in Vetco, Wellstream, Wood Mackenzie and Our track record of building international Pipeline Integrity International, helped us to evaluate this opportunity.
Additionally, businesses and our pan-European presence persuaded the management our track record of working closely with talented management teams to develop team that the business would benefit from our backing.
We were able to secure their businesses both organically and by acquisition was seen as particularly an off-market deal with managements full support and are now pursuing relevant.
Currently North America is CSGs largest market, but there is international opportunities.
significant growth potential for the company in Europe and Asia.
