BUSINESS REVIEW: BOARD OF DIRECTORS Candover Investments plc Board Gerry Grimstone Antony Hichens MBA Lord Jay of Ewelme GCMG Non-executive Chairman Non-executive Non-executive Gerry Grimstone was appointed Antony Hichens joined the Lord Jay joined the Candover to the Candover Board in July Board of Candover in Board in January 2008.
He became Deputy December 1989 and was formerly the Permanent UnderChairman in May 2004 and Deputy Chairman from Secretary at the Foreign Office Chairman in May 2006.
Formerly January 1991 to May 2004. and Head of the Diplomatic an Assistant Secretary at HM He is Chairman of the Service, having previously served Treasury, he latterly held a number nominations committee.
He as British Ambassador to France.
of senior appointments in the is a non-executive director of He is a non-executive director of Schroders group, including JPMorgan Income & Capital Associated British Foods plc, Vice Chairman of worldwide Trust plc and WaterRower Credit Agricole SA and Valeo SA investment banking activities.
Holdings Limited and is a and Chairman of the international He is Chairman of Standard Life member of the Takeover Panel.
aid agency Merlin, a registered PLC.
Since May 2007 he has He has previously been a charity.
Lord Jay is 61. ceased to be a non-executive Managing Director and Chief director of Dairy Crest Group plc Financial Officer of Consolidated and RAF Strike Command Gold Fields and a Chairman of and Chairman of F&C Global a number of public companies Smaller Companies plc.
Gerry including Lasmo plc, Caradon Grimstone is 58. plc and DS Smith plc.
Member of the remuneration committee Member of the audit committee Member of the nominations committee 26 Candover Report and accounts 2007 Senior management Colin Buffin ACA Marek Gumienny ACA Colin Buffin is a Managing Director Marek Gumienny is a Managing of Candover Partners Limited, the Director of Candover Partners manager of various investment Limited, the manager of various funds and Managing Director of investment funds and Managing Candover Services Limited, the Director of Candover Services principal operating company in Limited, the principal operating the Candover Group.
He joined company in the Candover Group.
Candover in September 1985 from Prior to joining Candover in January Deloitte Haskins & Sells, where he 1987, he qualified as a chartered worked in the investigations and accountant with Price Waterhouse.
corporate finance departments Marek Gumienny is 49. after qualifying as a chartered accountant.
Chris Russell FSIP FCA Richard Stone FCA Jimmy West FCA MSI Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Chris Russell was appointed to Richard Stone was appointed Jimmy West was appointed the Candover Board in May 2004 to the Candover Board in May to the Candover Board in and is Chairman of the audit 2005 and is Chairman of the December 1985 and is the Senior committee.
He is Chairman of remuneration committee.
A former F&C Event Driven Limited and an 1998 he was Deputy Chairman of Managing Director of Lazard associate of GaveKal Research.
Coopers & Lybrand and Chairman Brothers and Chief Executive He is a non-executive director of of the firms European Corporate of Lazard Investors, he was Investec High Income Trust plc, Finance activities.
From 1998 previously Managing Director of the Korea Fund Inc, Enhanced to 2000, he served as a Globe Investment Trust Plc.
He is Index Funds plc, LIM Japan Fund, member of the global board of Chairman of Gartmore Fledgling British Airways Pension Investment  LLP.
Trust plc, New City High Yield Management Ltd and JPMorgan He is Chairman of Drambuie Fund Ltd, Jupiter Second Fleming Japanese Smaller Limited and a non-executive Enhanced Income Trust plc and Companies Investment Trust plc.
director of Halma plc, Trustco Rurelec plc and a non-executive He was formerly a director and Finance plc, TR Property director of JPMorgan Income & Head of Overseas Businesses at Investment Trust PLC and Capital Trust plc, British Assets Gartmore Investment Management Gartmore Global Trust plc.
Trust plc, GNE Group plc, UK plc.
Prior to Gartmore, he was a Richard Stone is 65.
Select Fund Limited, IPSA Holding Board director of the Group plc and various unquoted Jardine Fleming Group in Asia.
Jimmy West is Chris Russell is 59.
He will be retiring at the AGM on 14th May, 2008.
