CANDOVER ACROSS EUROPE European market overview The European buyout market, like financial markets worldwide, equitys strengths as an asset class that makes investments was significantly affected by the credit slowdown during the second in businesses that have substantial potential for value addition.
half of 2007 which resulted from the US sub-prime mortgage Previous downturns support this hypothesis.
The lack of availability of debt finance considerably lowered decline is succeeded by buoyant markets three to five years later levels of activity.
Although this was another record year, the total when the investment cycle for transactions made at the bottom value of buyouts remained broadly static, with 175 billion of of the market reaches maturity.
transactions completing, against 174 billion in 2006.
Market positioning The impact was felt most strongly at the largest end of the Concerns about an impending recession and increasingly volatile buyout market.
There were just six 1.5 billion plus transactions global stock markets have meant tight credit market conditions in Europe during the second half of 2007, as compared with are continuing in 2008.
However, we are finding that we are still 15 in the second half of 2006. able to structure and execute high quality transactions in the current environment, our investment in Stork being one recent The UK remains Europes largest single buyout market, but many example.
We are experienced in identifying the key drivers of of the larger deals in the first half of 2007 happened in mainland success in businesses we back.
Markets such as Spain, Scandinavia and the Benelux generate 80% of our value creation over time: sales growth, countries have developed rapidly over the last two years.
improvements in operating margins and cash generation to pay down debt.
Over the last 28 years we have invested Market analysis through a number of market cycles and we have a strong Against this backdrop, it is likely that there will be some track record of delivering returns that outperform the market.
opportunities created by the economic downturn.
With the public markets going through a difficult period, there are likely Our challenges over the year ahead are to ensure that the 2005 to be quality assets available at attractive prices.
Indeed it Fund is invested wisely and to manage exits from our 2001 can be said that the current market conditions play to private Fund so as to continue to maximise returns for our investors.
04 Candover Report and accounts 2007 A European focus New investee companies Ferretti, Italy Parques Reunidos, Spain Capital Safety Group, UK Alma Consulting, France Stork, Holland Candover offices UK France Italy Spain For the latest information on our investments, go to www.
com 05 Candover Report and accounts 2007
