OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2007 The directors submit their Annual Report together with the as between persons who were last elected on the same day those audited Financial Statements of the Company and the Group for to retire shall unless they otherwise agree among themselves be the year ended 31 December 2007. determined by lot.
The directors retiring by rotation and, being eligible, offering themselves for re-election at the Annual General P PR RI IN NC CI IP PA AL L A AC CT TI IV VI IT TI IE ES S Meeting on 9 May 2008 are M W G Collins, who holds office as an The principal activities of the Group are described in the executive director and has a rolling service contract requiring a Operating and Financial Review on pages 12 to 14.
A list of period of 12 months notice from the Company or six months principal operating subsidiary undertakings is set out in note 35 from the director, and D A Haxby and M A Young, non-executive on page 118. directors, who do not have a service contract.
All directors are re-elected at intervals of not more than three B BU US SI IN NE ES SS S R RE EV VI IE EW W years, in accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code on A review of the businesses of the Group, a description of the Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group during the year Details of the directors remuneration, share incentives and ended 31 December 2007 and an indication of likely future options, and pension arrangements are set out in the Directors developments in the businesses of the Group are included in the Remuneration Report on pages 54 to 63.
Qualifying third party Operating and Financial Review on pages 12 to 40. indemnity provisions as defined in Sections 232 to 239 of the Companies Act 2006 have been made by the Company for the R RE ES SU UL LT TS S A AN ND D D DI IV VI ID fide EN ND DS S benefit of all the directors indemnifying them to the maximum Total income for the year amounted to 822.2 million 2006 extent permitted by law against liabilities attaching to them restated: 619.6 million and profit before taxation was 165.2 as directors of the Company and such provisions continue in million 2006: 132.2 million as set out in the Group Income force at the date of this report.
No director has had a contract Statement on page 70.
An analysis of income and profit before of significance, other than a service contract and a qualifying taxation, by segmental activity, is set out in note 4 on pages 83 third-party indemnity provision, with the Company or any and 84.
Details of the taxation charge for the year are set out in subsidiary undertaking during the year.
The Companys shareholders may by ordinary resolution appoint A final dividend of 13.10p per share is proposed by the directors any person to be a director and may by special resolution or by which, if approved at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on ordinary resolution, of which special notice has been given, 13 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at 28 March 2008. remove any director before the expiration of his or her period of The final dividend, together with the interim dividend of 6.20p paid office and may by ordinary resolution appoint another person in in October 2007, makes a total for the year of 19.30p per share.
No person other than a director retiring at the Shareholders can again reinvest their cash dividend in shares meeting shall, unless recommended by the Board, be appointed through the Dividend Reinvestment Plan Plan.
Shareholders as a director at any general meeting unless, not less than seven who have not previously completed a mandate and who require and not more than 28 clear days before the date of the meeting, details of the Plan should contact the Registrars online at there has been given to the Company Secretary written notice www.
com investor uk or by telephone on 0870 by a shareholder not being the person proposed to be appointed 889 4021.
New mandates must be received by close of business as a director who is entitled to attend and vote at the relevant on 21 April 2008 to be included in the Plan for the final dividend.
meeting of his or her intention to propose such person Further details are set out in Shareholder Information on page 119. for appointment and also written notice signed by the person to be proposed of his or her willingness to be appointed.
The trustee of the Cattles employee benefit trust has agreed to waive the right to receive dividends over and above 0.01p per The Board also has the power to appoint a person as a director, share on all shares it holds for the purpose of the Long-Term although any such director shall only hold office until the Incentive Plan, the Deferred Share Bonus Plan, the Management next Annual General Meeting, at which he or she will be eligible Share Plan and the Restricted Share Award.
In respect of the total for re-appointment.
A person will cease to be a director in various dividend for 2007 of 19.30p per share, the trustee has waived circumstances, including if he or she is requested to resign by dividends of 0.1 million 2006: 0.2 million on the shares held written notice signed by all of the other directors.
during the year ended 31 December 2007.
The directors have general power to manage the Companys business and may exercise all such powers of the Company as are D DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S not required by the Companies Acts or the Articles of Association The Board comprises the non-executive Chairman, four executive to be exercised by the shareholders in general meeting, subject directors and four independent non-executive directors, details of nevertheless to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the whom, together with brief biographical information, are set out Memorandum and Articles of Association and to any directions on pages 42 and 43.
S P Mahon was a director until his retirement given by the shareholders in general meeting by special resolution.
In particular, the directors have power to propose amendments The Companys Articles of Association require D J Postings, who to the Companys Articles of Association but any such was appointed as a director of the Company on 1 September amendments may only be made by a special resolution passed 2007 by the directors, to be re-appointed at the Annual General by the Companys shareholders.
In addition, the holders of 10% of Meeting on 9 May 2008.
D J Postings holds office as an executive the issued share capital may requisition an Extraordinary General director and has a rolling service contract requiring a period of Meeting for any purpose including amending the Articles.
12 months notice from the Company or the director.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles The Companys Articles of Association require that one third, or of Association, the unissued shares of the Company are at the as near as possible but not less than one third, of the directors disposal of the Board, which may offer, allot, grant options over or excluding, for this purpose, D J Postings retire by rotation otherwise dispose of them to any such persons, at such times each year.
Directors due to retire by rotation are those who have and for such consideration and upon such terms and conditions been longest in office since they were last elected and so that as the Board may determine.
Pursuant to resolutions passed 65 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, the directors currently as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS have authority to issue up to 120,923,900 ordinary shares on Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of a pre-emptive basis and up to 9,069,290 ordinary shares on a the Group and the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps non-pre-emptive basis.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles These financial statements will be published on the Companys of Association and to any confirmation or consent required by website, in addition to the paper version to be posted to those law, the Company may from time to time purchase its own shareholders who receive printed documents.
Pursuant to the resolution passed at the 2007 Annual and integrity of the Cattles plc website is the responsibility of the General Meeting the Company currently has the power to directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve purchase up to 36,277,172 ordinary shares and the directors consideration of these matters.
could exercise this power on behalf of the Company under their Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and general power to manage the Companys business.
dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
D DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S S SH HA AR RE EH HO OL LD DI IN NG GS S The directors named on pages 42 and 43 were in office for the D DI IS SC CL LO OS SU UR RE E O OF F I IN NF FO OR RM MA AT TI IO ON N T TO O A AU UD DI IT TO OR RS S whole of the financial year, except for D J Postings who was So far as each director who held office on 28 February 2008 the appointed on 1 September 2007.
The interests of the directors in date of the approval of this report is aware, there is no relevant the shares of the Company, all of which were beneficial interests, audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware as notified pursuant to rule 3.1.
2 of the Disclosure Rules and and he or she has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have Transparency Rules, were as follows: taken as a director in order to make himself or herself aware of 27 February 31 December 31 December any relevant audit information and to establish that the 2008 2007 2006 Companys auditors are aware of that information.
N N Broadhurst 1,000 1,000 1,000 1 D J Postings M W G Collins 90,877 90,877 80,497 F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L R RI IS SK K M MA AN NA AG GE EM ME EN NT T J J Corr 76,601 76,601 63,729 Details of the Groups financial risk management policies are set I S Cummine 137,280 137,280 121,749 D A Haxby 8,317 8,317 8,317 out in the Operating and Financial Review in the sections entitled F Dee 10,000 10,000 10,000 Credit risk and Treasury risk on pages 19 to 23.
A J McWalter M A Young 5,000 5,000 S SH HA AR RE E C CA AP PI IT TA AL L Total 329,075 329,075 285,292 1 Details of the structure of the Companys share capital and the D J Postings did not have an interest in shares of the Company on his appointment on 1 September 2007. rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in note 26 on page 106.
S ST TA AT TE EM ME EN NT T O OF F D DI IR RE EC CT TO OR RS S R RE ES SP PO ON NS SI IB BI IL LI IT TI IE ES S Cattles Trustee Limited, the trustee of the employee benefit trust, The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the owns 281,741 shares in the Company for the purpose of satisfying Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in the future vesting of awards under the LTIP, the Deferred Share accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Bonus Plan, the Management Share Plan and the Restricted Share Company law requires the directors to prepare financial Award.
Cattles Trustee Limited holds the voting rights in respect of statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors such shares but has not in practice exercised such voting rights.
have prepared the Group and parent Company financial To vote by proxy at general meetings, shareholders must lodge statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting their forms of proxy with the Companys registrars by no later Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The than 48 hours before the start of the relevant meeting.
There are financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair no restrictions on shareholders exercising their voting rights in view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of respect of their shares in the Company, except where calls or the profit or loss of the Group for the period.
other sums payable in respect of the shares have not been paid In preparing those financial statements, the directors are or a shareholder or other person appearing to be or to have been required to: interested in any shares fails to comply with a disclosure notice issued by the Company requiring the disclosure of information Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them in relation to those shares.
consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares in the prudent: Company, except: State that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as Where certain technical requirements for the transfer have not adopted by the European Union: and been complied with: Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis, To certain specified categories of persons such as minors, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group will bankrupts and persons suffering from mental illness: continue in business, in which case there should be supporting Where in certain circumstances a certificated share has not assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
been paid up or on which the Company has a lien: The directors confirm that they have complied with the above Where in certain circumstances a shareholder or other person requirements in preparing the financial statements.
appearing to be or to have been interested in any shares fails to comply with a disclosure notice issued by the Company The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting requiring the disclosure of information in relation to those records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the shares: or financial position of the Group and the Company and enable Where law or regulation for example, insider trading laws them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors or the Model Code which applies to the directors and certain Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and, other senior executives prevents dealings in shares.
66 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 During the year, the issued ordinary share capital of the Company E EM MP PL LO OY YM ME EN NT T P PO OL LI IC CY Y increased by 33,071,825 to 362,804,760.
Details of the changes The Group gives sympathetic consideration to applications for are shown in note 26 on page 106. employment from disabled persons wherever practicable.
Successful applicants and employees who become disabled are As at 31 December 2007 the Company was authorised to given appropriate assistance and training and have the same purchase up to 36,277,172 of its own shares.
career and promotion prospects as other employees.
S SU UB BS ST TA AN NT TI IA AL L S SH HA AR RE EH HO OL LD DI IN NG GS S Details of employee involvement in the Groups businesses and As at 27 February 2008 the Company had been notified of the performance are set out in the Operating and Financial Review on following interests pursuant to the Disclosure Rules and the pages 28 and 29.
Further details on the Groups commitment Transparency Rules representing 3% or more of the issued share towards its employees can be found in the 2007 Corporate capital of the Company: Responsibility Review.
Standard Life Investments 10.37% S SU UP PP PL LI IE ER R P PA AY YM ME EN NT T P PO OL LI IC CY Y A AN ND D P PR RA AC CT TI IC CE E F&C Asset Management PLC 6.92% It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with those terms and conditions agreed between the Lloyds TSB Group plc 6.85% Company and its suppliers when a binding purchase contract is UBS Global Asset Management 5.55% entered into, provided that all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
At the year-end, the Group had an average of FMR Corporation 4.68% 12 days purchases outstanding in trade payables 2006: 19 days Legal & General Investment Management 3.91% and the Company had an average of 33 days 2006: 26 days.
Barclays plc 3.04% I IN ND fide EP PE EN ND fide EN NT T A AU UD DI IT TO OR RS S  LLP have expressed their willingness S SI IG GN NI IF FI IC CA AN NT T C CO ON NT TR RA AC CT TS S to continue in office and resolutions proposing their The agreements relating to the Companys bank facilities, details re-appointment as auditors and authorising the directors of which are set out in note 23 on page 105, and debenture loans to determine the auditors remuneration will be proposed and other borrowings, details of which are set out in note 22 on at the Annual General Meeting.
page 99, contain provisions entitling the other parties to the agreements to terminate the agreements on a change of control By order of the Board of the Company.
All of the Companys share plans and schemes, which are described in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 59, contain provisions in relation to a change of control of the Company.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest Roland Todd and become exercisable on a change of control, subject, where Company Secretary relevant, to the satisfaction of any applicable performance 28 February 2008 conditions at that time.
D DO ON NA AT TI IO ON NS S Charitable donations during the year amounted to 0.4 million 2006: 0.4 million of which 0.3 million 2006: 0.2 million were made to organisations seeking to improve the financial skills and general welfare of young people and 0.1 million 2006: 0.2 million were made to organisations addressing the issues of social disadvantage in the communities served by the Groups businesses.
Further details on the Groups community investment policy and the community activities undertaken during the year are set out in the 2007 Corporate Responsibility Review, a copy of which is available on the Companys website, www.
There were no political donations in either year.
67 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
