02 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 We choose our customers with care and build close relationships with them.
C CH HR RI IS S N NA AY YL LO OR R, H HE EA AD D O OF F C CU US ST TO OM ME ER R S SE ER RV VI IC CE E, W WE EL LC CO OM ME E F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L S SE ER RV VI IC CE ES S Our underwriting is tightly controlled.
Scorecards are regularly reviewed by our credit quality team and experienced colleagues check and verify applicant documentation to ensure we dont lend more than they can afford to repay.
Once a loan is approved we allocate the customer to their nearest branch.
Within 24 hours the customer receives a call from their branch account manager to start building a personal relationship.
The manager will run through all the details again and make sure theyre comfortable with everything and check that they know when the first repayment is due.
R Ro ob bu us st t u un nd fide er rw wr ri it ti in ng g O Ou ur r k ke ey y s st tr re en ng gt th h We have refined our credit scoring and underwriting processes over many years to give us rigorous control of credit risk.
The same applies when we buy debt portfolios in The Lewis Group, where we have developed sophisticated and robust portfolio valuation models.
T Th he e b be en ne ef fi it ts s i it t b br ri in ng gs s Robust underwriting is part of our Risk.
approach, helping us maintain consistent credit quality and keep arrears within our target range.
It also helps us to be a responsible lender: we would not benefit our customers or ourselves by lending them more than they can afford.
B Be ei in ng g c cl lo os se e t to o o ou ur r c cu us st to om me er rs s O Ou ur r k ke ey y s st tr re en ng gt th h Knowing customers personally is another aspect of our Risk.
It helps ensure that customers keep us in the picture if their circumstances change or if they encounter repayment difficulties.
T Th he e b be en ne ef fi it ts s i it t b br ri in ng gs s By acting quickly and constructively, perhaps by rescheduling repayments, we can often prevent a temporary setback escalating into arrears.
Our loan can be repaid in full, and the customer avoids a major blow to their credit profile.
03 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 Before we take on debt, we make sure we can handle it.
G GR RA AH HA AM M H HO OC CK KL LE EY Y, H HE EA AD D O OF F R RI IS SK K, T TH HE E L LE EW WI IS S G GR RO OU UP P Welcome is well down the road of investing in new IT systems.
Now weve begun the journey of completely re-engineering our systems in Lewis.
Were re-designing our whole collection process so we can adapt faster and more flexibly to market, economic and regulatory changes.
Speed and flexibility are also crucial when were acquiring debt portfolios.
When attractive opportunities arise, we need to be able to act fast.
In todays market, having funding in place gives us a vital competitive advantage.
I In nv five es st tm me en nt t i in n s sy ys st te em ms s a an nd d p pr ro oc ce es ss se es s O Ou ur r k ke ey y s st tr re en ng gt th h High quality IT helps us recruit and select customers, matching their credit profile and needs to our products, and enhances the effectiveness and efficiency of our processes.
Our scalable systems will grow with our customer base.
T Th he e b be en ne ef fi it ts s i it t b br ri in ng gs s Investment in scalable systems is ensuring that our growth will not be held back by capacity constraints.
It is also contributing to that growth by enabling us to respond faster to enquiries from loan applicants and intermediaries and, in the case of Lewis, manage larger portfolios of debt.
C Co on ns se er rv va at ti iv five el ly y m ma an na ag ge ed d f fu un nd di in ng g O Ou ur r k ke ey y s st tr re en ng gt th h Our philosophy is to lend short and borrow long, ensuring we have funding headroom, secured ahead of need and hedged against interest rate volatility.
We have an excellent track record for raising funding in bank, bond and equity markets.
T Th he e b be en ne ef fi it ts s i it t b br ri in ng gs s Our prudent, consistent approach to funding and proactive approach to hedging enables us to take advantage of opportunities when they arise, while maintaining stable medium-term funding costs.
04 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 05 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 06 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 With people like ours, its no wonder were widely recommended.
C CA AR RO OL LI IN NE E M Mc cD DO ON NA AL LD D, M MA AR RK KE ET T D fide EV five EL LO OP PM ME EN NT T M MA AN NA AG GE ER R, C CA AT TT TL LE ES S I IN NV VO OI IC CE E F FI IN NA AN NC CE E The majority of our business comes from intermediaries such as accountants, brokers and banks though were now reaching an increasing number of business owners directly through the internet and telemarketing.
Our research says intermediaries think highly of us because were independent, responsive and flexible.
Clients say theyre impressed by the way we understand their needs and issues.
And thats down to the quality of our people.
We have good communications so that knowledge and experience are shared, and a strong training culture.
Im halfway through a 12-month management and leadership course myself, and its motivating when your company wants to invest in you.
M Mo ot ti iv va at te ed d, w we el ll l t tr ra ai in ne ed d p pe eo op pl le e O Ou ur r k ke ey y s st tr re en ng gt th h We have consistently benefited from investment in our people: their skills and experience enable us to manage risk successfully while providing excellent customer service.
This investment, whether in recruitment, training, communication, or cultural development, supports the growth of the business.
T Th he e b be en ne ef fi it ts s i it t b br ri in ng gs s Last year we set new records for colleague training, continued to improve colleague benefits and increased leadership training for managers.
Clearly, that is good for those who work for us.
It helps us attract the quality of people we want and to retain them.
It also helps customers who want quality service from positive people who know what they are doing.
B Br re ea ad dt th h o of f d di is st tr ri ib bu ut ti io on n c ch ha an nn ne el ls s O Ou ur r k ke ey y s st tr re en ng gt th h Across the Group, we reach our customers through our networks of brokers, strategic partners and introducers, our nationwide branches and online.
Ongoing investment in developing these relationships allows us to provide high quality, consistent service to both intermediaries and customers.
T Th he e b be en ne ef fi it ts s i it t b br ri in ng gs s The breadth of our distribution channels helps to reduce our reliance on any one source and to access a greater number of customers.
It is also good for customers, who can reach us through whichever channel suits them.
The internet is increasingly important as more consumers and businesses look to research and apply for credit online.
07 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
