OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Our Markets This Operating and Financial Review has During 2007 there has been a reduction Welcome Finance benefits from been prepared in accordance with in competitor capacity and credit risk its accumulated knowledge of Reporting Standard 1: Operating and appetite.
Welcome Finance presently Financial Review as published by the has a share of around 8% of its growing customer behaviour in identifying Accounting Standards Board.
addressable market and management profitable lending opportunities expects it to gain further market share and screening loan applications.
W WE EL LC CO OM ME E F FI IN NA AN NC CI IA AL L S SE ER RV VI IC CE ES S through ongoing development in its Welcome Financial Services WFS is one of systems, products and customer and the UKs leading players in non-standard intermediary service.
It comprises Welcome Unsecured lending, Welcome Finances Finance and Shopacheck, its lending main activity, faces varying degrees of businesses, and Welcome Car Finance, competition.
New entrants come into the its car retail operation.
Competition for market from time to time, particularly its principal business, Welcome Finance, during credit boom periods when prime primarily comes from specialist lenders soften their lending criteria to subsidiaries of major banks.
The extend into the non-standard sector of the opportunity for WFS continues to grow consumer lending market.
However, there as the banks progressively tighten their are significant barriers to maintaining a lending criteria as they find it difficult successful presence in this market.
One is to lend economically to borrowers with the need to build a substantial knowledge non-standard credit profiles.
base: while credit history data is available WFS lends to individuals with non-standard from credit reference agencies, Welcome credit profiles people who may not have Finance benefits from its accumulated access to mainstream lending, typically knowledge of customer behaviour in because of perceived shortcomings in their identifying profitable lending employment, residency or credit histories.
opportunities and screening loan It gives customers an opportunity to build applications.
This proprietary knowledge is or repair their credit profiles.
New entrants also need the expertise and WFSs credit assessment processes are resources to deal with customers face-todesigned to ensure that customers face through a well-developed multirepayment commitments are manageable branch infrastructure.
and that they are not over-committed.
Against the trend in the financial services W We el lc co om me e F Fi in na an nc ce e industry, Welcome Finance continues to Welcome Finance provides unsecured and invest in its branch network.
It views its secured personal loans, and hire purchase local branch presence as a significant for cars.
The sums involved are relatively strength research shows that many modest: typical advances are 2,100 for customers prefer to discuss their payment unsecured loans, 9,300 for second charge arrangements, when their personal secured loans and 6,000 for car hire circumstances have changed, on a face-topurchase loans.
face basis and Welcome Finance has made Welcome Finance has over 500,000 it a central part of the way it manages customers and repayments are mainly both customer relationships and risk.
collected monthly by direct debit.
S Sh ho op pa ac ch he ec ck k Outstanding loans of this type at the end The home collected credit market is of 2007 totalled over 3 billion, before mature.
Datamonitor, a leading market allowance for loan loss provisions, research agency, forecasts a modest accounting for over 85% of the Groups increase in advances each year from total receivables.
1.6 billion to 1.8 billion between 2007 Welcome Finances customers are and 2011.
Shopacheck remains the second primarily in socio-economic groups C and largest player in this market.
However, the D, which make up some 65% of the UK number of its customers is reducing, adult population.
However, its market also down 15% in 2007 to 266,000, as it includes people in the higher categories continues to disengage from sectors of the who may have irregular earnings patterns market which are considered uneconomic or need to repair their credit history.
At 31 December 2007 home collected loans represented less than Welcome Finances market is dynamic, 4% of the Groups total receivables at and independent research estimates the 102 million.
Typical Shopacheck advances total size to be approximately 13 million are around 300 and repayments are potential customers.
Of this, there is a collected weekly by local agents.
potential addressable market of 7.1 million customers, of whom 5.3 million would meet Welcome Finances underwriting criteria.
12 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 W We el lc co om me e C Ca ar r F Fi in na an nc ce e required standards of customer care and Welcome Car Finance and The Lewis Group have The non-standard motor finance sector is compliance.
Cattles fully supports the FSAs both experienced significant growth in 2007. predicted to grow modestly over the next Treating Customers Fairly principles which few years, despite the market remaining have been embedded in Welcome flat during 2007.
Non-standard lending Finances culture and values training, and accounts for about 20% of the total asset in its operating policies and procedures.
Welcome Car Finance The Competition Commission inquiry into the has experienced strong growth in 2007, sale of Payment Protection Insurance PPI despite softening in the UK market overall, began in February 2007 and is currently in and is the Groups largest introducer of the information gathering stage.
has provided all the requested information I Im mp pa ac ct t o of f t th he e c cr re ed di it t c cr ru un nc ch h and attended a Private Hearing in June Demand in the UK non-standard 2007 to provide further evidence to the consumer lending market has been Commission.
The sale of PPI has been growing strongly in recent years.
However, regulated by the FSA since January 2005 as credit markets have tightened, a number and continues to contribute around 10% of mainstream lenders who had entered of the Groups revenues.
The Commission the non-standard market have begun to produced its Emerging Thinking document withdraw from segments of it.
As this in November 2007 and advised that its trend continues, increasing demand is Provisional Findings Report would be likely to remain fed not only by existing published in May 2008.
The Inquiry has non-standard borrowers but also by a to provide a Final Report by its statutory tightening of credit qualification criteria end date of February 2009. by mainstream lenders, which will squeeze Cattles is an active member at board level some customers out of the prime segment of various trade associations including into the non-standard sector.
the Consumer Credit Association, the This is expected to create further Consumer Credit Trade Association and opportunities for Welcome Finance, which the Finance & Leasing Association.
has robust expertise in pricing risk and managing collections.
Welcome Finance T TH HE E L LE EW WI IS S G GR RO OU UP P typically lends smaller amounts than the The Lewis Group Lewis is a UK leader in companies that are withdrawing from the debt recovery and investigation services, sector, at interest rates priced to reflect the serving both external clients and WFS.
It also has systems and infrastructure to external clients are mainly large issuers of provide close relationship management and credit cards and unsecured loans as well support for customers key elements in its as both central and local government model for maintaining robust credit quality.
departments, insurance companies, catalogue retailers, utilities, R Re eg gu ul la at ti io on n telecommunications businesses and Government regularly reviews regulation educational institutions.
Lewis has a and legislation to ensure a robust and fair reputation for quality and ethical consumer finance market.
The significant collection practices, and subscribes to strengthening of regulation in recent years the Credit Services Associations code of favours responsible, well-managed conduct.
This provides comfort to bluebusinesses: Cattles welcomes the chip clients concerned to manage risk to reassurance that it provides to customers their own reputations.
Cattles corporate values require the Company to be a Debt collection and recovery is a diverse responsible lender and the Group has and competitive market with over 500 always seen treating customers fairly firms operating in the UK.
Consolidation and responsibly as an essential part of is expected and the market is becoming how it operates and how it manages risk.
more sophisticated as buyers and sellers of debt obtain better data and develop The Groups consumer lending businesses enhanced models that enable them to are licensed under the Consumer Credit price debt more accurately.
To maintain high standards of integrity and honesty among lenders, all Some 74% of Lewis income comes from providers of consumer credit must have purchasing and recovering portfolios of a licence of fitness to trade from the Office non-performing debt.
It buys these from of Fair Trading, which they must renew credit providers, at a discount to their face every five years.
The sale of general value, and then recovers the outstanding insurance products by Welcome Finance amounts.
Lewis helped to establish the is regulated by the Financial Services purchased debt market in the UK with a Authority FSA.
All relevant Welcome ground-breaking transaction in 1998.
It is Finance employees receive prescribed one of the top three players in this fasttraining and accreditation to maintain the growing market segment which grew by 13 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Our Markets continued around 40% a year between 2004 and C CA AT TT TL LE ES S I IN NV VO OI IC CE E F FI IN NA AN NC CE E Cattles Invoice Finance offers its clients 2006, compared with growth of around a high quality and responsive service.
Cattles Invoice Finance CIF provides 15% between 1998 and 2006 for the working capital finance to small and contingent debt collection market.
medium-sized businesses throughout the UK.
It has a broadly spread portfolio Most single portfolios coming to market of 725 clients.
It reaches clients through now realise around 0.5-1.0 million apiece, three main channels: intermediaries, but there is a trend to selling larger corporate partnerships and direct parcels.
Lewis is well-placed to bid on marketing, such as internet and much larger transactions and is telemarketing.
Direct marketing generated particularly interested in longer-term almost 10% of new clients in 2007. forward flow deals.
Like WFS, CIF manages risk through its Market growth accelerated strongly in underwriting processes and by 2007, and an estimated 8-10 billion of maintaining exceptionally close personal face value debt was sold during the year, contact with clients.
Its client managers according to the Debt Buyers & Sellers generally handle around 25-30 clients Group of the Credit Services Association.
each about a third of the typical industry Lewis continued to take advantage of level to ensure high quality client service the opportunities provided by its strong and a thorough understanding of clients market position, spending some financial position.
74 million on debt purchases during the year 2006: 70 million.
Investment in Around 60 companies operate in the UK debt purchase is central to Lewis growth, invoice financing market.
The clearing and any economic slowdown is likely to banks dominate, with a combined share of increase the availability of debt on about 60%.
A number of overseas banks attractive terms.
and larger independent lenders, such as CIF, operate nationwide and there are also Lewis is also a significant re-seller of debt, a large number of smaller regional players.
which has completed its progress through Consolidation of the sector has been the companys collection strategies.
under way in recent years.
The balance of Lewis business comes The UK invoice financing market has from recovering debts for clients on grown strongly in recent years.
The a commission basis and supplying average annual growth rate has been 8% investigation services, such as customer for client numbers and 18% for advances, care visits for insurance companies and which indicates that more larger arrears and pre-litigation visits for businesses are now using invoice finance.
Lewis operates one of the largest Historically CIF has served smaller self-employed field collection teams in companies with turnover up to 5 million, its sector.
where the annual growth in advances has I Im mp pa ac ct t o of f t th he e c cr re ed di it t c cr ru un nc ch h been slower at around 10%.
The purchased debt market is expected The UK market currently comprises to continue growing faster than approximately 3.7 million small and commissioned debt collection driven by medium-sized businesses with 250,000 liquidity pressures on banks, which are the suitable for invoice finance.
Less than 20% largest debt vendors, and their need to are using invoice financing services, free-up capital by reducing the amount of indicating significant potential for debt on their own books.
There is room for increased penetration across the further growth among smaller businesses marketplace.
CIF has an immediate and the public sector, which are relatively addressable market excluding borrowing under-penetrated and may also face over 5 million and the market share of pressure to recover capital faster.
Prices the Big 4 banks of approximately 16,500 for purchased debt are likely to soften if, businesses 40% of the total.
CIF currently as expected, private equity-backed funds approximately 700 businesses, debt collection agencies face increased giving it an addressable market share of funding pressures.
around 4% in terms of client numbers.
I Im mp pa ac ct t o of f t th he e c cr re ed di it t c cr ru un nc ch h Any tightening of credit is likely to increase companies demand for invoice financing.
Pressures on funding among the clearing banks may reduce their capacity.
14 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
