OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Key Resources The Group has maintained its F FU UN ND DI IN NG G The Group has continued to long-established treasury strategy of F Fu un nd di in ng g K KP PI Is s receive strong support from hedging exposure to interest rate volatility.
Total borrowing 2.3 billion At the year-end, around 85% of the equity and bond investors and 2006: 1.8 billion Groups 2.3 billion total borrowings were from its banking relationships.
Average cost of funding 6.9% protected against future interest rate 2006: 6.8% volatility, for an average period of around Headroom at year-end 226 million four years.
As a result, despite significant 2006: 349 million increases in short-term LIBOR rates, the Groups average cost of funding rose only The Groups continuing strong growth marginally in 2007 to 6.9% 2006: 6.8%.
requires an increase in the amount of funding needed, if it is to reap the benefit The Groups funding covenant allows of the opportunities open to it.
borrowings up to six times the value of shareholders funds.
By increasing During 2007 the Groups total receivables shareholders funds, the March share increased by 739 million to 2.8 billion placing added some 773 million to the and borrowings increased over the year by amount the Group can potentially raise in 565 million to 2.3 billion.
The Group has the debt markets to fund further growth continued to receive strong support from in lending.
At the year-end the Groups equity and bond investors, and from its gearing was 4.6 times 2006: 5.1 times banking relationships, despite greater risk shareholders funds, excluding goodwill aversion in the markets.
the Groups In the first quarter of 2007 the Company credit rating was reaffirmed as BBB in successfully placed 32,978,986 new October.
ordinary shares, which were admitted to At the end of 2007 the Group had available listing on the London Stock Exchange on headroom of 226 million 2006: 349 20 March 2007.
This raised gross proceeds million within existing funding facilities, of 133 million to refinance debt portfolios which had an average maturity of around acquired by Lewis in 2006 and to finance five years.
While this allows continued organic growth.
strong growth into 2008, the scale of In July 2007, the Group completed a new opportunities open to the Group mean 400 million 10-year sterling bond issue at that the Board will be looking to extend a fixed rate of 7.125%.
This significantly the Groups funding facilities further by increased available headroom and mid-2008.
strengthened the average maturity profile.
The Group is well-placed to raise further The issue was placed in line with the funds successfully, despite the current Groups strategy of going to the markets more conservative lending climate.
It has well ahead of need, and proved an excellent track record, well-established particularly well timed: soon afterwards, relationships with over 30 banks, and the corporate bond markets effectively continuing robust credit quality which closed to new issues.
provides further comfort to lenders.
In December, the Group secured additional However, given current debt market headroom by arranging a new 18-month conditions the Board is also looking at a unsecured facility of 150 million from the range of actions that would broaden the Royal Bank of Scotland, priced at around Groups funding options.
25bps above its current average rate for Inevitably, there will be some increase in bank funding.
This facility has recently the cost of funding.
But as existing been increased to 250 million.
The Group borrowings are already substantially also redeemed its 125 million maiden hedged, any rise will impact mainly on sterling bond, issued in 1999.
It is estimated that a 1% some perspective on current economic change in the three-month LIBOR would conditions to note that this bond carried a add only 1.9 million to the Groups fixed interest rate of 8.625% significantly annual interest expense, based on current higher than the average rates at which the levels of borrowing.
Following this transaction, with the sole exception of a US $40 million tranche of private placing funding which matures in December 2008, none of the Groups other facilities will need refinancing until mid-2009.
26 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 Each Welcome Finance applicants credit R RO OB BU US ST T U UN ND fide ER RW WR RI IT TI IN NG G Centralised underwriting using bespoke risk rating is assessed using a combination scorecards is a key element to effectively U Un nd fide er rw wr ri it ti in ng g K KP PI Is s managing credit risk.
of scorecards and policy rules, and this Welcome Finance loan loss ratio 8.6% rating is used to determine which product 2006: 7.4% is appropriate.
All key data such as Welcome Finance instalment arrears 7.0% income and identity is validated through 2006: 7.4% documented proof, supplemented with electronic checking and use of the latest An essential element of the Groups fraud prevention technology and a consumer lending strategy and risk national fraud sharing database.
management is maintaining robust credit quality.
The Groups long-established During the sales process a customers target has been to maintain instalment ability to afford their loan repayments, arrears in Welcome Finance at 8-10% balancing their proven income against of receivables, and the business has their outgoings, is assessed.
At the time a consistently operated at or slightly below loan is paid out all Welcome Finance this level for many years.
customers are in employment and have a direct debit set up from a bank account to Welcome Finance achieves controlled repay the loan.
levels of arrears through its bespoke credit scoring and underwriting process B BE EI IN NG G C CL LO OS SE E T TO O O OU UR R C CU US ST TO OM ME ER RS S supported by the close relationships The 235 branches in WFSs network that employees in its local community are a crucial resource in the effective branches maintain with customers so management of credit risk.
These that account managers can provide timely branches employ local people with good assistance to customers who experience communication skills, who understand difficulties with their repayments.
local conditions and help the business to Welcome Finances scorecards and credit engage in the local community.
Once a scoring methodology are bespoke, based Welcome Finance loan has been advanced on its own data, developed with a leading by one of the three Customer Sales and credit referencing agency, and refined over Service Centres, customers are contacted many years of experience in non-standard by a customer account manager from their consumer lending.
Management believes nearest branch to begin establishing a they represent best practice in the sector.
Maintaining Improved credit scorecards and other these relationships is a key part of the enhancements to Welcome Finances Groups arrears management strategy and customer selection technology were is the major role of branch staff.
It helps introduced in 2004, and the combined the business to respond promptly when effect of these has contributed to bringing customers experience difficulty with customers instalment arrears below repayments, agreeing a practical plan the target range.
At the end of 2007 the to help them avoid arrears.
level of instalment arrears in Welcome In order to accommodate Welcome Finance was 7.0% 2006: 7.4%.
The Group Finances continuing growth, continually monitors the performance management has been reviewing the role of the scorecards to ensure they continue of branches so that they can manage to support the strategy of robust larger numbers of customers successfully.
Their work in maintaining close personal The Board continues to believe that the relationships with customers is 8-10% target constitutes an appropriate paramount, but it is recognised that there risk appetite.
Over time, as previously is some scope for handling some aspects reported, it is expected that instalment of administration centrally rather than in arrears will gradually return to within the branches.
Welcome Finance is currently target range because of changes in undertaking pilots of alternative models.
product mix towards unsecured lending.
27 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Key Resources continued are continually reviewed: last year a M MO OT TI IV VA AT TE ED D, W WE EL LL L T TR RA AI IN NE ED D P PE EO OP PL LE E The Groups investment in building a strong consistent approach to rewarding loyalty culture and values has grown in 2007.
P Pe eo op pl le e K KP PI Is s across the Group was developed and a Number of employees 5,008 flexible menu of benefits was introduced 2006: 4,449 so that colleagues can choose a personally Colleague turnover 30.5% tailored package.
The Group also 2006: 33.1% introduced the Colleague Assistance Proud to work here Programme, which provides information index rating increased 0.6% on 2006 and counselling to help colleagues with lifes ups and downs.
To support the accelerating growth of the business, the Group has stepped-up its The Group has been working hard to investment in people: in recruiting, engage its people with the business goals training, developing and motivating them, by improving internal communications.
and ensuring that they are well led by Twice a year, elected colleague appropriately skilled senior managers.
The representatives now meet with subsidiary Group has also increased its investment in board directors and colleagues receive a fostering a consistent, positive and ethical range of information on their subsidiarys culture across all its businesses.
response has been encouraging: colleague The quality of people that can be attracted turnover is down, and colleagues are as a result of this work is pleasing and increasingly engaged in the business and has led to a further reduction in colleague committed to its success.
A At tt tr ra ac ct ti in ng g a an nd d r re et ta ai in ni in ng g h hi ig gh h c ca al li ib br re e The response rate to the Groups annual c co ol ll le ea ag gu ue es s Speak Up colleague survey grew to 87% Employee numbers increased across the 2006: 84%.
The survey recorded good Group last year, rising by 13% to just over improvements in colleagues perceptions 5,000.
This compares with a 1% increase of the Groups financial strength, culture, in 2006.
These increases have supported professionalism and customer focus.
It a 44% increase in Welcome Finances also acknowledged colleagues continuing customer numbers over the two-year progress in helping local communities and period.
Coming on top of normal colleague Key findings were as follows: turnover, the staffing increase meant that the Group had to attract some 1,970 new Index rating increase of 0.6 to 78% people into the organisation during the in relation to colleagues being proud year.
The quality of the Groups people to work for the Group is essential to its success: their skills, Index rating increase of 0.1 to 82% in commitment and, in particular, their relation to believing they worked for a understanding of the Groups markets good employer and customers are paramount.
95% of colleagues feel they make a valuable contribution to the business The Group therefore recognises the importance of being able to attract people Cattles has also received external of the right calibre and to train and professional recognition in 2007, with motivate them well.
Developing talent awards for the Most Effective Employee from within in order to grow internal Benefits Programme in the 2007 HR expertise in key areas, such as arrears Excellence Awards and Best Employee management, is also viewed highly.
Benefits Communications in the DWF Employer Awards.
On average the Group attracts about 10 applicants for each job, such that in 2007 B Bu ui il ld di in ng g a a s st tr ro on ng g c cu ul lt tu ur re e a an nd d v va al lu ue es s 19,000 applications were handled.
The With some 1,970 new joiners in 2007, and Group has strengthened the recruitment growing numbers likely for the foreseeable team, brought in additional specialist future, the Group has made additional skills, and supported them with new IT to efforts to instil strong values across the help them process applications efficiently.
organisation and ensure that all colleagues know what is expected of them.
To attract and retain the best people the Being respectful of both colleagues and Group needs to offer attractive benefits, customers is important and management working conditions and career paths in all believes the way colleagues and customers areas of the business.
The Group aims to are treated is important to differentiate provide competitive salary and benefits the Group positively from competitors and packages, and help colleagues to earn Cattles good standing with regulators participate in its success through a and commentators.
Sharesave Scheme and the award of free shares.
The benefits offered to colleagues 28 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 The Group fosters a culture that is both internal development and promotion: in Record levels of training were provided in 2007, performance-oriented and customer 2007, 189 colleagues were promoted from as well as increased opportunities for leadership development.
sensitive: knowing and supporting one grade to another, and another 588 customers is the best way to maintain were promoted within their existing strong growth in a range of economic grade.
So, for example, bonus and The Group continues to invest in incentive schemes are designed to reward training at all levels, particularly for responsible lending, compliant behaviour customer-facing employees, to ensure and good customer service.
For each of the that colleagues have the skills they need Groups businesses, management has to meet regulatory requirements, deliver worked with colleagues to establish clear the businesses strategies and develop aims and values.
In 2007 WFS defined its their careers.
purpose as to set the standard in non-standard consumer finance in Over 16,000 days of training were provided relation to customers, people and profit.
in 2007, of which almost 6,500 were to Lewis and CIF have adopted similar prepare colleagues for the introduction of programmes to strengthen their culture Welcome Finances new back office IT and values.
Other major training programmes included training 175 people WFS, which is regulated by the FSA, has to join Welcome Finances new sales embraced the FSAs Treating Customers fulfilment team, and the Licensed to Sell Fairly TCF initiative.
The business applies programme which ensures that every the TCF principles in its business dealings colleague who gives advice on insurance and training, and is embedding them in products meets regulatory requirements.
The Group has a clearly articulated equal L Le ea ad fide er rs sh hi ip p, t tr ra ai in ni in ng g a an nd d d fide ev five el lo op pm me en nt t opportunities policy, and the workforce To maintain the quality of leadership and tends to reflect the local environment and performance as the Group grows, community.
Diversity training is investment in training and management increasingly part of induction and development again increased in 2007. management development programmes.
Quality of leadership is crucial to H He ea al lt th h a an nd d s sa af fe et ty y successful growth management, and in Although the great majority of employees 2007 a head of leadership development work in office environments, the Group is was appointed.
During the year 116 of the not complacent about health and safety.
Groups managers participated in the The well-being of all colleagues is regarded leadership development programmes of as a primary responsibility.
the Management Academy, and a further 231 colleagues attended other In 2007 there were three accidents development programmes covering topics reportable under RIDDOR Reporting of such as coaching, time management Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous and persuading and influencing.
One Occurances Regulations, compared with of the Groups leadership programmes, two in 2006.
The Groups health and safety the Foundation Management Skills policies are reviewed regularly to ensure programme, received external that significant hazards are managed accreditation from the Institute of effectively, and fire risk assessments are Leadership and Management, and means completed at all locations.
The Group managers are able to gain an externally stepped-up online health and safety recognised qualification through the training for all colleagues during 2007, Academy: a further incentive to high such that 13,212 assessment modules calibre people to build their careers with were completed.
The Group has substantial field forces The Group is moving people more working in the community, some of whom frequently between and around its carry money as part of their job.
These businesses wherever possible to develop a colleagues are provided with personal management team with broader safety awareness training and support experience of the whole Group.
At the using materials developed by the Suzy same time, bringing in talent and Lamplugh Trust, of which Cattles is a experience from outside is considered long-standing member.
appropriate in order to introduce fresh With some 1,450 company cars, the Group perspectives and new skills.
A great also recognises the risks to colleagues on advantage of the Groups continuing the road.
Company car drivers are targeted expansion is that this can be done while with driver training programmes and maintaining a strong programme of safety awareness campaigns.
29 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Key Resources continued CIF introduced an industry-leading CRM I IN NV five ES ST TM ME EN NT T I IN N S SY YS ST TE EM MS S Continuing investment in technology and process system in 2006.
This has proved highly development is resulting in productivity gains and A AN ND D P PR RO OC CE ES SS SE ES S enhanced customer service.
successful in helping the company to Welcome Finance continues to benefit manage the sales process, make better from its CRM system, implemented in informed decisions and increase business mid-2006, which has supported record from introducers.
Work is now under way business volumes with highly reliable and to link the system with CIFs core scalable technology for new business operational system to provide better acquisition.
In 2008 the business integrated management information.
introduces the second major phase of this investment programme, replacing the B BR RE EA AD DT TH H O OF F D DI IS ST TR RI IB BU UT TI IO ON N C CH HA AN NN NE EL LS S systems handling of the back office A significant factor in Welcome Finances aspects of Welcome Finances lending sustained growth is the relationships it operations.
has built with its external distribution This will be highly integrated with the channels.
These are mainly brokers and CRM system to provide a single solution car dealerships who refer customers.
handling all aspects of customer Welcome Finance centralised its acquisition, management and retention.
underwriting processes to ensure that it Simplified procedures will lead to greater can give these introducers an consistency and efficiencies in the way the exceptionally high quality, consistent business deals with its customers.
By demonstrating commitment to will also be further improvement in them and the market, the business has management information through taking built a sound basis for long-term a single view of customer data.
At the relationships and trust.
Its CRM system is same time Welcome Finance will deploy a enabling the business to develop improved comprehensive marketing solution to access for introducers, so that they obtain support full life cycle marketing of its a faster response from Welcome Finance products to new and existing customers.
than from other lenders and can in turn deliver a better service to their customers.
This phase will complete the investment to deliver foundation systems capable of Lewis has a number of large clients in the supporting both organic and acquisitive public and private sectors, who either sell growth.
It will enable Welcome Finance to portfolios of debt or use Lewis debt pilot a number of new initiatives to collection services.
Lewis sustains its broaden the way in which its customers relationships with these blue-chip and introducers work with them and in organisations by offering competitive particular to create faster turnaround of prices for purchased debt, delivering lending decisions.
This should lead to excellent service and taking care to ensure further improvement in new business that its approach does not put their conversion rates.
clients reputations, or its own, at risk.
The Group will also take advantage of Virtually all CIFs business has traditionally recent advances in telephony to support come through introducers such as banks more efficient routing of calls across its and accountancy firms.
In 2007 it customer management functions.
This appointed a corporate partnership director will lead to a better customer service and to pursue relationships with larger improve efficiency by routing calls institutions and affinity groups as a wherever skilled staff are available strategic partner or outsourced provider.
This work is already beginning to bear fruit and the business expects to announce a In 2008 Lewis will begin implementing a number of partnerships in 2008. new core business system.
This will enhance the effectiveness of its debt CIF also reaches potential customers collection processes, for example, by better through direct marketing channels such as matching collection strategies to types of internet and telemarketing.
It will be a fully scalable package investment in this area has resulted in capable of supporting Lewis future 10% of new clients in 2007 coming from growth.
30 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007
