OVERVIEW 0011 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 1240 GOVERNANCE 4168 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69118 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION 119120 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Our Objectives and Strategies The quality and motivation of the Groups C Co or rp po or ra at te e R Re es sp po on ns si ib bi il li it ty y G GR RO OU UP P S ST TR RA AT TE EG GY Y people is a clear strength, both in gaining Cattles aims to retain the confidence of all The overall objective of Cattles is to new business and in maintaining robust stakeholders and to maintain their trust in increase shareholder value significantly by credit quality.
The Group will continue its businesses.
The Group will continue to becoming the UKs leading non-standard to focus on employee engagement linked demonstrate a responsible approach to financial services group.
to reward and to develop a shared culture customers, colleagues, local communities The Group intends to achieve this across the organisation which involves and and the environment.
objective by: energises all employees to grow the Corporate Responsibility CR is about business and enhance the quality of Continuing to focus on non-standard managing risks to the confidence and customer service.
consumer lending: and trust placed in Cattles businesses by Supplementing this with a broadening W We el lc co om me e F Fi in na an nc ci ia al l S Se er rv vi ic ce es s customers, colleagues and other range of complementary financial The Group aims to maintain strong stakeholders.
If the Group fails to services and distribution channels for growth in income and profits in WFS recognise its responsibilities or non-standard consumers.
whilst maintaining robust credit quality underestimates their importance, it risks and intends to achieve this aim by: damaging its reputation and ultimately The Key Performance Indicators KPIs to its business.
measure the Groups progress are: Focusing on non-standard direct repayment lending by increasing Cattles has a straightforward CR strategy Income growth customer origination and retention based on three cornerstones: Earnings per share growth through enhanced customer Return on equity B Be ei in ng g a a r re es sp po on ns si ib bl le e f fi in na an nc ci ia al l s se er rv vi ic ce es s relationship management: o or rg ga an ni is sa at ti io on n The Groups investment over recent Establishing new distribution channels The Groups businesses treat their years has built a strong, scalable business and becoming the lender of choice for customers fairly and with respect.
They in three complementary markets: intermediaries: lend carefully, making sure customers non-standard consumer finance, debt Leveraging WFSs customer base to financial circumstances are understood recovery and SME invoice finance.
The develop non-interest income streams, to ensure the right products are offered.
Group intends to continue growing in all either organically or by acquisition: and Open and honest relationships are sought three areas.
Continuing the development of with customers and constructive support Welcome Car Finance.
There is a great opportunity to leverage is offered to customers if they encounter the Groups expertise, track record and The KPIs to measure progress are: difficulties.
leadership skills in non-standard Growth: customer numbers B Be ei in ng g a a g go oo od d p pe eo op pl le e b bu us si in ne es ss s consumer finance.
The recent contraction Credit quality: loan loss ratio The Groups success depends on the skills in this market has been due to a reduction Yield: net interest margin and professionalism of its employees.
The in supply as lenders have withdrawn from Group aims to create an environment that sectors of this market or have tightened T Th he e L Le ew wi is s G Gr ro ou up p is motivating and stimulating and to treat their underwriting criteria, rather than to The Group aims to maintain strong its employees with fairness and respect.
any softening in demand: demand has in growth in income and profits in Lewis and Listening to what employees have to say, fact continued to grow.
The Group will intends to achieve this aim by: helping them to fulfil their career continue to invest in building upon its Continuing to invest in acquiring debt aspirations and offering them equal strong position in this sector, without portfolios: opportunities to progress are important compromising underwriting criteria, Building new strategic partnerships with priorities.
The Group seeks to build strong through organic development of Welcome major lenders: and bonds with the communities in which Finance and through the acquisition of Maintaining Lewis rigorous debt it operates because these are where its complementary non-standard consumer valuation criteria.
customers and employees live and work.
The KPIs to measure progress are: B Be ei in ng g e en nv vi ir ro on nm me en nt ta al ll ly y r re es sp po on ns si ib bl le e The Group will also continue to invest in As a growing business the Group growing Lewis and to develop CIF.
Growth: total receivables recognises its impact on the environment.
Yield: net interest margin Investment in infrastructure and IT systems It has a duty to manage this impact has already enabled the Group to C Ca at tt tl le es s I In nv vo oi ic ce e F Fi in na an nc ce e and minimise it where it can, and to raise accelerate its growth.
This investment is The Group aims to continue to increase awareness of environmental issues among enabling loans to be approved more CIFs share of its growing market and colleagues.
Stakeholders expect the efficiently, improving the effectiveness of intends to achieve this aim by: Group to do this, and using resources more collection processes, enhancing efficiently will also help to reduce costs.
Focusing on organic growth through customers experience and making it easier customer acquisition and broadening for brokers and dealers to promote the the product range: and Groups products.
These new systems are Continuing to enhance CIF's client scalable.
The Group will continue to invest service offering.
in its branch network, processes and IT to support further growth.
The KPIs to measure progress are: Growth: total receivables Credit quality: loan loss ratio Yield: net interest margin 15 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 R Re ev vi ie ew wi in ng g p pe er rf fo or rm ma an nc ce e i in n o ou ur r 16 Annual Report and Cattles plc Financial Statements 2007 S Sh ho op pa ac ch he ec ck k b br ra an nc ch h i in n B Br ra ad df fo or rd d..
