20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 6 6 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 Portfolio Managers Report FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped from 30.06.06 to 30.06.07 Investment Background rebased to 100 UK Equity Market Performance 120 During the year under review, the UK stockmarket rose by 115 16.7% excluding income as measured by the FTSE AllShare 4% Capped Index.
The UK economy grew by some 110 3% with consumer spending helped by the continued rise 105 in house prices, especially in London and the South East.
Other big contributions to growth were made by the 100 buoyant financial services sector and by exporters that 95 benefited from the growth in emerging markets and also in Continental Europe.
The US economy was mixed and 90 J J A S O N D J F M A M J the dollar declined against sterling from an exchange rate Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Price Index of $1.85 to $2.01.
Takeovers continued to feature with the UKs particularly open system for corporate control Base Rates, 10 Year UK Government & FTSE All-Share Index facilitating the acquisition of UK companies by foreign 4% Capped Yields from 30.06.06 to 30.06.07 companies and private equity firms.
Gearing ranged 6.0 between 5.5% and 8.6% throughout the year and as a result gearing made a positive contribution to 5.5 performance, the fourth year in a row that it has done so.
5.0 4.5 Interest Rate, Fixed Interest and Equity Yields 4.0 UK base rates rose from 4.5% to 5.5% over the twelve 3.5 months as the Bank of England acted to counter a rise in inflation.
Bond yields were adversely affected with the ten 3.0 year benchmark UK government gilt yield rising from 2.5 J J A S O N D J F M A M J 4.7% to 5.5%.
The dividend yield on the equity market UK Base Rate 10 Year Gilt FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Yield Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream fell from 3.0% to 2.7% as share prices rose more quickly than dividends.
The average increase in the dividend rate of companies held by City of London was around 9.8% Return on FTSE 350 Higher Yield and Lower Yield Indices excluding special dividends.
rebased to 100 125 Performance of Higher Yielding compared with 120 Lower Yielding Shares 115 The chart opposite compares the return of the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index the higher yielding half of the largest 110 350 shares of the UK with the FTSE 350 Lower Yield Index 105 the lower dividend yielding half of the largest 350 shares in the UK.
As can be seen, lower yielding shares did 100 significantly better over the second half of the period 95 J J A S O N D J F M A M J leading to their outperformance over the twelve months.
FTSE 350 Higher Yield FTSE 350 Lower Yield The Banks and Oils were two large higher yielding sectors Source: Thomson Financial, Datastream that disappointed.
City of Londons portfolio outperformed 20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 7 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 7 Portfolio Managers Report continued despite having a dividend yield above the market average.
because we were sceptical about the scope to improve The three biggest stock contributors to outperformance margins in their labour intensive catering operations.
were the holdings in BT and soft drinks manufacturer Some large profits were taken in the real estate sector.
Britvic and not holding AstraZeneca, the large Rodamco Europe was sold after its all paper takeover by pharmaceutical company.
Wereldhave was sold at a significant premium to its net asset value.
Large Portfolio Activity reductions during periods of takeover speculation were Takeovers were a key feature of the UK equity market over made in the holdings of Segro formerly Slough Estates the year.
Three companies held in City of Londons and Hammerson.
Overall, our overweight position portfolio were bid for by foreign companies at prices relative to the benchmark index in real estate was significantly above those previously prevailing in the reduced from 3.8 percentage points to 1.2 percentage stockmarket.
In the electricity sector, Scottish Power was points over the year.
taken over by Iberdrola of Spain: in tobacco, Gallaher fell The main focus for reinvestment was in the largest UK to Japan Tobacco: and, in building, Heidelberger Cement companies, where share price valuations seemed to be too of Germany bought Hanson.
In addition, Alliance Boots, low in relation to prospects.
This may have been because the chemist and wholesaler, was bought by a private they were not considered vulnerable to takeover due to equity consortium led by KKR.
While it is sad to see some their large size.
Additions were made to the holdings in long-standing names leave the London Stock Exchange, Vodafone whose emerging markets operations are the prices paid were good for the sellers.
Furthermore, UK growing strongly and its stake in the leading US mobile companies can take advantage of opportunities for operator is increasingly valuable.
The additions were partly acquisitions in overseas markets, such as has been seen in funded by selling France Telecom which had to the mining and the banking sectors.
downgrade its revenue guidance and Inmarsat, the Takeover speculation affected the share price valuations of satellite telecommunications company.
many other companies which led us to review a number of the holdings in the portfolio.
It was also felt to be beneficial Among other large capitalisation companies, we also to focus on fewer stocks in some sectors.
Overall, the added to our holding in GlaxoSmithKline, where number of holdings in the portfolio was reduced from 110 potential from new medicines being developed did not to 96 over the year.
In the media sector, we added to seem to be reflected in its valuation: Royal Dutch Shell, Pearson and Reed because we felt that their businesses had which benefited from buoyant conditions for its oil refining adapted to the internet and could prosper in the digital era.
operations: and Royal Bank of Scotland which increased A new holding was purchased on an attractive valuation in its 2006 dividends by 25% compared with 2005.
Euromoney Institutional Investor which distributes In the life insurance sector, an investment was made in international news and information and organises Standard Life, which floated on the stock exchange, and conferences and training schemes.
Companies in the media is experiencing strong growth in SIPPs self-invested sector that seemed to us to be relatively challenged by new personal pensions.
Later in the period under review, technology were sold: Daily Mail & General, EMI and ITV.
Prudential was sold as it appeared expensive due to In addition, British Sky Broadcasting was sold because of takeover speculation.
Elsewhere in the insurance sector, a concern about the cost of maintaining its dominance of UK holding was purchased in Amlin, the insurance and subscription television.
In the travel and leisure sector, 888 reinsurance business which owns 100% of its Lloyds was sold after the disappointing ban on internet betting in capacity and has a very good underwriting track record.
the USA: Rank was sold ahead of the smoking ban in Insurance broker Jardine Lloyd Thomson was sold given England and Wales which will adversely affect the the adverse effects of the weakening US dollar and greater profitability of their bingo business: and Compass was sold disclosure of commissions.
20328 Text 6 9 07 15:50 Page 8 8 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 Portfolio Managers Report continued In the electricity sector, generators with low levels of BP the largest holding and Royal Dutch Shell fifth carbon emissions were considered to have a long-term largest holding should continue to benefit from a firm oil competitive advantage.
Purchases were made of British price due to growth in global demand.
Over the next year, Energy, the UK nuclear generator, and Fortum, the BP should experience the start of production at two new Finnish hydro and nuclear generator.
Drax, the UK coal oil fields in the Gulf of Mexico and one in Angola and the generator, was sold.
recovery of its Texas refinery.
Royal Dutch Shell has an outstanding international spread of oil refineries and retail In retailing, a holding was purchased in Signet, which is networks, with particular strength in Asia.
the largest jeweller in the UK H. Samuel and Ernest Jones chains and second largest in the USA.
Its US formats Almost half of the value of Vodafone the portfolios account for some two-thirds of group profits and have second largest holding is now accounted for by rapidly considerable scope for further growth.
The purchase of growing interests outside the UK and Western Europe.
Signet was funded by the sale of GUS.
British American Tobacco third largest holding should continue to produce steady growth in profits and Five other medium-sized companies were bought during dividends from its global operations.
Cattles, which provides credit to sub prime fourth largest holding profits are derived from Hong personal borrowers, enjoys above average margins due Kong, Asia and emerging markets.
to the specialised nature of its borrowing and has a good long-term record.
Group4Securicor provides Turning to important sectors in the portfolio, banks are security and cash services and is benefiting from the largest sector and account for 15.3% of the total.
The particularly strong growth in developing markets.
banks that are held in the portfolio have high credit Meggitt is an engineer of aerospace products and is ratings, big deposit franchises and diversified funding enjoying strong markets from both the civil and military bases.
Although a slowdown in capital market profits is sectors.
Schroders is an asset management company likely, this is, in our opinion, more than discounted in the that is moving towards higher margin business and has low valuation that the stockmarket currently attributes to significant surplus capital.
Smith News was demerged the profits of the banks.
The diversity of the sources of the from W H Smith and is the UKs leading newspaper and banks profits is currently being overlooked with magazine wholesaler with a market share of some 40%.
contributions being made from retail, corporate, insurance, The company is a strong generator of cash and was asset management and investment banking businesses.
In purchased on a modest rating.
addition, the banks businesses have become much less dependent on the UK with, for example, some 50% of Outlook Barclays profits and some 35% of Royal Bank of The outlook is for slower growth for the UK economy Scotlands profits from overseas operations.
Looking given the increases in interest rates that have taken place forward, we believe that the banks will perform better and and the significant level of consumer indebtedness.
we can perceive two potential catalysts.
First, the takeover However, the overall growth rate of the global economy battle between Barclays and Royal Bank of Scotland for remains strong due to the rapid development of emerging ABN of the Netherlands will be resolved.
Secondly, as economies such as China and India.
City of Londons investors perceive the current cycle of UK interest rate portfolio is currently biased towards large companies with increases to have reached its peak, they will be able to international earnings as can be seen from the largest five view with more confidence the banks UK profits.
investments which add up to 21.4% of the total.
3.2% 20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 9 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 9 Portfolio Managers Report continued Elsewhere in the portfolio, significant positions are held in Overall, the portfolio is relatively defensive with a dividend the mining sector 6% of the total and beverages sector yield of companies held some 26% higher than the market 6% of the total.
In mining, our holdings look good value average at 30 June 2007.
Changes to the portfolio in the given current prices of metal commodities but with the risk year ahead will continue to be made through our of long-term cyclicality.
In beverages, the progress at disciplined approach to stock selection taking into Diageo the portfolios seventh largest holding is very consideration valuation of shares and future flow of encouraging, especially in the US.
Job Curtis Distribution of the Portfolio Estimated Performance Attribution Analysis at 30 June 2007 for the year to 30 June 2007 total returns relative to the FTSE All-Share Index 4% Capped Large companies constituents of the FTSE 100 Index 2007 2006 Medium-sized companies European Equities Stock Selection including income 0.38% -3.42% Gearing 0.64% 0.42% Expenses -0.41% -0.44% Share Buy Backs 0.04% n a 16.6% Total 0.65% -3.44% Source: Henderson Global Investors Limited 80.2%
