20328 Text 6 9 07 11:10 Page 13 The City of London Investment Trust plc Report & Accounts 2007 13 Directors Simon fide Zoete, Chairman Anita Frew age 50 is a Mark Nicholls Angus Russell Sir Keith Stuart age age 66 was Deputy Chairman non-executive Director of age 58 was Head of age 51 is the Chief 67 is an adviser to The of Credit Suisse First Boston Aberdeen Asset Corporate Finance at SG Financial Officer of Shire Gas & Electricity Markets Europe Limited until June Management plc, IMI Warburg and Chief plc.
He is a chartered Authority, having been a 2001.
He is an adviser to BAE plc, Securities Trust of Executive of Royal Bank accountant, having Member of the Authority Systems 2000 Pension Plan.
He Scotland plc, Victrex plc of Scotland Private qualified with Coopers & from 2000 to 2006.
He is an investment banker and Northumbrian Water Equity Group.
He is Lybrand and is a Fellow was Chairman of specialising in the equity market Ltd.
Prior to this, she was Chairman of Eco of The Association of Associated British Ports and was Vice Chairman of an executive Director of Securities Group plc, Corporate Treasurers.
He Holdings plc from 1983 Barclays fide Zoete Wedd prior to Abbot Mead Vickers, Deputy Chairman of joined the Board to 2002 and he has also its sale to Credit Suisse First Director of Corporate Venture Production Plc in 2003. served as non-executive Boston in 1998.
He joined the Development at WPP and a non-executive Chairman of SEEBOARD Board in 2000.
Group plc and Head of Director of Evolution plc and as a nonUK Equities at Scottish Group plc, Northern executive Director of Provident.
She joined the Investors Company PLC BAA plc and RMC Group Board on 1 October and the Nationwide plc.
All directors are independent of the Investment Manager and are members of the Nominations Committee, which is chaired by Simon fide Zoete.
The Audit Committee consists of Sir Keith Stuart Chairman, Mark Nicholls and Angus Russell.
Management Job Curtis age 46 has been the Portfolio Manager since 1 July 1991.
He is an executive of Henderson Global Investors Limited.
Job is assisted in the management of the portfolio by Alex Crooke and James Henderson.
Deborah Trickett acts as Company Secretary on behalf of Henderson Secretarial Services Limited.
From left to right: front row Deborah Trickett, Job Curtis back row Alex Crooke, James Henderson
