Business Profile Collins Stewart is a leading independent investment bank.
Listed on the London Stock Exchange, the Companys operations include securities broking, capital markets, corporate advisory, and wealth management.
Founded in 1991, it has grown steadily and now has over 700 staff and a presence in 12 jurisdictions.
Group Overview Securities Capital Markets The following is a brief summary of the The Securities division offers a full research, sales Collins Stewarts Capital Markets division is, by and execution service to over 1,000 institutional a considerable margin, the leading stockbroker activities and services clients across the three key regions: Europe, for small mid-cap equity fundraising in London.
North America and Asia Pacific.
The division has distribution capability in the UK, of each of our specialist Europe and the US as well as advisory capability.
Collins Stewarts research model utilises a divisions combination of fundamental sector analysis The divisions Corporate Broking team and the proprietary online, interactive cash provides advice on proactive communication flow-based valuation model, Quest and investor relationship management, www.
com, which covers 2,500 including the planning and co-ordination Revenue By Business stocks in 27 countries across Europe, the of investor marketing programmes.
Clients US and Asia Pacific, including Japan.
The are provided with in-depth briefing notes Companys sector analysts cover over and investor feedback, as well as regular 25% 34% 400 stocks across Europe and the US and marketplace reporting, shareholder analysis seek to focus on ideas that challenge and trade reporting.
conventional thinking rather than providing waterfront coverage.
Through superior 21% fundamental analysis, supported by the principles of Quest, Collins Stewart has 20% developed a reputation for high-quality and differentiated research.
The product is Securities distributed by sales teams in London, Dublin, Paris, Geneva and New York.
Capital Markets Wealth Management Collins Stewart offers a full research, market making and execution service Hawkpoint in over 200 small and mid-cap stocks, including all the stocks to which the Company is appointed broker.
The Company also maintains an investment trust and funds team, and convertible and preference trading desks in its London operation.
6 6 Collin Collins Stewart plc s Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 200 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7 Quest provides the essential analytics for any company in any sector in any geography.
Wealth Management Hawkpoint In recognition of the quality of service Collins Stewarts Wealth Management Hawkpoint is one of Europes leading provided, Hawkpoint was selected as division manages over 4.2bn and has offices independent corporate finance advisory the British Venture Capital Associations in London, Jersey, Guernsey and Isle of Man.
businesses, providing a broad range of Financial Advisor of the Year, as the Sell advisory services to clients in the areas of Side Deal of the Year by Private Equity mergers & acquisitions, capital markets, The division provides stockbroking and News, as Acquisition Monthlys Mid-market debt, restructuring and strategic advice.
investment management services to private Financial Advisor of the Year and was named clients, trusts, charities, pension funds and Hawkpoint serves a client base that includes Boutique Advisory Firm of the Year at the private companies in the UK and overseas.
public and private companies, financial European Venture Capital Journal Awards.
institutions, private equity houses and It provides three different types of service: government bodies.
Operating from offices discretionary, managed advisory and a pure in London and Paris, Hawkpoint advises execution service.
on transactions predominantly in Europe, particularly in the UK, France and Germany.
The division offers a fund-based asset management service designed for clients who wish to invest in collective investment schemes unit trusts, investment trusts, open-ended investment companies and alternative investment strategies as well as offering segregated, structured portfolios.
The discretionary services include specialist tax advisory services.
The excellent service provided by Wealth Management was recognised during the year as it won Best Discretionary Service at the inaugural Daily Telegraph Wealth Management Awards and received two awards at the Investors Chronicle Investment Awards, including Best Customer Service Stockbroking.
Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Collin Collins Stewart plc s Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 200 Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7 7 7
