Overview of 2007 Board of Directors Terry Smith David Lindsay Keith Hamill Chairman Finance Director Independent Non-executive Deputy Chairman Terry 54 is Chairman of the Company and is David 51 was appointed an executive also Chief Executive of Tullett Prebon plc.
He director of the Company on 1 June 2007.
Keith 55 was appointed Deputy Chairman worked for Barclays Bank from 1974 to 1983 Until October 2006, David was Finance of the Company upon Admission on and became an Associate of the Chartered Director at AEA Technology plc where he 19 December 2006.
He is also Chairman of Institute of Bankers in 1976.
He obtained an completed the successful financial and Tullett Prebon plc, Travelodge Limited, Heath MBA at The Management College, Henley in business restructuring of the Company.
At Lambert Group Holdings Limited, Alterian 1979.
He became a stockbroker with AEA, David also had operational responsibility plc and Deputy Chancellor of Nottingham W Greenwell & Co in 1984 and was the topfor the companys nuclear and batteries University.
He is a chartered accountant rated bank analyst in London from 1984 to businesses.
Previously, David was Finance and worked for Price Waterhouse from 1989, during which period he also worked at Director of Industrial Control Services plc, 1975 to 1988, becoming a partner in 1987.
In 1990, he became and held senior financial posts in the UK and Subsequently he was director of financial head of UK Company Research at UBS Phillips France with GEC ALSTHOM and Initial plc.
control at Guinness, finance director of & Drew, a position he left in 1992 following the United Distillers, Forte plc and WH Smith publication of his best selling book Accounting plc.
He was also previously a member of the Paul Baines for Growth.
He joined Collins Stewart shortly Urgent Issues Task Force of the Accounting Executive Director after and became a director in 1996.
He is Standards Board and Chairman of the CBI qualified as a Series 7 Registered Representative Financial Reporting Panel.
He is Chairman of and a Series 24 General Securities Principal with Paul 52 was appointed an executive director the Nominations Committee, and a member the NASD.
He is also a non-executive director of of the Company on 22 December 2006.
Paul of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
is Chief Executive and Managing Partner of Hawkpoint.
After qualifying as a solicitor with Freshfields he joined Antony Gibbs & Sons Joel Plasco Limited, a UK merchant bank.
In 1984 he Chief Executive joined Charterhouse Bank, where he became a director in 1988.
In 1993 he became a Joel 37 qualified as a solicitor with Gouldens member of the management committee of its now Jones Day after which he joined corporate finance business, latterly becoming Collins Stewarts nascent Corporate Finance its Chief Executive.
He joined Hawkpoint in department.
He left Collins Stewart in 1999 2000 and was appointed Chief Executive and to found NewMedia SPARK plc, a technology Managing Partner in October 2003. investment company, where he served as a director for 5 years.
He rejoined Collins Stewart Tullett plc in 2004 where he was appointed Chief Operating Officer of the inter-dealer broking business following the acquisition of Prebon.
He was appointed Chief Executive of Collins Stewart in May 2006.
24 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Richard Kilsby Patrick OSullivan Iain Napier Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Independent Non-executive Director Director Director Richard 56 was appointed a non-executive Patrick 58 was appointed a non-executive Iain 58 was appointed a non-executive director of the Company upon Admission director of the Company on 20 December director of the Company on 12 February on 19 December 2006.
He is Vice Chairman of the Zurich 2007.
He is non-executive chairman of executive director of Tullett Prebon plc.
He joined Zurichs Imperial Tobacco Group plc, having been is chairman of 888 Holdings plc and holds a UK Division as CEO of Eagle Star Insurance, a non-executive director since 2000, and number of board positions in privately held in conjunction with the merger of the is non-executive chairman of McBride plc.
He formerly held financial services arm of B.
A. T. Industries He was previously Group Chief Executive of a number of positions in finance and the and the Zurich Group in 1998.
In December Taylor Woodrow plc and has formerly held City including those of Vice Chairman of the 2002, he became group Finance Director non-executive directorships with BOC Group, virt-x stock exchange created by the merger and assumed his current position in March St Modwens Properties, Perrys and Tomkins.
of the Swiss Exchange with Tradepoint, 2007.
After qualifying with Arthur Andersen As a former main board director of Bass plc, Chief Executive of Tradepoint an AIM quoted as a chartered accountant, he worked for he was Chief Executive of Bass Leisure and electronic exchange and executive director Bank of America in London, Miami, Los then Chief Executive of Bass Brewers and of the London Stock Exchange responsible Angeles and Frankfurt.
He joined Financial Bass International Brewers.
Following the for listing, secondary regulation and the Guaranty Insurance Company, a wholly sale of the Bass beer business in 2000, he introduction of the SETS trading system.
owned subsidiary of GE Capital in 1990, became Vice President UK and Ireland for Prior to this he was a managing director at followed by BZW, the former investment Interbrew SA until August 2001.
Prior to Bankers Trust and Charterhouse plc.
His early banking arm of Barclays Bank plc in 1994.
Bass he was with the Ford Motor Company career was with Price Waterhouse and he was In September 1996, he became BZWs in a career spanning some 12 years and 9 made a partner in 1984.
He is Chairman of Chief Operating Officer.
He graduated positions, mainly in sales, marketing and the Remuneration Committee and a member from Trinity College, Dublin, with a degree general management.
In his early career he of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
in business studies, and is a fellow of the spent five years with Whitbread plc split Institute of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
between their company in Scotland and Furthermore, he holds a Master of Science Whitbread Flowers in Cheltenham.
Most of degree in accounting and finance from the his time in Whitbread was spent on finance, London School of Economics.
He is chairman retail development and acquisitions.
Iain is of the Audit Committee and a member of the a qualified accountant.
He is a member of Remuneration and Nominations Committee.
the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 25 Reports and Financial Statements Contents Reports and Financial Statements Report of the Directors 27 Consolidated Statement of Recognised Independent Auditors Report on Corporate Governance Report 34 Income and Expense 52 the UK GAAP Company Financial Report on Directors Remuneration 40 Consolidated Balance Sheet 53 Statements 100 Statement of Directors Responsibilities 48 Consolidated Cash Flow Company Balance Sheet 102 Independent Auditors Report to the Statement 54 Notes to the Company Financial members of Collins Stewart plc 49 Notes to the Consolidated Statements 103 Consolidated Income Statement 51 Financial Statements 55 Appendix 108 26 Collins Stewart plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
