ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 15 Directors Report The Directors are pleased to submit their report and the audited Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 28 and shares financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. held by the Bodycote International Employee benefit Trust abstain from The Chairmans Statement, the Group Business Review, the Audit voting and waive dividend.
No person has any special rights of control Committee Report, the board report on remuneration and the details over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
of the Board of Directors and Advisers on pages 2 to 28 together The appointment and replacement of Directors is governed by the comprise the Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Companys Articles of Association, the Combined Code, the Companies PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Act and related legislation and the Articles of Association may be The Company is a holding company with subsidiaries carrying on amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
The powers of the business in the elds of thermal processing and testing services.
Directors are described on page 16.
Under the Articles of Association The activities and locations of the principal subsidiary undertakings the Company has authority to issue 107,831,930 ordinary shares.
The Group Business Review contains There are also a number of other agreements that take effect, alter, a survey of the Groups activities, significant acquisitions and disposals crystallise or terminate upon a change of control of the Company during the year together with an outline of future developments.
following a takeover bid such as commercial contracts, bank loan GROUP BUSINESS REVIEW agreements, property lease agreements, employment contracts and The enhanced business review for the Group, entitled Group employee share plans.
None of these are considered to be significant Business Review, is provided on pages 3 to 14 of this annual report.
in terms of their likely impact on the business of the Group as a whole, This is a review of the development of the businesses of the Group, and the Directors are not aware of any agreements between the including the financial performance during the year ended 31 December Company and themselves or employees that provide for compensation 2007, key performance indicators and a description of the principal for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Group Business Review SHARE CAPITAL has been prepared solely to assist the shareholders in assessing the The Companys issued share capital as at 31 December 2007 was Groups strategies and the potential of those strategies.
It should not 32.4m and during the year was increased by the issue of 1,505,161 be relied on by any other party for any other purpose.
Forward-looking shares of 10p each between 28 February and 16 November 2007 for statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using a total consideration of 3,058,868 pursuant to options granted under information available up to the date of this report and such statements the Companys executive share option schemes.
At the annual general should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in meeting on 23 May 2007 the shareholders have authorised the economic trends and business risks.
Since the end of the financial year Company to purchase up to 32,216,806 of its own shares, and the no important events affecting the business of the Group have occurred.
Company purchased 2,025,000 shares with a nominal value of TRADING RESULTS 202,500 for a total consideration of 3,672,973 to be held in treasury.
The profit of the Group before taxation was 68.5m 2006: 46.6m.
This authority expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual profit attributable to shareholders amounted to 52.8m 2006: 43.1m General Meeting to be held on 30 April 2008, at which time a further and, after providing for dividends of 23.4m 2006: 21.0m and other authority will be sought from shareholders.
items of recognised income and expense, the balance of 31.0m DIRECTORS 2006: 20.0m has been transferred to reserves.
The current Directors are listed on page 28 and, with the exception DIVIDENDS of Mr Biles who was appointed on 16 August 2007 and Mr Thomson The Board is recommending a final dividend of 5.25p per share making who was appointed on 1 December 2007, all served throughout the a total relating to the year of 8.0p per share 2006: 7.0p.
Mr R. T. Scholes retired as a director on 16 August 2007 having dividend, if approved, will be paid on 4 July 2008 to shareholders served for 9 years as a non-executive director.
Messrs J. D. Hubbard on the register at the close of business on 6 June 2008. and J. Vogelsang are retiring by rotation and, in accordance with the articles of association and each being eligible, offer themselves for CAPITAL STRUCTURE re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Messrs A. M. Details of the authorised and issued share capital are shown in note 24.
A. Biles, appointed as directors since the last annual The Company has one class of ordinary shares which carry no right general meeting, and both being eligible, offer themselves for election to xed income.
Each share carries the right to one vote at general by shareholders at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
As previously meetings of the Company.
There are no specic restrictions on the announced the chairman, Mr J.
A. S. Wallace will step down as a director size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares, both of which are at the conclusion of that meeting.
The service agreement for Mr Hubbard governed by the general provisions of the Articles of Association and is terminable by one years notice.
Messrs Thomson, Biles and Vogelsang prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements do not have service agreements with the Company.
between holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Bodycote annual report 2007 15 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 16 Directors Report DIRECTORS INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS & SHARES Independent Non-Executive Director at meetings with major Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and details shareholders.
Regular feedback by the Companys advisers on of the Directors interests in the Companys shares, share option investor meetings and results presentations is circulated to all schemes and share incentive plans are shown in the Board Report Directors.
Non-Executive Directors are also encouraged to attend on Remuneration on pages 22 to 27.
No Director has had any dealings one of the results presentations each year.
On specic issues the in any shares or options in the Company since 31 December 2007.
Chairman will seek the views of Bodycotes leading investors.
Qualifying third party indemnity provision as dened by section 309C Apart from these distinct areas, Bodycote was in compliance with of the Companies Act 1985 has remained in force for the Directors the provisions of the Code throughout 2007. for the year ended 31 December 2007 and, as the date of the report, remains in force for the benefit of the current Directors in relation to Operation of the Code certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred to Taken together with the Audit Committee Report and the Board third parties in the course of their duties.
Apart from these exceptions, Report on Remuneration presented on pages 20 to 27, this statement none of the Directors had a material interest in any contract of explains how Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate signicance in relation to the Company and its subsidiaries at any governance set out in the Code.
time during the financial year.
Leadership CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors comprises eight members, of whom four The Groups mission is: are independent Non-Executive Directors and three are Executive Directors led by the Companys part-time Non-Executive Chairman, To provide world class companies with thermal processing and Mr J.
A. S. Wallace, who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
testing services that make a positive contribution to the success The Chief Executive is Mr J. D. Hubbard.
The Deputy Chairman is of their businesses: Mr A. M. Thomson, who will become Chairman after the annual To earn sustainable profits which attract shareholder interest: general meeting on 30 April 2008, and the Senior Independent To engage, develop and retain competent people, harness their Non-Executive Director is Mr J. Vogelsang, who also chairs the enthusiasm and inspire them to excel: and Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by To act as a good corporate citizen.
Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on page 28.
The Board meets at least eight times a year and visits are The Groups aim in terms of corporate governance is, therefore, made to UK and overseas facilities.
Certain dened issues are to sustain and support these objectives over the longer term.
reserved for the Board to decide, inter alia: Compliance with 2006 Combined Code Strategy Bodycote complies with the provisions of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK Financial Reporting Approval of financial statements and circulars Council in June 2006 the Code, save in the following two areas Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals where the reasons for the variance are noted: Annual budgets 1 Performance evaluation code provision A.
6 Directors appointments, service agreements, remuneration and succession planning The Board believes a rolling programme of assessments is the Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and most practical and effective method of evaluating Bodycotes environment, donations control structures.
Informal evaluation of Bodycotes actions, Committees terms of reference control structures and personnel also takes place regularly as part of a continuous momentum for improvement.
Bodycote aims to Board and committee chairmen and membership carry out and report on assessments of all committees and the Investments Board itself within a three-year cycle, notwithstanding that the Equity and bank nancing Code lays down an annual frequency for each, and will carry out Internal control and risk management and report on assessments of all relevant personnel annually.
Corporate governance 2 Investor Relations code provision D. 1.1 Key external and internal appointments Bodycote believes that generally it is the responsibility of the Chief Employee share incentives and the UK Pension Scheme Executive and the Finance Director to manage relationships with In advance of board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date institutional investors.
The Chairman has met and the Chairman information about the trading performance of each operating location, and Deputy Chairman are available to meet institutional investors the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior to discuss overall strategy, governance and any concerns that year, budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest shareholders may have.
Only where these more usual channels of available information on Safety, Health and Environmental and risk communication have failed would the Company expect the Senior management issues and details of the safety and health performance Independent or other Non-Executive Directors to become involved, of the Group, and each strategic business unit in terms of severity notwithstanding that the Code species attendance of the Senior and frequency rates for accidents at work.
16 Bodycote annual report 2007 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 17 Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice Performance Evaluation the cost of which is reimbursed by the Company, all Directors have All Executive Directors were appraised internally during 2007. access to the Company Secretary and they may also address specic In February 2008 the Board carried out its own evaluation of the issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Remuneration and Nomination Committees reviewed their own performance in October 2007 and the Audit In accordance with the articles of association all newly appointed Committee reviewed its performance in November 2007.
The Chairman Directors and any who have not stood for re-election at the two assessed the performance of Messrs L. P. Bermejo and J. Vogelsang previous Annual General Meetings, if eligible, must submit in October 2007 and Mr J. Vogelsang assessed the performance of themselves for re-election.
Mr Wallace as Chairman in October 2007.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for Nomination Committee xed terms not exceeding three years from the date of first election Mr J.
A. S. Wallace chairs the Nomination Committee which also by shareholders, after which the appointment may be extended by comprises Messrs A. M. Thomson from 1 December 2007, mutual agreement.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is J.
A. Biles from 16 August 2007, J. Vogelsang, L. P. Bermejo and set out on page 19.
The Board also operates three committees.
The meetings in 2007 proposed the nominations for These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee re-election at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, and discussed and the Audit Committee.
general succession planning and specic positions.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors During 2007 the Committee also recommended the appointments of The Board considers that Messrs A. M. Thomson, J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang Mr Thomson as Deputy Chairman to succeed Mr Wallace at the 2008 and L. P. Bermejo are all independent for the purposes of the Code.
Annual General Meeting and Mr Biles as Audit Committee Chairman in Commitment each case following preparation of a job specication, the appointment Attendance of Directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Board of external search consultants, and interviews with candidates.
and its Committees is shown in the table below.
In addition there Proposals for Re-election were eight further unscheduled telephone conference meetings of Mr Vogelsang has served as an independent non-executive director the Board, and a number of ad hoc committee meetings to deal with since 2003, Remuneration Committee Chairman since 2004 and nomination and bid response issues, which considerably added to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director since 2007.
Following planned workload for Directors.
a performance evaluation carried out by the Chairman in October 2007 his performance was determined to be effective and that he has devoted time and commitment having recorded 100% attendance at Scheduled all regular scheduled Board and committee meetings since appointment Board Audit Remuneration Nomination in 2003.
Following a performance evaluation by the Chairman in February meetings Committee Committee Committee 2008, the Board also proposes the re-election of Mr J. D. Hubbard as James Wallace 8 8 N A N A 4 4 a Director.
Alan Thomson 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Internal Control The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and John Hubbard 8 8 N A N A 4 4 for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage David Landless 8 8 N A N A N A rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against Derek Sleight 8 8 N A N A N A material misstatement or loss.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Hans Vogelsang 8 8 4 4 4 4 4 4 Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks arising out of Laurent Bermejo 7 8 3 4 4 4 4 4 Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
The Board continuously Richard Scholes 4 5 3 3 3 3 3 3 and regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of 2000 to the date of approval of this report and which is in John Biles 3 3 1 1 1 1 1 1 accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the [gures in brackets indicate the maximum number of scheduled Combined Code published in September 1999.
The Boards monitoring meetings for which the individual was a Board or Committee covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance member. ]
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
Bodycote annual report 2007 17 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 18 Directors Report During 2007, in compliance with provision C. 2.1, the Board also The winter 2005 edition of EveryBody Extra featured the Groups performed a specic assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
open door policy under which employee concerns can be voiced The assessment considered all significant aspects of internal control on a condential basis.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair arising during the period covered by the report including the work consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons, of Internal Audit.
In addition, the Managing Director of each of the having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and to encourage Groups Strategic Business Units reported on the existing internal the training and career development of all personnel employed by the control procedure and any failings or weaknesses.
They identied and Group, including disabled persons.
Should an employee become disabled made an assessment of the risks affecting the businesses they control, the Group, where practicable, will seek to continue the employment in each case with the assistance of input from those reporting directly to and arrange appropriate training.
An equal opportunities policy is in them.
Such risks were measured against their own stated objectives, operation in the Group.
and actions for any improvements were scheduled against a timetable RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT for later verication by Internal Audit.
No significant previously Product development and quality improvement at all Group companies unidentified risks were uncovered as part of this process, and the is a continuous process.
The Group has a policy of deploying the best necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any technology available and actively seeking improvements.
It also conducts significant failings or weaknesses identied as part of the review.
research programmes with its customers.
Investor relations DONATIONS The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet Charitable donations during the year net of income tax amounted institutional investors, both individually and collectively, and this has to 10,650 2006: 16,600.
There were no political contributions.
enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the Groups strategy.
The business of the Annual General Meeting now CREDITORS POLICY comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms shareholders attending.
In addition, since 1998, internet users have and conditions under which business transactions are conducted.
been able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price It is Group policy that payments to suppliers are made in accordance via the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the with the terms agreed, provided that these suppliers have also complied website can also enrol free for a service that automatically noties with applicable terms and conditions.
Creditor days at the year end them of results announcements and recent significant Group events.
for the Company were 45 days 2006: 45 days.
Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial public SHAREHOLDERS relations consultants provide Directors with opinion surveys from An analysis of the Companys shareholders and the shares in issue at analysts and investing institutions following visits and meetings with 18 February 2008 and details of major shareholders interests appearing the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Non-Executive Directors are in the register maintained pursuant to Section 211 of the Companies themselves invited to attend analysts presentations at the time of the Act 1985 are given on page 87. regular results announcements.
As stated on page 16 the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are AUDITORS available to discuss any issues not resolved by the Chief Executive In accordance with the provisions of section 384 of the Companies and Finance Director.
On specic issues, as with the introduction in Act 1985, a resolution for the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP 2003 of the share option scheme, in 2005 with the stock bonus plan, as auditors is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
in 2006 with the introduction of long term incentive and share Each Director of the Company states that, in accordance with and as matching schemes, and in 2007 with the bid approach from Sulzer dened by the Companies Act 1985:- AG, the Company will seek the views of leading investors.
1 so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit EMPLOYMENT information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and The Group recognises the value that can be added to its future profitability and strength by the efforts of employees.
The commitment 2 each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken of employees to excel is key to the Groups continued success.
as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit Through their attendance at, or participation in, production, safety and information and to establish that the Companys auditors are health meetings at site level, employees are kept up to date with aware of that information.
the performance and progress of the Group, the contribution to the This statement is given and should be interpreted in accordance Group made by their site and are advised of safety and health issues.
with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
During 2007 the Group published, via the Group extranet, two ten language editions of EveryBody Extra an electronic magazine for all staff detailing the Groups activities, performance and some of its personalities.
Approximately 2,500 Bodycote employees are connected to the Bodycote extranet, which will improve knowledge of Group activities, and assist greatly with technology exchange and co-ordination.
18 Bodycote annual report 2007 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 19 DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial the Board Report on Remuneration and the financial statements position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the parent in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
company financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation of fraud and other irregularities.
to prepare the group financial statements under IFRSs IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The group financial statements are The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in International Accounting Standard 1 requires that IFRS financial other jurisdictions.
statements present fairly for each financial year the Company's financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events The 2008 Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 April 2008 in and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition accordance with the notice being sent to Shareholders.
criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the By order of the Board.
International Accounting Standards Board's 'Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements'.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRSs.
However, Directors are also required to: 1 properly select and apply accounting policies: 2 present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Hulley Road that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Hurdseld information: and J. R. Grime Maccleseld Secretary Cheshire 3 provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic 26 February 2008 SK10 2SG requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entity's financial position and financial performance.
The Directors have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: a select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: b make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and c state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
