ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 9 Cash Flow Borrowing Facilities The Groups debt funding policy is to borrow Cash ow from operating activities was At 31 December 2007, Bodycote had three centrally, using a mixture of short-term 108.0m compared to 109.2m in 2006, committed bank facilities of 225m 2006: borrowings, longer-term loans and finance a decrease of 1.1%.
After allowing for net 225m, expiring July 2010: ?125m 2006: leases.
These borrowings, together with capital expenditure of 66.9m 2006: 55.4m, ?125m, expiring July 2013: and $20m cash generated from operations, are lent or the Group generated operating cash ow 2006: nil expiring July 2010 totalling contributed as equity to certain subsidiaries.
At the same The aim of the Groups funding policy is to There has been continued focus on cash date, the three facilities were drawn ensure continuity of finance at reasonable collection and debtor days have decreased 175.3m 2006: 140.3m, 44.1m 2006: cost, based on committed facilities from by 2 days to 68 days.
Net interest payments 43.1m and 4.6m 2006: nil respectively, several sources, arranged for a spread of in the year were 9.1m 2006: 12.8m and totalling 224.0m 2006: 183.4m.
Financial Risk Management Liquidity Risk Acquisitions and disposals resulted in net The Groups treasury function provides a Liquidity risk is dened as the risk that the cash outgoings of 32.9m 2006: 86.2m.
centralised service to the Group for funding, Group might not be able to settle or meet its Capital Expenditure foreign exchange, interest rate management obligations on time or at a reasonable price.
Net capital expenditure for the year was and counterparty risk.
Treasury activities have Liquidity risk arises as a result of mismatches 66.9m compared to 55.4m in 2006. the objective of minimising risk.
Treasury between cash inows and outows from the The multiple of net capital expenditure operations are conducted within a framework business.
This risk is monitored on a centralised to depreciation was 1.3 times as the Group of policies and guidelines authorised and basis through regular cash ow forecasting: expands into emerging markets and continues reviewed by the Companys Board of directors, A 5 year rolling Strategic Plan, an annual budget to take advantage of outsourcing opportunities.
most recently on 13 December 2007. agreed by the Board each December and a With buoyant demand continuing in most quarterly re-forecast undertaken during the The Group uses a number of derivative markets, the Group anticipates a ratio of 1.3 financial year.
The resulting forecast net debt instruments that are transacted, for risk times again in the current year.
During the is measured against a liquidity headroom policy management purposes only, by specialist year work continued on 21 greeneld which, at the current net debt levels, requires treasury personnel.
The use of financial investments started since 2006 such as the committed facilities plus term loans in excess instruments including derivatives is greeneld heat treatment plant in Mexico, of one year to exceed net debt by 50%.
permitted when approved by the Board, various testing facilities in the Middle East, where the effect is to minimise risk for the As at 31 December 2007, the Group had the new testing facility in Mexico and the Group.
Speculative trading of derivatives or committed facilities of 326.9m 2006: construction of our Indian heat treatment other financial instruments is not permitted.
309.2m which exceed net debt of 198.2m facility.
Expansion projects with expenditure There has been no significant change during 2006: 160.9m by 65% 2006: 92%.
in 2007 included a new heat treatment plant the financial year, or since the end of the The Group also uses uncommitted short term in Finland, the completion of a large HIP unit year, to the types or scope of financial risks bank facilities to manage short term liquidity in the US and the commencement of work faced by the Group or the Groups approach but these facilities are excluded from the on a new large HIP unit in Sweden.
to the management of those risks.
The Group manages long term liquidity through long term committed Capital Expenditure Capital Management bank facilities and will, if appropriate, raise and Depreciation The Group manages its capital to ensure that funds on capital markets.
The Groups principal entities in the Group will be able to continue committed bank facility of 225m has a Capital Expenditure Depreciation as a going concerns while maximising the Million Million maturity of 2.6 years.
The ?125m committed return to shareholders.
The capital structure bank facility has a maturity of 5.6 years.
70 70 of the Group consists of debt, which includes In addition cash management pooling, borrowings as disclosed in note 17, cash netting and concentration techniques are 60 60 and cash equivalents and equity attributable used to minimise borrowings.
to equity holders of the parent, comprising 50 50 capital, reserves and retained earnings as disclosed in notes 23 and 24.
40 40 The capital structure is reviewed regularly by the Companys Board of Directors.
30 30 The Groups policy is to maintain gearing, determined as the proportion of net debt 20 20 to total capital within dened parameters, allowing movement in the capital structure 10 10 appropriate to the business cycle and 0 0 corporate activity.
Bodycote annual report 2007 9 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 10 2007 Group Business Review Market Risk Transaction foreign exchange exposures Currency sensitivity Interest rate risk arise when entities within the Group enter The currency risk sensitivity analysis is based Interest rate risk arises on borrowings and into contracts to pay or receive funds in a on the assumption that changes in exchange cash balances and derivative liabilities and currency different from the functional currency rates affect the non-sterling financial assets assets being at oating interest rates.
It is Group policy and liabilities and the interest relating to those Changes in interest rates could have the to hedge exposure to cash transactions in financial assets and liabilities.
effect of either increasing or decreasing the foreign currencies when a commitment Under this assumption, a 10% strengthening Groups net result.
Under the Groups interest arises, usually through the use of foreign or weakening of sterling against all exchange rate management policy, the interest rates exchange forward contracts.
However the rates at 31 December 2007 would have on each of the Groups major currency nature of the business is such that cross reduced or increased profit before tax and monetary assets and liabilities are managed border sales and purchases are limited and, equity before tax effects as shown in the to achieve the desired mix of xed and other than currency interest, such exposures table below: variable rates for each major net currency are immaterial for the Group.
These major currencies currently Currency sensitivity - impact - Market Risk sensitivity analysis include the US Dollar, Euro, Sterling, Swedish The Group has measured the estimated On profit Krona and Canadian Dollar.
Measurement of charge to the income statement and equity m On equity before tax this interest rate risk and its potential volatility of either an instantaneous increase or decrease to the Groups reported financial performance of 1% 100 basis points in market interest CAD 2.3 0.1 is undertaken on a monthly basis.
rates or a 10% strengthening or weakening Euro 17.5 0.7 As at 31 December 2007, 6% of net in sterling against all other currencies from SEK 3.8 0.1 borrowings were at xed rates for an average the applicable rates as at 31 December 2007, USD 9.3 0.5 period of 3.0 years.
for all financial instruments with all other Other 0.8 0.1 variables remaining constant.
This analysis Currency risk Total 33.7 1.5 is for illustrative purposes only, as in practice Bodycote has operations in 35 countries and market rates rarely change in such a manner.
is therefore exposed to foreign exchange The sensitivity analysis excludes the impact translation risk when the profits and net assets of market risks on net post employment Non-sterling financial liabilities offset the of these entities are consolidated into the benefit obligations.
exchange rate impact on non-sterling net assets.
Assets are hedged, where appropriate, by matching the currency of Interest rate sensitivity Counterparty risk borrowings to the net assets.
The Group The interest rate sensitivity analysis is based Counterparty risk encompasses settlement risk principally borrows in the US Dollar, Euro, on the following assumptions: on derivative financial instruments and money Swedish Krona and Canadian Dollar, market contracts and credit risk on cash and changes in market interest rates affect consistent with the location of the Groups time deposits.
The Group monitors its credit the interest income or expense of variable non-sterling assets.
The Group also creates exposure to its counterparties via their credit interest financial instruments: further currency financial liabilities and assets ratings where applicable and through its policy, using cross currency swaps in order to match changes in market interest rates only affect thereby limiting its exposure to any one party currency assets with currency liabilities better.
the income statement in relation to financial to ensure there is no significant concentration The Group recognises foreign exchange instruments with xed interest if these are of credit risk.
Group policy is to enter into such movements in equity for the translation of recognised at their fair value: and transactions only with counterparties with a these net investment hedging instruments long term credit rating of AA3 or better.
changes in market interest rates affect the and balances.
As at 31 December 2007, However, acquired businesses occasionally fair value of derivative financial instruments 231.7m of gross debt and 148.8m of have dealings with banks with lower credit designated as hedging instruments.
foreign exchange and cross currency swap ratings.
Business with such banks is moved as liabilities were in currencies other than sterling Under these assumptions, a one percentage soon as practicable.
The counterparties to the and net cash of 33.3m and cross currency point fall or rise in market interest rates for all financial instruments transacted by the Group swap assets of 140.2m were in sterling.
currencies in which the Group has variable net are major international financial institutions cash and derivative assets or net borrowings and whilst these counterparties may expose It is Group policy not to hedge exposure and derivative liabilities at 31 December 2007 the Group to credit losses in the event of for the translation of reported profits.
would reduce or increase profit before tax by non-performance, it considers the risk of material approximately 1.9m.
There is no material loss, given our policy, to be acceptable.
The notional amounts of financial instruments used in interest rate and foreign exchange management do not represent the credit risk arising through the use of these instruments.
The immediate credit risk of these instruments is generally estimated by the fair value of contracts with a positive value.
The maximum exposure to credit risk for time deposits and other financial assets is represented by their carrying amount.
10 Bodycote annual report 2007 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 11 Credit risk DEFINED BENEFIT CHANGE IN ACCOUNTING POLICIES Credit risk arises from the possibility that PENSION ARRANGEMENTS During the year there were no material customers may not be able to settle their The Group has dened benefit pension changes to accounting policies.
To manage this risk obligations in the UK, Germany, Sweden, GOING CONCERN the Group periodically assesses the financial USA and Brazil and cash lump sum obligations After making enquiries, the directors reliability of customers.
The majority of the in France, Italy and Turkey, which are all have formed the opinion that at the time Groups trade receivables are due for maturity reected in the Group balance sheet.
of approving the financial statements, there within 60 days.
In the UK, the Group has a final salary scheme, is a reasonable expectation that the Group which was closed to new members in April Concentrations of credit risk with respect has adequate resources to continue in 2001, but continues to accrue benets for the to trade receivables are limited.
The Group operational existence for the foreseeable 260 current employee members.
The deficit has a diverse customer base of over 60,000 future.
For this reason the directors continue as calculated by the scheme actuary at customers and is not reliant on any one to adopt the going concern basis in preparing 31 December 2007 using the principles of business sector, end market, or client.
The largest customer represents c. 3% PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES of total Group revenue and the top ten The Groups Heat Treatment business in Markets customers account for c. 9%.
Bodycotes Germany has inherited several dened The key risk we face is a reduction in end diverse client base provides the Group with benefit arrangements.
They are all unfunded market demand, but with the exception of the balanced demand from a number of sectors and are closed to new members but existing automotive sector in western markets, forecast as seen below.
Management therefore members continue to accrue benets.
demand in the near term appears robust.
believes there is no further credit risk The IAS 19 liability at 31 December 2007 provision required in excess of the normal was 2.6m.
In Sweden, the Group has two Commercial relationships provision for bad and doubtful receivables dened benefit arrangements.
One is funded The Group benets from many long term see note 16. and one is unfunded and each is open to and partnership arrangements with key new employees.
The IAS 19 liability at 31 customers.
Damage to or loss of any of December 2007 was 2.0m.
The Group these relationships may be detrimental Market sector analysis sponsors five dened benefit pension to Group results although we believe this arrangements in the USA which were is highly unlikely.
Given that our top ten Aerospace & Defence inherited with the acquisition of Lindberg customers account for only c. 9% of sales, 20% and had a total IAS 19 deficit at 31 December with the balance made up by many 2007 of 0.2m.
There are no further accruals thousands of customers, we have low Car & Light Truck on any of these plans.
Brasimet operates a revenue concentration risk.
The Group has 19% dened benefit plan for three senior members no significant supplier dependency.
It is fully funded and the members Competitors Construction, Agriculture, Rail & Marine continue to accrue benets.
At 31 December With the exception of HIP, our markets are 18% 2007 it had a surplus of 0.1m.
In France fragmented and this means that the actions we operate a plan which pays a cash lump of competitors are typically felt locally rather Tooling sum on retirement and also for long service.
The small market and 7% The plan is open to new employees but concentrated supply of HIP means that there is by its nature is not mortality dependent.
a greater risk of material impact on this division Oil & Gas It is unfunded and the IAS 19 liability at should competitors add significant capacity.
7% 31 December 2007 was 4.9 m. Italy and Turkey also have cash lump sum obligations Human Resources Medical, Health & Environment which are open to new members.
The IAS 19 People are the Groups greatest asset 7% liability is 0.7m for Italy and 0.1m for Turkey.
and also form its largest cost.
We work hard at maintaining a respectful and trusting Consumer Products POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS relationship with all employees.
However, 6% After the year end the Group purchased we are mindful that there must be strong Accutest Laboratories Limited, a Canadian control on these costs, which can be exed Power Generation analytical testing business, Metlab Int.
Ltd more easily in North America, the UK and 5% in Eire which provides materials testing emerging economies, but much less so in and non-destructive testing services and Western Europe where we strive to keep Heavy Truck & Buses Thai Inductions Services Co. Limited, about 15% of our workforce exible against 5% Thailands largest metallurgical services a background of more restrictive provider.
The total consideration for these employment laws.
3% Miscellaneous 3% Bodycote annual report 2007 11 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 12 2007 Group Business Review Safety and Health Foreign exchange Technology Our work environment has numerous and Although the Group has all but 17% of The technology we apply in delivering our varied risks which we strive to mitigate by its sales generated outside the UK, the services is mostly generic.
The differentiator providing systems, equipment, training and overwhelming majority of those sales are is in our know-how in applying that technology, supervision.
Risk is evaluated by internal and supplied locally to customers buying in the the quality standards we adhere to, the depth external resources so that it is continuously currency of our input costs.
Consequently of technical knowledge we are able to deliver managed and mitigated.
We are, however, and the consistency of service.
In those exposed to uctuation in exchange rates in instances where we have unique technology, Brand and Reputation respect of the translation of non-sterling we have principally relied upon condentiality Bodycote is a valuable and well-known denominated results.
In common with the with patent protection for niche areas.
Any damage majority of UK listed companies we do not to the brand because of the breakdown of Approvals hedge this exposure.
However, we do partially commercial relationships, non-compliance We have 56 facilities registered to Nadcap, hedge our balance sheet assets and liabilities with laws and regulations, misuse of human the international aerospace quality standard.
through a mixture of local currency loans or other resources in breach of our corporate All Thermal Processing facilities are certied and cross currency swaps.
ethos could have an adverse impact on the to at least one quality standard e. g. ISO 9001, Group as a whole.
For these reasons Bodycote RESOURCES TS 16949, Nadcap and by the end of the year has instituted an effective programme under The Group has key resources which are critical 131 out of 194 Thermal Processing facilities which employees can and do use the Groups to its continued success: People, Technology, were certied to ISO 14001 environmental open door policy to report legitimate concerns Approvals and Systems.
Testing has 102 of its 115 facilities about business conduct to the most senior accredited to the laboratory management People executives and non-executive directors.
Our reputation for The strength of our Group primarily rests strong compliance differentiates us in the Energy in our people and one of the key challenges market place and assures customers of our An increase in energy cost is a risk which we for management is to ensure availability of ability to deliver consistent quality.
This makes have been able to mitigate so far, although appropriately qualied people to support our our customers decision to outsource critical with some time lag, through price adjustments continued growth.
We are fortunate to have components easier.
or surcharges and we expect to be able to a competent and committed international continue this practice.
team that is well respected in technical and Systems business circles.
Most of our acquisitions Information systems provide the systems Operations are based on historical relationships with that allow us to operate successfully a large Our stringent quality systems, our internal and Bodycote personnel which is a testament distributed network.
It is critical that we external auditing as well as our customers to the integrity of our people.
The Board continue to develop our systems so we verication of our results, minimise the risk has established a remuneration policy can have the most efficient information of releasing faulty parts or test results into which rewards performance while offering processes for ourselves, our customers and use, which could arise as a result of system competitive base packages.
In line with our so we have the ability to identify and control or human failure.
policy of continuous improvement we have costs across the whole of the Group.
established a leadership development We use computer and internet technology Environmental Some of our heat treatment plants use programme to improve the succession to provide secure real-time job status as pipeline for our future business leadership.
well as technical support to our customers.
solvents and other hazardous chemicals in small quantities.
There is therefore the With the opportunity for career development we believe we can continue to sustain and potential for ground contamination at our facilities.
Past exposures are remediated as grow the Group into the future.
The likelihood of future problems is mitigated by our procedures, typically under the requirement of ISO 14001 environmental systems.
12 Bodycote annual report 2007 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 13 CORPORATE ETHOS KEY AREAS OF FOCUS Bodycote operates modern, efficient In achieving Bodycotes aim to be recognised Training and Education heat treatment furnaces around the clock.
globally as the leading provider of thermal The Group sponsors The Bodycote Educational We aggregate demand from a wide range processing and in testing services, the Board Foundation, a registered charity, whose aim of customers to maximise efficiency and has over time developed several principles is to fund relevant educational and training minimise energy costs.
By replacing underwhich will apply in its dealings with opportunities.
These aims are fullled by utilised, in-house thermal processing operations stakeholders and the wider community.
supporting short term student placements with Bodycotes state of the art equipment, at Bodycote facilities to work on specic the overall amount of energy used can be Safety, health and the environment projects of benefit to the Group.
Bodycote has a proactive approach to safety, the Foundation has sponsored over 265 health and the environment and is committed The range of services offered across the students from 10 countries.
The Foundation to the highest practicable standards of safety Group is designed to enhance the suitability also supports the annual Prize Paper and health management and to the minimisation and operational lifetime of components and Competition.
In its twelfth year, the of adverse environmental impacts.
for recycling at the end of their working competition has become one of the most lives.
This increase in the working life of highly regarded in its eld.
Numerous entries Human Resources components has a major effect on the from universities and materials science Bodycotes employment policies are amount of raw materials that are processed.
institutes worldwide follow a rigorous non-discriminatory, complying with all current Modern treatments also allow new selection process, with five entrants legislation to engender equal opportunity technologies, such as common rail diesel reaching the final presentation judged by irrespective of race, gender, religion, disability, systems, to be introduced within acceptable management and engineering academics.
This, in turn, reduces Winners receive a cash prize, publication is not tolerated.
the environmental impact of motor vehicles in a peer reviewed journal and potential for by improving fuel consumption and reducing Ethical Standards career development within the Group.
At every stage where Bodycote All Bodycote personnel are expected to apply Safety & Health is involved in the manufacturing cycle, our a high ethical standard, consistent with an Appropriate safety and health policies operations aim to lessen the overall impact international UK-listed company.
and procedures are in force in both SBUs.
Compliance with laws In 2004 the Group commenced reporting its Bodycote has systems in place designed to CURRENT TRADING AND PROSPECTS performance internally in terms of lost time, Our customers in aerospace, oil & gas, ensure compliance with all applicable laws frequency and severity of accidents in a and regulations and conformity with all power generation and health sciences are uniform manner.
As a result, each SBU is forecasting positive growth through 2008 relevant codes of business practice.
now able to benchmark its safety and health despite widespread predictions of economic performance and formulate criteria for Competition slowdown.
Many of the markets that Bodycote improvements.
Bonus payments to Directors Bodycote aims to win business in a serves, notably aerospace, power generation and senior executives are in part dependent differentiated high value manner: We do and oil & gas, operate on long cycles, with on achievement of these targets.
not employ unfair trading methods and we significant committed order books.
North compete vigorously but fairly within the Environment American automotive 4.9% of our Group requirements of the applicable laws.
Bodycote has for many years contributed to sales is forecast to build 1% fewer cars Employees are prohibited from either the reduction of the environmental impact of and light trucks in 2008, compared to 2007. giving or receiving any inducements.
By adopting the latest technologies Outsourcing by western manufacturers as they have become available, Bodycote has Conicts of interest continues to grow with sales reaching provided its customers with environmentally Employees are expected to ensure that 123m in 2007, an increase of 17% 2006: friendly solutions to their heat treatment their personal interests do not at any time 105m and this trend is set to continue.
The replacement, where conict with those of Bodycote.
Shareholder Our focus on maximising capacity utilisation possible, of harmful materials has reduced employees are advised of and comply with will allow us to provide manufacturers the need for disposal of waste products.
with lower overall costs for their thermal At the same time the adoption of high processing and testing needs.
The increased Politics efficiency heating systems has reduced outsourcing growth has partially been Bodycote does not make political donations.
energy consumption and reduced emissions.
absorbed into existing plant and equipment As a result of these principles, some key areas The success of Bodycotes processes in and in some cases additional equipment has of focus have emerged, namely in respect of addressing these issues is key to our been installed.
We expect this pattern to be people, safety, health and the environment.
We do not simply repeated in 2008. aim to minimise our own energy consumption, but also to effect substantial reductions in our customers energy use.
Bodycote annual report 2007 13 ID4157 Bc AR 2007 Insides 80pp 04. qxp 6 3 08 15:20 Page 14 2007 Group Business Review Our strategy to increase our presence in After another good performance in 2007, Finally, the employees and the Board of developing economies, including those in the MEM division of Testing is expected to Bodycote would like to thank our outgoing Asia, Latin America, Eastern Europe and continue its success in 2008.
The weakness Chairman, James Wallace, for his dedicated the Middle East, is progressing.
Sales now in the North American automotive market service to the company.
Under James account for 9.1% of Group sales 2006: has been addressed by restructuring our leadership, Bodycote has been strengthened 4.6%.
The early demand for high quality laboratory facilities in Michigan.
In HSE a while growing our businesses in line with subcontracting is somewhat lower than major cost reduction exercise has been our strategy.
We all wish James continued anticipated in Asia but we remain confident undertaken which has seen us exit several success and personal happiness in the future.
of the long term opportunity.
In total our locations in Canada and management has greeneld sites in the emerging markets been reorganised accordingly across the recorded operating losses of 2.4m in 2007. whole of North America.
Similarly in the UK, a number of environmental facilities have We enter 2008 with market conditions been closed to reduce the cost base and the for heat treatment remaining favourable Food Group have increased their focus on high in all territories and market sectors with the added value advisory services.
We expect a exception of the Great Lakes area of North J D Hubbard significant improvement in the performance America, where much of the work comes Chief Executive of the HSE division in 2008. from the automotive industry.
Given the 26 February 2008 strength of the order books amongst our Since the end of 2007 we have acquired aerospace, power generation and oil & gas three businesses two Testing, one Thermal customer base and, given our market share Processing for a total consideration of gains in the automotive sector, we are 10.4m.
We have a strong pipeline of confident about the Groups prospects not acquisition candidates for both Thermal withstanding the uncertainty about the level Processing and Testing.
On average we of consumer demand in 2008, particularly in expect to continue investing about 60m North America.
D F Landless HIP continues to experience increasing Capital expenditure for 2008 are expected to Finance Director demand from its key aerospace, power be at 1.3 times depreciation 2007: 1.3 times 26 February 2008 generation and oil & gas markets.
A new reecting the continuing investment in large HIP vessel went into production in greeneld locations in developing economies, September in the USA and is ramping up expanding our HIP capacity and supporting sales as forecast.
We have expanded our our continuing outsourcing growth.
Ongoing Swedish facility to improve the efficiency operations require around 0.8 times of fabricating containers used in powder depreciation to sustain their businesses.
HIPped near net shape components and Since the start of the current financial year, in preparation for a new large HIP vessel trading has been above the levels for the which will go into production in Q1 2010. same period in 2007 in both SBUs and in all The acquisition of the remaining 51% of geographies.
We enter 2008 with renewed the equity of Traitements Compression confidence that we will deliver another Services SAS in Magny-Cours, France gives successful performance.
us control over this facility enabling us to utilise this capacity in Southern Europe more effectively.
