Board Members The Directors of the Company are listed below: Peter P Walsh, Chairman holds a number of directorships and appointments.
He began his career with District Bank now part of The Royal Bank of Scotland in Manchester in 1963, before joining the Bank of Bermuda in 1968 where he worked for 11 years.
He joined the Barings Group in Guernsey in 1979, becoming a Director of Barings Guernsey Limited in 1981, Managing Director in June 1989 and then Chairman of the offshore group in December 1993.
He joined the main board of Baring Asset Management Holdings Limited BAMH in February 1990 and was appointed a Managing Director in November 1993.
He became Group Chief Operating Officer of BAMH in October 1995, which he combined with his role of Group Deputy Chairman in February 1997.
He retired at the end of December 2000.
Mr Walsh is a resident of Guernsey.
Trevor C Ash, has over 30 years investment experience.
He was a director of Rothschild Asset Management C. I.
Limited now part of Insight Investment Management Limited, of which he was managing director until May 1999.
He is also a director of a number of hedge funds and fund of hedge funds, including the Thames River Nevsky Fund Limited and Thames River Global Funds Limited.
He is a founding director of Valletta Fund Management Limited, the first fund management company to be established in Malta following the introduction of financial services regulations in 1995.
He is also a director of a number of venture capital, derivative and offshore funds managed or advised by the Rothschild Group and Merrill Lynch including the Insight Investment Management range of money funds, multi currency cash funds and bond funds.
Mr Ash is a resident of Guernsey.
Robin J Bowie, was educated at Vanderbilt University, Tennessee.
He began his City career as a bond trader at Citibank in 1984, after which he worked at Goldman Sachs as a credit trader.
In 1989, at BZW he developed their ECU and European Government Bond trading operations and in 1995 moved to HSBC where he was in charge of European Government Bond trading.
In 1998 he became Treasurer of KBC Bank in London with responsibility for the management of interest rate, foreign exchange and credit risk.
He left KBC in 2000 to found Dexion Capital.
He is a director of Dexion Capital Holdings Limited, a Guernsey company which is the holding company of the Manager and the Investment Consultant.
He is also a director of Dexion Trading Limited, Dexion Equity Alternative Limited and Dexion Alpha Strategies Limited, which are funds of hedge funds, the shares of which are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
He is also a director of Julius Baer Diversified Fixed Income Hedge Fund and the Julius Baer Global Rates Hedge Fund.
John E Hallam, is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and qualified as an accountant in 1971.
He is a former partner of , retiring in 1999 after a 27 year period of service with the firm, and a past Chairman of the Guernsey Financial Services Commission.
He is currently the Chairman of Cazenove Absolute Equity Limited, M&G Recovery Investment Company Limited, Prodesse Investment Limited and Partners Group Global Opportunities Limited as well as being a director of a number of financial services companies including companies listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Mr. Hallam is a resident of Guernsey.
Dr. Paul Sharman, was educated at the University of Sussex, he received a Doctorate in Physics in 1976.
He spent ten years as a research physicist which included periods at CERN, Geneva, and Institut LaueLangevin, Grenoble.
His career in the City began in 1983 when he joined Lombard-Odier as a technology analyst, after which he joined Baring Brothers as a US Fund Manager.
In 1992 he was appointed CIO at Hill Samuel Investment Management and in 1996 became CEO of SLC Asset Management, part of Sun Life Financial of Canada.
From 2001 he acted as a consultant to the Fund Management Industry before being appointed as Director of Investment Management at Cooperative Financial Services in 2005.
Dr. Sharman is a UK resident.
