Directors Report The Directors present their report and audited financial statements for the year to 31 December 2007.
Principal Activity Dexion Absolute Limited the Company is a Guernsey registered closed-ended investment company listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Trading in the Companys ordinary shares since reclassified as shares commenced on 19 December 2002.
Investment Objective The Companys investment objective is to generate consistent long-term capital appreciation with low volatility and little correlation with the general equity and bond markets through a portfolio having a diversified risk profile.
The Companys investment objective is consistent with that of Aurora LP Aurora, which is the Investment Advisers flagship fund.
Although not forming part of the Companys investment objective, the Companys investment rationale, methodology and portfolio management is consistent with that of Aurora.
However, it has not been, and may continue not to be possible for the Company always to invest in the same underlying funds that Aurora is invested in to the same extent or at all and the fees and expenses payable by Aurora may differ materially from those payable by the Company.
Accordingly, the Companys performance will not mirror that of Aurora.
Investment Policy The Companys investment policy is to invest in an actively managed portfolio of hedge funds which is diversified by investment strategy, style and manager, to achieve attractive risk-adjusted returns with low correlation to equity and fixed interest benchmarks.
The Investment Adviser seeks to achieve this by allocating the Companys assets among professionally selected hedge funds that are managed by experienced portfolio managers employing, as a group, a variety of investment techniques and strategies.
There are a number of portfolio managers implementing alternative investment strategies whose services are not generally available to the investing public.
Such portfolio managers often impose high minimum investment requirements and place stringent restrictions on the number of investors whose money they will manage.
By investing with these and other portfolio managers, the Company seeks to provide investors with access to the varied skills and expertise of such portfolio managers which may not otherwise be available to such investors, while at the same time attempting to lessen the risks and volatility associated with investing through any single hedge fund or portfolio manager.
The Company also enables investors to avoid, to a significant extent, the high minimum investment requirements typically imposed on individual investors investing in hedge funds directly.
Although the Investment Adviser allocates the Companys assets among underlying portfolio managers employing one or more of the strategies described on page 43, the Investment Adviser does not follow a rigid policy and, subject to maintaining an appropriate spread of funds and investment strategies, the Companys assets may be deployed in whatever funds and investment strategies the Investment Adviser deems appropriate.
The Company is not restricted from participating in any market, strategy or investment, and the Investment Adviser may alter or modify some or all of the Companys underlying investment strategies in light of available investment opportunities and prevailing economic and market conditions if the Investment Adviser determines that such alterations or modifications are consistent with the Companys investment objective, subject to what the Investment Adviser considers an acceptable level of risk.
The Company will invest and manage its assets in a way which is consistent with its objective of spreading investment risk.
The initial allocation of assets to a fund managed by a particular portfolio manager may be based, in part, on the Investment Advisers contact and experience with the portfolio manager.
Allocations are also a function of the degree of risk that the Investment Adviser seeks i to include funds managed by at least two portfolio managers utilising a particular investment strategy, ii not to invest more than 10% of the Companys total assets in any one fund, iii not to invest more than 40% of the Companys total assets in any single strategy, although it may deviate from any such guidelines from time to time and or for sustained periods, subject always to the investment restrictions set out below.
11 Directors Report continued The portfolio managers selected by the Investment Adviser have complete discretion to purchase and sell securities for their respective hedge funds consistent with the relevant investment advisory agreements, partnership agreements or other governing documents.
Such agreements and governing documents generally allow the portfolio managers to change the kinds of investments they make and their techniques for making investments if they believe that such changes are appropriate in view of the then current or expected, market, business or economic conditions.
Although it does not currently do so, the Investment Adviser may allocate part of the Companys assets to portfolio managers affiliated with the Investment Adviser provided that such allocations are permitted by applicable law.
Such allocations, if any, will generally not, in the aggregate, exceed 10% of the Companys total net assets as of the date any such allocation is made although the Investment Adviser may deviate from the foregoing policy under unusual circumstances.
The Company would pay such affiliated portfolio managers management and performance fees on terms no more favourable than the terms generally offered to unaffiliated investors.
The hedge funds in which the Company invests are or may be permitted to borrow and invest in long and short positions in equities, fixed income securities, options, warrants, futures, commodities, currency forwards, over-the-counter derivative instruments such as swaps, securities that lack active public markets, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, preferred stocks, convertible bonds and other financial instruments as well as cash and cash equivalents.
It is the intention of the Company to be substantially fully invested at all times, although the Investment Adviser may use its discretion to hold cash or equivalent investments from time-to-time.
The Company has a facility agreement with Northern Trust Guernsey Limited for up to the lower of 305 million and 20% of its net assets for short-term or temporary liquidity purposes as may be necessary to facilitate investment and withdrawals from underlying funds or to meet ongoing expenses, and to implement the Companys currency hedging strategy.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to give guarantees, mortgage, hypothecate, pledge or charge all or part of its undertaking, property or assets and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities whether outright or as collateral security for any liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The Companys Articles do not specify a borrowing limit.
The Company does not have any long-term or fixed structural gearing and it is not intended that it should have, the introduction of any such gearing would be subject to the prior approval of Shareholders.
The Company may be indirectly exposed to gearing to the extent that investee funds or portfolio managers are themselves geared.
The Investment Adviser expects such underlying gearing to be in the range 1.5 : 1 to 2.5 : 1.
Investment Restrictions The Company has adopted the following investment restrictions which include certain restrictions set out in the Listing Rules: Not more than 20% of the total assets of the Company will be invested in any one fund at the time the investment is made.
The Company will not make further investment s in any single investment strategy where, immediately following such further investment s, that investment strategy represents 60% or more of the total assets of the Company.
The Company will not borrow more than 40% of its net assets for short term or temporary liquidity purposes, including as may be necessary to facilitate investment and withdrawals from underlying funds or to meet ongoing expenses and to implement the Companys currency hedging strategy.
The Company will avoid cross-financing between businesses forming part of its investment portfolio.
12 Directors Report continued The Company will avoid the operation of common treasury functions as between the Company and investee companies.
Any material change in the investment policies of the Company will only be made with the approval of Ordinary Shareholders by ordinary resolution.
of the total assets of the Company in aggregate will be invested in other closed-ended investment funds except for those which themselves have stated investment policies to invest no more than 15 per cent.
of their gross assets in other closed-ended investment fund.
Dividends will not normally be paid and in any event will only be paid if they are covered by income received from underlying investments.
The distribution as dividend of surpluses arising from the realisation of investments is prohibited.
In the event of any breach of these investment restrictions, the Board will as soon as practicable make an announcement on a regulatory information service provider and subsequently write to Shareholders if appropriate.
Shareholder Information The Company announces its net asset value on a monthly basis together with commentary on investment performance.
Estimated net asset values are normally provided weekly.
Share price, net asset value and performance information can also be found by shareholders on the Companys website www.
However information on that website does not form part of, nor is it incorporated by reference into this document and that information is not available to certain overseas shareholders.
Shareholder web conferences also take place and are announced via RNS.
Results The results for the year are set out in the income statement.
The Directors do not propose a dividend for the year 2007 2006: Nil.
Significant Events On 29 November 2007, the Company raised gross proceeds of approximately 460.6 million before expenses through the issue of 376,541,330 C Shares, 70,033,313 C Shares, 56,783,703 C US$ Shares and 14,898,000 C AUS$ Shares.
As a result of the issue, the Company increased its net assets to approximately 1.36 billion and became the worlds largest listed closed-ended hedge fund product.
On 8 February 2008, in response to significant interest in the Companys shares from a range of investors, the Company announced a placing for cash of new ordinary shares representing in aggregate up to 9.99% of each class of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
In aggregate, 84,860,882 new shares were placed with investors raising approximately 134.5 million of new monies before expenses.
On 11 February 2008, taking into account both the C Share conversions and the December 2007 Class Conversions, 231,719,031 Shares, 30,408,136 Shares, 19,290,905 US$ Shares and 3,143,427 A$ Shares were admitted to the Official List and commenced trading on the London Stock Exchange.
Management Arrangements The Company has an agreement with Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited for the provision of investment management services.
Management fees as disclosed in note 9 are based on an annual amount of 1.5% of the total assets of the Company plus a performance fee as outlined in note 9.
The Management Engagement Committee have reviewed the performance of the investment manager in managing the portfolio.
The Committee has also reviewed the appropriateness of the terms of the investment management agreement, in particular, the length of the notice period and the fees payable to the investment manager.
13 Directors Report continued Following their review, it is in the opinion of the Directors that the continuing appointment of the investment manager on the terms agreed is in the interest of shareholders as a whole.
Directors interests The Directors, as stated on page 10, all served throughout the year under review.
The Directors had no beneficial interest in the Company other than shown below: 31 December 2007 shares P P Walsh 25,000 R M J Bowie 56,624 J E Hallam 22,906 P Sharman 12,280 Substantial Interests Disclosure and Transparency Rules are now comprised in the Financial Services Authority handbook.
Such rules require substantial shareholders to make relevant holding notifications to the Company and the UK Financial Services Authority.
The Company must then disseminate this information to the wider market.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are required to prepare the Directors Report and the financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with The Companies Guernsey Law, 1994.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance Introduction As a closed-ended investment company registered in Guernsey, the Company is eligible for exemption from the requirements of the Combined Code the Code issued by the UK Listing Authority.
The Board has however put in place a framework for corporate governance which it believes is suitable for an investment company and which enables the Company to voluntarily comply with the main requirements of the Code, which sets out principles of good governance and a code of best practice.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the provisions contained in Section 1 of the Code throughout this accounting period except where indicated below.
The following statement describes how the relevant principles of governance are applied to the Company.
14 Directors Report continued The Board The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Investment Adviser and, with the exception of Mr Bowie, are independent of the Manager and the Investment Consultant.
The Board accepts collective responsibility for the decisions of the Board.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, Mr J Hallam was appointed as the senior independent director.
The Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from office.
A Director who retires at an annual general meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not subject to automatic re-appointment.
In accordance with the Listing Rules Mr R Bowie is put forward for re-election annually.
The Board meets at least four times a year and between these formal meetings there is regular contact with the Manager, the Secretary and the Companys Broker.
The Directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, have access to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
The attendance record of Directors is set out below: Quarterly Ad hoc Management board board Audit Engagement Remuneration meetings meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 49311 Meetings attended: P P Walsh 4931 N A T C Ash 39210 R M J Bowie 4 7 N A N A N A J E Hallam 47311 P Sharman 4 7 3 N A 1 The Board has a breadth of experience relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue disruption.
With any new director appointment to the Board, consideration will be given as to whether an induction process is appropriate and upon any such appointment the new director would be available to meet shareholders upon request.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the Notice and Agenda which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of the Meeting as part of the Board Papers and therefore Directors may request any Agenda Items to be added that they consider appropriate for Board discussion.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to Board discussion.
The Board has not currently considered it necessary to have formal strategy sessions, as the investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys prospectus, is reviewed regularly and the Investment Adviser advises on the adoption of appropriate strategies to employ under prevailing market conditions at any particular time within the overall investment restrictions of the Company.
The primary focus at Board Meetings is a review of investment performance and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, as well as marketing investor relations, risk management, general administration and compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure of each Director on an annual basis, and believes that the mix of skills, experience, ages and length of service are appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
A full corporate governance review has been undertaken since the publication of the previous financial statements, the review was facilitated by the Company Secretary.
There were no matters of significance raised within the finding of the review.
15 Directors Report continued Directors Duties and Responsibilities The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: Statutory obligations and public disclosure Strategic matters and financial reporting Oversight of management and personnel matters Risk assessment and management, including reporting, monitoring, governance and control Other matters having a material effect on the Company These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to clearly demonstrate the seriousness with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
Committees of the Board The Board has not deemed it necessary to appoint a nomination committee as, being comprised wholly of non-executive Directors, the whole Board considers these matters.
Remuneration Committee During the year a Remuneration Committee was established with defined terms of reference and duties.
The Committee is chaired by Mr Ash and the members are Mr Hallam and Dr Sharman.
Management Engagement Committee A Management Engagement Committee, with defined terms of reference and duties, has been established to review annually the terms of the investment management agreement between the Company and the Manager, the investment advisory agreement between the Company, the Manager and the Investment Adviser and the investment consultant agreement between the Company, the Manager and the Investment Consultant.
The Management Engagement Committee consists of Mr Ash Chairman, Mr Walsh and Mr Hallam.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Hallam Chairman, Mr Ash, Dr Sharman and Mr Walsh.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual report and accounts and interim report, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Company Secretary and the compliance department of the Administrator and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year to review the annual accounts, interim accounts, audit timetable and other risk management and governance matters.
Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts, and is reviewed by the Board and accords with appropriate corporate governance codes.
The Directors conduct at least annually a review of the Companys system of internal control, covering all controls, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and the policies by which these risks are managed.
16 Directors Report continued As there is delegation of daily operational activity, described below, the Company has no direct internal audit function.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement and loss.
The Board has delegated the responsibility for the management of the Companys investment portfolio, the provision of custody services and the administration, registrar and corporate secretarial functions including the independent calculation of the Companys Net Asset Value and the production of the Annual Report and Financial Statements which are independently audited.
Whilst the Board delegates responsibility, it retains accountability for the functions it delegates and is responsible for the systems of internal control.
Formal contractual agreements have been put in place between the Company and providers of these services.
On an ongoing basis compliance reports are provided at each quarterly board meeting from the Administrator.
Corporate Responsibility The Companys business is concerned with investment.
It considers the ongoing concerns of investors by open and regular dialogue with and through the appointed Investment Manager, Investment Consultant and the Companys Broker.
The Company keeps abreast of regulatory and statutory changes and takes appropriate action.
On an annual basis the Chairman assesses the performance of each Director that includes a review of Board and Committee meeting attendance.
The Company does not have any employees.
Going Concern After making enquiries and given the nature of the Company and its investments, the Directors are satisfied that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements, and, after due consideration, the Directors consider that the Company is able to continue in the foreseeable future.
Relations with shareholders The Investment Manager, the Investment Consultant and the Companys Broker maintain a regular dialogue with institutional shareholders, the feedback from which is reported to the Board.
In addition, Board members will be available to respond to shareholders questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board monitors the trading activity and shareholder profile on a regular basis.
Shareholder sentiment is also ascertained by the careful monitoring of the discount premium at which each class of share is traded in the market against the NAV per share when compared to the discounts premiums experienced by the Companys peer group.
The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year and a proxy voting card is sent to shareholders with the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
Additionally, the introduction of Interim Management Statements and the current information provided to shareholders on an ongoing basis through the Companys website and newsletter assist in keeping shareholders informed.
The Registrar monitors the voting of shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary.
Change of Administrator and Secretary In December 2006, HSBC Securities Services Guernsey Limited gave six months notice of their resignation as the Companys Administrator and Secretary.
Following consideration of various options the Company appointed Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited as 17 Directors Report continued Administrator and Company Secretary.
This new arrangement came into effect on 1 June 2007.
As of the year ended 31 December 2007, the registered office was situated at Trafalgar Court, Les Banques, St. Peter Port, Guernsey, GY1 3DA.
On 1 January 2008, Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited replaced Northern Trust International Fund Administration Services Guernsey Limited as Company Secretary.
The registered office of the Company is now situated at 1, Le Truchot, St Peter Port, Guernsey.
Auditors A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Channel Islands Limited will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Peter P Walsh John E Hallam Director Director 22 April 2008 18
