Managers Report The net asset value of Dexion Absolutes shares appreciated by 13.23%, net of fees and expenses, during 2007.
Each of the underlying strategies posted gains over the period.
The following provides the Investment Advisers overview of the Companys investment performance in U. S. dollar terms by hedge fund strategy from 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 performance is shown net of underlying managers fees and expenses only : Long short equities This is the largest strategy allocation in the Companys portfolio and returned 20.71% in 2007.
The Companys underlying managers navigated the volatile equity markets well, delivering gains in each quarter.
Additionally, all three sub-strategies sector specialists, geographic specialists, and generalists ended 2007 in positive territory and made significant contributions to performance.
Highlights for the year included short exposures to the housing, financial, and consumer sectors alongside strong stock selection in non-U.
Additionally, the global perspective of the Companys underlying managers paid dividends.
For example, one financials manager generated profits from short positions in U. S. and U. K. banks that were adversely impacted by the crisis in the housing and mortgage markets, while also profiting from long positions in better-capitalised banks in emerging markets that were enjoying the strong growth dynamics in that area.
Throughout the year, our managers were tested by the market, particularly the dislocations in July and August when  portfolios were forced to reduce risk.
The Companys managers successfully endured these conditions, with many positioning their portfolios to opportunistically take advantage, and in anticipation, of a return to normality once market fears abated.
This positioning allowed managers to prosper, despite falling equity markets, in the final quarter of the year, capturing profits on both the long and short sides of their portfolios.
Multi-strategy opportunistic The Companys managers in the multi-strategy opportunistic strategy delivered a return of 19.00% for 2007, delivering positive results during each quarter.
The bulk of the years gains occurred in the earlier part of the year, and underlying managers portfolio hedges served them well in the second half amid a sharp deterioration in the credit markets.
Earlier in the year, a rich and steady stream of corporate transactions, in addition to an increase in equity volatility, created pockets of opportunities across global markets.
For example, investments in commodity-related companies, whose scarce resource businesses became targets of bidding wars by competitors seeking to increase market share, added significant gains to several managers portfolios.
Elsewhere, value equity holdings were also strong performers.
One managers extensive fundamental research led to a substantial investment in the equity of a Norway-based manufacturer of deepwater oil storage and shipping equipment, the price of which moved significantly higher during the year as the announcement of new increases in capacity and product demand resulted in an enthusiastic investor reaction.
Later in the year, as event-driven opportunities dried up, managers delivered positive returns by opportunistically shorting the equity of housing and mortgage-related companies.
Along the same theme, a number of managers also generated profits via short exposure to the securitized mortgage markets.
On the negative side, long exposure to the financial sector was detrimental to one manager.
Long short credit Against a challenging backdrop in the credit markets in 2007, the Companys long short credit managers returned 5.06%.
From the outset of the year, a slowdown in the U. S. housing market, rising commodity prices, and the threat of an economic recession all weighed on credit-sensitive investors.
Market conditions deteriorated further as the year progressed with extreme market volatility materializing in the summer months until the U. S. Federal Reserve took action by cutting the discount rate.
However, the Feds measure only served as a temporary remedy as credit unease resurfaced in early September before the Fed came to the rescue again by cutting both the discount and federal funds rate.
In the fourth quarter, despite two additional rate cuts, the credit markets failed to find stable footing, and widening credit spreads permeated a majority of debt classes.
Managers prudent capital allocations throughout the year across several markets and sectors helped them overcome these obstacles.
Exposure to power-generating companies drove performance for several managers earlier in the year as evidence of an acceleration in the demand for power-producing assets was amplified by consolidation activity in the industry.
Investments 4 Managers Report continued in companies involved in restructurings also made solid contributions to returns.
Among the more profitable restructuring positions were investments in a European electronics manufacturer, a European railway, and a U. S. automotive parts producer.
In the latter part of 2007, the preservation of capital was a priority for managers during this volatile market period and their portfolio hedges increased as a result.
Short positions in the major U. S. and European equity indices and short holdings in various mortgage-related structures delivered positive returns in the fourth quarter, mitigating losses in managers long positions in credit securities.
Macro Macro was the Companys top-performing strategy in 2007, returning 26.84%.
The Companys commodities specialist delivered the largest contribution to performance as it extracted outsized profits through short-term and relative value trading while also generating gains from positions in agricultural commodities.
As examples of profitable positions, this managers keen insight into a supply demand imbalance in the sugar market led to a significant gain, while successful calendar spread trading in cotton futures also added to returns.
Another manager produced strong returns in the second half to end the year on a high note, capturing robust profits from a bearish thematic view on the equities of financials and other highly-levered sectors.
Additionally, a constructive outlook on gold and oil delivered strong gains amid sharply-rising prices for these commodities.
The global capital markets dramatic re-evaluation of risk and the Feds shift toward an easing bias as the year progressed created opportunities for another manager, who was well-positioned for these developments.
The steepening in the U. S. yield curve generated substantial profits for this manager, while increased volatility in the FX markets and tactical short positions in credit securities also contributed to returns.
Finally, in a sensational year for the emerging markets, the Companys specialist in the asset class benefited from the tailwind in the equity and fixed-income markets as well as opportunistic short positions in U. S. subprime mortgages.
Activist The Companys activist strategy managers returned 5.00% during 2007.
Following a successful 2006, the Companys activist managers started 2007 with robust performance.
The first half of the year saw striking evidence of the growing recognition in the marketplace of activist hedge funds as constructive champions of shareholder-friendly corporate change.
Managers also benefited from a frothy private equity environment during this period as the shares of a number of their companies advanced on announcements of a variety of corporate transactions.
However, in the second half of 2007, the activist strategy saw its run of nine consecutive profitable quarters come to an end amid a significant sea change in the leveraged buyout debt markets and missteps at the portfolio company level.
While the successes of managers holdings are not solely dependent on the availability of acquisition financing, many positions were negatively impacted by the weakened credit environment.
For example, one managers core holding in the shares of a well known confectionery and beverage company, which earlier in the year announced plans to sell its beverage unit, tumbled early in the third quarter after the firm informed investors that it was extending the timetable to allow bidders to complete their proposals in a more stable debt financing environment.
However, as conditions in the credit market failed to improve, the company ultimately abandoned its plans to sell and announced a decision to execute a spin-off, a strategic move that the Companys manager felt was an equally attractive option for value creation.
Despite the poor performance in the second half of 2007, the activist strategy ended the year with moderate gains.
Managers report that they continue to work closely with their portfolio companies, and their constructive views regarding the fundamentals of their portfolios companies remain intact.
Portfolio hedge The Companys portfolio hedge strategy ended 2007 with a gain of 14.32%.
Amid an equity market environment that turned decidedly negative in the fourth quarter, underlying managers achieved the bulk of their profits in the latter part of the year.
Short equity and credit positions in U. S. financial institutions produced considerable gains following a flurry of write-downs related to the industrys heavy investments in subprime mortgages.
As investors became aware of the possible repercussions this may have on other  industries, securities prices in those areas gapped lower as well.
Earlier in the year when market conditions were considerably more robust, the Companys short sellers generated substantial 5 Managers Report continued alpha as they handily outperformed the inverse returns of the major U. S. equity indices.
During this period, short positions in  subprime mortgage originators were especially profitable as these companies were forced to repurchase early payment defaults, which proved catastrophic to their business models.
The remainder of the year brought more misery to the industry and many of these companies eventually filed for bankruptcy.
Investment outlook The Company began 2008 with approximately 1.36 billion of net assets allocated to 51 investment managers across six investment strategies.
Global equity markets are suffering from an acute lack of confidence, and so far in 2008 heavy selling pressure has driven many markets to double-digit declines.
Volatility is likely to remain high over the near term as market participants ponder the duration and severity of a U. S. slowdown as well as its overall impact on corporate earnings and global economic growth.
Amid this difficult environment, the Companys managers are prepared to seize emergent opportunities while working to protect their investors capital from the pitfalls they see in the current marketplace.
In particular, the Investment Adviser is optimistic that further dislocations and imbalances will provide a rich opportunity set for the Companys macro managers and a unique source of return to the portfolio.
In addition, the portfolio hedge strategy is well positioned to provide support should the market continue to falter.
At the same time, the other fundamentally-driven strategies should uncover profitable dislocations as volatility causes securities prices to substantially diverge from their intrinsic value.
Meanwhile, selling pressures may continue to depress the short-term performance of activist managers as they work to unlock long-term value in their holdings.
Finally, the staggering amounts of debt generated by corporations to fund last years flurry of corporate takeovers and buy-outs may yield profitable opportunities across the credit spectrum for long short credit managers as companies struggle to meet their debt obligations.
6 Managers Report continued Portfolio composition at 1 January 2008 Numbers in brackets indicate number of managers Macro Long Short Credit 11% 6 12% 5 Portfolio Hedge 11% 7 Activist 12% 5 Multi-Strategy Opportunistic 21% 11 Long Short Equities 33% 17 Note: Manager count excludes any manager holding less than 0.5% of the Companys assets from which the Company is withdrawing 100% of its investment.
Allocations are net of cash effect and include, for portfolio hedge only, the delta-adjusted exposure derived from option hedges, if any.
Source: Harris Alternatives LLC Performance by strategy for 2007 Long Short Credit Activist Long Short Equities Multi-Strategy Opportunistic Portfolio Hedge Macro 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% Note: Strategy returns are in US$ and net of underlying manager fees only, and not inclusive of Dexion Absolutes fees and expenses.
Dexion Absolutes Share NAV is expressed in whilst the comparative indices are expressed in US$.
Dexion Absolutes Share NAV is hedged from US$ to and these hedging arrangements had a positive effect on the NAV performance over the period from inception to February 2006 and from February 2007 to date, but for the period from March 2006 to January 2007 the hedging arrangements had a negative effect on NAV performance.
Source: Bloomberg data Share Premium Discount to Net Asset Value 180 40% Premium Discount 170 35% Dexion Absolute NAV 160 Share Price 30% 150 25% 140 20% 130 15% 120 10% 110 5% 100 0% 90 80 -5% Dec-02 Jun-03 Dec-03 Jun-04 Dec-04 Jun-05 Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Note: Based on weekly data.
Source: Bloomberg data 8 Total Return Base 100 NAV or Share Price p Premium or Discount Managers Report continued Analysis of significant investments The ten largest holdings of the Company as at 31 December 2007 are set out below: % of Book Market % of investee cost value Companys share 1 Name of Investment Strategy net assets capital Palomino Fund Limited Long Short Credit 36,150,552 44,718,267 3.29 2.21 Touradji Global Resources Offshore Fund Macro 21,443,160 32,522,924 2.39 3.81 2 Spinnaker Composite Macro 23,042,650 31,105,452 2.29 1.04 Lansdowne UK Equity Fund Limited Long Short Equities 18,559,414 30,261,023 2.22 0.88 Impala Fund Limited Long Short Equities 20,833,032 29,123,441 2.14 3.15 York Select Unit Trust Multi-Strategy Opportunistic 21,310,073 27,556,421 2.03 4.22 TPG-Axon Partners Offshore Fund Limited Multi-Strategy Opportunistic 19,534,554 27,317,718 2.01 0.63 3 Seasons Composite Long Short Equities 20,774,147 27,070,657 1.99 5.32 Lansdowne Global Financials Fund Limited Long Short Equities 18,558,286 26,872,385 1.98 1.73 Eminence Leveraged Long 3 Alpha Ltd Long Short Equities 22,054,536 26,061,490 1.92 1.96 222,260,404 302,609,778 22.26 1 Percentages of investee share capital are based on estimates of fund capital provided by underlying manager as of 31 December 2007.
2 Composed of Spinnaker Global Emerging Markets and Spinnaker Global Opportunity.
3 Please note that the underlying AUM includes only the specific offshore fund except for Eminence and Seasons which combine all underlying offshore same-strategy AUM.
4 The equivalent exposure in respect of 2006 totalled 30.65% of the Companys net assets.
Whilst it is generally considered best practice to disclose the full portfolio of an investment company, the composition of the Companys investment portfolio is the subject of confidentiality provisions with the Investment Adviser.
The Board believes that such disclosure could be disadvantageous to the Company and its shareholders, for instance by increasing competition for the limited investment capacity in underlying hedge funds and hedge fund strategies.
Accordingly, in common with several other funds of hedge funds, the Company intends to disclose only its ten largest investments.
Dexion Capital Guernsey Limited 22 April 2008 9
