Directors Report Business Review The Board has prepared this Business Review in accordance with the requirements of Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985.
A review of the Companys activities is given in the Corporate Summary on page 1, the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and the Managers Review on page 10.
This includes a review of the business of the Company and its principal activities, likely future developments of the business, recommended dividend and details of acquisition of its own shares by the Company.
The Board has adopted a matrix of the key risks that affect its business.
The major risks associated with the Company are detailed in note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Other risks include: Performance risk: A fall in the market value of the Companys portfolio would have an adverse effect on Shareholders funds.
The NAV performance relative to the Index and the underlying stock weightings in the portfolio against the Index weightings are monitored closely by the Board.
Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Company operates a share buyback programme which is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
Breaches of regulations, such as Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Audit Committee monitors compliance with regulations by reviewing internal control reports from the Manager.
Monitoring Performance Key Performance Indicators At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
Below are the main key performance indicators KPIs which have been identified by the Board for determining the progress of the Company: Year ended 31 January 2007 Net asset value 292.33p valuing debt at market value FTSE All-Share Index 3211.84 Discount 6.3% valuing debt at market value Share price 267.25p Total expense ratio 0.60% A record of these measures is disclosed on page 5.
Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she herein after referred to as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Additionally there are no important events since the year end.
Messrs Budge, Macnamara & Scott and Ms Matterson were the only Directors who served during the whole year.
Messrs Ward and Douglas Miller retired from the Board on 4 May 2006 and Mr Wolton was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2006.
The Company makes no political donations or expenditures or donations for charitable purposes and, in common with most investment trusts, has no employees.
Share Capital and Debenture Stock During the year the Company purchased 3,231,101 Ordinary shares of 25p each representing 2.1% of the issued share capital as at 31 January 2007 which are being held in treasury.
The total cost of these shares was 8.2 million.
Since the year end the Company has purchased 544,652 Ordinary shares of 25p each which are being held in treasury.
Dividends The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.9p 2006 5.4p per share be paid on 8 May 2007 to Shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 April 2007, making a total of 9.0p 2006 8.2p per share for the year ended 31 January 2007.
The ex-dividend date is 4 April 2007.
22 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Status The Company carries on business as an investment trust for the purpose of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 and has been approved as such by HM Revenue & Customs for the period ended 31 January 2006 although approval for that year would be subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
The Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so as to enable it to continue to seek such approval.
The Company is an investment company, within the terms of Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
Directors Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 2 to 4.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, John Scott retires from the Board by rotation and will be proposed for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Under the terms of the Combined Code, Directors may serve longer than 9 years subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, Jean Matterson will retire at the Annual General Meeting and annually thereafter and, being eligible, will offer herself for reelection.
The Board has reviewed the skills and experience of Ms Matterson and Mr Scott and has no hesitation in recommending to Shareholders their re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Peter Wolton was appointed to the Board on 4 May 2006 and in accordance with the Articles of Association, offers himself for election to the Board at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors holdings in the Companys shares are shown in the table below.
Ordinary shares held at 31 January Nature of interest 2007 2006 Ruaridh Budge Beneficial 22,798 22,410 Rory Macnamara Beneficial 4,000 - Jean Matterson Beneficial 25,000 25,000 John Scott Beneficial 13,688 10,700 Peter Wolton Beneficial 4,000 - or date of appointment where later The Company has not been notified of any changes in Directors holdings between 31 January 2007 and 20 March 2007.
No contract or arrangement existed during the year in which any of the Directors was materially interested.
Directors do not have service contracts with the Company.
Directors Liability Insurance The Company maintains insurance in respect of directors and officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the Company.
Each Director of the Company shall be entitled to be indemnified out of the assets of the Company to the extent permitted by law against all costs, charges, losses, expenses and liabilities incurred by him in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with his duties, powers or office.
These rights are included in the Articles of Association of the Company.
Payments Policy The Companys payments policy is to ensure settlement of suppliers invoices in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place and it is the Companys policy to abide by those terms.
Going Concern The Companys Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue its operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Corporate Governance Compliance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applied the principles identified in the Combined Code appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the accounting period with the Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued relevant provisions contained within the Code.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code to recognise the special circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
The Board is responsible for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies its corporate governance procedures.
Directors The Board, which met six times during the year, has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
All Directors were present at all meetings, with the exception of Ruaridh Budge who missed an Audit Committee meeting, a Nomination Committee meeting and a Board meeting held on the same day.
Peter Wolton was present at all meetings following his appointment on 4 May 2006.
The Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated direct to the senior staff of the Manager.
Such matters include strategy, Company structure, risk, reviewing the Manager, borrowings, treasury, dividend, and corporate governance policy.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board also reviews the financial statements, performance and revenue budgets.
The Board delegates, through an Investment Management Agreement and through specific instructions, the day-to-day management of the Company to Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited the Manager.
The Company has no employees.
The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
As is common for an investment trust, there are no executive Directors.
All the Directors are considered to be independent.
In the case of Jean Matterson, who has been a Director since 1997, the Nomination Committee takes the view that her independence has not been compromised by her length of service.
This is consistent with the AIC Code.
Information on the Directors appears on pages 2 to 4 of this report.
Each Director has the requisite business and financial experience to enable the Board to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
The Senior Independent Director is Jean Matterson.
The Board as a whole fulfils the function of the Management Engagement Committee and keeps the resources of the Manager under review.
In addition, it conducts an annual review of the terms and conditions of the Investment Management Agreement and of all aspects of the Managers performance under this agreement.
Following the most recent review, the Board is satisfied that the continuing appointment of the Manager, on the terms agreed, is in the best interests of the Shareholders.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of the whole Board and is chaired by the Senior Independent Director, Jean Matterson.
Terms of reference are in place, which include reviewing the Board, appointments, appraisal, succession planning and training.
The terms of reference are available on request from the Company and on the Companys website.
The Nomination Committee has undertaken the annual appraisal of the Chairman of the Board as well as performance evaluation and review of the Board as a whole.
A list of skills and expertise required by the Board has been agreed by the Board and will be kept under review.
The Nomination Committee has also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other commitments, and the Committee is satisfied that the Chairman and other Directors are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
Appointments of new Directors are considered by the Nomination Committee taking into account the need to maintain a balanced Board.
The Nomination Committee will consider the use of an external search consultant depending on circumstances at the appropriate time.
New Directors appointed to the Board will be given a formal induction meeting with the Manager and will be provided with all relevant information regarding their duties as Directors.
All Directors are encouraged to receive training relevant to their roles as Directors.
A Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek election by Shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
All Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
Directors with more than nine years service will be required to submit themselves for annual re-election.
The Board supports the re-election of Jean Matterson and John Scott who are due to retire at this years AGM.
Jean Matterson has particular knowledge of investment on behalf of private clients and John Scott has a broad business background with particular knowledge and expertise in financial matters.
There is a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
24 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Communication with Shareholders The Directors attach great importance to communication with the Companys Shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting all Shareholders have the opportunity to put questions to the Board and a presentation from the Manager covers the investment performance and strategy during the financial year and the outlook for the year ahead.
The Board hopes that as many Shareholders as possible will be able to attend the meeting.
Shareholders have direct access to the Manager at any time through the freephone Shareholder information service.
The Manager has regular meetings with Shareholders and reports to the Board.
The Board is available to meet with Shareholders as appropriate.
Accountability and Audit The Board confirms that as at 31 January 2007 there is a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Companys significant business and operational risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 January 2007 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts, that it is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the internal control guidance for directors on the Combined Code.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that there is in place a system of internal control and a process for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Manager is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage its affairs properly.
The system extends to operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear lines of accountability have been established between the Board and the Manager.
The Board receives regular reports covering key performance and risk indicators and considers control and compliance issues brought to its attention.
In carrying out its review, the Board has had regard to the activities of the Manager, the Managers internal audit and compliance function and the auditors.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit procedures.
The auditors are responsible for reviewing the accounting systems and controls surrounding the accounting systems to the extent necessary for them to form their opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control are outlined below: the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting by exception: the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings with the Manager as appropriate: as a matter of course the Managers compliance department continually reviews the Managers operations: written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third party service providers: and at its March 2007 meeting, the Board carried out an annual assessment of internal controls for the year ended 31 January 2007 by considering documentation from the Manager, including the internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since 31 January 2007.
Audit Committee An Audit Committee is established consisting of the whole Board, chaired by Ruaridh Budge.
The Committee meets at least twice a year and reviews audit matters within clearly defined written terms of reference copies of which are available upon request from the Company and on the Companys website.
In summary, the Audit Committees main audit review functions are: to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: to consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Manager and Administrator: Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued to meet, if required, with the auditors to review their proposed audit programme of work and the findings of the auditors.
The Committee shall also use this as an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the audit process: to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non audit services services provided for the non audit fee of 2,500 for the year were for the interim review : to review an annual statement from the Manager detailing the arrangements in place within Aberdeen whereby Aberdeen staff may, in confidence, escalate concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing : to make recommendations in relation to the appointment of the auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditors: and, to monitor and review annually the auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on the appointment of the auditors for the forthcoming year.
Remuneration Committee There is no requirement for the above as the Company has no executive employees.
Remuneration details are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 and 31.
Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder Responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the investee company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to exercise discretion in the use of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote on all shares held by the Company.
Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
The Directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
The Companys ultimate objective however is to deliver superior investment returns for their clients.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which pursue best practice in the above areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
Auditors Resolutions are to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
The Directors have reviewed the level of non audit services provided by the auditors during the year together with the auditors procedures in connection with the provision of such services and remain satisfied that KPMG Audit Plcs objectivity and independence is being safeguarded.
Substantial Share Interests At 20 March 2007, the beneficial interests in the Ordinary share capital had been notified to the Company as shown below.
Holder No of Ordinary shares % Aberdeen Investment Trust Savings Plans 33,309,820 21.71 D C Thomson & Co Ltd 5,900,000 3.85 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 5,549,725 3.62 Non-beneficial interest Annual General Meeting Special Business At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 3 May 2007, the following resolutions will be proposed: i Allotment of Shares Ordinary resolution 9 will be proposed to confer an authority on the Directors, in substitution for any existing authority, to allot up to 43,215,018 unissued Ordinary shares up to a maximum nominal amount of 10,803,755 being 28.2% of the current issued Ordinary 26 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC share capital and within institutional guidelines in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
The authority conferred by this resolution will expire at the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2008 unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
The Directors consider that the authority and power proposed to be granted by resolution 9 is necessary to retain flexibility, although they do not have any intention of exercising such authority and power at the present time.
ii Limited Disapplication of Pre-emption Provisions Special resolution 10 seeks to give the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary share capital and to sell Ordinary shares held in treasury see below for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 10,803,755 in aggregate without first being required to offer such shares to existing Shareholders but this authority is limited to: 1. the allotment of Ordinary shares and sale of treasury shares avoiding legal or practical problems should there be an offer of shares or other securities to Shareholders pro rata in the future: and 2. the allotment and sale of up to 7,671,249 Ordinary shares and treasury shares for cash for any purpose representing 5% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company at the date of this Directors Report.
This power will last until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008 unless previously revoked, varied or extended by the Company in general meeting.
Under the Treasury Shares Regulations the Company may buy back and hold shares in treasury and then sell them at a later date for cash rather than cancelling them.
The Treasury Shares Regulations require such sale to be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to existing Shareholders unless Shareholders agree by special resolution to disapply such pre-emption rights.
Accordingly, in addition to giving the Directors power to allot unissued Ordinary share capital on a non pre-emptive basis, resolution 10 will also give the Directors power to sell Ordinary shares held in treasury on a non pre-emptive basis, subject always in both cases to the limitations noted above.
Pursuant to this power, Ordinary shares would only be issued for cash and treasury shares would only be sold for cash at a price not less than the net asset value per share calculated after the deduction of prior charges at market value.
Treasury shares are explained in more detail under the heading Market purchase of the Companys own Ordinary shares below.
iii Market Purchase of the Companys own Ordinary Shares Special resolution 11 will be proposed to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own Ordinary shares.
The Company may do either of the following things in respect of its own Ordinary shares which it buys back and does not immediately cancel but, instead, holds in treasury: a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent under the Treasury Shares Regulations : or b ultimately, cancel the shares or any of them.
The Directors may use the Treasury Shares Regulations in either of the ways noted above and intend to take advantage of this flexibility as they deem appropriate.
For example, treasury shares may be resold quickly and cost effectively.
Treasury shares also enhance the Directors ability to manage the Companys capital base.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares and no voting rights attach to them.
The maximum aggregate number of Ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company as at the date of the passing of the resolution approximately 23.0 million Ordinary shares.
The minimum price which may be paid for an Ordinary share shall be 25p exclusive of expenses.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses which may be paid for the shares shall be the higher of a 5% above the average of the market value of the Ordinary shares as derived from the Daily Official List of the London Stock Exchange for the shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase: and b the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the main market for the Ordinary shares.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if exercise would result in an increase in net asset value per Ordinary share for the remaining Shareholders and if it were in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
This authority will last until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2008 unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 27 Directors Report continued iv Communications by Electronic Means and Amendment to Articles of Association This special resolution is being proposed in light of the new provisions about company communications, including electronic communications for example via the Companys website or by email, which have recently been introduced by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act.
Whilst previously company law allowed companies to use electronic communications in certain contexts, for instance to send annual accounts and notices of meeting to shareholders, the new provisions in the 2006 Act apply more generally to all types of company communications made pursuant to the Act.
The authority that is being sought by resolution 12 is consistent with the new arrangements under the 2006 Act, and with the provisions of the UKLAs new Transparency Rules which contain additional requirements for listed companies in relation to electronic communications.
The resolution also seeks Shareholder approval for changes to the Companys Articles of Association to reflect the new arrangements.
The authority and amendments to the Articles will not of themselves force either the Company or any individual Shareholder to send or receive notices, documents or information by electronic means.
They will, however, allow the Company in the future to approach Shareholders for their individual agreement to use electronic mail and or publication on its website for Company communications.
Shareholders will at all times be able to request hard copies of any document published electronically and they will be able to revoke their consent to the Company communicating with them electronically at any time.
Electronic communications should benefit the Company through potential cost savings, shareholders through ease of access to information and be environmentally friendly.
Copies of the existing Articles of Association of the Company and the proposed amended Articles of Association will be available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office from 30 March 2007 to 3 May 2007, the date of the Annual General Meeting, during normal business hours on any day Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays excepted and will also be available from at least 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting until its conclusion.
The Annual General Meeting is being held at the Companys Registered Office at Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh.
The Directors unanimously recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions to be considered at the Annual General Meeting, as the Directors intend to do in respect of their own beneficial holdings of shares, amounting in aggregate to 69,486 shares.
By order of the Board, Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary 20 March 2007 Edinburgh 28 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
