Managers Review Another strong year for UK equities saw the fourth continued to show strong gains as legislation was consecutive year of double digit returns for the FTSE Allintroduced allowing UK companies to operate in a tax Share Index which, at the end of the year in review, closed efficient real estate investment trust REIT structure.
Also, marginally below record levels seen in September 2000. following several years of lacklustre performance, Fixed DIGIT also succeeded in delivering strong returns, Line Telecoms posted a strong gain, led by BT which saw substantially outperforming the FTSE All-Share Index.
large increases in profitability as a result of their corporate communications contracts.
Weaker sectors included the Portfolio Review Oil Producers which, following last years commodity led The total return i. e. including the reinvestment of gains, suffered as prices fell this year.
Pharmaceuticals also dividends from DIGITs equity portfolio was 19.8% disappointed with concerns primarily about future compared to a total return of 13.1% for the FTSE All-Share development pipelines and the threat of generic Index.
Several themes which have been present in recent competition eating into their product lifecycles, raising years continued throughout the period under review questions on future profitability.
helping the market reach near record levels.
Particularly noteworthy was the level of corporate activity with several In terms of performance, DIGIT benefited from a number large companies agreeing to takeovers, including Alliance of these themes.
The portfolio witnessed its fair share of Unichem, BAA, BOC, Corus and Scottish Power.
Among corporate activity, with successful cash bids for two medium sized companies there were rumours of bids for established core holdings, BAA and BOC, both of which Mitchells and Butlers, EMI and HMV.
Despite rising interest offered exposure to asset backed visible revenue streams, rates, corporate profitability has also remained robust, which are difficult to replicate within the UK market.
In leading to strong cash generation and leaving balance addition, we have held a number of other bid targets, sheets generally in a healthy state.
This has offered including the food producer RHM which has agreed to a companies the ability either to increase returns to takeover by Premier Foods, and Wilson Bowden, which at shareholders, in the form of progressive dividend growth, the time of writing, has agreed an approach by Barratt capital returns and share buybacks, or to engage in more Developments.
Scottish Power also succumbed to expansionary activities.
The latter has been achieved advances and, as mentioned above, helped drive a very through both increasing capital expenditure and increased strong performance by the Electricity sector.
As we construct portfolios on an absolute basis rather than Although the economic environment was relatively benign relative to a given benchmark, we are naturally during the year, inflationary and consumer spending underweight in the Oil Producers which also benefited concerns, particularly in the UK, became more of a central performance and, to a lesser degree, the same comment is theme towards the end of the period.
Many of the UKs applicable to the Pharmaceutical sector.
In terms of other FTSE 100 companies have a geographically diverse revenue areas of particular strength, the Travel & Leisure sector stream meaning that the robust global economy has been proved to be a happy hunting ground where holdings in more of a driver than that of the UK.
That said, the Bank of pub operator Mitchells & Butlers, hotelier Millennium & England has acted firmly to subdue inflation, and we saw Copthorne and travel agent First Choice, all performed three 0.25% rises in interest rates taking Base Rate to strongly for various reasons including, in the case of the 5.25% from 4.5% at the start of the year.
The interesting first two, substantial asset backing.
In addition BT, as factor was how the last of these took City economists by previously mentioned delivered both strong capital and surprise, and expectations are now for further rate rises, income growth as the relatively new management teams despite the potential for inflation to fall back as energy strategy started to produce results.
Areas that performed less well for DIGIT included General The merger and acquisition activity seen throughout the Industrials where concerns over weak US auto production year has had a strong influence on the sectorial return of led to stock price weakness in Tomkins, while HMV also the All-Share, with Industrial Metals Corus and Electricity suffered as pricing of UK entertainment products was hit by competition from both supermarkets and the internet.
Scottish Power both near the top of the risers.
Property 10 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC Portfolio Activity Retailers saw Sainsburys added at the start of the year Following the strategic review and subsequent changes in based on the property backing in the group.
This was partly the portfolio, we have maintained our strategy of funded by reducing Morrisons with the rest coming from broadening the shape of the portfolio and placing less the larger holdings in the funds.
Mothercare was also emphasis on benchmark weights.
added as we believe the potential from their international operations, as well as their strong balance sheet, is not In Oil & Gas, we broadened our exposure by introducing reflected in the current share price.
three new holdings and reducing weightings in BP and Royal Dutch Shell.
Given the lack of choice in the UK Another fund added to the portfolio was tour operator First market, we ventured further afield purchasing Frances Choice.
Since it was sold from the fund, the price declined Total and Italian operator ENI.
In addition, we purchased steadily and we felt the opportunities for consolidation in UK North Sea gas niche operator Venture Production.
the sector were not being reflected.
This was funded by the sale of Fuller, Smith & Turner who gave us exposure similar In construction, we exited builder Persimmon, preferring to our other pub holding, Mitchells & Butlers.
instead to invest in building products distributor, Wolseley which had suffered on concerns about Dollar weakness and In Media, we introduced two new holdings, record label US building activity, as many of its sales originate in the EMI and newspaper producer, Daily Mail & General Trust.
However, we believe that underlying trends are better While trading in EMIs recorded music division remains than investor perception.
Industrials saw the unwelcome challenging, it has significant asset backing through its loss of industrial gases business BOC, which was bought by catalogue of songs which is being realised in the new Germanys Linde, leaving the UK with little by way of large digital age, whilst Daily Mail is cutting costs in its chemicals companies.
Proceeds were invested in plastics newspaper division whilst experiencing strong growth from company British Polythene Industries, as well as moving other divisions.
This is overlooked by other investors who out of the chemical sector into pan European are concerning themselves with declines in newspaper transportation group TDG.
Corporate activity also saw the circulations.
removal of BAA from our investable universe as it was bought by Spanish construction company Ferrovial.
Having established our Telecoms exposure last year by increasing BT and reducing Vodafone, there was little Support services were an area where we invested capital activity in this sector.
However, in other Utilities, we were taken out of the larger holdings as part of the strategy to forced to sell our position in Scottish Power following the move away from the benchmark.
To this end, we bid from Iberdrola of Spain.
introduced the construction management and oil services company Amec, textiles business Johnson Service Group, Financials saw a few name changes with Lloyds insurer, and logistics company John Menzies.
As well as reinvesting Chaucer, introduced alongside property services business capital from the large stocks, we also sold Robert Walters Erinaceous.
These were funded by taking profits from Management Consulting Group and Acal.
Resolution post its rights issue.
On the consumer side, we decided to sell Diageo from the Outlook portfolio, preferring to invest in the smaller food producers We remain cautiously optimistic for UK equities for the Premier Foods and RHM, both of whom show superior coming year despite fears surrounding the future direction growth prospects.
Since then, they have also announced a of interest rates.
We believe that the drivers that have merger with Premier Foods acquiring RHM with a helped equities over the last four years will continue, with combination of stock and shares which increases the M&A activity unlikely to stop.
This is down to the large attractiveness through cost savings.
We also added to amount of capital invested in private equity vehicles which AstraZeneca after a period of share price weakness as we needs to earn a return.
While the rise in interest rates may feel that concerns about the short to medium term drug prevent some of the racier deals coming to fruition, real pipeline have been overdone.
interest rates are still low by historical standards.
Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC 11 Managers Review continued Companies also believe they can invest at higher rates of The recent correction witnessed has in our view, brought return than the cost of servicing debt, which should allow some value back into the market.
With our rigorous corporate profitability to advance.
approach to analysing equities, we seek to capitalise on the opportunities that has resulted from this period of increased volatility.
Chou Chong 20 March 2007 Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited Analysis of Total Return Performance Year ended 31 January 2007 % Equity Portfolio Total Return 19.8 Total NAV return per share 21.8 13.1 Total return on FTSE All-Share Index Relative performance 8.7 debt at market value Analysis of Performance Relative to the FTSE All-Share Index % UK listed equities 6.7 derived from: 2.7 - stock selection 4.0 - sector allocation -0.3 Cash -0.6 Fees and Expenses 2.7 Borrowings Share Buyback 0.2 12 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
