Marketing Strategy Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC contributes to the marketing programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited AAM on behalf of a number of investment trusts under its management.
Under this agreement the Companys contribution is matched by AAM.
This contribution is reviewed annually.
The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively with existing Shareholders and attract new Shareholders, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits through packaged products, whether singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
These aims can be met in several ways: Investor relations programme Shareholder services AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers and prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any relevant institutional investors and prospects receive a Managers report on literature on request and have queries answered immediately.
your Company that includes detailed performance analysis.
The Marketing Programme is under the direction of AAMs Head of Investor Relations for Investment Trusts, who has Group schemes considerable experience in the marketing and communications The Aberdeen Group administers several savings schemes including of investment products.
He is supported by a team of marketing the Share Plan, ISA, PEP and the Childrens Plan.
allow investment at lower costs and have proved popular with private investors.
Internet The Company has its own dedicated website at: Direct response advertising AAM advertise the packaged product availability of the Company in www.
This allows web users to the specialist financial press.
access information on the Companys share price performance, capital structure, stock exchange announcements and monthly Direct mail reports.
Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building awareness and investor The Company is committed to the close monitoring of the databases.
Target groups include existing holders of other AAM Marketing Programme.
The Head of Investor Relations for investment trusts as well as known buyers of investment trusts.
Investment Trusts reports to the Board and provides a written summary quarterly.
Newsletter The Bulletin newsletter, an informed commentary on markets and If you have any questions about your Company, the Manager or investment trusts managed by AAM, is distributed free of charge.
performance, please telephone AAMs Investor Services Department on 0500 00 00 40.
Alternatively, internet users Public relations may e-mail us at inv.
com or write to us AAM undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly through placed articles and ensure Company results and any corporate activity are at Aberdeen Investment Trusts, Block C, Western House, brought to public attention.
Lynchwood Business Park, Peterborough PE2 6BP 48 Dunedin Income Growth Investment Trust PLC
