Investment Managers Review Edinburgh US Tracker Trust is the only UK investment trust takeover activity with 20 of the constituents being to track the performance of the S&P 500 Composite Index acquired and another 10 constituents being removed on and provides shareholders with a diversified portfolio which the grounds of low market capitalisation.
is invested in the leading 500 companies across the main industries within the US economy.
The method employed by Some of the better known names to leave the S&P 500 the Company to track the Index involves full replication of Index as a result of takeover activity included Scientific the Index constituents.
This means that the companys Atlanta, Jefferson-Pilot, Burlington Resources, Maytag, portfolio holds every stock making up the Index in an Engelhard, Albertsons, Knight Ridder, Kerr McGee, Lucent amount that equals the stocks proportionate weight in the Technologies and Bellsouth.
The new entrants to the Index.
The Index is calculated on the basis of the market Index included Barr Pharmaceuticals, Google, Legg capitalisation of its 500 constituents which are drawn from Mason, SanDisk, Chicago Mercantile Exchange, Western companies listed on the New York Stock Exchange, the Union, Smith International, CB Richard Ellis and Terex.
American Stock Exchange and NASDAQ and is widely regarded as the best single gauge of the US equity market.
Apart from changes to the constituents of the Index, trading activity was also generated by sales from the The level of activity within the portfolio was higher than in portfolio to finance the purchase of the Companys own recent periods and this was attributable to changes to the shares a total of 9,152,922 shares were purchased constituents of the Index and the sale of investments to during the year to 31 January 2007 at a total cost of finance the purchase of the Companys own shares.
The total value of purchases in the year, constituents of the S&P 500 Composite Index are controlled excluding the Companys own shares, amounted to 13.0 by the Standard & Poors Index Committee and the million while sales totaled 63.5 million.
Company bought and sold shares during the year to reflect any changes initiated by the Committee.
Most of the 14 March 2007 Edinburgh Fund Managers plc changes to the Index in the past year were the result of Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 9
