Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited financial statements for the year to 31 January 2007. Business Review The Board has prepared this Business Review in accordance with the requirements of Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985.
Principal Activity and Status The business of the Company is that of an investment trust and the Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
The Company is registered as a public limited company and is an investment company as defined by Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company has been approved by the Inland Revenue as an investment trust for the purposes of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 January 2006.
The Directors are of the opinion, under advice, that the Company has conducted its affairs for the year ended 31 January 2007 so as to be able to continue to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for that year, although approval for the year would be subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
The affairs of the Company were conducted in such a way as to comply with the qualifying equity rule as defined in the Personal Equity Plan Regulations.
The Company has also conducted its affairs so as to satisfy the requirements as a qualifying security for Individual Savings Accounts.
The Directors intend that the Company will continue to conduct its affairs in this manner in the future.
Investment Objective and Policy The investment objective is to invest in a portfolio designed to track closely the S&P 500 Composite Index, both in terms of capital and income.
The Companys methodology in tracking the Index is full replication of the Index constituents.
Performance An outline of the performance, market background, investment activity and portfolio strategy during the period under review, as well as the market outlook, is provided in the Chairmans Statement and Investment Managers Review.
Risks and Uncertainties The Board has reviewed the key risks that affect its business.
The principal risks are as follows: Market and performance risk: The Company is exposed to the effect of variations in share prices and movements in the US$ exchange rate due to the nature of its business.
A fall in the market value of its portfolio would have an adverse effect on shareholders funds.
The NAV performance relative to the Index and the underlying stock weightings in the portfolio against the Index weightings are monitored closely to eliminate any risk of a significant tracking error developing.
Discount volatility: The Companys share price can trade at a discount to its underlying net asset value.
The Company operates a share buyback programme with the aim of establishing a long term level of discount of no greater than 3%.
Regulatory risk: The Company operates in a complex regulatory environment and faces a number of regulatory risks.
Breaches of regulations, such as Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988, the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act, could lead to a number of detrimental outcomes and reputational damage.
The Audit Committee monitors compliance with regulations by reviewing internal control reports from the Manager.
Further details on other risks relating to the Companys investment activities, including market price, liquidity and foreign currency risks, are provided in note 16 to the accounts.
Monitoring Performance Key Performance Indicators At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of performance measures to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The following key performance indicators KPIs have been identified by the Board for determining the progress of the Company: Net asset value S&P Composite Index in sterling terms 14 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Discount Total expense ratio A record of these measures is disclosed in the Highlights section on page 5.
Resources The Company has no employees.
The operational management of the Company has been delegated to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc.
Details of the Management Agreement are provided on page 2.
Results and Dividends An interim dividend of 2.45p per Ordinary share was paid on 20 October 2006.
The Directors recommend that a final dividend per Ordinary share of 4.45p be paid on 25 May 2007 to shareholders on the register on 27 April 2007, making a total of 6.90p 2006 6.00p per Ordinary share for the year ended 31 January 2007.
The ex-dividend date is 25 April 2007.
Share Capital During the year ended 31 January 2007, the Company purchased for cancellation 9,152,922 Ordinary shares at prices ranging from 534p to 594p at a discount to the prevailing net asset value per share.
The total consideration for these purchases was 51.4 million inclusive of stamp duty.
Since the year end the Company has purchased for cancellation 383,000 Ordinary shares at prices ranging from 576p to 600p.
Directors Details of the current Directors of the Company are shown on pages 3 and 4.
In accordance with the Articles of Association and with corporate governance procedures established by the Board, James Ferguson and Archie Hunter will retire from the Board and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
In accordance with the terms of the Combined Code and with corporate governance procedures established by the Board, non-executive directors may serve longer than nine years but it is recommended that in such cases they stand for annual re-election.
Sir Angus Grossart, who will be 70 in April 2007, was, in accordance with the Companys Articles, due to retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in May 2007.
Following recent changes in company law, the Board proposes to amend the Companys Articles to remove the age 70 limit which currently applies.
This proposed amendment, as well as reflecting the changes in company law, is in line with current market practise.
Sir Angus Grossart will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting subject to the proposed amendment to the Articles being approved by shareholders and thereafter on an annual basis.
The Directors interests in the share capital of the Company, all of which are beneficial interests, are shown below.
The Company has not been notified of any changes in Directors interests.
None of the Directors had any non-beneficial interests in the share capital of the Company.
31 January 2007 31 January 2006 Sir Angus Grossart 1,000 1,000 Guy Crawford 1,000 1,000 James Ferguson 1,000 1,000 Archie Hunter 1,000 1,000 No contract or arrangement subsisted during the period in which any of the Directors was materially interested.
No Director had a service contract with the Company.
Directors & Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains insurance in respect of Directors and Officers liabilities in relation to their acts on behalf of the Company.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 15 Directors Report continued Corporate Governance Compliance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applied the principles identified in the Combined Code published in June 2006 appended to the Financial Services Authority Listing Rules throughout the financial year.
The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the accounting period to 31 January 2007 with the relevant provisions contained within the Combined Code unless otherwise indicated below.
The Company is also a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code to recognise the special circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code.
The Board The Board consists of four non-executive Directors, of whom Sir Angus Grossart is the Chairman.
Mr Ferguson is the senior independent Director.
All Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Company and the Manager, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, and free of any material relationship with the Manager which could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgment.
The Board takes the view that independence is not compromised by length of tenure on the Board and that experience can add significantly to the Boards strength.
This is consistent with the AIC Code.
The Board considers that the post of chief executive officer is not relevant for an investment trust company as this role has effectively been delegated to Edinburgh Fund Managers plc under the terms of the Investment Management Agreement.
Biographies of the Board members, including their relevant experience, appear on pages 3 and 4 which demonstrate that each Director has the requisite high level and range of business, investment and financial experience and enables the Board to provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship of the Company.
During the year the Board met four times, the Audit Committee met twice and the Management Engagement Committee met once.
Each Director attended all Board and Committee meetings.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for decision and the requirement for Board approval on these matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the Manager.
Such matters include strategy, performance, borrowings, treasury, marketing, Board composition, communication with shareholders, dividend and corporate governance policy.
Full and timely information is provided to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
The Board also reviews the financial statements and revenue budgets.
Performance evaluation Following an appraisal of each Director, by the Chairman, and of the Chairman by the other Directors, the Board confirms that all Directors contribute to the effective running of the Company.
The Board has also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other commitments and is satisfied that the Chairman and Directors are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
In addition, the Directors assessed the collective performance of the Board as a whole against the requirements of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
The Board believes that their aggregate balance of abilities, perspective and experience is appropriate for a tracker fund and secures the right measure of continuity for the Board as a whole.
There are no separate Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Director appraisals, succession planning, new appointments, training and remuneration are considered by the whole Board.
New Directors are identified against the requirements of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
A description of the required role for a new appointment is prepared and nominations of Directors are initially sought in the financial and investment sectors.
External search consultants may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
New Directors appointed will be given appropriate induction from the Manager.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training as deemed necessary.
Details of remuneration are contained within the Directors Remuneration Report.
A Director appointed during the year is required, under the provisions of the Companys Articles, to retire and seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Articles also require that one third of the Directors retire by rotation each year and seek reelection at the Annual General Meeting.
In addition, all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least every three years and Directors with more than nine years service are required to submit themselves for annual re-election.
The Board recommends the re-elections of James Ferguson, Archie Hunter and Sir Angus Grossart, who are due to retire at this years Annual General Meeting.
James Ferguson is a former deputy chairman of the AIC and has valuable experience of the investment trust industry.
Archie Hunter is a chartered accountant bringing accounting and financial expertise to the Board.
Sir Angus Grossart has considerable experience in investment matters and also of the investment trust industry and he provides effective leadership for the Board.
Their contributions to the 16 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Board are greatly valued and their combined experience greatly enhances the Board.
The tenure of Directors corresponds with the formal provisions of the Companys Articles of Association.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access which every Director has to the advice and services of the company secretary, Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Relations with shareholders The Directors believe in good communication with shareholders.
The report and accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and investors may obtain up to date information on the Company through the Managers freephone information service.
The Board welcomes correspondence from shareholders addressed to the Companys registered office and responds to letters from shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds back shareholder views to the Board.
The Companys annual and interim reports and other publications can be downloaded from the Companys website, www.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting included within the annual report and accounts is sent out at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
Investors in the Managers savings plans are encouraged to vote by means of a letter of direction enclosed with the annual report.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
Proxy voting figures for each resolution are announced to the meeting after voting by a show of hands.
Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board has regard to environmental policies as may be appropriate to a tracker trust.
Proxy voting as an institutional shareholder Responsibility for monitoring the activities of investee companies has been delegated by the Board to the Manager.
The Manager will exercise proxy votes on behalf of the Company if they believe it is appropriate.
Internal control The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Following publication of Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this annual report and accounts, and is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant risks faced by the Company are as follows: financial: operational: compliance: and risk management Note 16 to the financial statements provides further information on risks.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control are outlined below: the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting by exception: the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including performance statistics and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings with the Manager as appropriate: as a matter of course the Managers compliance department continually reviews the Managers operations: written agreements are in place which specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third party service providers: the Board has considered the need for an internal audit function but, because of the compliance and internal control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit procedures: and Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 17 Directors Report continued at its March 2007 meeting, the Audit Committee carried out an annual assessment of internal controls for the year ended 31 January 2007 by considering documentation from the Manager, including the internal audit and compliance functions and taking account of events since 31 January 2007.
The results of the assessment were reported to the Board.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accountability and audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the auditors in connection with the financial statements appear on pages 20 and 23.
The Audit Committee comprises all of the Directors and is chaired by Mr Hunter.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice a year and considers reports from the auditors and the Managers internal audit and compliance functions.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which are available on request and on the Companys website, are reviewed on an annual basis.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk management systems on which the Company is reliant: to consider annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function: to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging where necessary, the actions and judgements of the Manager: to meet, if required, with the auditors to review their proposed audit programme of work and the findings of the auditors.
The Committee shall also use this as an opportunity to assess the effectiveness of the audit process: to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit services.
The non-audit fees for the year to 31 January 2007 were 2,700 relating to their review of the interim accounts.
The Board will review any future fees in the light of the requirement to maintain the auditors independence: to review the arrangements in place within the Manager whereby staff may, in confidence, escalate concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters whistleblowing : to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the auditor: and to monitor and review annually the auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and qualification.
At its March 2007 meeting, the Committee was satisfied that the auditors remained independent and objective.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee comprises all of the Directors and is chaired by Mr Ferguson.
The Committee reviews the performance of the Manager and its compliance with the terms of the management and secretarial agreement.
The terms and conditions of the Managers appointment, including an evaluation of performance and fees, are reviewed by the Committee on an annual basis.
The management agreement is terminable on not less than three months notice.
The Committee considers that the Manager, whose team is well qualified and experienced, has fully met the terms of its agreement with the Company.
The Company has continued to meet its objective of tracking closely the S&P 500 Composite Index.
Following a review of the management fees and total expense ratio the Committee believe these are reasonable and competitive.
Taking these factors into account, the Committee and the Board believe that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of shareholders.
Going Concern In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, shareholders have the right to vote annually at the Annual General Meeting on whether to continue the Company.
After enquiry, the Directors believe that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts and are of the opinion that the Company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
18 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc Auditors The Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing to continue in office and resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to reappoint them and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Non-audit fees of 2,700 were paid to the auditors, during the year, in respect of their review of the interim accounts.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Creditor Payment Policy It is the policy of the Company to settle all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
All other expenses are paid on a timely basis in the ordinary course of business.
In certain circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Substantial Interests At 14 March 2007, being the nearest practicable date to the signing of this Report, the following had notified the Company as being interested in 3% or more of the Company's Ordinary share capital: Name of Shareholder Number of Ordinary shares held % of Ordinary Shares held Barclays PLC 7,775,034 10.8 Lehman Brothers International Europe 4,098,467 5.7 Deutsche Bank 4,061,549 5.6 Legal & General Group Plc 2,813,730 3.9 Morgan Stanley Securities 2,521,302 3.5 Rensburg Sheppards 2,275,153 3.2 Annual General Meeting - Special Business The Annual General Meeting will be held on 23 May 2007.
The Notice of Meeting is incorporated in the Circular which is enclosed with the annual report and accounts.
The Circular provides details of the resolutions being proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting under special business.
By order of the Board Edinburgh Fund Managers plc 14 March 2007 Secretary, Edinburgh Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 19
