Corporate Summary The Company The Company is an investment trust and its shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
Investment Objective and Policy To invest in a portfolio designed to track closely the S&P 500 Composite Index, both in terms of capital and income.
As a result of the publication of the Investment Entities Listing Rules and Conduct of Business Instrument 2003, the Board stated that it is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more than 15 per cent.
of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
Benchmark S&P 500 Composite Index in sterling terms Investment Manager Edinburgh Fund Managers plc EFM Capital Structure The Company has a capital structure comprising Ordinary shares of 25p.
Each Ordinary shareholder is entitled to one vote on a show of hands and, on a poll, to one vote for every four shares held.
Total Assets and Net Asset Value The Company had total assets of 446.4 million and a net asset value of 615.3 pence per Ordinary share at 31 January 2007.
Market Capitalisation The Company had a market capitalisation of 425.4 million at 31 January 2007.
Equity Shareholders Funds The Company had equity shareholders funds of 446.3 million at 31 January 2007.
com Company Secretary Edinburgh Fund Managers plc, Donaldson House, 97 Haymarket Terrace, Edinburgh EH12 5HD Email: company.
co. uk Customer Services Freephone: 0500 00 0040 Email: inv.
com Risk Managing a portfolio of shares necessarily involves certain risks, the more important of which are set out on page 34 of this Report.
Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc 1 Corporate Summary continued Duration Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the continuation of the Company every year at the Annual General Meeting.
Share Dealing PEP ISA Status Shares in Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
Shares can also be purchased through Aberdeens Investment Plan for Children, Aberdeens Investment Trust Share Plan and Investment Trust ISA and PEP and are fully qualifying for inclusion within tax efficient ISA wrappers see page 36.
Management Agreement The Company has an agreement with EFM for the provision of management services, details of which are shown in note 3 to the financial statements.
The management fee is 0.2% per annum of the total assets of the Company, after deducting current liabilities and excluding commonly managed funds.
The agreement is normally terminable by either party on three months notice.
In the event of termination on less than the agreed notice period, compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice period.
The terms and conditions of the Investment Managers appointment, including an evaluation of performance and fees, are reviewed by the Board on an annual basis.
The Board believes that the continuing appointment of the Investment Manager, on the terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Further details are provided in the Directors Report.
AIC Membership The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies.
Standard & Poors, S&P, S&P 500, Standard & Poors 500, and 500 are trademarks of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc. and have been licensed for use by Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc.
The Company is not sponsored, endorsed, sold or promoted by Standard & Poors and Standard & Poors make no representation regarding the advisability of investing in the Company.
S&P does not guarantee the accuracy and or the completeness of the S&P 500 Index or any data included therein and S&P shall have no liability for any errors, omissions, or interruptions therein.
S&P makes no warranty, express or implied, as to results to be obtained by licensee, owners of the product, or any other person or entity from the use of the S&P 500 Index or any data included therein.
S&P makes no express or implied warranties, and expressly disclaims all warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use with respect to the S&P 500 Index or any data included therein.
Without limiting any of the foregoing, in no event shall S&P have any liability for any special, punitive, indirect, or consequential damages including lost profits, even if notified of the possibility of such damages.
2 Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc
