Overview Objective and Investment Policy At the Extraordinary General Meeting held in October 2006 shareholders approved Electras revised investment strategy and policy which is set out below.
The business and affairs of Electra are managed on an exclusive and fully discretionary basis by Electra Partners, an independent private equity fund manager, whose senior management team has worked together since 1992.
Electra is managed as an HM Revenue and Customs approved investment trust.
Electras objective is to target a rate of return on equity of between 10 15% per annum over the long-term by investing in a portfolio of private equity assets.
Unless required to do so as an investment trust, Electras Directors would not recommend the payment of dividends on a regular basis.
Electra Partners, on behalf of Electra, will aim to achieve this target rate of return by: Exploiting a track record of successful private equity investment: Utilising the proven skills of its senior management team with a strong record of dealflow generation and long-term presence in the private equity market: Investing in a number of value creating transactions with a balanced risk profile across a broad range of investment sectors through a variety of financial instruments: Actively managing its total capital position and levels of gearing in light of prevailing economic conditions.
Total bank borrowings by Electra will always be less than 40% of its total assets.
Additionally, an on-market share buyback programme will be managed to generate shareholder value.
Electra Partners will target private equity opportunities including direct investment, fund investment and secondary buyouts of portfolios and funds so that the perceived risks associated with such investments are justified by expected returns.
These investments will be made across a broad range of sectors and types of financial instrument such as equity, senior equity, convertibles and mezzanine debt.
The investment focus will be principally on Western Europe, with the majority of investments expected to be made in the United Kingdom, where historically Electra Partners has been most active.
Electra Partners would expect there to be an emphasis on areas where its senior management team has specific knowledge and expertise.
In circumstances where Electra Partners feel that there is merit in gaining exposure to countries and sectors outside Electra Partners network and expertise, consideration will be given to investing in specific funds managed by third parties or co-investing with private equity managers with whom it has developed a relationship.
In implementing Electras investment strategy, Electra Partners typically targets investments at a cost of 2570 million in companies with an enterprise value of 70200 million.
Electra will not invest more than 15% of its total assets at the time of investment in any other listed closed-ended investment funds.
4 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007
