Information Board of Directors Sir Brian Williamson CBE Colette Bowe Lucinda Webber Chairman An economist by profession, she has Has over 20 years experience in the Sir Brian is a non-executive Director of worked in Whitehall, City regulation and private equity industry having joined HSBC Holdings, NYSE Euronext, the fund management industry.
She is Barclays Private Equity BPE from Resolution and of Climate Exchange.
He currently a Director of Morgan Stanley Barclays Merchant Bank in 1984.
She is a Senior Adviser to Fleming Family & Bank International, of Axa Framlington became a Director of BPE and also of Partners.
Former Chairman of The and Goldfish Bank.
In the public sector, Barclays Capital Dvloppement S. A. London International Financial Futures she is the Chairman of the Ofcom BCD in 1990.
In 1997 she moved to and Options Exchange, Gerrard Group, Consumer Panel and a member of the working part-time as a Director for BPE Resolution Life Group and a former nonStatistics Commission.
She is also the and BCD and since 1999 she has executive Director of the Financial Chairman of the Council of Queen Mary, worked as a consultant in private equity, Services Authority and of the Court of University of London.
remaining on the Barclays Ventures the Bank of Ireland.
Colette Bowe was appointed a Director Sir Brian was appointed a Director in in 2007.
Lord King of Bridgwater Ronald Armstrong A Member of Parliament from 1970 until Peter Williams Most of his career has been spent in 2001, he held a variety of senior Cabinet He is Chairman of RPC Group, one of companies in which the application of posts and was Secretary of State for Europes largest producers of plastic technology is critical to success and he Defence from 1989 to 1992.
He has packaging and of Very Mobile Group, a has considerable experience of this been a member of the Nolan Committee company investing in early stage process across a wide range of and Chairman of the Intelligence and businesses, primarlly those providing industries and countries.
services in the mobile telecommunications industry.
He is a Founder Director of E-Synergy, Before entering Parliament he was a which specialises in venture funding for senior manager in DRG, the printing and He is a Director of Xenos Group, a early-stage technology companies.
He is packaging group, and subsequently software company listed on the Toronto Chairman of Offshield and a director of Chairman of Sale Tilney.
He is currently Stock Exchange and several private other private companies.
Previously he non-executive Chairman of London companies.
He was formerly a Director of was CEO of Pera Group and a Director International Exhibition Centre Reed International and Chief Executive of of JPMorgan Fleming Worldwide Income Holdings.
Investment Trust and several other quoted Fleming investment trusts Lord King was appointed a Director in Peter Williams was appointed a Director between 1991 and 2005.
1992 and will retire at the Annual General in 1994.
Ron Armstrong was appointed a Director in 1994.
Michael Walton He was previously on the Board of the Professor Sir George Bain Company from 1981 to 1986.
He was A former President and Vice-Chancellor Managing Director of Gartmore Private of The Queens University of Belfast, he Capital until 1996 and was subsequently has also held senior academic posts at a Director of Bridgepoint Capital.
He has the London Business School and the served on the Council of the British University of Warwick.
He has also been Venture Capital Association.
Chairman of the Low Pay Commission and is on the Boards of Bombardier Michael Walton was appointed a Aerospace Short Brothers and the Director in 2000.
All Directors are members of the Professor Sir George Bain was Nomination Committee.
All Directors, appointed a Director in 1998 and will other than the Chairman, are members of retire at the Annual General Meeting in Member of the Valuation Committee.
the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
68 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Left to right Sir Brian Williamson CBE Ronald Armstrong Professor Sir George Bain Colette Bowe Lord King of Bridgwater Michael Walton Lucinda Webber Peter Williams 69 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Information Board of Directors
