Review Schedule of Unlisted Investments valued over 10 million Fair Value Net Fair Value Cost of of holding at purchases Performance of holding at holding at 30 Sept 2006 sales in year 30 Sept 2007 30 Sept 2007 Company 000 000 000 000 000 KINGFIELD HEATH 62,532 62,532 62,532 Stationery supplier ALLFLEX HOLDINGS III 41,190 41,190 41,190 Animal identification tags DAKOTA, MINNESOTA & EASTERN RAILROAD USA 2,534 32,671 35,205 1,629 Railroad operator NUAIRE 33,770 33,770 33,770 Ventilation systems manufacturer PREMIER ASSET MANAGEMENT 32,973 135 33,108 32,973 Investment management MOSER BAER INDIA 15,190 12,810 28,000 1,900 Manufacturer of recordable CDs LIL-LETS GROUP 26,036 26,036 26,036 Feminine hygiene products AMTICO 22,500 1,993 20,507 22,500 Luxury flooring manufacturer CAPITAL SAFETY GROUP III 17,763 17,763 17,763 Specialist safety equipment VENT-AXIA 16,000 16,000 16,000 Fan manufacturer BAXI HOLDINGS 19,192 3,860 15,332 14,908 Heating products BIZSPACE 13,705 1,055 12,650 13,705 Property leasing company PINE 5,430 6,780 12,210 12,210 Property investment ZENSAR TECHNOLOGIES INDIA 11,099 437 10,662 4,211 Software FREIGHTLINER GROUP 20,120 17,433 7,792 10,479 1,622 Rail freight operator LOCATEL 9,860 498 10,358 9,860 Media services 125,770 213,471 46,561 385,802 312,809 The investments shown above represent 74% of the Groups direct investments at 30 September 2007 as shown on page 11.
18 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Report of the Directors To the Members of Electra Private Equity PLC The Directors present the audited Accounts of the Group for the year ended 30 September 2007 and their Report on its affairs.
Investment Trust Status The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
HM Revenue and Customs has approved the Company as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the accounting period to 30 September 2006.
In accordance with the self-assessment of Corporation Tax this approval is based upon the computations submitted by the Company and is subject to the findings of any enquiries that HM Revenue and Customs may make.
The Directors are of the opinion that since that date the Company has conducted its affairs in a manner which will satisfy the conditions for continued approval as an investment trust under that section.
Business Review Objective and Investment Policy The Objective and Investment Policy of the Company are set out on page 4.
Current and future development A review of the main features of the year is contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Investment Portfolio Analysis and Investment Portfolio Review.
The Board regularly reviews the development and strategic direction of the Company, a process which culminated in the approval by the Companys shareholders of the new investment strategy at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 October 2006.
The Boards main focus continues to be on the Companys long-term investment return.
Performance A detailed review of performance during the year is contained in the Investment Portfolio Analysis and Investment Portfolio Review.
A number of performance measures are considered by the Board and the Manager in assessing the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators KPIs used to measure the progress and performance of the Company are established industry measures and are as follows: Return on equity over the long term The movement in net asset value per ordinary share The movement in share price Details of the KPIs are shown on pages 2 and 5.
Risk Management As the Company is focused on investment in private equity assets, Electra Partners aims to limit the risk attaching to the portfolio as a whole by careful selection of investments and by the spread of holdings in terms of age, geographic split and investment portfolio composition in accordance with the Companys Objectives and Investment Policy.
The breakdown of the portfolio is shown on pages 3, 8 and 9.
The Risks facing the Company include Market Price Risk, Interest Rate Risk, Liquidity Risk and Foreign Currency Risk as further detailed in Note 16 of the Notes to the Accounts.
19 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Reports Report of the Directors Reports Report of the Directors Management Arrangements EP Private Equity Limited, a subsidiary of Electra Partners Group Limited, was the Manager of Electra from 1-11 October 2006.
On 12 October 2006 Electra Partners was appointed as the Manager following shareholders approval of new management arrangements.
The new management agreement dated 12 October 2006 runs for an initial three year period with a 12 month rolling notice period.
Neither party may serve notice to terminate during the first two years of the agreement.
Electra may terminate the new management agreement on 12 months notice, expiring at any time after the initial two year period.
After three years, it has the right to terminate on a shorter notice period.
Whatever notice period is worked, Electra Partners will be entitled to receive additional compensation equivalent to 12 months priority profit share determined by reference to the previous 12 months priority profit share.
Electra Partners may also terminate the new management agreement on 12 months notice, after the initial two year period.
If Electra Partners terminates the new management agreement at any time after the initial three year period, Electra may pay compensation in lieu of any part of the notice period but Electra Partners is not entitled to any additional compensation.
Electra Partners receives a priority profit share of 1.5% on the gross value of the Companys investment portfolio including cash but before excluding any amounts committed to funds established by and managed by Electra Partners.
During the year the Company continued to operate carried interest and co-investment schemes for executives of Electra Partners and details of these schemes are contained in Note 21 of the Notes to the Accounts.
As detailed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the Board reviews the activities of Electra Partners on an ongoing basis and believes the continuing appointment of Electra Partners on the terms agreed is in the interests of shareholders as a whole.
Electra Partners is responsible for the investment management of a number of limited partnership funds to which the Company has subscribed.
Electra Partners manages the Companys investments in accordance with guidelines determined by Directors and as specified in limited partnership and in management and investment guideline agreements.
Socially Responsible Investment Electra believes that high standards of corporate social responsibility CSR make good business sense and have the potential to protect and enhance investment returns.
Consequently, the investment process takes social, environmental and ethical issues into account when, in Electra Partners view, these have a material impact on either investment risk or return.
Electra recognises and supports the view that social, environmental and ethical best practice should be encouraged.
It favours investing in companies committed to high standards of CSR and to the principles of sustainable development.
Electra Partners does not screen out companies from its investment universe purely on the grounds of poor social, environmental or ethical performance.
Instead, it adopts a positive engagement approach whereby, if it is appropriate, it discusses these issues with the management of the companies in which it invests.
The information gathered during these meetings is used both to assist Electra Partners investment decisions and also to encourage investee company management to improve procedures and attitudes.
Electra Partners strongly believes that this is the most effective way to improve the CSR policies of the businesses in which it invests and the Board endorses this view.
Results and Dividend A revenue profit attributable to shareholders of 9.279 million 2006: 8.616 million was transferred to Revenue Reserves.
In order to ensure the Company maintains its status as an investment trust, the Directors recommend the payment of a special dividend of 25p per ordinary share in respect of the year ended 30 September 2007 which, subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 February 2008, will be paid on 7 March 2008 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business on 25 January 2008.
20 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Authority to make Market Purchases of Shares As at 30 September 2007, the Company had authority to purchase for cancellation up to a further 5,371,652 shares.
This authority will lapse at the 2008 Annual General Meeting when a Special Resolution will be proposed to renew the Companys authority to make market purchases of its own shares.
During the year the Company made the following purchases of its own shares in the market under authority granted by shareholders at a total cost of 22.304 million: % of Issued Capital Shares Purchased for Cancellation Date of Purchase at Date of Purchase Price per share 1,000,000 18 December 2006 2.58% 1,466p 120,000 19 December 2006 0.32% 1,466p 100,000 15 January 2007 0.26% 1,500p 160,000 21 June 2007 0.43% 1,700p 40,000 18 September 2007 0.11% 1,659p 50,000 19 September 2007 0.13% 1,691p The Company does not hold any shares in treasury.
Multi-Currency Loan Facility At 30 September 2007 borrowings under the 250 million 2006: 250 million multi-currency facility amounted to 160,699,000 2006: 165,823,000.
Directors The current Directors of the Company are listed on pages 68 and 69.
Sir Brian Williamson, Mr RA Armstrong, Professor Sir George Bain, Lord King of Bridgwater, Mr MEDA Walton and Mr JP Williams served as Directors throughout the year ended 30 September 2007.
On 1 March 2007, Ms C Bowe and Ms L Webber were appointed Directors.
No other person was a Director of the Company during any part of the year.
In accordance with either the Companys Articles of Association or the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003, Mr RA Armstrong, Ms C Bowe, Ms L Webber, Mr JP Williams and Sir Brian Williamson will all retire at the Annual General Meeting in 2008 and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Professor Sir George Bain and Lord King of Bridgwater will retire as Directors at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors including connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below.
Save as disclosed, no Director had any notifiable interest in the securities of the Company or of any subsidiary of the Company.
There have been no changes in the interests of any of the Directors in the ordinary shares of the Company between 1 October 2007 and 5 December 2007.
30 September Date Number of Date Number of 1 October 2007 Shares Shares Shares Shares 2006 Shares Purchased Purchased Sold Sold Shares Sir Brian Williamson 30,000 30,000 RA Armstrong 23,723 23,723 Professor Sir George Bain 2,000 2,000 C Bowe 1,129 11 06 07 1,129 Lord King of Bridgwater 15,615 15,615 MEDA Walton 54,979 54,979 L Webber 1,500 JP Williams 10,000 10,000 Upon appointment Ms L Webber had an interest in 1,500 ordinary shares of the Company.
21 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Reports Report of the Directors Reports Report of the Directors Substantial Shareholders At 5 December 2007 the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the Companys ordinary shares: Shares % Asset Value Investors Limited on behalf of clients 2,428,247 6.59 Prudential Plc group of companies 2,257,418 6.13 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 1,780,564 4.83 Legal & General Group PLC 1,503,723 4.08 At the date of receipt of notification from Asset Value Investors Limited, being 30 July 2007, Asset Value Investors Limited confirmed that of the 2,428,247 ordinary shares disclosed above, a total of 1,306,684 ordinary shares were held on behalf of British Empire Securities as beneficial holder.
Charitable and Political Donations During the year the Group made no charitable or political donations 2006: nil.
Audit Information Pursuant to Section 234ZA 2 a of the Companies Act 1985, each of the Directors confirms that so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware and they have taken all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting authorising the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors.
Additional information for shareholders Set out below is a summary of certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association as adopted by special resolution on 1 March 2000 the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together the Companies Acts.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Acts should be consulted if further information is required.
Certain amendments will be proposed to the Articles at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 February 2008, as explained under Annual General Meeting.
Further details are set out in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting on page 72.
A copy of the Companys current Articles, together with a copy marked up to show the proposed amendments, are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Share capital The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
The shares are in registered form.
Dividends and distributions Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends not exceeding the amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may pay interim dividends whenever the financial position of the Company, in the opinion of the Board, justifies such payment.
The Board may withhold payment of all or any part of any dividends or other monies payable in respect of the Companys shares from a person with a 0.25% interest as defined in the Articles if such a person has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interest in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
22 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Voting rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy has, upon a show of hands, one vote and on a poll every member who is present in person or by proxy has one vote for every complete 25p in nominal amount of the shares of which he is the holder.
In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the senior who tenders a vote whether in person or by proxy shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the Register of Members in respect of the shares.
Under the Companies Acts members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
The person or any one of such persons so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Restrictions on voting No member shall be entitled to vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or class meeting in respect of any shares held by him if any call or other sum then payable by him in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition no member shall be entitled to vote if he has been served with a notice after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Variation of rights Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the Directors.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the Register of Members of the Company.
The Directors may, at any time after the allotment of any share, but before any person has been entered in the Register of Members as the holder, recognise a renunciation by the allottee in favour of some other person and may accord to any allottee of a share a right to effect such renunciation upon and subject to such terms and conditions as the Directors may think fit to impose.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form are effected by means of the CREST system.
The Directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
23 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Reports Report of the Directors Reports Report of the Directors The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer they shall within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require.
Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held and transferred.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
Appointment and replacement of Directors Directors shall be no less than three and no more than fifteen in number.
A Director is not required to hold any shares of the Company by way of qualification.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or minimum number of Directors.
At each Annual General Meeting, any Director who was elected or last re-elected a Director at or before the Annual General Meeting held in the third calendar year before the current calendar year shall retire by rotation and such further Directors if any shall retire by rotation as would bring the number retiring by rotation up to one-third of the number of Directors in office at the date of the notice of the meeting if their number is not a multiple of three, the number shall be the number nearest to but not greater than one-third.
The Directors to retire by rotation shall include any Director who wishes to retire and not offer himself for re-election.
The additional Directors to retire shall be those who have been longest in office since their last re-election or in the case of those who were appointed or re-elected on the same date, shall be determined by lot.
A retiring Director is eligible for re-election.
The Board may appoint any person to be a Director so long as the total number of Directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in these Articles.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the next Annual General Meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election, but shall not be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such meeting.
The office of Director shall be vacated if: i he resigns in writing or offers to resign in writing and the Board resolves to accept such offer: ii he becomes bankrupt or compounds with his creditors generally: iii he is prohibited by law from being a Director: iv he is absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months and the Board resolves that the office is vacated: or v notice is served upon him in writing by all his co-Directors.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company will be managed by the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
The Board may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, property and uncalled capital and to issue debentures and other securities, whether outright or as collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation of the Company or of any third party.
The aggregate amount remaining undischarged of all money borrowed by the Company or its subsidiaries may not, without the prior sanction of an ordinary resolution, exceed the aggregate of i the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the share capital of the Company or ii the total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Company and its subsidiaries, subject to certain adjustments.
24 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends but no dividend shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended by the Directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Articles and to the rights attaching to any shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such currency as the Directors may determine.
The Directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The Directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Amendment of Articles of Association Any amendments to the Articles of the Company may be made in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution.
Two resolutions will be put to the Annual General Meeting to be held on 6 February 2008 to amend the Articles.
The proposed changes to the Articles derive from the Companies Act 2006 and they relate to: i giving the Directors the power in the Articles to authorise certain conflicts of interest as described in Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 with effect from 1 October 2009, or any earlier date on which Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 comes into effect, and ii communications by the Company with its members.
The proposed changes are described in more detail in the Notice of Annual General Meeting set out on page 72.
Significant agreements: Change of control If there is a no fault termination by the Company of the Management Agreement dated 12 October 2006 between the Company and Electra Partners within 24 months of a change of effective control of the Company, 100% of the carried interest which has accrued as at the date of termination will be payable to the members of Electra Partners over three years and any future additional carry on existing investments will vest at 80% and will be paid on the realisation of investments when it becomes due in the ordinary course.
Creditor payment policy The Company agrees the terms of payment with its suppliers when agreeing the terms of each agreement.
Suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and the Company abides by the terms of payment.
The Groups average creditor payment period at 30 September 2007 was one day 2006: one day and that of the Company was one day 2006: one day.
Going concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Accounts as the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on Wednesday 6 February 2008.
In addition to the ordinary business the following special business will be considered: Authority to purchase own shares Resolution 14 A special resolution will be proposed to renew the Boards authority to purchase its own shares, so as to permit the purchase of up to 5,522,718 of the Companys ordinary shares or such lesser number of shares as is equal to 14.99% of the total number of ordinary shares in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution subject to the constraints set out in the special resolution.
The Directors would intend to use this authority to purchase shares only if this would result in an increase in net asset value per share and would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
Should any shares be purchased under this authority, it is the intention of the Board that such shares be cancelled.
The Directors believe that the renewal of the Boards authority to purchase shares, as detailed above, is consistent with the changes approved at the Extraordinary General Meeting held on 12 October 2006 and is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolution 14.
25 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Reports Report of the Directors Reports Report of the Directors Articles of Association Two special resolutions will be proposed to update the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, to take advantage of new provisions of company law contained in the Companies Act 2006 relating to electronic communications with shareholders and Directors conflicts of interest.
In addition a resolution will be proposed to increase the existing limit on Directors ordinary remuneration under the Articles.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting together with a description of the principal changes to the Articles is set out on page 72.
Details of the changes relating to Directors remuneration, electronic communications and Directors conflicts of interest are provided below.
Directors remuneration Resolution 11 The Articles provide that shareholders set the aggregate limit on Directors ordinary remuneration.
This was last set in 1997 at 250,000 per annum.
The Articles also provide for the payment of additional remuneration to any Director who performs special services beyond the ordinary services of a Director.
Such additional remuneration is not taken into account for the purpose of the 250,000 limit referred to above.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, during the year ended 30 September 2007 the Chairman was paid 150,000.
All other Directors were paid at the rate of 28,500 per annum apart from Mr MEDA Walton, who was paid 38,500 in the year reflecting his additional responsibilities on the Audit Committee.
The individual entitlements of Directors were last fixed in 2001.
In aggregate the remuneration amounted to 335,700 for the year ended 30 September 2007.
Following completion of the review of investment strategy and negotiations of contractual arrangements with Electra Partners, the Board considers it is now appropriate to re-set the limit of Directors ordinary remuneration at a level which properly reflects the current responsibilities of the Chairman and Directors including the increased commitments arising out of modern corporate governance requirements.
Against this background it will be the Boards intention to review the fee structure of Directors.
Resolution 11 therefore proposes an increase in the current limit on Directors ordinary remuneration from 250,000 per annum to 450,000 per annum.
Electronic communications and related changes to the Articles Resolution 12 Resolution 12 is a special resolution to give general authority to send or supply documents or information to shareholders in electronic form e. g. by email or by means of a website, so taking advantage of new company legislation regarding electronic communications with shareholders, which became effective on 20 January 2007.
Existing company legislation permits the Company to communicate with shareholders in electronic form e. g. by fax, email or by means of a website in respect of certain types of information they receive from the Company.
However, the new legislation makes two important changes: all company notices, documents and other information shareholder information can now be provided to shareholders electronically, provided that they agree to this and provide an appropriate e. g. email address: if shareholders are invited to agree that the Company may send or supply shareholder information by means of a website, those who do not respond within 28 days are deemed to have agreed to the Company communicating shareholder information to them by means of a website.
Such shareholders can at any time elect to continue to receive all shareholder information in hard copy form.
Resolution 12 also makes various changes to the Articles to reflect the new legislation on electronic communications, and to make a number of minor consequential changes required by the Companies Act 2006.
An explanation of the effect of the proposed changes is set out in Part 1 of the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
26 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 If Resolution 12 is passed, at an appropriate time the Board will write to shareholders in accordance with the Companies Act 2006, inviting those shareholders who wish to continue to receive hard copy documents to contact the Company.
As this will only take place after the Annual General Meeting, shareholders need take no action at present.
Where shareholders agree or are deemed to have agreed to communication of shareholder information by means of a website, shareholders will be notified of the availability of the relevant document or information on the website, the address of the website, the place on the website where it may be accessed and how to access the document or information.
This information will be provided to shareholders by post or by email if they have provided the Company with an email address for this purpose.
Increased use of electronic communications will deliver significant savings to the Company in terms of administration, printing and postage costs.
It will also speed up the communication of information to shareholders in a convenient form, whilst at the same time delivering significant environmental benefits through reduced use of paper and of the energy required for its production and distribution.
Directors conflicts of interest and related changes to the Articles Resolution 13 The Companies Act 2006 sets out in statute for the first time the general duties of directors.
The provisions largely codify the existing law, but with some important changes.
One of these changes is that a Director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
The new duty is very broad and could apply, for example, if a Director becomes a Director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
It is due to take effect on 1 October 2009, although the Department for Business, Enterprise and Regulatory Reform is consulting as to whether to bring this into effect, as originally scheduled, on 1 October 2008.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise certain conflicts and potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
Resolution 13 is a special resolution which amends the Articles with effect from 1 October 2009 or any earlier date on which Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 comes into effect to reflect the coming into force of these new provisions so as to give the Directors power to authorise situations of actual or potential conflict which might otherwise put a Director in breach of his new obligations.
An explanation of the effect of the proposed new Article 93A is summarised in Part 2 of the Appendix to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only independent Directors i. e. those who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of members as a whole.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
In addition, the Company intends to follow developing best practice, as regards process and reporting, in relation to the exercise of the power to authorise conflicts to be included in the Articles by virtue of Resolution 13.
Recommendation The Directors believe that the proposed increase in the limit of Directors ordinary remuneration, the authorisation to use electronic communications and the proposed changes to the Articles of Association, as detailed above, are in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
The Directors therefore recommend shareholders to vote in favour of Resolutions 11, 12 and 13.
By order of the Board of Directors PJ Dyke, Secretary, Paternoster House 65 St Pauls Churchyard, London EC4M 8AB 5 December 2007 27 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Reports Report of the Directors
