Investment Portfolio Review Investments In the year to 30 September 2007, Electra invested 322 million in additions to the investment portfolio.
This compares to investments of 131 million made in the previous year.
This very significant step up in activity resulted from the removal of restrictions on investment which were in place up to October 2006.
With an unrestricted investment strategy, Electra has been able to re-enter the private equity market in a fully committed way.
This in turn produced a significant increase in dealflow and subsequent investment.
In looking at new investments, Electra adopted a relatively cautious approach in view of the competitive nature of the market and the plentiful supply of bank funds which led to escalating prices in the first nine months of the financial year.
The investment of 322 million made by Electra included 265 million in direct investments and 56 million drawn down under commitments to private equity funds.
The most significant direct investments included 63 million in the 246 million buyout of Kingfield Heath, 34 million in the 73 million buyout of Nuaire, 26 million in the 83 million buyout of Lil-lets and 33 million in the buyout of Premier Asset Management.
With an unrestricted Kingfield Heath is the second largest office products distributor in the UK and investment strategy, Electra Ireland, offering the widest range of office products and electronic office supplies has been able to re-enter available in the market place.
Nuaire is one of the UKs largest ventilation product the private equity market in manufacturers and has been designing and manufacturing innovative quality products a fully committed way.
for home and overseas markets since 1963.
Lil-lets sells a range of feminine hygiene products both in the UK and South African markets where it is a clear market leader.
Premier Asset Management is a retail fund manager, distributing fund of funds and specialist open and closed-ended funds predominantly through IFAs but also through other discretionary and advisory channels.
Company Activity Deal Type Cost m New Investment Kingfield Heath Office products MBO 63 Nuaire Ventilation systems MBO 34 Lil-lets Feminine hygiene MBO 26 Premier Asset Management Fund management MBO 33 Reinvestment Allflex Animal tagging MBO 41 Capital Safety Group Safety harnesses MBO 18 Funds MBO investments 56 Other Investments Various 51 322 In addition to these new investments Electra reinvested in the secondary buyout of Capital Safety Group CSG and in the refinancing of Allflex.
Electra invested 18 million in CSGs successor vehicle in order to participate further in the growth of the company.
In August 2007 Electra reinvested 41 million in the third refinancing of Allflex for a 38% equity interest.
Allflex is the worlds leading manufacturer and distributor of visual and electronic animal identification tags and operates in a market with continued growth opportunities.
Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 13 Review Investment Portfolio Analysis Investment Portfolio Review Review Investment Portfolio Review Electra has continued its strategy of investing in third party private equity funds where, in the view of the Manager, the relationship created is likely to give rise to significant co-investment or co-underwriting opportunities.
During the year, 56 million was invested in private equity funds of which 25 million was invested in funds managed by TCR, a private equity management company based in France.
Of this amount, 20 million represented the purchase of a secondary interest and a further 5 million was drawn down under outstanding commitments.
The remaining 31 million was invested primarily in five other private equity funds.
In addition to the amounts invested during the year, Electra had outstanding commitments of 128 million to make further investments in private equity.
Of this amount, 78 million represented commitments to third party private equity funds.
Realisations The total proceeds realised from the investment portfolio during the year amounted to 303 million.
This compares to a valuation of the portfolio at the beginning of the year of 380 million.
The total proceeds thus represented 80% of the opening value of the investment portfolio.
This high level of realisations reflected market conditions The total proceeds thus represented up to the end of July when the sub-prime debt crisis brought with it a rapid change.
over 80% of the opening value of the Where investments were realised, overall proceeds from sales exceeded their value at investment portfolio.
the beginning of the year by more than 2.5 times.
Largest Investment Realisations Company Valuation at 30 September 2006 Proceeds from Disposal m m Capital Safety Group II 24 113 Allflex 31 97 55 210 The two largest realisations related to CSG and Allflex.
In the case of CSG, the company was sold in a $565 million secondary buyout arranged by Candover Partners.
On completion of the transaction, Electra received gross proceeds of 113 million compared to a value at the beginning of the year of 24 million.
Electra originally purchased CSG in 1998 investing 30 million in the 98 million management buyout.
Including the proceeds from the refinancing in 2005, Electra achieved a multiple of over five times its original investment with a net IRR to Electra over nine years of 23%.
In August 2007 Allflex was refinanced for the third time generating gross proceeds to Electra of 97 million compared to a value at the beginning of the year of 31 million.
This refinancing was achieved despite the difficult conditions in the debt market which is a reflection of the strength of Allflexs business.
Allflex was also purchased in 1998.
Based on the aggregate proceeds since then and the retained investment, Electra has achieved a multiple of over five times the original investment with a net IRR to Electra over nine years of 25%.
Both Allflex and CSG have developed very successfully during the period of time they have been backed by Electra.
These investments demonstrate one of the strengths of Electra, namely that the flexible nature of its investment policy allows lengthy holding periods, enabling full benefit to be gained from long term strategy without the need to sell on a predetermined timescale.
Electra received almost 100 million from the sale of other investments including 17 million from Freightliner and 12 million from Safeland.
Over the year the proceeds from private equity funds amounted to 49 million.
14 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Shortly after the year end Electra realised its investment in Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad DM&E for 35 million with further contingent consideration of 33 million at prevailing exchange rates.
These payments are contingent upon the future success of the Powder River Basin project and no value has been recognised in respect of these potential payments due to the uncertainty at this stage.
This represents an excellent conclusion to an investment made 21 years ago when Electra originally invested $800,000 with further investment between 1996 and 2000 of $1.4 million.
Performance The year to 30 September 2007 was one in which the investment portfolio produced an exceptional performance.
Net capital appreciation recognised during the year amounted to 221 million, with the result that the investment portfolio rose by 58.2%.
This compares to 43.3% and 26.2% in the two previous years.
The year to 30 September Once again, the performance resulted for the most part, from realised gains as 2007 was one in which the opposed to unrealised appreciation.
Inclusive of the sale of DM&E completed shortly investment portfolio after the year end, realised gains exceeded 200 million.
The change in unrealised produced an exceptional appreciation over the year was insignificant and amounted to a net decrease of performance.
10 million made up of fair valuation increases of 20 million offset by 30 million of decreases.
The largest realised gains were made on the sale of CSG 88 million and Allflex 66 million whereas the gain of 33 million on the sale of DM&E was realised in October.
Private equity funds contributed 21 million of gains.
Largest Valuation Changes Company Valuation at Valuation 30 September 2006 Movement m m % Capital Safety Group II 24 88 366 Allflex 31 66 212 Dakota, Minnesota & Eastern Railroad 3 33 1,289 Private equity funds 67 21 32 Moser Baer 15 13 92 140 221 Only two investments were written up during the year, namely Moser Baer and Freightliner.
Moser Baer performed strongly during the year and the valuation was increased by 13 million to reflect this.
Freightliner also continues to make good progress and was revalued by 8 million.
Reductions in valuation of 30 million were made in respect of 13 investments.
Electra Partners LLP 5 December 2007 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007 15 Review Investment Portfolio Review
