Review Investment Portfolio Analysis The year to 30 September 2007 proved to be another period of excellent progress for Electra.
The net asset value per share increased from 1,545p to 2,001p, a rise of 29.5% following rises of 29% and 31% in the previous two years.
Importantly, with all restrictions on new investment removed for the first time since 1999 the Company entered a new era.
Electra was able to quickly re-establish its presence in the private equity market, a fact demonstrated clearly by the rate of new investment which increased by 145% over the previous year.
Electra was able to quickly The year was characterised by two distinct phases.
Until July the market was strongly re-establish its presence in the influenced by the aggressive lending of financial institutions to the private equity sector.
private equity market, a fact This resulted among other things, in high values being achieved on the realisation of demonstrated clearly by the rate investments.
Post July the problems created by the sub-prime debt crisis led to a of new investment which increased substantial change in the lending market with the onset of much greater caution.
Electra by 145% over the previous year.
was able to take advantage of these conditions achieving a level of realisation which amounted to 80% of the value of the portfolio at the beginning of the year.
These disposals in turn gave rise to a very high level of realised gains.
New investments on the other hand were achieved at good value by adopting a cautious and selective approach, by investing in smaller companies where competition was lower and by focusing on off-market transactions.
A summary of the changes in the investment portfolio compared to the previous two years is shown in the table below.
Over the year, additions to the portfolio amounted to 322 million compared to 131 million in the previous year.
Realisations were also very substantial giving rise to 303 million of cash proceeds.
Net capital increases recorded in the year amounted to 221 million of which the majority arose from realisations.
As a result of the investment activity in the year, Electras invested portfolio rose by 63% from 380 million to 620 million.
At the end of the year, net liquid resources stood at 156 million compared to 238 million at the beginning of the period.
Despite the rise in the portfolio, Electra thus remains with substantial liquid assets available for further new investment.
Outlook The last two years have produced exceptional returns for Electras shareholders driven by a high level of well priced realisations.
With the change in market conditions occurring in the latter half of the year it is likely that the holding period of investments may be longer and refinancings may be more difficult.
Returns may therefore fall to a lower level.
It is worth noting, however, that Electra operates in a segment of the market where the financing of potential targets and sale of investments has been least affected by market changes.
Electra, therefore, remains in a good position.
The portfolio has been significantly increased based on carefully selected transactions, with substantial upside potential.
Furthermore, Electra has retained a high level of liquid assets with which to take advantage of investment opportunities which may arise on more favourable terms given the current market turmoil.
12 Electra Private Equity PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2007
