Report of the Directors Results, business review and dividend Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust Plc The Investment Management Agreement in place with Foreign & The Groups results for the year ended 31 December 2007 are Colonial Investment Trust Plc can be terminated by the investment shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 52.
A trust on a minimum of six months notice expiring at the end of any business review of the year ended 31 December 2007 and future calendar month.
In the event that there is a change of control in F&C developments are covered on pages 10 to 21.
This review forms as defined in Section 840 of ICTA 1988, then the investment trust part of the Report of the Directors.
is entitled to terminate the agreement on not less than 3 months The Group profit for the year, after tax, amounted to 18.7 million.
notice to expire at the end of any calendar month.
The Directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 4.0 pence F&C Commercial Property Trust per share, amounting to 19.7 million, resulting in a total of The Investment Management Agreement in place with F&C 6.0 pence and 29.4 million for the year.
Preference dividends of Commercial Property Trust Limited can be terminated by the 0.1 million were also incurred during the year.
investment trust on not less than 12 months notice, provided that The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 16 May such notice may expire no earlier than 4 March 2009.
Early 2008 to ordinary shareholders whose names are on the register on termination can be undertaken by the investment trust, but only 11 April 2008.
No liability for the proposed dividends has been subject to the payment of compensation to F&C based on revenue recognised as at 31 December 2007, in accordance with IFRS.
Immediate termination is possible by the investment trust in the event that there is a change of control in F&C as defined in Principal activity and status Section 840 of ICTA 1988 which has not been consented to by its The Groups business is asset management.
progress of the business during the year and of future prospects Property, plant and equipment are contained in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Details of changes in property, plant and equipment are disclosed in Report and the Business Review.
note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
At 31 December The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms 2007, there were no significant differences between the net book of the Companies Act 2006 and is currently a constituent of the and market value of property, plant and equipment.
The Company is registered in Scotland, Financial instruments registered number 73508 and is domiciled in the United Kingdom.
Details of financial instruments are disclosed in notes 14 and 19 to Significant agreements the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The financial risk management In addition to the significant contracts with Friends Provident plc objectives and policies of the Group are contained in note 36. and the Achmea Group, details of which are contained in Note 40 Share capital and directors interests to the Consolidated financial statements, F&C is party to the During the year the Company issued 10,929,940 ordinary shares following significant contracts that take effect, alter or terminate in respect of vested awards or options under the Companys long upon a change of control of the Company.
Millennium BCP Group BCP The consequences of termination of the various agreements with BCP related funds are regulated by an Umbrella Agreement with BCP which provides that compensation is payable if any of these agreements are terminated before 29 June 2013.
These agreements may be terminated on written notice with immediate effect in the event that a person acquires an interest which is larger than the aggregate interest of Friends Provident and Eureko in the shares of F&C.
Under such circumstances, compensation is payable by BCP to F&C based on prescribed compensation periods which in turn are linked to when the change of control takes place.
Royal Sun Alliance RSA The investment management agreement with the RSA group is a long term agreement expiring on 1 July 2012.
In the event that it is terminated by the RSA group prior to 1 July 2012 and if the aggregate fees received by F&C from 1 January 2008 up until the point of termination fall below a certain threshold, F&C shall be entitled to receive the difference between the amount of fees received at that point and the threshold figure.
28 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Details of shares under option at 31 December 2007 are shown on pages 101 to 114.
Details of all shares issued during the year ended 31 December 2007, are given in note 31.
The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests in the share capital of the Company are shown below: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Robert Jenkins Beneficial 200,000 200,000 Non Beneficial 562,857 665,111 Dick fide Beus Beneficial Nil Nil Keith Bedell-Pearce Beneficial 51,285 51,285 Alain Grisay Beneficial 1,438,676 326,153 John Heywood Beneficial 4,326 4,326 Non Beneficial Nil 665,111 Brian Larcombe Beneficial 20,000 Nil Non Beneficial 562,857 Nil David Logan Beneficial 990 Nil Nick MacAndrew Beneficial 25,000 Nil Jeff Medlock Beneficial 10,000 10,000 Sir Adrian Montague Beneficial Nil Nil Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Nil Nil Jim Smart Beneficial Nil Nil Robert Jenkins and Brian Larcombe are Directors of the F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited, a company incorporated in 1995 as a discretionary employee benefit trust to encourage and facilitate the acquisition and holding of shares in the Company by employees.
Mr Heywood was a Director of F&C Group ESOP Trustee Limited until November 2007.
Or date of appointment if later.
These shares include Alain Grisays participation in the Purchased Equity Plan.
Further details of this plan are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 49.
No other changes to Directors interests have occurred.
The Directors who held office at the year end and their interests in the share capital of the ultimate parent undertaking, Friends Provident plc, are shown below: 31 December 31 December 2007 2006 Ordinary Ordinary Shares Shares Sir Adrian Montague Beneficial 6,281 6,018 Gerhard Roggemann Beneficial Jim Smart Beneficial 19,205 Directors and officers liability during the year 2006 nil.
Further details on the criteria for charitable giving are contained on the Companys website.
The Group maintains insurance cover in respect of directors and officers liability.
Payment policy and practice It is the Groups payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers The Directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision set out in accounts in accordance with the stated terms.
In certain the Company's Articles of Association at article 166 which is a circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to any business qualifying third party indemnity provision as defined in the taking place.
It is our policy to abide by those terms.
Companies Acts and which was in force throughout the year and is currently in force.
At 31 December 2007, trade creditors represented the equivalent of 10 days 2006 13 days of the annual purchases invoiced by As summarised in paragraph 7 of the summary of amendments to the suppliers to the Group.
the Articles of Association of the Company on page 33, it is proposed that the articles be amended to reflect, amongst other Substantial interests in share capital things, the Companies Act 2006 provisions relating to the power The Company has been informed of the following substantial of a company to indemnify Directors and to fund expenditure interests, above 3 per cent.
as at 20 March 2008. incurred in connection with certain actions against Directors.
Ordinary One qualifying third party indemnity has been granted to a Director Shares Percentage who held office during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Friends Provident plc 258,722,798 52.5 Charitable and political contributions Credit Agricole 58,082,694 11.8 During the year the Group made contributions to charity of Eureko B. V. 51,128,190 10.4 117,000 2006 94,000.
No political donations were made Fidelity 22,867,297 4.6 29 Report of the Directors Employees be re-approved and the authority be renewed at this years AGM pursuant to resolution 11.
Members of the Friends Provident At 1 February 2008 there were 869 full-time employees and group will abstain from voting on such ordinary resolution.
61 part-time employees within the Group 1 February 2007 750 full-time employees and 52 part-time employees.
Board changes On 1 January 2007, Keith Satchell, a Non-executive Director, Disabled employees retired from the Board and was replaced on the same date by The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment Jim Smart, a Non-executive Director.
from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be On 10 May 2007, David Gray an independent Non-executive adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
Director, and Christopher Jemmett, an independent NonWhere existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups executive Director, retired from the Board.
Nick MacAndrew policy wherever practicable to provide continuing employment joined the Board as an independent Non-executive Director on under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career 10 May 2007. development and promotion to disabled employees wherever On 19 June 2007, Gerhard Roggemann joined the Board as an possible.
Employee involvement On 27 November 2007, Philip Moore, a Non-executive Director, retired from the Board and was replaced on the same date by During the year, the policy of providing employees with Sir Adrian Montague, a Non-executive Director.
information about the Group has been continued through internal presentations by the Executive Directors, Management Having reached the age of 70 during 2007, John Heywood, an Committee and the internal publication of relevant information.
independent Non-executive Director, will retire from the Board Wherever appropriate, employees are consulted to ensure that and relevant Board Committees on conclusion of this years their views are taken into account before decisions are taken Annual General Meeting.
which are likely to affect their interests.
Authority to allot ordinary shares and disapplication of pre-emption rights Equal opportunities Ordinary resolution 12 will be put to the AGM of the Company to The Group aims to provide equal opportunities for all, without renew the present authority of the Directors to exercise their discrimination on the grounds of race, religion, marital status, age, powers to allot authorised but unissued ordinary shares.
Such sex, sexual orientation or disability.
We recruit and promote those authority will cover a maximum of 164,074,921 unissued ordinary best suited for the job.
The Group respects the dignity of shares, being up to an aggregate maximum nominal amount of individuals and their beliefs.
The Group does not tolerate any 164,074.92.
This maximum nominal amount represents sexual, racial, physical or mental harassment of staff in the 33.33 per cent.
of the Companys total ordinary share capital in work place.
issue at the date of this report calculated exclusive of treasury Share incentive schemes shares and meets institutional guidelines.
The Company holds 3,431,540 ordinary shares in treasury at the date of this report.
During the year, employees participated directly in the business This amount represents 0.7 per cent.
of the Companys total through a number of Employee Share Schemes, details of which ordinary share capital in issue at the date of this report calculated are included within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages exclusive of treasury shares.
The authority conferred by this 41 to 49 or the notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements on resolution will expire on the conclusion of the AGM of the Company pages 101 to 114. to be held in 2009.
Annual General Meeting AGM Special resolution 16 will be put to the AGM of the Company to The Company will hold its AGM on Tuesday, 13 May 2008 at renew the present power to allot unissued ordinary share capital Butchers Hall, 87 Bartholomew Close, London EC1.
The meeting and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash without first will start at 12 noon UK time.
Details of all resolutions being put being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders.
Such to shareholders are set out in the Notice of Annual General power will cover a maximum of 164,074.92 of unissued ordinary Meeting commencing on page 164. share capital and, if renewed, will apply to any ordinary shares allotted and treasury shares sold: Relationship agreement a in accordance with the relationship agreement referred to The relationship agreement formalises the ongoing relationship above conditional upon the passing of the ordinary between the Company and its parent, Friends Provident plc, and resolution 11 referred to above : Friends Provident plcs subsidiaries.
If renewed, the relationship b in order to satisfy options or awards under any share scheme agreement will remain in place until the next AGM or until Friends for employees or share incentive plan approved by the Providents interest in the ordinary shares of the Company falls Company in general meeting: below 30 per cent.
The relationship agreement contains provisions which permit the Friends Provident group to participate c pursuant to a rights issue or other pre-emptive offering where in future issues of equity shares by the Company not made to legal or regulatory or other difficulties prevent the issue of existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings in shares wholly on a pre-emptive basis : and order to maintain its percentage shareholding in the Company.
d other than pursuant to a, b and c above, up to an Your Directors are recommending that the relationship agreement aggregate nominal amount of 24,785.28, representing 5 per 30 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 cent.
of the Companys issued ordinary share capital as at the result in an increase in earnings per ordinary share and if it is date of this report.
considered to be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The Directors consider that the authority proposed to be granted In 2007, the Group purchased 1,279,618 ordinary 0.1 pence by resolution 12 and the power proposed to be granted by shares 2006 the Group acquired 563,205 ordinary 0.1 pence resolution 16 are necessary in order to take advantage of shares representing 0.3 per cent.
of the ordinary Shares in issue opportunities as they arise and to retain flexibility.
The Directors at 31 December 2007 pursuant to this authority.
The aggregate do not have any intention of exercising such authority or power at consideration paid for own share purchases in 2007 was 2.4 the present time other than for the purposes referred to in b million 2006: 1.1 million.
Proposed amendment to the Companys Long Term Purchase of own shares Remuneration Plan LTRP Special resolution 17 will be put to the AGM to renew the present Friends Provident, our 52 per cent.
shareholder, announced the power to make market purchases of the Companys own ordinary results of its strategic business review on 31January 2008.
Pursuant to special resolution 17 the maximum aggregate continued market and media speculation relating to this review number of ordinary shares which may be purchased pursuant to has already caused considerable uncertainty for the Companys the authority shall be 49,227,399 being approximately 10 per shareholders, management and staff and this uncertainty is further cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury compounded by the continued volatility in markets experienced in shares of the Company as at the date of this report.
minimum price which may be paid for an ordinary share shall be The continued stability of our key employees is fundamental to the 0.1 pence exclusive of expenses.
The maximum price for an successful achievement of the Companys three-year plan.
Your ordinary share again exclusive of expenses shall be an amount Board and the Companys management team place the highest equal to 105 per cent.
of the average of the middle market priority on the retention of top-performing fund managers as well quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the as other valuable executives and professionals.
It is for this reason five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase.
that the Companys compensation policy is based on the delivery As at the date of this report, the Company had 17,687,366 of competitive total compensation as warranted by performance options to subscribe for ordinary shares outstanding representing and relevant market comparators.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares at the same date.
If the buy-back In practice, the Companys policy is to provide a strong emphasis authority is renewed at the 2008 AGM and is then utilised in full, on long-term share-based awards.
The LTRP is the Companys the options outstanding at the date of this report would represent principal scheme to provide an alignment of long-term interest 4.0 per cent.
of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company between employees and shareholders.
Under this arrangement excluding treasury shares.
The power conferred by this resolution your Board approves annually the conditional awards of shares to will expire on the earlier of the date falling 15 months after the high-performing and market-visible key employees, below date of the passing of this resolution and the conclusion of the Executive Director level.
These awards are made with a delayed Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2009. three-year maturity and comprise deferred and or performance shares.
With the coming into force of the Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as amended : on In facing a continued period of uncertainty it is important to 1 December 2003, the Company may do any of the following in ensure that the Companys long-term share plans provide respect of its own ordinary shares which it buys back and does maximum retention value.
In accordance with their terms of not immediately cancel but, instead, holds in treasury: reference and best market practice, the Companys Remuneration Committee and its Board keep the terms and the effectiveness of a sell such shares or any of them for cash or its equivalent the Companys share schemes under review.
Having concluded under the Treasury Shares Regulations : the recent review, which commenced in the final quarter of 2007, b transfer the shares or any of them for the purposes of or your Boards assessment is that in one important aspect the rules pursuant to an employees share scheme: or of the LTRP do not provide the necessary retention value required during this period of uncertainty and as such should be amended.
c cancel the shares or any of them.
Under the current rules of the LTRP, a participant whose The Directors may use the Treasury Shares Regulations in any employment is terminated in certain good leaver circumstances one or more of the ways noted above and intend to take namely, redundancy, retirement at normal retirement age, the advantage of this flexibility as they deem appropriate.
While any transfer of his employing business or company out of the F&C shares are held in treasury, voting rights are suspended and group, or any other reason at the discretion of the Board receives currently no dividends or any other distribution are paid or only a pro rata award to reflect the period of service and at a made on such shares.
future date, being the original vesting date of the award.
While the Directors recognise that, due to the free float Our proposal is to enhance the retention value of the deferred requirements, the scope for buy-backs may currently be limited, share awards to certain categories of good leavers namely, they consider it appropriate to have in place the facility to acquire participants who cease employment due to redundancy or in any shares in circumstances where they believe that future other circumstance which the Board considers makes it shareholder returns can be enhanced by taking such action.
This appropriate for the revised provisions to be applied by providing, authority, if renewed, will only be exercised if to do so would in respect of all existing deferred share awards and for any 31 Report of the Directors deferred share awards made during 2008, for full vesting as at the Summary of Amendments to the Articles of date of termination of employment.
The ordinary shares of the Association Company to which the employee will become entitled as a result Amendments to take effect from the date of the AGM, conditional of such vesting will be released to the employee as soon as on the passing of special resolution 14 reasonably practicable after termination and in any event not later than thirty days from the date of vesting.
Articles which duplicate statutory provisions deferred share awards made after 2008 will revert to the good Provisions in the current articles which replicate provisions leaver rules that applied prior to this proposal.
The Board will, contained in the Companies Act 1985 are in the main amended to however, retain discretion to apply this proposed change to future bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain deferred share awards as appropriate.
examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights and provisions regarding It should be noted that the LTRP rules covering restricted share the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
The awards remain unchanged and subject to the existing tests of main changes to reflect this approach are detailed below.
The terms of The F&C Asset Management plc Executive Director Remuneration Plan, covering the Executive 2.
Form of resolution Directors of the Company, also remain unchanged by this The current articles contain a provision that, where for any proposal.
purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an Further details of the proposed amendment to the LTRP rules are extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also set out in the appendix to the notice of meeting contained on effective.
It is proposed that this provision be amended as the page 166. concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under Friends Provident has given its irrevocable undertaking to vote in the Companies Act 2006. favour of the resolution approving the proposed amendments to The current articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies can no longer Changes to the Companys Articles of Association pass written resolutions.
It is therefore proposed that these provisions be deleted.
Special resolution 14 will be put to the AGM to amend the Companys articles of association to reflect the provisions of 3.
Variation of class rights the Companies Act 2006 brought into force on 1 January 2007, The current articles contain provisions regarding the variation of 20 January 2007, 6 April 2007 and 1 October 2007.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements of the principal proposed alterations is set out in paragraphs 1 to for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the 7 below.
Other changes, which are of a minor, technical or Companies Act 2006.
It is proposed that the relevant provisions in clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely the articles be amended to reflect the provisions of the reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006 or changes to Companies Act 2006. market practice have not been noted in this summary.
Convening extraordinary and annual general meetings Certain of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, in particular The provisions in the current articles dealing with the convening of those relating to Directors' conflicts of interests summarised in general meetings and the length of notice required to convene paragraph 8 below, will be brought into force on 1 October 2008. general meetings are being amended to conform to new Special resolution 15 will be put to the AGM to amend the provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular an Companys articles of association to reflect those provisions from extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can 1 October 2008 or such later date as those provisions are be convened on 14 days' notice whereas previously 21 days' brought into force.
The proposed changes to the Company's articles of association in resolution 14 and 15 are set out in the copies of the articles of 5.
Votes of members association marked A and B respecitively which will be Under the Companies Act 2006 proxies are entitled to vote on a available for inspection at the Company's registered office, show of hands whereas under the current articles proxies are only 80 George Street, Edinburgh EH2 3BU, and at the Company's entitled to vote on a poll.
Multiple proxies may be appointed head office at Exchange House, Primrose Street, London EC2A provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights 2NY during normal business hours on any week day Saturdays, attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
The Sundays and public holidays excepted from the date of this proposed amendments to the articles reflect all of these new annual report until the date of the AGM and at the place of the provisions.
AGM from 15 minutes prior to and during the continuance of the 6.
Age of directors on appointment meeting.
The current articles contain a provision limiting the age at which a Director can continue to be a Director or be appointed.
Such provision could now fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so it is proposed that it be deleted.
Directors' indemnities and loans to fund expenditure Auditors The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund office as auditors and a resolution proposing their re-appointment expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against and for the Directors to determine their fees will be submitted at directors.
In addition, the existing exemption allowing a company the AGM.
to provide money for the purpose of funding a director's defence Details of the auditors remuneration is provided in note 4 to the in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory financial statements and further detail on how the Board ensures proceedings and applies to associated companies.
the independence of the auditors is detailed on page 40 within The proposed amendments to the articles reflect these provisions the Directors Report on Corporate Governance.
of the Companies Act 2006 and include inserting new provisions Adequacy of the information provided to the auditors in the articles to allow Directors to be counted in the quorum and vote at a meeting of the Directors in respect of a resolution The Directors who held office at the date of approving this relating to the entry into any indemnity in favour of him or any Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, provision to him of funds to meet expenditure incurred or to be there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys incurred by him in certain investigations, actions or proceedings auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken all the steps that where he would otherwise not be entitled to be counted in the he is obliged to take as a Director in order to make himself aware quorum and vote.
of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
Amendments to take effect from 1 October 2008, conditional on passing of special resolution 15 By order of the Board, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA 8.
Directors' interests Secretary The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which 80 George Street largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Edinburgh EH2 3BU Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid 20 March 2008 a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The changes to the articles of association proposed in special resolution 15, to take effect from 1 October 2008, would give the Directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when Directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation.
It is also proposed that the articles of association should contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at board meetings and availability of board papers to protect a Director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the Directors and will take effect from 1 October 2008.
