Non-executive Directors Robert Jenkins Keith Bedell-Pearce, Dick fide Beus BA, MA LLB, MSc Age 61 Age 57 Age 62 Independent Senior Independent Director Chairman Director Mr Jenkins joined the Board on completion of the Mr Bedell-Pearce, a solicitor, joined the Board Mr fide Beus joined the Board on completion of the merger in October 2004.
Prior to his appointment in December 2002.
Until December 2001, merger in October 2004.
Mr fide Beus has worked Mr Jenkins was Chief Executive of F&CGH.
Prior to Mr Bedell-Pearce was an Executive Director of for over 30 years in the pension fund industry.
He joining F&CGH in 1997, Mr Jenkins spent over Prudential plc with over 30 years experience in the joined PGGM, the Dutch pension fund for the five years with Credit Suisse Asset Management financial services industry.
He is currently healthcare and welfare industry in 1979, and retired CSAM and 16 years with Citibank.
At Citibank Non-executive Chairman of Norwich & as Chairman in 2004.
Mr fide Beus had been Mr Jenkins held senior assignments in Dubai, Peterborough Building Society and Executive member and Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Bahrain, Zurich, New York and Tokyo.
From 1992 Chairman of The Student Loans Company Limited Board of KAS BANK N. V. from 1996 European until 1995 he was Chief Investment Officer and a part-time public appointment.
He is involved in Head of Asset Management for CSAM in Japan.
In several supervisory functions in non-listed real 1995 he transferred to London where he was Chief estate companies and non-profit organisations.
Operating Officer for CSAM in the UK and Central Mr fide Beus served as a Non-executive Director of and Eastern Europe.
Mr Jenkins is Chairman of the F&CGH since his appointment in February 2004.
Board of the Investment Management Association in the UK, Member of The Takeover Panel, Brian Larcombe Executive Fellow of the London Business School Age 54 and Honorary Visiting Professor of Investment Management at City University Londons Cass Independent Business School.
Director Nick MacAndrew FCA Age 61 Independent John Heywood, LLB Mr Larcombe joined the Board in January 2005.
Director Age 70 Prior to his appointment, Mr Larcombe was Chief Executive of 3i Group plc and is currently Independent Chairman of Bramdean Alternatives Limited and a Director Mr MacAndrew, a Chartered Accountant, joined the Non-executive Director of Smith & Nephew plc.
He worked for Schroders plc for over 30 years until 2002, latterly as finance director.
He is a Non-executive Director of Fuller Smith & Turner plc, Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group Mr Heywood joined the Board on completion of the plc and Wates Group Limited and recently retired as merger in October 2004.
Mr Heywood worked for Chairman of Save the Children.
20 years at Jardine Matheson & Co Ltd where he Gerhard Roggemann served as Managing Director.
He was Chairman of Age 60 Clayhithe PLC from 1993 1998.
Mr Heywood served as a Non-executive Director of F&CGH Independent since his appointment in January 1998.
Director Mr Roggemann joined the Board in June 2007 as an Independent Director.
Mr Roggemann is currently Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Europe, responsible for the development of its German business, and an independent director of Friends Provident plc and Deutsche Brse AG.
He spent much of his professional career with financial services firm, JPMorgan, where his positions included managing director of JPMorgans German branch in Frankfurt and regional treasurer Asia Pacific in the Tokyo office.
He spent a total of 13 years on the management board of two German Landesbanks, joining the executive boards of Norddeutsche Landesbank in 1991, and of Westdeutsche Landesbank WestLB AG in 1996.
Member of the Remuneration Committee Previous board appointments include AXA Lebensversicherungs AG, AXA  of the Audit & Compliance Committee sellschaft mbH, Deka Bank, Fresenius AG, Hapag Lloyd AG and VHV Holdings AG.
Member of the Nomination Committee 24 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Jeff Medlock, Sir Adrian Montague, Jim Smart, B. Com, B. Sc Econ, F. I.
A. CBE, MA, Solicitor, CPFA, FCCA, MBA Age 67 Age 60 Age 48 Mr Medlock joined the Board on completion of the Sir Adrian joined the Board in November 2007.
He Mr Smart joined the Board in January 2007.
Mr Medlock, an actuary, was appointed chairman of Friends Provident in joined Friends Provident in November 2006 and was Chief Executive Officer of Eureko from its May 2005, having been appointed an independent was appointed Group Finance Director of Friends formation in 1992 until 1999 when he became director in October 2004.
In November 2007 Provident plc on 1 January 2007.
He is a member Chief Financial Officer at Achmea.
He returned to Sir Adrian assumed the role of Executive Chairman of the Financial Regulation and Taxation Committee the board of Eureko in 2002 shortly after its merger of Friends Provident plc.
Sir Adrian is currently the of the Association of British Insurers and was with Achmea and Seguros e Pensoes as Chief Non-executive chairman of British Energy Holdings previously Chief Financial Officer at Boots Group Financial Officer.
Mr Medlock retired from Eureko in plc, Michael Page International plc and Infrastructure plc.
Prior to joining Boots, he was at Abbey 2004 but remains a director of Eurekos companies Investors Limited.
Sir Adrian is a Trustee of the National plc for 15 years where he held a number in Ireland and Cyprus.
He is also a trustee of the Waterways Trust and a director of London First and of senior finance and operational positions and was childrens charity Life Education Centres.
CellMark Holdings AB and a member of the a director of the groups life assurance business, Supervisory Board of Skanska AB.
Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited Crossrail.
Previously Chief Executive of the Treasury Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
In his early career, he was a partner of Linklaters & Paines, and subsequently the Global Head of Project Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Executive Directors David Logan, BA, CA Alain Grisay, LLM, MA Age 38 Age 53 Chief Financial Chief Executive Officer Mr Grisay joined the Board on completion of the Mr Logan joined the Board on 31 July 2006.
Prior merger in October 2004 having previously been to his appointment Mr Logan spent seventeen Deputy Chief Executive of F&CGH and head of the years in the accounting profession, including institutional business.
Prior to joining F&C in April four years as a partner at Deloitte & Touche LLP 2001, Mr Grisay was at JP Morgan for 20 years, and three years as a partner at Andersen.
serving as Managing Director responsible for the investment banks market client business in Europe.
Mr Grisay was appointed an Executive Director of Friends Provident plc on 1 January 2006.
