BP ANNUAL REVIEW 2007 29 B oard of directors Peter D Sutherland, SC, KCMG Executive directors Changes to the board previously worked at Alcan and Chairman Dr Anthony B Hayward In addition to John Brownes Amoco.
Cynthia is a member Chairman of the chairmans Group Chief Executive resignation and Tony Haywards of the chairmans committee and the nomination committees appointment as group chief and will join the safety, ethics Dr David C Allen executive, on which I have and environment assurance Non-executive directors Special Adviser, formerly already commented in my committee in due course.
Sir Ian Prosser Group Chief of Staff letter to shareholders, there George was appointed in Deputy Chairman have been some important February 2008.
He is the Member of the chairmans, Iain C Conn changes to the board.
chairman and chief executive the nomination and the Chief Executive, John Manzoni agreed with the of United Technologies remuneration committees Refining and Marketing board that he would step down Corporation and so has and chairman of the audit as a director on 31 August 2007. substantial experience of global committee Dr Byron E Grote He has taken up a senior position industry.
George is a member Chief Financial Officer in the industry in Canada.
John of the chairmans committee.
Antony Burgmans has shown the most immense I would also like to welcome Member of the chairmans Andrew G Inglis commitment and dedication to Andy Inglis to the board.
He and the safety, ethics Chief Executive, BP through a period of long and was appointed as a director and environment assurance Exploration and Production loyal service.
on 1 February 2007 as committees David Allen will retire chief executive of the as a director on 31 March Exploration and Production Cynthia B Carroll 2008.
David has served on segment.
On 1 June 2007, Member of the chairmans the board since 2003 and Iain Conn became chief committee was group chief of staff until executive of the Refining 1 January 2008.
He has made and Marketing segment.
Sir William Castell, LVO a significant contribution to During the year, we have kept Member of the chairmans, the group in many key areas, under review the mix of skills the audit and the safety, most particularly in shaping and on the board, particularly in light ethics and environment applying corporate strategy.
of the strategic and operational assurance committees I would like to thank John challenges that face the group Browne, John Manzoni and both now and in the coming George David David Allen for their contributions.
We have reviewed and Member of the chairmans Walter Massey will stand refreshed our succession policy committee down at the forthcoming annual for non-executive directors general meeting.
Walter joined and expect to make further Erroll B Davis, Jr the BP board at the time of the appointments to the board shortly.
Member of the chairmans, Amoco merger in 1998 and has the audit and the remuneration made a significant contribution Peter Sutherland, Chairman committees in his tireless work as chairman of the safety, ethics and Douglas J Flint, CBE environment assurance Company secretary Member of the chairmans committee.
His strong scientific David Jackson 55 was and the audit committees background, coupled with his appointed company secretary in broad experience of the US 2003.
A solicitor, he is a director Dr DeAnne S Julius, CBE gained through his academic of BP Pension Trustees Limited Member of the chairmans work and his role on a number and a member of the Listing and the nomination committees of high-profile boards, has Authorities Advisory Committee.
and chairman of the remuneration resulted in a very broad and committee significant contribution to the work of the board and its Sir T om McKillop committees.
He will be sorely Member of the chairmans, missed and, on behalf of the the remuneration and the board, I would like to thank safety, ethics and environment him for all he has done.
assurance committees I am very pleased to welcome Cynthia Carroll and George David Dr Walter E Massey as new non-executive directors.
Member of the chairmans Cynthia, who joined the board in and the nomination committees June 2007, is chief executive of and chairman of the safety, Anglo American plc and has ethics and environment broad experience of the global assurance committee extractive industries, having
