Filename: U54368 doc1.3d Time: 14:49:32 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -1686578214 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 1 Information about this report This document constitutes the Annual Report and Accounts of BP p. l. c. supplemented and may be updated at the time of ling that document for the year ended 31 December 2007 in accordance with UK with the SEC, or later amended, if necessary.
requirements and is dated 22 February 2008.
This document also On pages 2-6, references within BP Annual Report and Accounts 2007 contains information that will be included in the companys Annual to profits, results and return on average capital employed are to those Report on Form 20-F in accordance with the requirements of the US measures on a replacement cost basis unless otherwise indicated.
Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
The replacement cost profit for the year is determined by excluding from profit inventory holding gains and losses.
BP uses this measure to assist investors to assess BPs performance from period to period.
The Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 SEC in accordance with the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
When contains the Directors Report, including the Business Review, on pages led, copies may be obtained, free of charge see page 90.
The Directors Remuneration Report is on on its website at www.
The consolidated financial statements are on pages 93-171. significant ways if any in which its corporate governance practices differ The report of the auditor is on page 95 for the group and page 187 for from those mandated for US companies under NYSE listing standards.
BP p. l. c. is the parent company of the BP group of companies.
Unless Cautionary statement otherwise stated, the text does not distinguish between the activities BP Annual Report and Accounts 2007 contains certain forward-looking and operations of the parent company and those of its subsidiaries.
statements within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation The term shareholder in the Annual Report and Accounts means, Reform Act of 1995 with respect to the financial condition, results of unless the context otherwise requires, investors in the equity capital of operations and businesses of BP and certain of the plans and objectives BP p. l. c. both direct and or indirect.
of BP with respect to these items.
For further details, please see BP Annual Report and Accounts 2007 and BP Annual Review 2007 Forward-looking statements on page 11. maybedownloadedfrom www.
No material on the BP website, other than the items identied as BP Annual Report and The registered ofce of BP p. l. c. is 1 St Jamess Square, London Accounts 2007 and BP Annual Review 2007, forms any part of those SW1Y 4PD, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
As BP shares, in the form of ADSs, are listed on the New York Stock Stock exchange symbol BP.
Exchange NYSE, an Annual Report on Form 20-F will be led with the Filename: U54368 doc1.3d Time: 14:49:32 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1341058940 2 Miscellaneous terms In this document, unless the context otherwise requires, the following terms shall have the meaning set out below.
Liquids Crude oil, condensate and natural gas liquids.
London Stock Exchange or LSE London Stock Exchange plc.
Amoco The former Amoco Corporation and its subsidiaries.
Atlantic Richeld Atlantic Richeld Company and its subsidiaries.
mb d thousand barrels per day.
Associate An entity over which the group has significant influence and mboe d thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day.
that is neither a subsidiary nor joint venture.
significant influence is the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of an mmBtu million British thermal units.
entity without having control or joint control over those policies.
mmboe million barrels of oil equivalent.
Baker Panel, or panel BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel mmcf million cubic feet.
mmcf d million cubic feet per day.
MTBE Methyl tertiary butyl ether.
boe barrels of oil equivalent.
BP, BP group or the group BP p. l. c. and its subsidiaries.
Burmah Castrol Burmah Castrol plc and its subsidiaries.
OPEC Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries.
Cent or c One-hundredth of the US dollar.
Ordinary shares Ordinary fully paid shares in BP p. l. c. of 25c each.
The company BP p. l. c. Pence or p One-hundredth of a pound sterling.
Pound, sterling or The pound sterling.
Preference shares Cumulative First Preference Shares and Cumulative Second Preference Shares in BP p. l. c. of 1 each.
Hydrocarbons Crude oil and natural gas.
SEC The United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards.
Subsidiary An entity that is controlled by the BP group.
Control is the Joint venture A contractual arrangement between the group and other power to govern the financial and operating policies of an entity so as to venturers that undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint obtain the benets from its activities.
Joint control exists only where the strategic financial and operating decisions relating to the activity require the unanimous Tonne 2,204.6 pounds.
UK United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland.
Jointly controlled asset A joint venture where the venturers have a direct ownership interest in, and jointly control, the assets of the venture.
US United States of America.
Jointly controlled entity A joint venture that involves the establishment of a company, partnership or other entity to engage in economic activity that the group jointly controls with fellow venturers.
Filename: U54368 doc1.3d Time: 14:49:32 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1230020738 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 3 Contents 4 Chairmans letter 5 Group chief executives review 6 Measuring our progress 7 Performance review 59 Directors, senior management and employees 63 Directors remuneration report 74 BP board performance report 82 Additional information for shareholders 93 Financial statements
