These represent the maximum possible vesting levels.
The actual number of shares ADSs that vest will depend on the extent to which performance conditions have been satisfied over a three-year period.
b Restricted share award under the BP Executive Directors Incentive Plan.
These will vest in equal tranches after three and five years, subject to their continued service and satisfactory performance.
There are no directors or members of senior management who own more than 1% of the ordinary shares outstanding.
At 19 February 2008, all directors and senior management as a group held interests in 14,132,552 ordinary shares or their calculated equivalent and 4,323,092 options for ordinary shares or their calculated equivalent under the BP group share options schemes.
Additional details regarding the options granted, including exercise price and expiry dates, are found in the directors remuneration report on page70.
Employee share plans The following table shows employee share options granted.
BP offers most of its employees the opportunity to acquire a Savings and matching plans shareholding in the company through savings-related and or matching BP ShareSave Plan share plan arrangements.
BP also uses long-term performance plans see This is a savings-related share option plan, under which employees save Financial statements Note 41 on page 160 and the granting of share on a monthly basis over a threeor five-year period towards the purchase options as elements of remuneration for executive directors and senior of shares at a xed price determined when the option is granted.
price is usually set at a 20% discount to the market price at the time of Shares acquired through the companys employee share plans rank grant.
The option must be exercised within six months of maturity of the pari passu with shares in issue and have no special rights, save as savings contract otherwise it lapses.
The plan is run in the UK and described below.
For legal and practical reasons, the rules of these plans options are granted annually, usually in June.
Participants leaving for a set out the consequences of a change of control of the company, and qualifying reason will have six months in which to use their savings to generally provide for options and conditional awards to vest on an exercise their options on a pro-rated basis.
Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:50 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1644163124 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 83 BP ShareMatch plans Major shareholders and related party transactions These are matching share plans, under which BP matches employees own contributions of shares up to a predetermined limit.
The plans are Register of members holding BP ordinary shares as at run in the UK and in more than 70 other countries.
In Number of Percentage of Percentage of other countries, the plan is run on an annual basis, with shares being held ordinary total ordinary total ordinary Range of holdings shareholders shareholders share capital in trust for three years.
When the employee leaves BP, all shares must be 1,001-10,000 125,886 38.63 1.81 removed from trust and units under the plan operated on a cash basis 10,001-100,000 11,944 3.66 1.15 must be encashed.
100,001-1,000,000 1,061 0.33 1.83 Once shares have been awarded to an employee under the plan, the a Over 1,000,000 779 0.24 94.88 employee may instruct the trustee how to vote their shares.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ Totals 325,843 100.00 100.00 Local plans a Includes JP Morgan Chase Bank holding 28.51% of the total ordinary issued share In some countries, BP provides local scheme benets, the rules and capital excluding shares held in treasury as the approved depositary for ADSs, a breakdown of which is shown in the table below.
qualications for which vary according to local circumstances.
The above share plans are indicated as being equity-settled.
In certain Register of holders of American depositary shares as at countries, however, it is not possible to award shares to employees a 31 December 2007 owing to local legislation.
b One of the holders of ADSs represents some 792,000 underlying shareholders.
ESOPs have been established to acquire BP shares to satisfy any awards made to participants under the Executive Directors Incentive Plan, the Medium-Term Performance Plan, the Long Term Performance Plan, the As at 31 December 2007, there were also 1,597 preference Deferred Annual Bonus Plan and the BP ShareMatch plans.
Preference shareholders represented 0.44% and ordinary have waived their rights to dividends on shares held for future awards shareholders represented 99.56% of the total issued nominal share and are funded by the group.
Pending vesting, the ESOPs have capital of the company as at that date.
independent trustees which have the discretion in relation to the voting of such shares.
Until such time as the companys own shares held by the Substantial shareholdings ESOP trusts vest unconditionally in employees, the amount paid for The disclosure of certain major interests in the share capital of the those shares is deducted in arriving at shareholders equity.
See company is governed by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR Financial statements Note 40 on page 158.
Assets and liabilities of the made by the UK Financial Services Authority.
Under DTR 5, we have ESOPs are recognized as assets and liabilities of the group.
received notication that Legal and General Group Plc hold 4.60% of the At 31 December 2007, the ESOPs held 6,448,838 shares 2006 voting rights of the issued share capital of the company.
12,795,887 shares and 2005 14,560,003 shares for potential future awards, which had a market value of $79 million 2006 $142 million and Related party transactions 2005 $156 million.
Transactions between the group and its significant jointly controlled Pursuant to the various BP group share option schemes, the following entities and associates are summarized in Financial statements Note 26 options for ordinary shares of the company were outstanding at on page 134 and Financial statements Note 27 on page 135.
Further details on share options appear in Financial statements Note 41 on page 160.
Dividends BP has paid dividends on its ordinary shares in each year since 1917.
In 2000 and thereafter, dividends were, and are expected to continue to be, paid quarterly in March, June, September and December.
Former Amoco Corporation and Atlantic Richeld Company shareholders will not be able to receive dividends, or proxy material, until they send in their Amoco Corporation or Atlantic Richeld Company common shares for exchange.
BP currently announces dividends for ordinary shares in US dollars and states an equivalent pounds sterling dividend.
Dividends on BP ordinary Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:50 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -664321254 84 shares will be paid in pounds sterling and on BP ADSs in US dollars.
The dividends paid before 1 May 2004, the dividends shown are before the rate of exchange used to determine the sterling amount equivalent is the deemed credit allowed to shareholders resident in the US under the average of the forward exchange rate in London over the five business former income tax convention between the US and the UK and the days prior to the announcement date.
The directors may choose to associated withholding tax in respect thereof equal to the amount of declare dividends in any currency provided that a sterling equivalent is such credit.
This deemed credit and associated withholding tax do not announced, but it is not the companys intention to change its current apply to dividends paid after 30 April 2004 to shareholders resident in policy of announcing dividends on ordinary shares in US dollars.
The following table shows dividends announced and paid by the company per ADS for each of the past five years.
This plan is not available to any person resident in the US or Canada or in any jurisdiction outside the UK where such an offer requires compliance by the company with any governmental or regulatory procedures or any similar formalities.
A dividend reinvestment plan is, however, available for holders of ADSs through JPMorgan Chase Bank.
Future dividends will be dependent on future earnings, the financial condition of the group, the Risk factors set out on pages 9-10 and other matters that may affect the business of the group set out in Financial and operating performance on page 46. oversee compliance with the DPA.
The independent monitor has Legal proceedings authority to investigate and report alleged violations of the US Commodity Exchange Act or CFTC regulations and to recommend Save as disclosed in the following paragraphs, no member of the group is corrective action.
The DPA has a term of three years and contemplates a party to, and no property of a member of the group is subject to, any dismissal of all charges at the end of the term following the DOJs pending legal proceedings that are significant to the group.
determination that BP America has complied with the terms of the DPA.
On 28 June 2006, the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission BP America understands that its entry into the DPA concludes the CFTC led a civil enforcement action in the US District Court for the pending criminal investigations of it and its afliates relating to trading in Northern District of Illinois against BP Products North America Inc. BP various commodities, including propane, unleaded gasoline and crude oil.
Products, a wholly owned subsidiary of BP, alleging that BP Products On 25 October 2007, BP Products also entered a companion consent manipulated the price of February 2004 TET physical propane.
The CFTC order with the CFTC resolving all civil enforcement matters concerning also charged BP Products with attempting to manipulate the price of BP Products propane trading.
The remit of the independent monitor February 2004 and April 2003 TET physical propane.
On 28 June 2006, includes overseeing compliance with the Consent Order.
BP Products the US Department of Justice DOJ led a criminal charge against a understands that with its entry into the Consent Order, the CFTC closed former BP Products propane trader, who entered a guilty plea, and on its investigation of trading in unleaded gasoline without the ling of any 8 November 2007, four additional former BP Products traders were charges against BP Products.
In connection with the DPA and the indicted on charges of conspiracy and market corner and commodity Consent Order, BP America and BP Products agreed to pay fines, price manipulation.
Private class action complaints have also been led penalties and restitution totaling just over $303.5 million, including against BP Products that have been consolidated in the US District Court $53.5 million to a victim restitution fund, a criminal penalty of $100 for the Northern District of Illinois.
The complaints contain allegations million, a civil penalty of $125 million and a $25 million payment to the similar to those in the CFTC action as well as of violations of federal and US Postal Inspection Service Consumer Fraud Fund.
Investigations into state antitrust and unfair competition laws and state consumer protection BPs trading activities continue to be conducted from time to time.
The complaints seek actual and punitive On 23 March 2005, an explosion and re occurred in the isomerization damages and injunctive relief.
unit of BP Products Texas City renery as the unit was coming out of On 25 October 2007, BP America Inc. BP America entered into a planned maintenance.
Fifteen workers died in the incident and many deferred prosecution agreement DPA with the DOJ relating to others were injured.
BP Products has reached more than 2,000 allegations that BP America manipulated the price of February 2004 TET settlements in respect of all the fatalities and many of the personal injury physical propane and attempted to manipulate the price of TET propane claims arising from the incident and has set aside $2,125 million, in in April 2003.
The DPA requires BP Americas and certain of its afliates aggregate, for the purpose.
A number of claims remain to be resolved.
continued co-operation with the US government investigations of the The US Occupational Safety and Health Administration OSHA, the US trades in question, as well as other trading matters that may arise.
Chemical Safety and Hazard Investigation Board CSB, the US Pursuant to the DPA, an independent monitor has been appointed to Environmental Protection Agency EPA, the Texas Commission on Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:50 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -2080903258 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 85 Environmental Quality TCEQ and the DOJ, among other agencies, have the DOJ, the EPA and the US Department of Transport concerning civil conducted or are conducting investigations.
At the conclusion of their regulatory claims relating to the 2006 Prudhoe Bay oil transit line investigation, OSHA issued citations that BP Products agreed not to incidents.
BP Products settled that matter with OSHA on 22 September Shareholder derivative lawsuits have been led in US federal and state 2005, paying a $21.4 million penalty and undertaking a number of courts against the directors of the company and others, nominally the corrective actions designed to make the renery safer.
company and certain US subsidiaries following the events relating to, In June 2006, BP Products and the TCEQ entered into an agreed order inter alia, Prudhoe Bay, Texas City and the trading cases, alleging breach resolving a number of alleged violations and, among other things, of duciary duty.
These derivative lawsuits have been settled, subject to authorizing the renery to construct certain new ares needed to replace court approval.
In addition, BP Products agreed to pay a $336,556 civil Approximately 200 lawsuits were led in state and federal courts in penalty.
Alaska seeking compensatory and punitive damages arising out of the At the recommendation of the CSB, BP appointed an independent Exxon Valdez oil spill in Prince William Sound in March 1989.
Most of safety panel, the BP US Reneries Independent Safety Review Panel, those suits named Exxon now ExxonMobil, Alyeska Pipeline Service under the chairmanship of former US Secretary of State James A Baker, Company Alyeska, which operates the oil terminal at Valdez, and the III.
See Report of the BP US Reneries Safety Review Panel on page 28 other oil companies that own Alyeska.
Alyeska initially responded to the for a discussion of the panels report, which was published on 16 January spill until the response was taken over by Exxon.
BP owns a 47% 2007. interest reduced during 2001 from 50% by a sale of 3% to Phillips in In March 2007, the CSB issued its final report, which contained Alyeska through a subsidiary of BP America Inc. and briey indirectly recommendations to the Texas City renery and to the board of the owned a further 20% interest in Alyeska following BPs combination with company.
In May 2007, BP responded to the CSBs recommendations.
Alyeska and its owners have settled all the claims BP and the CSB continue to discuss BPs responses with the objective against them under these lawsuits.
Exxon has indicated that it may le of the CSB agreeing to close-out its recommendations.
a claim for contribution against Alyeska for a portion of the costs and On 25 October 2007, the DOJ announced that it had entered into a damages that it has incurred.
If any claims are asserted by Exxon that criminal plea agreement with BP Products related to the March 2005 affect Alyeska and its owners, BP will defend the claims vigorously.
On 4 February 2008, BP Products pleaded guilty in Since 1987, Atlantic Richeld, a subsidiary of BP, has been named as federal court, pursuant to the plea agreement, to one felony violation of a co-defendant in numerous lawsuits brought in the US alleging injury to the risk management planning regulations promulgated under the US persons and property caused by lead pigment in paint.
The majority of federal Clean Air Act.
At the plea hearing the court advised that it would the lawsuits have been abandoned or dismissed against Atlantic take the matter under review and decide whether to accept or reject Richeld.
Atlantic Richeld is named in these lawsuits as alleged the plea.
If the court accepts the agreement, BP Products will pay a successor to International Smelting and Rening, which, along with a $50 million criminal ne and serve three years probation.
Compliance predecessor company, manufactured lead pigment during the period with the 2005 OSHA settlement agreement and the 2006 TCEQ Agreed 1920-1946.
Plaintiffs include individuals and governmental entities.
Order are conditions of probation.
Several of the lawsuits purport to be class actions.
The lawsuits seek On 2 March 2006, a crude oil leak of approximately 4,800 barrels various remedies including compensation to lead-poisoned children, cost occurred on a low-pressure transit line on the Alaskan North Slope in to nd and remove lead paint from buildings, medical monitoring and the Western Operating Area of the Prudhoe Bay eld operated by BP screening programmes, public warning and education of lead hazards, Exploration Alaska Inc. BPXA.
The March 2006 leak was determined to reimbursement of government healthcare costs and special education for be the result of internal corrosion.
On 6 August 2006, BPXA ordered a lead-poisoned citizens and punitive damages.
No lawsuit against Atlantic phased shutdown of the Prudhoe Bay oil eld following the discovery of Richeld has been settled nor has Atlantic Richeld been subject to a unexpectedly severe internal corrosion and a leak of 199 barrels of crude final adverse judgment in any proceeding.
The amounts claimed and, if oil from the oil transit line in the Eastern Operating Area of Prudhoe Bay.
such suits were successful, the costs of implementing the remedies sought in the various cases could be substantial.
While it is not possible Shortly after the March 2006 leak, the DOJ initiated an investigation of the spill through a federal grand jury in Alaska.
During the course of the to predict the outcome of these legal actions, Atlantic Richeld believes following 17 months, BPXA co-operated with the US governments that it has valid defences and it intends to defend such actions vigorously investigation, including among other things, by producing millions of and that the incurrence of liability is remote.
Consequently, BP believes pages of documents, encouraging its employees to co-operate with the that the impact of these lawsuits on the groups results of operations, investigation and provide testimony to the grand jury, and by providing financial position or liquidity will not be material.
the governments investigators with samples from and sections of the For certain information regarding environmental proceedings, see segment of the failed transit line.
Environmental protection US regional review on page 43.
On 25 October 2007, BPXA entered into an agreement with the DOJ in which it agreed to plead guilty to one US Federal Water Pollution The offer and listing Control Act misdemeanour violation relating to the March 2006 crude oil leak.
The plea agreement resolved all of the federal and State of Alaska criminal culpability of BPXA associated with the March and August leaks Markets and market prices at Prudhoe Bay.
On 29 November 2007, the US District Court for the The primary market for BPs ordinary shares is the London Stock District of Alaska accepted the plea agreement, entered a misdemeanour Exchange LSE.
BPs ordinary shares are a constituent element of the guilty plea against BPXA and sentenced BPXA to pay a combined Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
BPs ordinary shares are also $20 million in criminal fines, restitution and community service payments traded on stock exchanges in France, Germany, Japan and Switzerland.
and serve three years of probation.
BPXA has the right to petition the Trading of BPs shares on the LSE is primarily through the use of the court for termination of the probation term after one year if it meets Stock Exchange Electronic Trading Service SETS, introduced in 1997 for certain benchmarks relating to replacement of the transit lines, upgrades the largest companies in terms of market capitalization whose primary to its leak detection system and improvements to its integrity listing is the LSE.
Under SETS, buy and sell orders at specic prices may management programme.
All criminal fines and other payments required be sent to the exchange electronically by any rm that is a member of by the plea agreement and sentence were made by BPXA on the date of the LSE, on behalf of a client or on behalf of itself acting as a principal.
sentencing following entry of the plea.
The orders are then anonymously displayed in the order book.
When BPXA continues to co-operate with a parallel State of Alaska civil there is a match on a buy and a sell order, the trade is executed and investigation into the March and August 2006 spills, including three automatically reported to the LSE.
Trading is continuous from 8.00 a. m. separate subpoenas issued to BPXA by the Alaska Department of to 4.30 p. m. UK time but, in the event of a 20% movement in the share Environmental Conservation.
Dealings in ordinary shares may also take place evidenced by American depositary receipts ADRs, which may be issued between an investor and a market-maker, via a member rm, outside the in either certicated or book entry form.
The following table sets forth for the periods indicated the highest and In the US and Canada, the companys securities are traded in the form lowest middle market quotations for BPs ordinary shares for the periods of ADSs, for which JPMorgan Chase Bank is the depositary the shown.
These are derived from the Daily Ofcial List of the LSE and the Depositary and transfer agent.
The Depositarys principal ofce is 4 New highest and lowest sales prices of ADSs as reported on the New York York Plaza, Floor 13, New York, NY 10004, US.
Each ADS represents six Stock Exchange NYSE composite tape.
Market prices for the ordinary shares on the LSE and in after-hours had registered addresses in the US at that date.
One of the registered trading off the LSE, in each case while the NYSE is open, and the market holders of ADSs represents some 800,000 underlying holders.
prices for ADSs on the NYSE and other North American stock exchanges On 19 February 2008, there were approximately 328,855 holders of are closely related due to arbitrage among the various markets, although record of ordinary shares.
Of these holders, around 1,487 had registered differences may exist from time to time due to various factors, including addresses in the US and held a total of some 4,238,685 ordinary shares.
UK stamp duty reserve tax.
Trading in ADSs began on the LSE on Since certain of the ordinary shares and ADSs were held by brokers 3 August 1987. and other nominees, the number of holders of record in the US may not On 19 February 2008, 899,270,264 ADSs equivalent to 5,395,621,585 be representative of the number of beneficial holders or of their country ordinary shares or some 28.34% of the total were outstanding and were of residence.
held by approximately 140,195 ADR holders.
Of these, about 138,696 Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:51 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 1999336172 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 87 revenue reserves of the company.
Variation of the borrowing power of Memorandum and Articles of Association the board may only be effected by amending the Articles of Association.
Remuneration of non-executive directors shall be determined in the The following summarizes certain provisions of the companys aggregate by resolution of the shareholders.
Remuneration of executive Memorandum and Articles of Association and applicable English law.
directors is determined by the remuneration committee.
This committee This summary is qualied in its entirety by reference to the UK is made up of non-executive directors only.
Any director attaining the age Companies Act and the companys Memorandum and Articles of of 70 shall retire at the next AGM.
There is no requirement of share Association.
Information on where investors can obtain copies of the ownership for a directors qualication.
Memorandum and Articles of Association is described under the heading Documents on display on page 90. Dividend rights: other rights to share in company profits: On 24 April 2003, the shareholders of BP voted at the AGM to adopt capital calls new Articles of Association to consolidate amendments that had been If recommended by the directors of BP, BP shareholders may, by resolution, declare dividends but no such dividend may be declared in necessary to implement legislative changes since the previous Articles of Association were adopted in 1983. excess of the amount recommended by the directors.
The directors may At the AGM held on 15 April 2004, shareholders approved an also pay interim dividends without obtaining shareholder approval.
No amendment to the Articles of Association such that, at each AGM held dividend may be paid other than out of profits available for distribution, as after 31 December 2004, all directors shall retire from ofce and may determined under IFRS and the UK Companies Act.
Dividends on offer themselves for re-election.
There have been no further ordinary shares are payable only after payment of dividends on BP amendments to the Articles of Association.
Any dividend unclaimed after a period of 12 years At the upcoming annual general meeting of the company, it will be from the date of declaration of such dividend shall be forfeited and proposed that the company adopts new articles of association, largely to reverts to BP.
take account of changes in UK company law brought about by the The directors have the power to declare and pay dividends in any Companies Act 2006. currency provided that a sterling equivalent is announced.
It is not the companys intention to change its current policy of paying dividends in Objects and purposes US dollars.
BP is incorporated under the name BP p. l. c. and is registered in Apart from shareholders rights to share in BPs profits by dividend if England and Wales with registered number 102498.
Clause 4 of any is declared, the Articles of Association provide that the directors BPs Memorandum of Association provides that its objects include the may set aside: acquisition of petroleum-bearing lands: the carrying on of rening and A special reserve fund out of the balance of profits each year to make dealing businesses in the petroleum, manufacturing, metallurgical or up any deficit of cumulative dividend on the BP preference shares.
chemicals businesses: the purchase and operation of ships and all A general reserve out of the balance of profits each year, which shall other vehicles and other conveyances: and the carrying on of any other be applicable for any purpose to which the profits of the company businesses calculated to benefit BP.
The memorandum grants BP a may properly be applied.
This may include capitalization of such sum, range of corporate capabilities to effect these objects.
pursuant to an ordinary shareholders resolution, and distribution to shareholders as if it were distributed by way of a dividend on the Directors ordinary shares or in paying up in full unissued ordinary shares for The business and affairs of BP shall be managed by the directors.
allotment and distribution as bonus shares.
The Articles of Association place a general prohibition on a director Any such sums so deposited may be distributed in accordance with the voting in respect of any contract or arrangement in which he has a manner of distribution of dividends as described above.
material interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in the Holders of shares are not subject to calls on capital by the company, company.
However, in the absence of some other material interest not provided that the amounts required to be paid on issue have been paid indicated below, a director is entitled to vote and to be counted in a off.
All shares are fully paid.
quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the following matters: Voting rights The giving of security or indemnity with respect to any money lent or The Articles of Association of the company provide that voting on obligation taken by the director at the request or benefit of the resolutions at a shareholders meeting will be decided on a poll other company.
than resolutions of a procedural nature, which may be decided on a show Any proposal in which he is interested concerning the underwriting of of hands.
If voting is on a poll, every shareholder who is present in company securities or debentures.
person or by proxy has one vote for every ordinary share held and two Any proposal concerning any other company in which he is interested, votes for every 5 in nominal amount of BP preference shares held.
If directly or indirectly whether as an officer or shareholder or voting is on a show of hands, each shareholder who is present at the otherwise provided that he and persons connected with him are not meeting in person or whose duly appointed proxy is present in person the holder or holders of 1% or more of the voting interest in the will have one vote, regardless of the number of shares held, unless a poll shares of such company.
Shareholders do not have cumulative voting rights.
Proposals concerning the modication of certain retirement benets Holders of record of ordinary shares may appoint a proxy, including a schemes under which he may benefit and that have been approved by beneficial owner of those shares, to attend, speak and vote on their either the UK Board of Inland Revenue or by the shareholders.
behalf at any shareholders meeting.
Any proposal concerning the purchase or maintenance of any Record holders of BP ADSs are also entitled to attend, speak and vote insurance policy under which he may benefit.
at any shareholders meeting of BP by the appointment by the approved The UK Companies Act requires a director of a company who is in any depositary, JPMorgan Chase Bank, of them as proxies in respect of the way interested in a contract or proposed contract with the company to ordinary shares represented by their ADSs.
Each such proxy may also declare the nature of his interest at a meeting of the directors of the appoint a proxy.
Alternatively, holders of BP ADSs are entitled to vote by company.
The denition of interest now includes the interests of supplying their voting instructions to the depositary, who will vote the spouses, children, companies and trusts.
The directors may exercise all ordinary shares represented by their ADSs in accordance with their the powers of the company to borrow money, except that the amount instructions.
remaining undischarged of all moneys borrowed by the company shall Proxies may be delivered electronically.
not, without approval of the shareholders, exceed the amount paid up on Matters are transacted at shareholders meetings by the proposing the share capital plus the aggregate of the amount of the capital and and passing of resolutions, of which there are three types: ordinary, special or extraordinary.
Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:51 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -946405120 88 An ordinary resolution requires the afrmative vote of a majority of the been interested in its voting shares, to disclose certain information with votes of those persons voting at a meeting at which there is a quorum.
Failure to supply the information required may Special and extraordinary resolutions require the afrmative vote of not lead to disenfranchisement of the relevant shares and a prohibition on less than three-fourths of the persons voting at a meeting at which there their transfer and receipt of dividends and other payments in respect of is a quorum.
Any AGM at which it is proposed to put a special or ordinary those shares.
In this context the term interest is widely dened and will resolution requires 21 days notice.
An extraordinary resolution put to the generally include an interest of any kind whatsoever in voting shares, AGM requires no notice period.
Any extraordinary general meeting at including any interest of a holder of BP ADSs.
which it is proposed to put a special resolution requires 21 days notice: otherwise, the notice period for an extraordinary general meeting is Exchange controls 14 days.
Liquidation rights: redemption provisions There are currently no UK foreign exchange controls or restrictions on In the event of a liquidation of BP, after payment of all liabilities and remittances of dividends on the ordinary shares or on the conduct of the applicable deductions under UK laws and subject to the payment of companys operations.
secured creditors, the holders of BP preference shares would be entitled There are no limitations, either under the laws of the UK or under the to the sum of i the capital paid up on such shares plus, ii accrued and companys Articles of Association, restricting the right of non-resident or unpaid dividends and iii a premium equal to the higher of a 10% of the foreign  capital paid up on the BP preference shares and b the excess of the company.
average market price over par value of such shares on the LSE during the previous six months.
The remaining assets if any would be divided pro Taxation rata among the holders of ordinary shares.
Without prejudice to any special rights previously conferred on the holders of any class of shares, BP may issue any share with such This section describes the material US federal income tax and UK preferred, deferred or other special rights, or subject to such restrictions taxation consequences of owning ordinary shares or ADSs to a US holder as the shareholders by resolution determine or, in the absence of any who holds the ordinary shares or ADSs as capital assets for tax such resolutions, by determination of the directors, and may issue purposes.
It does not apply, however, to members of special classes of shares that are to be or may be redeemed.
holders subject to special rules and holders that, directly or indirectly, hold 10% or more of the companys voting stock.
Variation of rights A US holder is any beneficial owner of ordinary shares or ADSs that is The rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the for US federal income tax purposes i a citizen or resident of the US, ii a consent in writing of holders of 75% of the shares of that class or on the US domestic corporation, iii an estate whose income is subject to US adoption of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate meeting of federal income taxation regardless of its source, or iv a trust if a US the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate meeting, court can exercise primary supervision over the trusts administration and all of the provisions of the Articles of Association relating to proceedings one or more US persons are authorized to control all substantial at a general meeting apply, except that the quorum with respect to a decisions of the trust.
meeting to change the rights attached to the preference shares is 10% This section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as or more of the shares of that class, and the quorum to change the rights amended, its legislative history, existing and proposed regulations attached to the ordinary shares is one third or more of the shares of that thereunder, published rulings and court decisions, and the taxation laws class.
of the UK, all as currently in effect, as well as the income tax convention between the US and the UK that entered into force on 31 March 2003 Shareholders meetings and notices the Treaty.
These laws are subject to change, possibly on a retroactive Shareholders must provide BP with a postal or electronic address in the basis.
This section is further based in part on the representations of the UK in order to be entitled to receive notice of shareholders meetings.
In Depositary and assumes that each obligation in the Deposit Agreement certain circumstances, BP may give notices to shareholders by and any related agreement will be performed in accordance with its advertisement in UK newspapers.
Holders of BP ADSs are entitled to terms.
receive notices under the terms of the deposit agreement relating to BP For purposes of the Treaty and the estate and gift tax Convention the ADSs.
The substance and timing of notices is described above under the Estate Tax Convention, and for US federal income tax and UK taxation heading Voting Rights.
purposes, a holder of ADRs evidencing ADSs will be treated as the Under the Articles of Association, the AGM of shareholders will be owner of the companys ordinary shares represented by those ADRs.
held within 15 months after the preceding AGM.
All other general Exchanges of ordinary shares for ADRs and ADRs for ordinary shares meetings of shareholders shall be called extraordinary general meetings generally will not be subject to US federal income tax or to UK taxation and all general meetings shall be held at a time and place determined by other than stamp duty or stamp duty reserve tax, as described below.
the directors within the UK.
If any shareholders meeting is adjourned for Investors should consult their own tax adviser regarding the US lack of quorum, notice of the time and place of the meeting may be federal, state and local, the UK and other tax consequences of owning given in any lawful manner, including electronically.
Powers exist for and disposing of ordinary shares and ADSs in their particular action to be taken either before or at the meeting by authorized ofcers circumstances, and in particular whether they are eligible for the benets to ensure its orderly conduct and safety of those attending.
Limitations on voting and shareholding Taxation of dividends There are no limitations imposed by English law or the companys UK taxation Memorandum or Articles of Association on the right of non-residents or Under current UK taxation law, no withholding tax will be deducted from foreign persons to hold or vote the companys ordinary shares or ADSs, dividends paid by the company, including dividends paid to US holders.
A other than limitations that would generally apply to all of the shareholder that is a company resident for tax purposes in the UK shareholders.
generally will not be taxable on a dividend it receives from the company.
A shareholder who is an individual resident for tax purposes in the UK is Disclosure of interests in shares entitled to a tax credit on cash dividends paid on ordinary shares or ADSs The UK Companies Act permits a public company, on written notice, to of the company equal to one-ninth of the cash dividend.
require any person whom the company believes to be or, at any time during the previous three years prior to the issue of the notice, to have Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:51 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 4194838 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 89 US federal income taxation subject to tax with respect to capital gains arising from a disposition of A US holder is subject to US federal income taxation on the gross ordinary shares or ADSs of the company not only in the jurisdiction of amount of any dividend paid by the company out of its current or which the holder is resident at the time of the disposition but also in the accumulated earnings and profits as determined for US federal income other jurisdiction.
Dividends paid to a non-corporate US holder in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 that constitute qualied dividend US federal income taxation income will be taxable to the holder at a maximum tax rate of 15%, A US holder that sells or otherwise disposes of ordinary shares or ADSs provided that the holder has a holding period in the ordinary shares or will recognize a capital gain or loss for US federal income tax purposes ADSs of more than 60 days during the 121-day period beginning 60 days equal to the difference between the US dollar value of the amount before the ex-dividend date and meets other holding period realized and the holders tax basis, determined in US dollars, in the requirements.
Dividends paid by the company with respect to the shares ordinary shares or ADSs.
Capital gain of a non-corporate US holder that is or ADSs will generally be qualied dividend income.
recognized in taxable years beginning before 1 January 2011 is generally As noted above in UK taxation, a US holder will not be subject to UK taxed at a maximum rate of 15% if the holders holding period for such withholding tax.
A US holder will include in gross income for US federal ordinary shares or ADSs exceeds one year.
The gain or loss will generally income tax purposes the amount of the dividend actually received from be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit the company and the receipt of a dividend will not entitle the US holder limitation purposes.
The deductibility of capital losses is subject to to a foreign tax credit.
For US federal income tax purposes, a dividend must be included in We do not believe that ordinary shares or ADSs will be treated as income when the US holder, in the case of ordinary shares, or the stock of a passive foreign investment company, or PFIC, for US federal Depositary, in the case of ADSs, actually or constructively receives the income tax purposes, but this conclusion is a factual determination that is dividend, and will not be eligible for the dividends-received deduction made annually and thus is subject to change.
If we are treated as a PFIC, generally allowed to US corporations in respect of dividends received unless a US holder elects to be taxed annually on a mark-to-mark basis from other US corporations.
Dividends will be income from sources with respect to ordinary shares or ADSs, gain realized on the sale or outside the US, and generally will be passive category income or, in the other disposition of ordinary shares or ADSs would in general not be case of certain US holders, general category income, each of which is treated as capital gain.
Instead a US holder would be treated as if he or treated separately for purposes of computing the allowable foreign tax she had realized such gain and certain excess distribution ratably over credit.
the holding period for ordinary shares or ADSs and would be taxed at the The amount of the dividend distribution on the ordinary shares or highest tax rate in effect for each such year to which the gain was ADSs that is paid in pounds sterling will be the US dollar value of the allocated, in addition to which an interest charge in respect of the tax pounds sterling payments made, determined at the spot pounds sterling attributable to each such year would apply.
US dollar rate on the date the dividend distribution is includible in income, regardless of whether the payment is in fact converted into US dollars.
Additional tax considerations Generally, any gain or loss resulting from currency exchange uctuations UK inheritance tax during the period from the date the pounds sterling dividend payment is The Estate Tax Convention applies to inheritance tax.
ADSs held by an includible in income to the date the payment is converted into US dollars individual who is domiciled for the purposes of the Estate Tax will be treated as ordinary income or loss and will not be eligible for the Convention in the US and is not for the purposes of the Estate Tax 15% tax rate on qualied dividend income.
The gain or loss generally will Convention a national of the UK will not be subject to UK inheritance tax be income or loss from sources within the US for foreign tax credit on the individuals death or on transfer during the individuals lifetime limitation purposes.
unless, among other things, the ADSs are part of the business property Distributions in excess of the companys earnings and profits, as of a permanent establishment situated in the UK used for the performance of independent personal services.
In the exceptional case determined for US federal income tax purposes, will be treated as a where ADSs are subject both to inheritance tax and to US federal gift or return of capital to the extent of the US holders basis in the ordinary shares or ADSs and thereafter as capital gain, subject to taxation as estate tax, the Estate Tax Convention generally provides for tax payable described in Taxation of capital gains US federal income taxation.
in the US to be credited against tax payable in the UK or for tax paid in the UK to be credited against tax payable in the US, based on priority Taxation of capital gains rules set forth in the Estate Tax Convention.
UK taxation A US holder may be liable for both UK and US tax in respect of a gain on UK stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax the disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs if the US holder is i a citizen of The statements below relate to what is understood to be the current the US resident or ordinarily resident in the UK, ii a US domestic practice of the UK Inland Revenue under existing law.
corporation resident in the UK by reason of its business being managed Provided that the instrument of transfer is not executed in the UK and or controlled in the UK or iii a citizen of the US or a corporation that remains at all times outside the UK and the transfer does not relate to carries on a trade or profession or vocation in the UK through a branch or any matter or thing done or to be done in the UK, no UK stamp duty is agency or, in respect of corporations for accounting periods beginning on payable on the acquisition or transfer of ADSs.
Neither will an agreement or after 1 January 2003, through a permanent establishment, and that to transfer ADSs in the form of ADRs give rise to a liability to stamp duty have used, held, or acquired the ordinary shares or ADSs for the reserve tax.
purposes of such trade, profession or vocation of such branch, agency or Purchases of ordinary shares, as opposed to ADSs, through the permanent establishment.
However, such persons may be entitled to a CREST system of paperless share transfers will be subject to stamp duty tax credit against their US federal income tax liability for the amount of reserve tax at 0.5%.
The charge will arise as soon as there is an UK capital gains tax or UK corporation tax on chargeable gains as the agreement for the transfer of the shares or, in the case of a conditional case may be that is paid in respect of such gain.
agreement, when the condition is fullled.
The stamp duty reserve tax Under the Treaty, capital gains on dispositions of ordinary shares or will apply to agreements to transfer ordinary shares even if the ADSs generally will be subject to tax only in the jurisdiction of residence agreement is made outside the UK between two non-residents.
of the relevant holder as determined under both the laws of the UK and Purchases of ordinary shares outside the CREST system are subject the US and as required by the terms of the Treaty.
either to stamp duty at a rate of 50 pence per 100 or part, or stamp Under the Treaty, individuals who are residents of either the UK or the duty reserve tax at 0.5%.
Stamp duty and stamp duty reserve tax are US and who have been residents of the other jurisdiction the US or the generally the liability of the purchaser.
A subsequent transfer of ordinary UK, as the case may be at any time during the six years immediately shares to the Depositarys nominee will give rise to further stamp duty at preceding the relevant disposal of ordinary shares or ADSs may be Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:51 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -704674121 90 the rate of 1.50 per 100 or part or stamp duty reserve tax at the rate Documents on display of 1.5% of the value of the ordinary shares at the time of the transfer.
A transfer of the underlying ordinary shares to an ADR holder on cancellation of the ADSs without transfer of beneficial ownership will BPs Annual Report and Accounts is also available online at give rise to UK stamp duty at the rate of 5 per transfer.
Shareholders may obtain a hard copy of BPs complete An ADR holder electing to receive ADSs instead of a cash dividend will audited financial statements, free of charge, by contacting BP be responsible for the stamp duty reserve tax due on issue of shares to Distribution Services at 44 0 870 241 3269 or through an e-mail the Depositarys nominee and calculated at the rate of 1.5% on the issue request addressed to @bp.
com, orBPsUS price of the shares.
Current UK Inland Revenue practice is to calculate Shareholder Services ofce in Warrenville, Illinois at 1 800 638 5672 or the issue price by reference to the total cash receipt to which a US through an e-mail request addressed to shareholderus@bp.
holder would have been entitled had the election to receive ADSs instead The company is subject to the information requirements of the US of a cash dividend not been made.
ADR holders electing to receive ADSs Securities Exchange Act of 1934 applicable to foreign private issuers.
In instead of the cash dividend authorize the Depositary to sell sufficient accordance with these requirements, the company les its Annual shares to cover this liability.
Report on Form 20-F and other related documents with the SEC.
It is possible to read and copy documents that have been led with the SEC at the SECs public reference room located at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549, US.
You may also call the SEC at 1 800-SEC-0330 or log on to www.
In addition, BPs SEC lings are available to the public at the SECs web site at www.
BP discloses on its website at www.
com  significant ways if any in which its corporate governance practices differ from those mandated for US companies under NYSE listing standards.
Details of some of BPs other publications are listed on the inside back cover.
Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:51 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: 357092327 BP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 91 Purchases of equity securities by the issuer and afliated purchasers The following table provides details of ordinary shares repurchased.
b All shares were repurchased for cancellation.
c At the AGM on 12 April 2007, authorization was given to repurchase up to 1.95 billion ordinary shares in the period to the next AGM in 2008 or 11 July 2008, the latest date by which an AGM must be held.
This authorization is renewed annually at the AGM.
The following table provides details of share purchases made by ESOP trusts.
Transactions represent the purchase of ordinary shares by ESOP trusts to satisfy future requirements of employee share schemes.
Filename: U54368 doc6.3d Time: 14:49:51 Date: 25 02 08 Checksum: -617812715 92 Called up share capital Administration Details of the allotted, called up and fully paid share capital at If you have any queries about the administration of shareholdings, such 31 December 2007 are set out in Financial statements Note 39 on as change of address, change of ownership, dividend payments, the page 157. dividend reinvestment plan or the ADS direct access plan, or to change At the AGM on 12 April 2007, authorization was given to the directors the way you receive your company documents such as the Annual to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount equal to $1,626 million.
Report and Accounts, Annual Review and Notice of Meeting please Authority was also given to the directors to allot shares for cash and to contact the BP Registrar or ADS Depositary.
dispose of treasury shares, other than by way of rights issue, up to a maximum of $244 million, without having to offer such shares to existing UK Registrars Ofce shareholders.
These authorities are given for the period until the next The BP Registrar, Equiniti AGM in 2008 or 11 July 2008, whichever is the earlier.
These authorities Aspect House, Spencer Road, Lancing, West Sussex BN99 6DA are renewed annually at the AGM.
Tel: 44 0 121 415 7005: Freephone in UK: 0800 701107 Textphone: 0871 384 2255: Fax: 44 0 871 384 2100 Annual general meeting Please note that any numbers quoted with the prex 0871 will be charged at 8p per minute from a BT landline.
Other network providers The 2008 AGM will be held on Thursday 17 April 2008 at 11.30 a. m. at costs may vary.
ExCeL London, One Western Gateway, Royal Victoria Dock, London E16 1XL.
A separate notice convening the meeting is distributed to US ADS Depositary shareholders, which includes an explanation of the items of business JPMorgan Chase Bank to be considered at the meeting.
PO Box 358408, Pittsburgh, PA 15252-8408 All resolutions of which notice has been given will be decided on a Tel: 1 201 680 6630 poll.
Toll-free in US and Canada: 1 877 638 5672 Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors and a resolution for their reappointment is included in Notice of BP Annual General Meeting 2008.
By order of the board David J Jackson Secretary 22 February 2008
