Managers Review Fidelity Investments International The Company is managed by Fidelity Investments International which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
Fidelity Investments International is part of the FIL Limited formerly Fidelity International Limited group which, as at 31 December 2007, had total assets under management exceeding 150 billion.
Tim McCarron age 45 Sudipto Banerji age 39 is a portfolio manager with Fidelity Investment Services Limited is a portfolio manager with Fidelity Investment Services Limited based in London.
He has been with Fidelity since 1993, when he based in London.
He has been with Fidelity since 2000, when joined as a research analyst.
He spent a year in Fidelitys Boston he joined as a research analyst.
He managed Fidelitys Industrials office as a research analyst, before returning to the UK in 1995.
Fund and will become Portfolio Manager of the Company after In addition to Fidelity European Values PLC, he manages the a period of working alongside Mr McCarron.
Fidelity European Fund and a number of institutional portfolios.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW As shown in the Financial Summary on page 2, the NAV macroeconomic environment weakened.
Towards the of Fidelity European Values PLC returned 13.4% in the end of the year, there was also evidence of a downturn year to 31 December 2007, underperforming the FTSE in housing markets in various economies, while oil World Europe ex UK Index, which returned 15.1%.
All performance figures are quoted on a total return basis and in sterling.
The European Central Bank ECB increased interest rates three times during the year, each time by a quarter Although the absolute return of the portfolio during of a percentage point, to end the year at 4%.
After 2007 has been strong, performance has been raising interest rates five times throughout 2006, the disappointing relative to the Index.
However, the long ECB justified the further rate rises as being necessary term performance remains very healthy primarily due to ensure price stability across the region.
Because of to successful stock selection.
investor concerns about the slowdown in the US, the euro continued to strengthen relative to the US dollar, MARKET BACKGROUND rising to $1.46 from $1.31 over the course of the year Over the review period, continental European equities due to risks over a broad slowdown in the US, causing benefited from continued takeover activity and generally the dollar to weaken.
Markets were further boosted by strong domestic demand and falling unemployment.
PORTFOLIO REVIEW However, the onset of the credit crunch in the late The portfolios relative underperformance can be partly summer caused a pronounced squeeze across major attributed to the underweight exposure to the consumer financial markets, as the demand for liquidity surged.
goods, technology and telecommunications sectors.
The cost of borrowing went up, as banks became While the overweight position in the financial sector reluctant to lend to each other, given the uncertainty also detracted from returns the sector suffered from over the degree of exposure to sub-prime investments.
concerns about further fallout from the credit crisis.
The However, measures were taken by some central banks, overweight positions in the utilities and oil & gas sectors to ease liquidity concerns, and this helped reassure boosted returns.
The utilities sector continued to benefit investors.
from increased demand and rising power prices, while the oil & gas sector was bolstered by rising prices and Earnings growth, which started the period robustly, increased demand for oil.
slowed over the twelve month review period, as the Page 6 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Managers Review At the stock level, the zero weighting in Nokia was the Relative % weighting to FTSE World Europe ex UK Index biggest detractor to relative returns, as the company saw its share price almost double over the review period thanks to impressive results, which revealed good Eastern Europe & Other margins.
Elsewhere, exposure to the Finnish carbon-steel manufacturer Rautaruukki also impacted performance, Peripheral as its profits were dragged down by declining product Eurozone prices.
However, German stockmarket operator Deutsche Boerse added value, as the volatile market United Kingdom environment boosted trading volumes, while a robust outlook for power prices helped our holdings in utility firms, such as E. ON and Electricite fide France.
Western Europe Non-Eurozone Finally, in the context of a rising market, the portfolios fixed gearing enhanced returns.
Core Eurozone PORTFOLIO STRUCTURE -15 -12 -9 -6 -3 0 3 6 9 During 2007, a key development at the macro level, which affected the outlook for companies in the financial Sources: Fidelity and Datastream as at 31 December 2007 sectors, was the unfolding of the credit events initially associated with the market for subprime residential mortgages in the United States.
This development and corporate earnings growth in Europe is the weakest proved to be important due to the holdings by many since the near-recession years of 2001 2002.
- European financials of securities whose value is affected adversely by the deteriorating outlook for the residential Set against these negative factors, the valuation of property market in the United States.
This in turn led to equities in Europe is low: European equities are trading banks in Europe becoming more cautious in their on a forward multiple of approximately 12x, while the lending approach to other customers.
It became average for the 1995 2007 period was above 15x.
apparent in the second half of the year that the residential property market in some countries in Europe At a country level, the outlook for some smaller was also weakening, notably in Spain and Ireland.
countries in Europe such as Greece remains quite strong.
By contrast, countries where large increases in In response to these trends, the Portfolio Manager consumption have been driven for a number of years took an increasingly cautious view of sectors with either by rising residential property prices, such as Spain and direct exposure to US subprime-related securities or Ireland, look increasingly likely to face a slower period also towards sectors with a large sensitivity to economic of economic growth.
The core countries in Europe growth.
As a result, the exposure to financials was including Germany and France, whose banking sector reduced progressively during the year, and the exposure has exposure to subprime securities, are also likely to to utilities, pharmaceuticals and telecommunications was face a period of slower growth.
In the final quarter of the year, the gearing countries, including Norway and Russia, are benefiting of the portfolio was also reduced, from approximately from the high level of resource prices.
The country 10% at the net level to close to zero.
positioning of the portfolio is overweight exposure to Eastern Europe primarily resource-related stocks in OUTLOOK Russia, the peripheral Eurozone particularly Greece, The outlook for the coming year is mixed.
The earnings and underweight exposure to the core Eurozone and and growth picture in Europe is clouded by the non-Eurozone countries.
There are also small holdings continuing fallout from the impact of the events that in stocks outside Europe, where the companies have a began with subprime residential real estate in the United significant connection to Europe, including companies States.
Concerns have now broadened as the impact in the UK and Israel.
of the restrictions on credit by banks begins to impact the broader economies in both the United States and The Portfolio Manager believes that in the context of a Europe.
At the same time, continued strong growth challenging economic environment, the best approach in some emerging markets, notably China, has led to to achieving acceptable returns will be one that is elevated prices for many commodities, and inflation is focussed on developments at a company level and as a result not weakening as would normally be expected bottom-up stockpicking.
at this stage of an economic cycle.
This limits the potential monetary stimulus provided by the ECB.
Fidelity Investments International As a result of these factors, the outlook for GDP growth 27 February 2008 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2007 Page 7
