About your Company Objective Performance To secure long-term growth in capital and income Net asset value and share price total returns of through a policy of investing primarily in an 15.4% and 14.1% respectively over one year.
internationally diversified portfolio of publicly listed Net asset value and share price total returns of equities, as well as unlisted securities and private 63.1% and 73.9% over three years.
equity, with the use of gearing.
Net asset value and share price total returns of 105.4% and 116.0%, or 7.5% and 8.0% per annum Heritage compound, respectively over ten years.
Founded in 1868 as the first ever investment trust.
The net asset value total return has beaten the Pioneered the concept of collective investment, by benchmark over one, three, five and ten years, and the giving the small investor the same advantage as the weighted average of the close peer group over one, five large institution by reducing risk through a spread of and ten years.
Dividend up 133.1%, or 8.8% per annum compound, over ten years.
Today Increase in dividend every year for the past One of the largest global growth trusts, with total 37 years.
assets of 2.6 billion investing in over 680 companies in 35 countries.
Advantages of an investment trust Some 100,000 shareholders, with over 80,000 The ability as a closed-end fund to take a longinvestors through the F&C savings plans.
term view and ride out difficult conditions we have ridden through two world wars and many Reputation market crashes.
Well-known and respected brand, with a reputation The flexibility to invest in a wide range of assets we for delivering its long-term objectives in a have been increasing our exposure to private equity.
responsible, prudent and effective way.
The freedom to borrow money to improve returns to shareholders in rising markets we have Management borrowed prudently in foreign currencies at low Independent Board of Directors responsible for rates for many years.
overall strategy and monitoring performance.
The ability to buy back shares to enhance net asset Management of the investments is carried out by value and reduce discount volatility we have F&C Management Limited F&C under contract.
introduced a buy-back policy to keep the discount Manager incentivised to produce superior below 10% in normal market conditions.
Low charges to investors, typically well below those External third party sub-managers are used to for comparable unit trusts our total expense ratio for enhance investment performance where appropriate.
2007 was 0.71%, including performance fee accrual.
No cross-directorships, no cross-holdings and The cumulative benefits of such low costs over many no conflicts of interest between the Company and years are very significant for long-term investors.
com Potential investors are reminded that the value of investments and the income from them may go down as well as up and investors may not receive back the full amount invested.
Tax benefits may vary as a result of statutory changes and their value will depend on individual circumstances.
Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
