qxd 27 3 08 03:14 Page 63 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORTS With-Profits Committees The With-Profits Committees WPCs were set up in December  compliance with target ranges and the sampling methodology used: 2003.
While these are committees of the boards of the life and  the principles underlying the bonus declarations for FPLP and pensions operating companies and not the Company, the Board of Friends Provident Life Assurance Limited FPLA made in July 2007 the Company appoints the chairman of the WPCs from amongst the and January 2008: independent directors of the Company.
 charges for guarantees:  proposals for risk-based investment mandates: PURPOSE AND TERMS OF REFERENCE  Equity Backing Ratio for the FPLP With-Profits Fund: The purpose of the WPCs is to bring some independent judgement to:  the With-Profits Actuarys internal report on the use of discretion  the assessment of compliance for each life and pensions in the management of With-Profits business: and operating company with its published Principles and Practices of  the content and quality of communications to policyholders, Financial Management PPFM : and including the board and With-Profits Actuarys published reports on  how any competing or conflicting rights and interests of the use of discretion in the management of With-Profits business.
policyholders and, if applicable, shareholders have been addressed.
A process was in place to ensure that the WPCs saw any In neither case does this take away any responsibility or correspondence that had been sent by policyholders to the WPCs or accountability from the boards of the relevant companies.
This any of its members together with any actions taken.
Members were purpose is reflected in each WPCs written terms of reference which also kept informed by the With-Profits Actuary on topics with which are published on the Companys website and are subject to annual they should be conversant.
The last review was carried out in May 2007 when the WPCs concluded that the existing terms of reference for Additionally, management kept the WPCs informed, on a timely the committees remained appropriate.
basis, of the following reports and issues during the year:  update on the FPLA Closed Fund Run-off Plan: MEMBERSHIP AND OPERATIONS On 1 November 2007, Sir Mervyn Pedelty was appointed Chairman  the investment performance and share buy-backs of the F&C of the WPCs replacing Alison Carnwath, who had resigned as Commercial Property Trust in which the With-Profits Funds have Chairman and member.
The other members are Peter Nowell an interest in excess of 30%: independent member and Graham Aslet former director and  alternative approaches to management of the With-Profits Funds: Appointed Actuary, both of whom have served throughout the year.
 approach to alternative investments for the FPLP With-Profits Fund:  actuarial valuation reports, investment reports and individual capital During the year, the WPCs evaluated their own effectiveness with assessment results of the life and pensions operating companies: reference to a number of questions on their operation,  compliance with the Scheme of Demutualisation and PPFMs: communications with With-Profits policyholders and general  comparative analysis of With-Profits Fund performance: governance.
The WPCs were satisfied with the current governance arrangements and the infrastructure that were in place to ensure  customer feedback: and effective discharge of their role.
However, in order to strengthen  Financial Services Consumer Panel report Are customers in closed membership of the WPCs, the Nomination Committee of the Board life funds being treated fairly?
was requested to seek to recruit an additional independent member to the WPCs during 2008.
Also, it was agreed that the WPCs visit the The WPCs reviewed these and other reports in accordance with their Customer Services centre in Salisbury from time to time in order to terms of reference, assessed and confirmed that any proposals were have a direct experience of customers concerns and issues.
All in compliance with the appropriate PPFM and, effectively, treated members of the WPCs visited the Customer Services centre in customers fairly.
Any issues arising were debated within the WPCs Salisbury in December and gained an insight into some of the and, in some cases, the WPCs have made recommendations to the common issues raised by With-Profits customers.
life and pensions operating companies boards that resulted in changes being made to the original proposals.
ACTIVITIES AND WORK OF THE WPCs The WPCs met four times during 2007, with all members present on On behalf of the Board every occasion.
Sir Mervyn Pedelty During the year, the WPCs reviewed the changes made to one of Chairman, With-Profits Committees the operating companies published PPFM documents and all the 18 March 2008 customer friendly versions With-Profits Summaries and the main areas of discretion allowed by the PPFMs.
In particular, they reviewed: Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 63
