qxd 27 3 08 03:01 Page 10 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague CBE, MA, Solicitor, 60.
Chief Executive, F&C Asset Management plc.
Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Appointed Chairman in May 2005, having been Appointed an executive director and member of the appointed an independent director in October 2004.
Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited Investment Committee on 1 January 2006.
Appointed non-executive director of F&C Asset Crossrail.
Previously Chief Executive of the Treasury Joined the board of F&C Asset Management plc in Management plc on 27 November 2007.
Chairman Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK October 2004 on completion of the merger of ISIS plc.
In his early career, he was a partner of Linklaters of the Investment Committee and member of the Asset Management plc and F&C Group Holdings Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
& Paines, and subsequently the Global Head of Limited F&CGH where he was previously Deputy Currently Chairman of British Energy Group plc, Project Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Chief Executive of F&CGH and Head of Institutional Michael Page International plc and Infrastructure Business.
Previously at JPMorgan for 20 years, as a Investors Limited.
A non-executive director of London Managing Director responsible for the investment First and CellMark Holdings AB and a member of banks market client business in Europe.
the Supervisory Board of Skanska AB.
Appointed Executive Chairman following the resignation of Philip Moore in November 2007 until Trevor Matthews takes up his appointment as Group Chief Executive.
Executive directors Non-Executive directors Lady Judge BA, JD, 61.
Alison Carnwath BA Hons, ACA, 55.
Deputy Chairman, senior independent director.
Appointed a director and Deputy Chairman in June Appointed a director in December 2002.
Member 2001 having been an independent director of Friends of the Remuneration and Audit and Compliance Provident Life Office from 1994 to 2001 and its Committees and, from April 2004 until November Deputy Chairman from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the 2007, chaired the With-Profits Committees of Remuneration Committee, Deputy Chairman of the Friends Providents regulated wholly-owned life and Investment Committee and a member of the pensions operating companies.
Chairman of the UK Atomic Chairman of MF Global Limited and ISIS Equity Energy Authority, of the School of Oriental & African Partners LLP.
Non-executive director of Land Studies and of LIFE IC Limited.
A director of Quintain Securities Group plc and Man Group plc.
Estates and Development plc, Private Equity Investor Previously a Managing Director of the US plc, Portmeirion Group PLC, Planet Payment Inc. investment bank, Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Magna International Inc. Massey Energy Company International, before it merged with Credit Suisse and Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc.
Formerly a director of J Henry Formerly, Chairman of the Professional Standards Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, National Power plc, Advisory Board of the Institute of Directors and Arcadia Group plc, QA Group plc, The Vitec Group Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council.
plc and Nationwide Building Society.
A former commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Will retire from the Friends Provident Board at the close of the 2008 AGM.
Jim Smart BCom, CPFA, FCCA, MBA, 48.
Chief Executive, Friends Provident Life and Pensions Limited.
Will leave the Company after announcement of Appointed an executive director in June 2001 having Appointed an executive director on 1 January 2007, its interim results in August 2008. been appointed an executive director of Friends having joined Friends Provident in November 2006.
Provident Life Office in 2000 and Managing Director, Member of the Investment Committee.
A nonFriends Provident Life and Pensions Limited in March executive director of F&C Asset Management plc 2001.
A non-executive director of Lombard International since January 2007.
Member of the Financial Assurance S. A.
Member of the Life Insurance Regulation and Taxation Committee of the Association Committee of the Association of British Insurers.
Joined the Friends Provident Group in September 1998 Previously, Chief Financial Officer at Boots Group following the acquisition of London and Manchester plc.
Prior to joining Boots, he was at Abbey National Group plc where he was Managing Director of plc for 15 years where he held a number of senior London and Manchester Assurance Limited and a finance and operational positions and was a director Group Executive Director.
Joined London and of the groups life assurance business, Scottish Manchester in February 1996 from Hambro Mutual Assurance plc.
Countrywide plc where he was an executive director.
Sir Mervyn Pedelty FCA, FCIB, FRSA, 59.
Chairman of the Appointed a director in October 2006.
Chairman of Appointed an independent director of the Company Audit and Compliance Committee and member of the With-Profits Committees and the Nomination and a non-executive director of F&C Asset the Investment and Nomination Committees.
Also a member Management plc in June 2007.
A member of the Finance Director for BUPA since 2001.
Trustee of of the Audit and Compliance and Remuneration Audit and Compliance and Investment Committees.
Senior independent director of Hiscox Currently Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners Ltd incorporated in Bermuda, a director of Hiscox Europe, responsible for the development of its Formerly the Deputy Chief Executive of Parity Group Insurance Company Ltd and Chairman of German business, and an independent director of plc, Director of Group Finance and Control at Diageo FTSE4Good Policy Committee.
plc and Group Finance Director of Southern Water plc.
Previously at The Co-operative Bank plc where he was Spent much of his professional career with financial Chief Executive from 1997 to 2004, and also Chief services firm, JPMorgan, where his positions included Executive of Co-operative Financial Services Ltd and Managing Director of JPMorgans German branch in Co-operative Insurance Society Ltd from 2002 until his Frankfurt and Regional Treasurer Asia Pacific in the retirement in 2004.
Former member of the Department Tokyo office.
Spent a total of 13 years on the for Work and Pensions Employer Task Force on management board of two German Landesbanks, Pensions, a director of the Association of British joining the executive boards of Norddeutsche Insurers from 2002 to 2004 and previous member Landesbank in 1991, and of Westdeutsche of the Council of the British Bankers Association and Landesbank WestLB AG in 1996.
Previous board of its Chief Executives and audit and remuneration appointments include AXA Lebensversicherungs AG, committees.
Prior to The Co-operative Bank, a partner AXA  mbH, Deka Bank, of LEK Consulting, a senior executive of TSB Group Fresenius AG, Hapag Lloyd AG and VHV Holdings AG.
plc and a director of TSB Bank plc.
