qxd 27 3 08 03:13 Page 48 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague CBE, MA, Solicitor, 60.
Chief Executive, F&C Asset Management plc.
Formerly Deputy Chairman of Network Rail and Appointed Chairman in May 2005, having been Appointed an executive director and member of the Chairman of Cross-London Rail Links Limited appointed an independent director in October 2004.
Appointed non-executive director of F&C Asset Crossrail.
Previously Chief Executive of the Treasury Joined the board of F&C Asset Management plc in Management plc on 27 November 2007.
Chairman Taskforce and Deputy Chairman of Partnerships UK October 2004 on completion of the merger of ISIS plc.
In his early career, he was a partner of Linklaters of the Investment Committee and member of the Asset Management plc and F&C Group Holdings & Paines, and subsequently the Global Head of Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Limited F&CGH where he was previously Deputy Currently Chairman of British Energy Group plc, Project Finance for Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Chief Executive of F&CGH and Head of Institutional Michael Page International plc and Infrastructure Business.
Previously at JPMorgan for 20 years, as a Investors Limited.
A non-executive director of London Managing Director responsible for the investment First and CellMark Holdings AB and a member of banks market client business in Europe.
the Supervisory Board of Skanska AB.
Appointed Executive Chairman following the resignation of Philip Moore in November 2007 until Trevor Matthews takes up his appointment as Group Chief Executive.
Executive directors Non-Executive directors Lady Judge BA, JD, 61.
Alison Carnwath BA Hons, ACA, 55.
Deputy Chairman, senior independent director.
Appointed a director and Deputy Chairman in June Appointed a director in December 2002.
Member 2001 having been an independent director of Friends of the Remuneration and Audit and Compliance Provident Life Office from 1994 to 2001 and its Committees and, from April 2004 until November Deputy Chairman from 1998 to 2001.
Chairman of the 2007, chaired the With-Profits Committees of Remuneration Committee, Deputy Chairman of the Friends Providents regulated wholly-owned life and Investment Committee and a member of the pensions operating companies.
Chairman of the UK Atomic Chairman of MF Global Limited and ISIS Equity Energy Authority, of the School of Oriental & African Partners LLP.
Non-executive director of Land Studies and of LIFE IC Limited.
A director of Quintain Securities Group plc and Man Group plc.
Estates and Development plc, Private Equity Investor Previously a Managing Director of the US plc, Portmeirion Group PLC, Planet Payment Inc. investment bank, Donaldson, Lufkin and Jenrette Magna International Inc. Massey Energy Company International, before it merged with Credit Suisse and Nationwide Accident Repair Services plc.
Formerly a director of J Henry Formerly, Chairman of the Professional Standards Schroder Wagg & Co Ltd, National Power plc, Advisory Board of the Institute of Directors and Arcadia Group plc, QA Group plc, The Vitec Group Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Council.
plc and Nationwide Building Society.
A former commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.
Will retire from the Friends Provident Board at the close of the 2008 AGM.
48 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006
