qxd 27 3 08 03:11 Page 26 REVIEW OF THE YEAR FINANCIAL KPI SUMMARY EXECUTIVE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT CHANGE IN STRATEGY EXPLAINED FINANCIAL KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Summary and Outlook TRADING Our UK trading focus therefore centres around our Our 2007 trading and financial results are in line with those established strengths in group pensions and protection reported at the end of January 2008, underlining the rationale business.
The improved cash flows anticipated will support for our full strategic review and the appropriateness of our investment in FPI, our strategy being to grow the international new strategic direction.
The new strategy is further supported business faster than the UK.
FPI will pursue growth in savings by positive developments in our core businesses.
& investment, pensions and protection markets with attractive margins, and this is the trading priority of the Group.
Annual Premium Equivalent APE sales increased 15% in the The new strategy includes reducing the cost base by at least UK and 18% overseas, delivering an overall increase of 16%.
Advances in the UK were driven by our strong position in pensions.
Overseas, Friends Provident International FPI in Once fully implemented, the new strategy is expected to particular delivered another strong performance, further add two percentage points to the overall IRR, with the cementing its position as an effective engine for growth.
prospect of further improvement over time.
The Group will be self-financing and therefore does not expect any need to The underlying economics of our 2007 UK trading were not access the capital markets.
In particular the cash generated from sales, before one-off adjustments, was less than the cost of The three businesses that now fit less comfortably within shareholder dividends, as was ongoing underlying IFRS the new strategy Lombard, F&C Asset Management and profits, again before one-off items.
Pantheon Financial continue to develop successfully.
We are working with their respective management teams These results reflect that our product persistency experience to establish strategies for maximising shareholder value was worse than was being assumed, particularly for UK while minimising disruption to these good businesses.
business, and the consequent assumption change reduced EEV profit by 158m overall.
Included within this result is an Swift and efficient implementation of the new strategy is now adverse impact of 15m on the contribution from UK new our focus to ensure that the inherent benefits will emerge business, which ended down 11% on 2006 levels despite as soon as practicable and an update on progress can be the higher levels of sales.
The overall UK internal rate of expected at the time of interim results in August 2008.
In the return IRR at 11.7% was helped by regulatory changes but meantime, we can report that a senior team is in place solely remains at an unsatisfactory level.
to oversee implementation and good progress is already being made.
NEW STRATEGY The new strategy was announced at the end of January IMPACT OF ONE-OFF CHANGES this year.
Since then, our conversations with management AND DISCLOSURE at leading UK intermediary firms have been encouraging, An important element of the new strategy is the adoption of with widespread support for our focus on protection and improved financial transparency and disclosure, including the pensions, and broad support for our market positioning.
segmentation of Life & Pensions underlying profit, and The strength of our underlying propositions remains an analyses provided by product on both cash and IFRS bases.
Some associated decisions have had the effect of further The new strategy is designed to address the poor underlying reducing 2007 profits.
In particular, the capitalisation of 20m economics of trading outlined above by elevating profit above of development expenses, reclassified as maintenance volume growth.
Its most direct impact is to reduce the capital expenses, reduces IFRS profits by 112m and EEV profits by intensity of the UK business, which will be achieved primarily 238m.
A further 68m reduction in EEV profits arises from by ceasing to write new group pension schemes where initial capitalising corporate costs.
commission is required, and by no longer pursuing an The writing off of intangibles, especially in connection with ambition in wealth management beyond the manufacture our withdrawal from Wrap, reduces both EEV and IFRS and administration of life and pensions products.
Implementation of the remaining consumption will be reduced further by adopting a more changes arising from the FSA Policy Statement PS06 14 led selective approach to individual pensions and to savings & to a 138m release of shareholder cash.
investment products, competing only when the prospective returns make it worth doing so.
26 Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007Annual Report & Accounts 2006 FP AnnRep 001-045. qxd:30349 Frontend.
qxd 27 3 08 03:11 Page 27 OPERATIONAL REVIEW KEY RISKS SUMMARY AND OUTLOOK FINANCIAL REVIEW After a review of the estimated amortisation profile of CONCLUSION deferred acquisition costs on protection business the net Our core propositions are already strong and continue to impact on IFRS profit was negative 34m.
be recognised by industry awards.
Our belief in, and commitment to, the intermediary community remains at the Largely as a result of the reserving changes, the overall IRR heart of our strategy and we look forward to deepening our for 2007 is 14.4% and this, together with other key metrics, already strong relationships.
The international markets will is likely to fall back initially as some of the key financial become the key drivers of profitable growth.
Quality aspects of the strategic review are implemented.
customer service and our ability to harness technology imaginatively provide competitive advantage.
The outcome The 2007 underlying profit on an EEV basis is in line with our of the strategic review has repositioned Friends Provident announcement of 31 January 2008 and the underlying profit positively and our focus is now firmly on growing the on an IFRS basis is also down, due to the same factors.
business both transparently and profitably, to the benefit of all key stakeholders.
DIVIDEND The Board is recommending a final dividend for 2007 of 5.30 pence per share in line with our current dividend policy.
This would bring the total 2007 dividend to 8.00 pence per share, a 2% increase over 2006.
After payment of the final dividend for 2007, we will reduce the overall cost of the dividend to a level that reflects the dividend paying capacity of the Life & Pensions business, expected to be around 90m to 100m, and adopt a policy of growing the dividend in line with operating cashflow in future.
The Board believes that this offers the prospect of dividend growth in real terms in the years to come.
The Board will determine the appropriate dividend per share in due course.
In reaching this decision, the Board will have regard not only to the dividend paying capacity of the business but also to any capital returned to shareholders as a result of releases from businesses which do not fit the strategy.
OUTLOOK Our new strategy plays to our strengths.
Our systems, service and efficiency enable us to compete in the challenging UK marketplace.
In protection, we will seek to at least maintain market share and to continue to enter new segments.
Overall volumes of new pensions business will fall as a consequence of our more selective approach, but the quality of new business written will increase.
The outlook for International Life & Pensions business remains strong.
FPI will benefit from its growing presence in key markets and continued strong demand for its products.
We have established firm footholds in a number of territories from which to generate future sales, further supported by our new operations in Singapore, Germany and United Arab Emirates.
International markets will remain competitive but developing FPI is a priority of the new strategy and we are confident that the outlook for this business remains positive.
Friends Provident Annual Report & Accounts 2007 27
