146 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report The Group spends approximately 2bn per annum with external and Accounts to the members of HBOS plc in respect of the suppliers excluding rents and rates.
HBOS recognises the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007. importance of suppliers as stakeholders in its business and the importance of ensuring that it builds effective, competitive Principal Activities relationships that add value for its customers and shareholders.
HBOS plc is the holding company of the HBOS Group.
The A dedicated Procurement function operates within the Group principal activities of the Group are the provision of banking and and provides oversight to the management of these key other financial services in the UK and overseas.
A list of the main relationships, setting policy and ensuring that appropriate risk subsidiary undertakings, and the nature of each companys management processes are put in place in respect of contracts business, is given in Note 18 to the Financial Statements on above certain financial thresholds.
The Annual Report and Accounts, including this Directors HBOS Group Reorganisation Act 2006 Report, have been prepared solely for the Companys members On 17 September 2007, the Groups four banking subsidiaries as a body.
To the extent permitted by law, the Company, its in the UK were consolidated into a single legal entity holding Directors, employees, agents and advisers disclaim liability a single banking licence.
On that date, the Governor and to any other persons in respect of information contained in Company of the Bank of Scotland registered as a public limited the Annual Report and Accounts.
By their nature, statements company in the name of Bank of Scotland plc and succeeded containing risks and uncertainties facing the Group, and to the business, assets and liabilities of Halifax plc, Capital Bank any other forward-looking statements, involve uncertainty, plc and HBOS Treasury Services plc.
These changes, which since future events and circumstances can cause results were authorised by the HBOS Group Reorganisation Act 2006, and developments to differ materially from those anticipated.
did not have any direct impact on HBOS plc.
The forward-looking statements re ect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of the Annual Business Review Report and Accounts and the Company undertakes no The Companies Act 1985 requires the Directors Report to obligation to update these forward-looking statements.
include a Business Review of the HBOS Group giving a fair Nothing in the Annual Report and Accounts shall be review of the business of the Group and a description of the construed as a pro t forecast.
principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Results and Dividends The Groups development and performance during the year, The Group pro t attributable to shareholders for the year position at the year end and likely future prospects are reviewed ended 31 December 2007, as shown in the Consolidated by the Chief Executive on pages 8 to 13 and in the Divisional Income Statement, was 4,045m 2006 3,879m.
An interim Reviews on pages 15 to 68.
Financial aspects are covered in the dividend of 16.6 pence per ordinary share was paid on Group Finance Directors Report on pages 69 to 84, followed by 8 October 2007.
The Directors propose a final dividend of the Risk Management report on pages 85 to 104 and Corporate 32.3 pence per ordinary share to be paid on 12 May 2008 Responsibility on pages 105 to 110.
The information in each of to shareholders on the register on 14 March 2008, subject these sections, which ful ls the requirements of the Business to approval at the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM.
Review, is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
Going Concern The Corporate Responsibility report, on pages 105 to 110, The Directors are satis ed that the Group has adequate sets out the approach of the Group to key stakeholders.
In resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future discharging their duties, the Directors have regard to the and consequently the going concern basis continues to be interests of these stakeholders as well as to any other factors appropriate in preparing the accounts.
likely to impact on the success of the Company.
Consideration of these matters is fully integrated within the Boards decisionmaking processes.
Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 147 Directors Employees Details of the Groups corporate governance practices are set Information on the Groups colleague strategy is contained out in the Corporate Governance report on pages 114 to 121. within the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 105 to 110.
Biographies of the current Directors are given on pages 112 The Groups Total Reward strategy aligns colleagues reward and 113 and the appointments made during the year are with personal, divisional and Group performance.
are encouraged to share in the success of the Company through participation in its award-winning share plans.
Further Directors appointed during 2007 details of these plans are set out on page 125 of the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration policy and practice, and in Director Date of appointment Note 37 to the Financial Statements on page 208.
Voting rights Richard Cousins 1 March 2007 attaching to shares held in trust under the terms of the share John E Mack 1 May 2007 plans can, in general, be exercised by employees.
Dan Watkins 5 September 2007 HBOS adopts a multi-media approach when communicating Philip Gore-Randall 15 September 2007 with its colleagues throughout the Group.
This principally Mike Ellis 25 September 2007 involves e-mail, electronic and printed magazines, intranets, business television and face-to-face communication.
Sir Brian Ivory and David Shearer stood down from the Board at the AGM on 25 April 2007: Benny Higgins stood A Group-wide electronic magazine, entitled HBOS Today, down on 10 August 2007 and Phil Hodkinson stood down is used to update colleagues on key business news.
It is on 31 December 2007. issued as required rather than on a set publishing cycle.
Richard Cousins was elected at the 2007 AGM: the remaining four new Directors will retire at the 2008 AGM and offer Each day several topical news stories are placed on the themselves for election.
Dennis Stevenson, Karen Jones Companys intranet site typically linked to other pages or and Colin Matthew will retire by rotation and resolutions sites for further information.
Television programmes are used, for their re-election will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
for example, to announce the Groups annual and half-year Having completed two three-year terms as a Non-executive results to colleagues.
Director of HBOS, Charles Dunstone will retire at the forthcoming AGM and will not offer himself for re-election.
As well as Group-wide communication, colleagues also receive speci c communications tailored at divisional level and are 147 The Chairman has endorsed the effectiveness and commitment kept informed of matters which concern them as employees.
of all Directors standing for election or re-election at the AGM, Colleagues can access HBOS HR policies and joint agreements and the Senior Independent Director has given a similar with the recognised trade unions via the internal intranet site.
endorsement in respect of the Chairmans re-election.
The views of HBOS colleagues are sought on a regular Particulars of the Directors remuneration, interests in shares basis, most notably through an annual opinion survey and share options of the Company and service contracts are conducted by MORI and through regular consultation with given in the Report of the Board in relation to remuneration the recognised trade unions, ACCORD and Unite, with whom policy and practice on pages 122 to 145. the Company has entered into a partnership agreement.
The Company continues to support colleagues rights to The powers of the Directors, along with provisions relating to join trade unions.
Around half of the current UK workforce their appointment and replacement, are set out in the Articles of are union members and the Company is currently working Association and governed by UK company law.
Any alteration to in partnership with the unions to increase this number.
the Articles of Association must be approved by shareholders.
The speci c authorities delegated to Executive Directors are set out in the Board Control Manual, which is described more fully in the Corporate Governance report.
The Company provides directors and of cers liability insurance, giving appropriate cover for legal action brought against its Directors, and has also agreed to indemnify Directors in circumstances where they are not considered to be culpable.
The indemnity, which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the purpose of the Companies Act, is for the bene t of all of the Companys current Directors.
148 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Directors Report continued Movement through Treasury of ordinary shares of 25p each for the year ended 31 December 2007 Number as Number a % of issued Aggregate of shares share capital at nominal value Aggregate cost millions 31.12.2007 m m Acquired by the Company and transferred into Treasury 49.6 1.33% 12.4 500.0 Maximum held in Treasury at any time in the year 12.4 0.33% 3.1 Cancelled out of Treasury 50.0 1.34% 12.5 HBOS is recognised by Jobcentre Plus as a two-tick employer, Between January and March 2007, one employee was actively seeking applications for employment from disabled seconded part-time for two days each week by HBOS plc people and guaranteeing an interview where disabled applicants to the Cross Party Group on the Scottish Economy CPG meet the essential criteria for the role being applied for.
In the in the Scottish Parliament.
event of an existing colleague becoming disabled, HBOS works The CPG is not a political party.
However while an exemption with external specialists to ensure that all possible reasonable exists for all party groups composed of members of the adjustments are made to allow the colleague to continue in Westminster Houses of Parliament, there is no such speci c their existing role.
If, after making all possible adjustments, a exemption in respect of the Scottish Parliament.
colleague is not able to continue in their current role, HBOS will look at suitable alternative roles within the Group and The Company is therefore disclosing a total amount of the provide retraining accordingly.
Training and career development donations made to the CPG during the last financial year of opportunities are open to all colleagues including disabled 2,226, representing the proportion of the employees salary colleagues and Group policies are designed with inclusion of paid by the Company during his secondment, not a cash disabled colleagues in mind.
This secondment arrangement came to an end in March 2007.
Diversity and inclusion is an integral part of the business, with active commitment from the very top of the organisation.
Andy Payment Policy Hornby, Chief Executive, chairs the Diversity Steering Group.
For the forthcoming period the Groups policy for the payment Membership of the Steering Group is made up of a number of of suppliers will be as follows: executives from across the HBOS Group and its key purpose is to provide strategic direction, challenge the Groups businesses Payment terms will be agreed at the start of the relationship and remove barriers to progress in relation to the diversity with the supplier and will only be changed by agreement: strategy.
HBOS has a clear plan of activity for the coming years and has a Diversity Commitment which clearly sets out what Standard payment terms to suppliers of goods and services colleagues can expect from HBOS.
will be 30 days from the date of a correct invoice that has been received for satisfactory goods or services which have Charitable and Political Donations been ordered and received unless other terms are agreed in During the year the Group made charitable donations in the a contract: UK of 12.74m.
The majority of donations were made to the HBOS Foundation, which provides grants to charities to fund Payment will be made in accordance with the agreed terms initiatives primarily relating to financial literacy and money advice.
or in accordance with the law if no agreement has been In addition, all funds raised by colleagues, customers and made: and shareholders for the Million Challenge were matched by the HBOS Foundation and went to the British Heart Foundation, Suppliers will be advised without delay when an invoice is WRVS and the Family Holiday Association in partnership with contested and disputes will be settled as quickly as possible.
In addition, a total of 933,559 has been made available to charities as a result of their af nity to the Visa Charity credit HBOS plc complies with the Better Payment Practice Code.
cards offered by the Group.
The af nity cards are offered in Information regarding this Code and its purpose can be partnership with speci c charities such as Cancer Research obtained from the Better Payment Practice Groups website UK, the RSPCA and the SSPCA.
It is HBOS policy not to make donations to political parties The Companys main trading subsidiary undertaking, Bank of or incur political expenditure.
However the law in this area Scotland plc, had trade creditors outstanding at 31 December is extremely broad in scope and could potentially capture 2007 representing 20 days of purchases.
The Company itself legitimate business activities not in the ordinary sense owed no amounts to trade creditors at 31 December 2007. considered to be political donations or political expenditure.
To avoid inadvertent infringement, at last years AGM the Board obtained shareholders approval for the Company to make donations to EU Political Organisations and or to incur EU Political Expenditure up to fide ned limits.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 149 Percentage Share Capital Number of issued Nature of Details of the structure of the Companys share capital as Disclosable Interests of shares share capital holding at the year end, as well as movements in the authorised Legal & General Group plc 182,637,709 4.890% Direct and issued share capital during the year, are provided in and or its subsidiaries 18,128,077 0.485% Indirect Note 36 to the Financial Statements on page 207.
For the purposes of the Companies Act 2006, as at Signi cant Agreements 31 December 2007 the Company had issued ordinary and In terms of the Companies Act 2006, the Company has not preference share capital of 1,533m, comprising 933m identi ed any signi cant agreements that take effect, alter 60.86% in ordinary shares and 600m 39.14% in preference or terminate on a change of control of the Company.
The shares for the purposes of this calculation, the nominal value Company is a party to certain non-material agreements of certain preference shares denominated in US dollars has including, for example, joint venture agreements and trust been translated at the exchange rate prevailing on 31 December deeds relating to certain employee share plans that do contain 2007.
Holders of ordinary shares enjoy the rights accorded change of control provisions in the event of the takeover of the to them under UK company law including the right to receive ultimate parent company but these are not considered to be the Companys Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and signi cant on an individual basis.
speak at general meetings, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of preference shares have limited voting Financial Instruments rights and in general may only vote on a variation of class rights, The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies, on a resolution to wind up the Company or in the event of the including its governance framework and approach to the preference dividend being unpaid.
Further details regarding the management of key risks including credit risk, market risk rights and obligations attaching to share classes are contained and liquidity risk, are outlined in the Risk Management report in the Articles of Association, which can be accessed on the on pages 85 to 104.
Properties There are no restrictions on the transfer of shares: prior The Directors are of the opinion that the current market value approval is not required from the Company nor from other of the Groups properties is not signi cantly different from the holders for such a transfer.
No limitations are placed on the amount at which they are included in the balance sheet.
holding of shares and no class of shares carries special rights Auditors with regard to the control of the Company.
No restrictions A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditors will be are placed on voting rights other than as outlined above with 149 put to shareholders at the 2008 AGM.
The Directors who held respect to preference shares.
The Company is not aware of of ce at the date of approval of this Directors Report con rm any agreements between shareholders that may restrict the that, so far as they are each aware: transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
there is no relevant audit information as fide ned by section The Company has the authority to purchase up to 376,115,726 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys of its ordinary shares.
The authority remains valid until the 2008 Auditors are unaware: and AGM or, if earlier, 25 July 2008.
A resolution to authorise the purchase of up to 373,515,896 ordinary shares will be put to each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have the 2008 AGM.
taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors During the year the Company continued to manage its capital are aware of that information.
position actively, which resulted in returning around 500m of capital to shareholders through a share buyback programme.
On behalf of the Board Details of the shares acquired by the Company during the year are set out in the table on the previous page.
Disclosable Interests As at the date of this report there is a disclosable interest in the voting rights of the Company, as noti ed to the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rules, as shown in the table in the next column.
Other than as shown, the Company is not aware Harry F Baines of any ordinary shareholder with an interest of 3% or more in Company Secretary & Group Counsel the issued share capital of the Company.
