Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Treasury & Asset Management For more information please visit www.
com 59 In this section you will nd: 61 Strategy 62 2007 Performance 68 Risks and Uncertainties 68 Prospects Lindsay Mackay Chief Executive, Treasury Treasury & Asset Management brands: Abdallah Nauphal Treasury manages the Chief Executive, Insight Investment Groups funding and liquidity and delivers products and services to the Group and its customers: our Asset Management businesses offer investment solutions to Group and external customers.
60 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Divisional Summary Our Products and Markets Treasury The Treasury divisions principal business activities are focused on performing three core functions: managing the funding and liquidity position of the Group: providing financial services to the Group and its customers: and delivering pro ts.
The order of these functions is important as it re ects the relative priority of each function and ensures that we are able to prioritise accordingly.
Funding and liquidity, therefore, is the most important function.
Treasury has operations in London, New York, Sydney, Dublin and Glasgow.
Treasury aligns itself to the growth plans in other divisions and therefore seeks to grow income from treasury activities in each of these locations.
Asset Management Asset Management comprises Insight Investment Insight and Invista Real Estate Invista.
Insight is one of the UKs largest fund managers, operating a multi-channel business and managing money for retail investors, pension funds, insurance groups and other institutions, as well as providing the investment expertise for our Insurance & Investment division.
Insights strategic product lines are Fixed Income, Liability Driven Investing LDI, Absolute Return and Equities and we have ambitions to grow our market share in these key areas, predominantly in the UK Institutional market but also we plan a gradual expansion into Europe as well as continuing to leverage off the strength of the Groups brands.
Invista Real Estate Investment Management is the largest UK listed real estate fund management group.
Invista manages both commercial and residential property across the UK and continental Europe, and has a total of 8.7bn in assets under management as at 31 December 2007.
It manages the real estate assets in funds on behalf of a number of clients, including Halifax, Clerical Medical and St. Jamess Place.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61 Our Strategy Key Performance Indicators Our strategy in Treasury supports the growth of the Our key performance indicators are used to measure Groups business and includes: progress against our strategy.
Funding and liquidity Managing the Groups funding and liquidity position to ensure that the Group has suf cient financial resources to meet its obligations as they fall due and to do so without excessive 61 Wholesale funding maturing in 1 year ratio cost to the Group.
Treasurys core objectives in this area 41.0 % 2007 include producing the Groups funding plan which seeks to optimise the funding mix and the relative cost of funds.
47.5 % 2006 Providing financial services to the Group and its customers Treasury provides financial services to the Group and its customers.
Treasurys principal role is not direct client acquisition but to maximise cross-selling opportunities to clients acquired by other divisions.
We continue to invest in technology, particularly in relation to internet banking solutions and increased automation between Non-interest income the divisions and Treasury.
Treasurys overseas locations support the international growth plans in other divisions.
449 m 2007 Trading 415 m 2006 All of the Groups market risk trading activity is conducted by Treasury, within the risk appetite set by Group.
Treasurys aim is to continue to grow income on the back of business ows whilst maintaining a limited proprietary trading function, managed within modest risk limits and a cautious approach to investments.
Our strategy in Asset Management includes: % of Insights funds under management above benchmark Providing superior investment solutions 42 % above 1 year benchmark 2007 Investment performance is at the heart of Asset Management.
We will strive to continue to provide superior investment 53 % above 3 year benchmark 2007 solutions to our customers by focusing on those products 61 % above 1 year benchmark 2006 where we have a proven record of exceptional performance.
We will continue to consolidate our position in the market 70 % above 3 year benchmark 2006 place by further improvement and innovation and grow our key product lines.
Creating a quality investment brand With exceptional customer service and offering superior investment solutions, we want to be one of the leading Cost:income ratio investment brands in the asset management market.
We are 55.8 % 2007 considered a key player in the market and in order to maintain our competitive advantage, we will continue to improve and 47.1 % 2006 innovate whilst also investing in front of ce infrastructure and the recruitment, retention and training of high quality staff.
Pro tably grow revenues to create shareholder value We will continue to grow and develop our sales and trading capability and improve investment performance continuing 2006 gures have been restated, as announced on 12 June 2007, to re ect to invest when appropriate whilst maintaining a strong the divisional reorganisation and the change in fide nition of underlying.
62 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Treasury & Asset Management Net interest margin bps 5 7 2007 Performance Cost:income ratio 55.8% 47.1% Underlying pro t before tax in Treasury & Asset Management decreased by 21% to 275m 2006 350m which includes Insights funds under management 109.1bn 98.6bn a negative fair value adjustment relating to certain debt Invistas funds under management 8.7bn 9.2bn securities of 227m 2006 positive fair value adjustment of 2m.
Risk weighted assets 26.0bn 15.0bn Treasurys performance re ects the turmoil in global financial markets and the related dif cult market conditions in the second Relating to certain debt securities.
Excluding these effects, there was strong growth in Net interest margin has been calculated as net interest income divided by both underlying income and operating pro t. Notwithstanding average interest earning assets excluding securities classi ed as trading assets but including lending to other members of the Group.
the dif cult conditions faced by the market, we have a strong credit portfolio and no credit provisions were required in the period.
Asset Managements pro t growth was strong re ecting Operating Income and Margins the growth in assets under management to 117.8bn 2006 Underlying net operating income decreased by 1% to 613m 107.8bn and increased performance fees in Invista.
Net interest income decreased by 20% to 164m 2006 205m, primarily due to the use of non-interest bearing Risk Weighted Assets RWAs on a Basel l basis have investments in Treasury where the income is reported through increased by 73% to 26.0bn 2006 15.0bn mainly due to the non-interest income, whilst the cost of funding the investment drawdown of Grampian liquidity facilities, increased banking is reported through net interest income, 58m 2006 nil.
book assets and the impact of widening credit spreads.
Underlying non-interest income increased by 8% to 449m Year Year 2006 415m.
This growth includes increased Treasury Sales ended ended revenues, increased Treasury Interest Rate trading business and 31.12.2007 31.12.2006 Income Statement m m the receipt of performance fees in Invista.
The 2007 outcome also included the results of our Payment and International Net interest income 164 205 Services business, transferred from Corporate division, from Underlying non-interest income 449 415 1 January 2007 of 31m and income from our non-interest Net trading income bearing investments of 78m 2006 nil.
This was, however, excluding fair value adjustments 357 247 offset by the negative fair value adjustment relating to certain Fair value adjustments 227 2 debt securities of 227m.
Net trading income 130 249 Fees and commission income 267 186 Operating Expenses Fees and commission expense 49 43 Underlying operating expenses increased by 17% to 342m 2006 292m.
The increase re ects the ongoing development Other operating income 105 22 of the businesses, the inclusion of the operating expenses Share of losses pro ts of associates relating to the Payment and International Services business, and jointly controlled entities 4 1 which accounted for 20m of the increase, and the inclusion of Underlying net operating income 613 620 Bank of Scotland Ireland Treasury, which accounted for 4m.
Underlying operating expenses 342 292 Staff 205 171 Non-operating Income Accommodation, repairs and Following a strategic review of the non-core Channel Islands maintenance 3 1 business, Insight announced in May 2007 the sale of its Technology 10 10 Guernsey based retail business, with 0.5bn of assets under management, to Syndicate Asset Management.
Completion Marketing and communication 6 6 took place at the end of June, with a gain on sale of 4m.
Depreciation: Property and equipment and intangible assets 4 4 Other 72 78 Sub total 300 270 Recharges: Technology 7 6 Accommodation 14 14 Other shared services 21 2 Underlying operating pro t 271 328 Non-operating income 4 22 Underlying pro t before tax 275 350 Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements www.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 63 Treasury Debt Securities We have also made a negative fair value adjustment of Treasury holds a portfolio of high quality debt securities which 509m post-tax to the Groups Available For Sale reserves are analysed below.
There are no credit impairments on the in respect of our holding of debt securities in the banking portfolio, but in line with the fall in values generally the full year book.
This adjustment has no impact on reported pro ts pro t outcome is impacted by a 227m negative fair value or regulatory capital strength.
It is also expected to reverse adjustment relating primarily to our holdings of Asset Backed out over time, and again, with no impairments incurred.
Securities and Floating Rate Notes in our trading books.
Treasurys total debt securities portfolio as at 31 December The adjustment is expected to reverse out over time, as no 2007 is summarised in the following table: impairments have been incurred in respect of these investments.
63 Banking Banking Book Book Trading Grampian Other Book Total Asset class bn bn bn bn Asset Backed Securities Direct 9.6 13.7 23.3 Grampian conduit 18.6 18.6 18.6 9.6 13.7 41.9 Covered Bonds 3.2 3.2 Bank Financial Institution Floating Rate Notes FRNs 9.8 6.0 15.8 Bank Certi cates of Deposit Less than 12 months maturity 3.3 13.6 16.9 Landale conduit 0.6 0.6 1 Other 1.8 1.0 2.8 Total 18.6 28.3 34.3 81.2 1 Principally Governments and Supra-nationals.
Treasury Sales Continuing strong growth in our UK Corporate Sales business with revenues up 53% re ecting the strength of our Corporate franchise.
64 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Treasury & Asset Management continued Exposure to Asset Backed Securities Asset Backed Securities ABS include our Grampian conduit which is, and always has been, consolidated into our balance sheet.
ABS are further analysed by asset class and credit rating as shown below.
2 RMBS means Residential Mortgage Backed Securities: CMBS means Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities: CBO means Collateralised Bond Obligations: CLO means Collateralised Loan Obligations: FFELP means Federal Family Education Loan Programme.
3 Negative basis means bonds held with separate matching credit default swap CDS protection.
The weighted average external credit rating is based on the bond, ignoring the bene t of the CDS.
Certain asset classes are of particular interest to the financial community at this time, and further detail on these is shown below.
Exposure to US RMBS The table below details our direct exposure to US RMBS by asset class with credit rating information.
Weighted Banking Banking Average Book Book Trading External Grampian Other Book Total Credit Asset Class m m m m Rating 1 Prime 1,280 247 777 2,304 1.00 Alt-A 3,675 1,041 2,381 7,097 1.00 Sub-prime 76 9 20 105 1.00 Total 5,031 1,297 3,178 9,506 1.00 1 Includes 644m of second lien loans to prime borrowers, all of which are monoline wrapped.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 65 Alt-A borrowers are of reasonable credit quality for example, the weighted average FICO score of our portfolio is 708 but the securities are not classed as prime because they fail one of the prime tests eg level of full documentation, LTV ratio, owner occupancy rate or single family residency rate.
We consider our portfolio to be of extremely high quality, noting that the weighted average LTV is 77% and the current weighted average credit enhancement level is 30%: and it is also entirely triple A rated by external credit rating agencies.
We have little direct exposure to the sub-prime US residential real estate sector, as shown above.
Even after taking into account ABS CDOs with exposure to that market the Groups total exposure to US sub-prime investments is less than 0.1% of the Group balance sheet, at 434m, as shown in the table below.
In our trading book, the 20m of US sub-prime are all pre-2006 RMBS and fair value adjustments of less than 0.5m were made to reported full year pro t. In our banking book, the 414m 65 of investments that contain US sub-prime exposure required a negative post-tax fair value adjustment to equity of 29m.
There have been no credit impairments to any of the above US sub-prime exposures in either the trading or banking books.
The table below sets out our US sub-prime exposures with credit rating information.
Weighted Banking Banking Average Book Book Trading External Grampian Other Book Total Credit Asset Class m m m m Rating 1 ABS CDO with Sub-prime Collateral 300 29 329 1.19 2 Sub-prime RMBS 76 9 20 105 1.00 Total US Sub-prime 376 38 20 434 1.14 1 Includes 106m of bonds that are monoline wrapped.
Exposure to Collateralised Debt Obligations HBOS CDO exposure is quanti ed in the table below, with credit rating information.
This is a highly rated portfolio, the majority of which is based on corporate credits.
ABS CDOs include bonds based on residential mortgage backed bonds, as noted above.
Weighted Banking Banking Average Book Book Trading External Grampian Other Book Total Credit Asset Class m m m m Rating 1 ABS CDO 332 29 361 1.23 High Yield Corporate CBO 112 112 1.22 Investment Grade Corporate CBO 2,135 2,135 1.00 Commercial Real Estate CBO 715 63 778 1.00 CLO 2,705 51 442 3,198 1.02 Total 5,999 143 442 6,584 1.03 1 ABS CDO includes 329m of US Sub-prime related as shown in the previous table.
Award-winning Insight Insight Investment won LDI Manager of the Year & UK Fixed Income Manager of the Year at the Financial Times Business Pension and Investment provider awards.
66 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Treasury & Asset Management continued Exposures to Monolines During the year, a 78m pre-tax negative fair value adjustment HBOS has a conservative investment approach to all its was recognised in the income statement on ABS that were investments wrapped or protected by monoline insurance valued using models with non-market observable inputs 2006 companies.
At the time of investment all underlying securities nil.
In addition to this a post-tax negative fair value adjustment that are insured by a monoline insurance company are reviewed of 158m 2006 nil on ABS classi ed as available for sale was and must achieve an investment grade rating on a stand recognised in equity reserves.
alone basis, before any protection is taken into account.
For ABS asset valuations using non-market observable Our exposure to monolines arises from two sources: bonds inputs, the effect of a one basis point move in credit spreads that are wrapped, with a nominal exposure of 2.3bn 1.9bn would result in a pre-tax movement of 1.9m for ABS assets in Grampian, and negative basis trades, with a nominal classi ed as held for trading and a post-tax movement of exposure of 2.8bn, where we purchase a bond and then 3.5m recognised in equity reserves on assets classi ed buy CDS protection from a monoline separately.
In respect of as available for sale.
the former, we calculate an exposure to the monoline based The use of non-market observable inputs in the valuation on our internal rating of the underlying exposure and the models will diminish as and when activity returns to these uplift in rating provided by the monoline wrap.
underlying bonds are triple-A rated externally, and the exposure calculation to the monoline is a combination of mark to market Operational Performance exposure based on the bond price and a Potential Future Treasury Exposure calculation.
Using the HBOS methodology described Funding and Liquidity above we have 551m of credit exposure to monolines.
During 2007, Treasury continued to support the Groups capital and funding plans.
In respect of capital, Treasury arranged a At 31 December 2007 all of our monoline exposures were US$750m Tier 1 perpetual preference share issue and five lower triple A rated by both Moodys and Standard & Poors Tier 2 subordinated debt issues.
As of 26 February 2008, 85% of our exposures were to a monoline rated triple A by both Moodys and In respect of funding, 15.7bn was raised from existing S&P with the balance to monolines rated A3 A or A3 A-.
programmes in the securitisation and covered bonds market during the year.
This comprised 6.6bn from covered bonds Fair Values of Debt Securities and 9.1bn from securitisations.
Treasury also completed an The fair value of debt securities in active markets is based on unfunded synthetic securitisation in the first half of 2007. market prices or broker dealer valuations.
Where quoted prices on instruments are not readily and regularly available from a Conduits recognised broker, dealer or pricing service or available prices HBOS sponsors two conduits, Grampian and Landale, which do not represent regular transactions in the market, the fair are special purpose vehicles that invest in highly rated assets value is estimated using quoted market prices for securities and fund via the Asset Backed Commercial Paper ABCP with similar credit, maturity and yield characteristics or similar market.
At 31 December 2007, investments held by Grampian valuation models.
Grampian is, and always has been, fully consolidated into our balance sheet.
0.6bn of assets held by ABS not traded in an active market are valued using valuation Landale are also consolidated.
Grampian is a long established, models that include non-market observable inputs.
These high grade credit investment vehicle that invests in diversi ed models use observed issuance prices, benchmarking Asset Backed Securities of which over 99.9% are rated AAA by methodology and modelled market correlations.
For each asset S&P and Aaa by Moodys.
Grampian has a liquidity line in place class within the ABS portfolio, the implied spread arrived at with HBOS which covers all of the assets and programme wide by using this methodology is applied to the securities within credit enhancement is also provided by HBOS.
Landale holds that asset class.
Additional assessments are then made on both assets originated from our own balance sheet and third possible deterioration in credit risk for each individual security.
Landale has liquidity lines from HBOS and At 31 December 2007, the value of ABS measured using from third party banks, and therefore the former, but not the models with non-market observable inputs comprised 5.4bn latter, are consolidated into our balance sheet.
2006 nil within financial assets held for trading and 12.4bn 2006 nil within assets classi ed as available for sale.
com HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 67 In the latter half of 2007, due to the disruption in the ABCP Insight achieved recognition as one of the market leaders in market, there have been occasions when Grampian and the Institutional pension market by winning several prestigious Landale in respect of assets backed by HBOS liquidity lines industry awards.
These included: have declined to issue ABCP given the unattractiveness of the LDI Manager of the Year & UK Fixed Income Manager of spreads and maturities available.
At these times we therefore the Year, Financial Times Business Pension and Investment funded the conduits, on a temporary basis, through the provider awards: available liquidity lines rather than through the ABCP market.
At 31 December 2007, HBOS had provided funding to the LDI Manager of the Year, Global Pension Awards: and Grampian and Landale conduits of 8.1bn.
67 Eurozone Fixed Income Manager of the Year Govt bonds Sales and Trading & Eurozone Fixed Income Manager of the Year Govt bonds Net sales and trading income increased by 45% to 357m & non Govt bonds, Professional Pensions Specialist and 2006 247m re ecting a strong performance from our sales Alternative Investment Manager Awards.
Insight was recognised for the contribution it has made in During the year, the UK Sales business area produced developing corporate governance and investor responsibility, consistent revenue growth, especially Corporate Sales, where by winning the Socially Responsible Investment Programme net revenues have increased by 53% to 121m 2006 79m, of the Year award from Funds Europe magazine.
re ecting the strength of our Corporate franchise.
Also, the results of our Payment and International Services business Invista are included within the sales revenues from 1 January 2007, Despite the slowdown in the UK commercial property market accounting for 31m of the reported increase in Sales revenues.
in 2007, Invista, our 55% owned fund management business, was still able to grow its business by successfully completing The Trading business includes strong performances by our three signi cant balance sheet investments.
In the first half Interest Rate trading desks.
of the year, Invista acquired two portfolios with long standing JV partners.
The first was a 348m French portfolio and the Asset Management second a 127.5m UK residential portfolio.
Furthermore, Invista Insight successfully launched a pan-European Opportunity Fund, to In 2007, Insight saw net in ows of 9.8bn 2006 13.4bn, a which it committed to invest 25m, alongside other investors strong performance despite the delay in the funding of new in the fund.
business in the second half of 2007 caused by the global financial markets dislocation.
This has resulted in a very Invista continues to focus on growing its recurring management strong year end pipeline of won, but unfunded, business, fee income and has done in 2007 with the new funds launched, which Insight expects to fund in the first half of 2008. at higher margins than the average fee rate across its existing range of products.
Investment performance of the underlying Insights expansion into Europe has begun to translate funds is one of the important priorities for Invista and continues to sales with several new mandates funding in the year.
80% of assets under management have outOverall, assets under management increased by 11% to performed their benchmark, over a one year period to 109.1bn 2006 98.6bn after the transfer out of 4.2bn, 31 December 2007. as part of the agreed sale of Equitable Life funds.
The restructure in 2006 of Insights UK Equity platform has led to much better performance in 2007, with active UK Equity funds ahead of benchmark.
Global Equity continues to outperform over all periods whilst European Equities performed below benchmark during the year.
Following several years of consistent out performance, UK Fixed Income underperformed during the year but our cash funds remain ahead over all periods.
Despite turbulent markets, our agship Diversi ed Target Return fund outperformed its cash benchmark in 2007.
Absolute Insight was slightly behind benchmark for the year, however it sits well amongst its peers given the capital losses and subsequent mass out ows experienced by many of its competitors during 2007.
68 HBOSplc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Treasury & Asset Management continued Risks and Uncertainties Prospects The key risks and uncertainties managed by Treasury include Treasury the risk that the Group does not have suf cient liquidity to meet The primary focus of our Treasury operations is to manage its obligations as they fall due, has insuf cient funding and or the Groups funding and liquidity.
The dislocation in financial capital to finance business growth, and has insuf cient capital markets which commenced in the second half of 2007 is resources to meet the regulatory minimum or to support its expected to continue to be a feature of financial markets, credit ratings.
The management of the funding and liquidity is particularly the term markets, in 2008.
In recent years, prior delegated to Treasury and our approach to mitigate this risk is to the dislocation in financial markets, we have lengthened explained on pages 95 to 98. the maturity pro le of our wholesale funding and diversi ed the types and sources of such funding.
This has enabled us Other risks and uncertainties faced by Treasury include less to operate effectively in dif cult financial markets and will give liquid and or more volatile financial markets leading to losses us the exibility to source funds in 2008, at appropriate prices, from trading activities or permanent impairments to our consistent with our business requirements.
As term markets investment securities.
Less liquid financial markets could also recover, we will continue to ensure that the pro le of the funding affect the reliability of model valuations of certain asset backed portfolio is appropriate for our longer term business plans.
We review our valuation models regularly and adjust the assumptions to take account of evolving market conditions.
Treasury pro ts were affected by negative fair value These factors could lead to increased funding costs and adjustments to debt securities in 2007.
We expect these increased volatility of earnings and equity.
adjustments to both the income statement and balance sheet to reverse out over time as markets recover and or In our Asset Management businesses, the key risks and the debt securities reach maturity.
uncertainties include the performance of investment markets, investment performance deteriorating below benchmark and We will continue to be selective in issuing commercial paper the retention of key colleagues.
at appropriate spreads from our ABCP conduits Grampian and Landale or fund the conduits via the repo markets or The volatility in the financial markets in which our Asset our own liquidity lines as appropriate.
Management businesses operate, along with the general sales environment, could impact on growth prospects and Treasury also provides services to the Group and to the pro tability.
To mitigate against a sector speci c downturn Groups customers.
We continue to invest in our capabilities to materially affecting the business, we are actively diversifying deliver a top quality service and performance.
Access to Group our product range and expanding our market reach further in customers, product innovation and our strong standing in the Europe.
In Insight, the focus on Liability Driven Investing LDI market underpins our con dence in our business model.
Our and Absolute Return strategies, helps further mitigate against cautious approach to products and services remains unaltered.
Asset Management The loss of key colleagues could result in a deterioration in Within Asset Management, Insights award winning LDI investment performance or lower volumes of new business.
and Fixed Income teams are ideally placed to win more To mitigate this risk, we base our investment strategy on new business in 2008 as pension schemes continue to principles and processes rather than hiring star fund managers.
look for solutions to fide-risk their portfolios.
We now have Furthermore, we have retention strategies in place for key the absolute return and equities skills to provide sources employees through our Long Term Incentive Plan.
of relative out performance for pension schemes and will seek opportunities to deepen our relationships with existing clients, with these solutions.
Insight will also seek to further diversify revenue streams by exploiting strong investment performance in other asset classes and expanding further into new European markets.
Our retail strategy has been signi cantly refreshed in 2007 and we are con dent that in 2008 we will have signi cant ows from retail investors, either directly or via third party distributors.
Invista remains focused on deploying the balance sheet capital raised at IPO in September 2006 and will continue to investigate new real estate markets which it believes present the potential for superior investment returns.
Growing the UK franchise Targeted international growth Cost leadership Capital discipline Colleague development
