EUROPE Another strong year with Global Drive Brand growth of 15 per cent.
These brands plus Vogue and Viceroy are now 47 per cent of regional volumes.
Profits grew strongly, driven by productivity savings and an improved mix assisted by a better pricing environment.
Ben Stevens Director, Europe In Europe, profit at 842 million Although cigarette market share was up 61 million or 8 per cent, at rose in Germany, driven by Pall Mall, both current and comparable rates of volumes declined as industry sales exchange, mainly as a result of higher were affected by the continued margins in Russia, Romania, Hungary growth of illicit trade, the end of StiX and Spain, which more than offset sales, changes in vending regulations the impact of reduced volumes in and consumer down-trading to other a number of markets.
This, together with were down 1 per cent at 245 billion, the lower margins of other tobacco with reductions in Russia, Ukraine, products, led to lower profit.
Germany, Italy and Spain partly Sales volumes in France were lower, offset by increases in Romania.
mainly as a result of the overall In Italy, volumes and market share industry decline after public place were lower although Lucky Strike, smoking restrictions and a price Dunhill and Pall Mall grew share.
Lucky Strike and Pall Mall While margins improved following showed strong growth in market industry price increases, profit was share, with Dunhill and Vogue lower due to the reduced volumes, performing well in the Premium higher marketing expenses and the segment.
Profit was up as margins disposal of the Toscano cigar business improved through the price increase in 2006. and cost reductions.
In addition, the Group incurred a The excise increase in Switzerland at penalty of 20 million in the cartel the beginning of the year stimulated case related to cigarette prices in down-trading and growth in the Italy, where the infringement had trade brand sector, resulting in been committed prior to the Groups weaker volumes and lower profits.
acquisition of Ente Tabacchi Italiani.
However, Parisienne and Pall Mall grew market share.
The productivity programme was completed through the consolidation of production into one factory and a further reduction in the cost base.
34 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW REGIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Volumes and profit in the Netherlands In Romania, the excellent increased, benefiting from the growth performance of Kent, the leading of Lucky Strike, Kent and Pall Mall and brand in this market, supported by the May 2007 price increase, partially the growth of Dunhill, Vogue and offset by consumer down-trading.
In Pall Mall, resulted in a higher market Belgium, a significant excise-driven share.
Profit increased impressively price increase led to lower volumes with volume growth, higher prices and market down-trading.
Profit was and an improved product mix.
lower as the impact of these more Results in Ukraine improved as better than offset higher margins and pricing, effective cost control and overhead savings.
an improved mix, following a good Results in Spain improved, benefiting performance by Kent, was partly The European Productivity from price increases at the beginning offset by the impact of reduced local Programme of 2007 and, although volumes were brand volumes.
In Hungary, profit The programme governs a range of lower, Lucky Strike showed impressive grew substantially, benefiting from projects to reduce product complexity, market share growth.
improved margins and efficiency drive continuous improvement and programmes.
Overall volumes were Sales volumes in Russia were influenced deliver synergies above and within stable with Viceroy and Pall Mall by trade buying at the end of 2006 in markets.
growing strongly and Vogue anticipation of the new excise system strengthening its position in the The programme has delivered and price increases in December.
significant savings, contributing Premium segment.
Results in Poland However, most of the shortfall was over 40 per cent of the Groups improved significantly as prices recovered with strong performances total productivity gains, ahead increased and volume and market by Kent, Vogue and Viceroy, leading of schedule, through: share grew with good performances to an increased market share.
Profit from Viceroy, Pall Mall and Vogue.
the elimination of overcapacity grew significantly, benefiting from with 11 factories closed or sold higher margins, an improved product whilst maintaining the Groups mix and productivity savings.
corporate reputation: reduced packaging material costs: 80 per cent fewer cigarette specifications: 30 per cent fewer tobacco blends: and 800 fewer stock-keeping units.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 35 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
