VISION AND STRATEGY Our vision is to achieve leadership of the global tobacco industry in order to create shareholder value.
Quantitatively, we seek volume leadership among our international competitors.
Qualitatively, we aim to lead our industry as the preferred partner of key stakeholders and in demonstrating responsibility.
Our strategy to deliver our vision is based on Growth, Productivity, Responsibility and building a Winning Organisation.
We use a range of indicators to assess our performance against our strategy.
They include our Key Performance Indicators, described on pages 12 and 13, together with some of our other Business Measures, described on pages 16 to 27.
04 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 QUICK READ QUICK READ go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Growth We focus on increasing our volume and value share of the global tobacco market through organic growth and mergers and acquisitions.
In this section Our approach to marketing Our marketing strategy Delivering innovations Global Drive Brands Other International Brands go to page 16 Trade Marketing and Distribution Productivity We focus on effectively and efficiently deploying our global resources to increase profits and generate funds to reinvest in our business.
In this section Supply chain Overheads and indirects go to page 20 Responsibility We focus on continuing to balance our commercial objectives with the expectations of a broad range of stakeholders, thus ensuring a sustainable business.
In this section Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes Environmental performance Harm reduction go to page 22 Winning Organisation We focus on ensuring we have the right people and the right work environment to deliver our vision.
In this section Talent management Employee share ownership Employee engagement Your Voice Work environment go to page 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 05 QUICK READ OUR GLOBAL DRIVE BRANDS Our four Global Drive Brands Dunhill, Kent, Lucky Strike and Pall Mall are well represented across the key market segments.
Since 2002, they have together grown volumes by 62 per cent.
They represent 24 per cent of our volume, and give us a truly global approach.
Innovation is central to our approach to building brands that evolve and offer consumers relevant products to meet their changing needs.
06 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 QUICK READ QUICK READ go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Dunhill celebrated its Kent was introduced Lucky Strike was launched Pall Mall is our leading centenary in 2007.
It is in 1871 and remains one global Value-for-Money a strong Premium Brand now sold in more than of the worlds most iconic Brand, positioned to exceed which sells in more than 70 countries.
It is among consumer expectations.
It offers a modern freestanding our leading Premium Introduced in 1899, it diverse range of Premium Premium Brand, Brands and sold in now sells in more than and Super Premium cigars consistently perceived as more than 90 countries.
35 billion delivering the modern It continues to bring range of cigarette and Dunhill cigarettes were way to smoke.
54 billion creativity to consumers make-your-own products.
sold in 2007, up 6 per cent cigarettes were sold in through product and It delivered outstanding on 2006.
Key markets 2007, the brands fifth year packaging initiatives.
Its growth in 2007, with include South Korea, of double-digit volume volumes rose 1 per cent volumes up 10 per cent Malaysia, Taiwan, South growth.
Kent grew to 23 billion cigarettes.
on 2006 to 51 billion Africa and Australia.
Key markets include Germany, Italy, Key markets include Russia, Germany, Spain, Japan, Russia and Uzbekistan.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 07 QUICK READ
