HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Highlights continued Cautionary statements Footnotes to Financial Highlights 1 The definition of return on average invested capital and a reconciliation to the equivalent GAAP measures are set out on page 12.
2 The return on average total shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by average total shareholders equity.
3 The cost efficiency ratio is defined as total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
4 Each American Depositary Share ADS represents five ordinary shares.
5 Total shareholder return is defined on page 12.
6 The Financial Times Stock Exchange 100 Index.
7 The Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index.
8 Data for 2004 exclude the provisions of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, which were adopted for the first time with effect from 1 January 2005.
9 Data for 2003 were prepared in accordance with previous HSBC accounting policies under UK GAAP.
HSBCs accounting policies under UK GAAP are stated in Note 2 on the Financial Statements in the Annual Report and Accounts 2004.
10 Capital resources are total regulatory capital, the calculation of which is set out on pages 17-286.
11 Includes perpetual preferred securities, details of which can found in Note 32 on the Financial Statements.
12 Net of suspended interest and provisions for bad and doubtful debts UK GAAP.
13 Net of impairment allowances IFRSs.
14 Dividends recorded in the financial statements are dividends per ordinary share declared in a year and are not dividends in respect of, or for, that year.
First, second and third interim dividends for 2007, each of US$0.17 per ordinary share, were paid on 6 July 2007, 4 October 2007 and 18 January 2008 respectively.
Note 12 on the Financial Statements provides more information on the dividends declared in 2007.
On 3 March 2008 the Directors declared a fourth interim dividend for 2007 of US$0.39 per ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will be payable to ordinary shareholders on 7 May 2008 in cash in US dollars, or in pound sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to be determined on 28 April 2008, with a scrip dividend alternative.
The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2007 were US$15,551 million.
Quarterly dividends of US$15.50 per 6.20 per cent non-cumulative US dollar preference share, Series A Series A dollar preference share, equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A ADS, each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar preference share, were paid on 15 March 2007, 15 June 2007, 15 September 2007 and 15 December 2007.
15 Dividends per share expressed as a percentage of earnings per share 2003: excluding goodwill amortisation.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements The Annual Report and Accounts 2007 contains statements made by HSBCs Directors, officers certain forward-looking statements with respect to or employees to third parties, including financial the financial condition, results of operations and analysts.
Forward-looking statements involve inherent Statements that are not historical facts, including risks and uncertainties.
Readers are cautioned that a statements about HSBCs beliefs and expectations, number of factors could cause actual results to differ, are forward-looking statements.
Words such as in some instances materially, from those anticipated expects, anticipates, intends, plans, believes, or implied in any forward-looking statement.
These seeks, estimates, potential and reasonably factors include, among others: possible, variations of these words and similar changes in general economic conditions in the expressions are intended to identify forward-looking markets in which HSBC operates, such as: statements.
These statements are based on current plans, estimates and projections, and therefore undue continuing or deepening recessions and reliance should not be placed on them.
Forwardemployment fluctuations: looking statements speak only as of the date they are changes in foreign exchange rates, in both made, and it should not be assumed that they have market exchange rates for example, been revised or updated in the light of new between the US dollar and pound sterling information or future events.
and  exchange rates Written and or oral forward-looking statements for example, between the Hong Kong may also be made in the periodic reports to the dollar and US dollar : United States Securities and Exchange Commission, volatility in interest rates: summary financial statements to shareholders, proxy statements, offering circulars and prospectuses, press volatility in equity markets, including in the releases and other written materials, and in oral smaller and less liquid trading markets in Asia and Latin America: 4 lack of liquidity in wholesale funding initiatives by local, state and national markets: regulatory agencies or legislative bodies to revise the practices, pricing or illiquidity and downward price pressure in responsibilities of financial institutions national real estate markets, particularly serving their consumer markets: consumer-owned real estate markets: changes in bankruptcy legislation in the the emergence of structural inflationary principal markets in which HSBC operates pressures from rising energy, raw material, and the consequences thereof: food and labour costs particularly in emerging economies experiencing strong general changes in governmental policy that domestic growth and capacity constraints: may significantly influence investor decisions, in particular markets in which the impact of lower than expected HSBC operates: investment returns on the funding of private and public sector defined benefit pensions: other unfavourable political or diplomatic developments producing social instability or the effect of unexpected changes in legal uncertainty which in turn may affect actuarial assumptions on longevity which demand for HSBCs products and services: would influence the funding of private and public sector defined benefit pensions: and the costs, effects and outcomes of regulatory reviews, actions or litigation, consumer perception as to the continuing including any additional compliance availability of credit, and price competition requirements: and in the market segments served by HSBC.
the effects of competition in the markets changes in governmental policy and regulation, where HSBC operates including increased including: competition from non-bank financial the monetary, interest rate and other services companies, including securities policies of central banks and other firms.
regulatory authorities, including the UK factors specific to HSBC: Financial Services Authority, the Bank of England, the Hong Kong Monetary the success of HSBC in adequately Authority, the US Federal Reserve, the US identifying the risks it faces, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission, the incidence of loan losses or delinquency, and US Office of the Comptroller of the managing those risks through account Currency, the European Central Bank, the management, hedging and other Peoples Bank of China and the central techniques.
Effective risk management banks of other leading economies and depends on, among other things, HSBCs markets where HSBC operates: ability through stress testing and other techniques to prepare for events that cannot expropriation, nationalisation, confiscation be captured by the statistical models it uses.
of assets and changes in legislation relating to foreign ownership: 5
