PRODUCTIVITY We have made some notable achievements in Productivity, exceeding our five year targets set in 2002, and have now set further targets for the next five years.
In this section, we look at some examples of how we have achieved efficiencies and savings in our supply chain, overheads and indirects.
The savings have been a significant driver of operating profit growth, with some dropping through to the bottom line and the balance being reinvested in the business.
20 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW go online at www.
com annualreport2007 We will continue our cost-saving Where jobs are affected by factory momentum into the next five years.
closures, we act responsibly by We aim to achieve further savings in supporting our employees and supply chain, overheads and indirects addressing any impact on the of 800 million by 2012. community.
Supply chain The business continues to benefit Our focus on primary supply chain from optimising above-market ways efficiencies has delivered benefits of of working.
The transfer to Mexico of 177 million in 2007, bringing total production for the Canadian market savings of the five year programme continues to deliver cost efficiencies.
Our Global Leaf Pooling organisation started trading in December.
It will Product Complexity Reduction reduce the need to hold multiple This programme, centred on leaf stocks to cover local or regional 1 billion ensuring the efficient use of contingencies, and is expected to resources, has successfully Productivity savings over five years deliver significant savings.
eliminated, streamlined and Overheads and indirects optimised various specifications In the past five years, we have moved The current programme of cost and practices in the business.
or removed over 400 billion sticks of reduction in overheads and indirects Some key achievements include: capacity as we optimised our factory ended its fifth year in 2007 and footprint and delivered efficiencies.
452 specifications for different delivered savings of 100 million.
We closed five factories in 2007, and cigarettes manufactured around Since it began in 2003, annualised several others are pending, including the world were streamlined savings have reached 455 million, Zevenaar in the Netherlands and to 159, increasing sourcing above the 400 million target set opportunities and allowing Paarl in South Africa.
for 2007. hub planning at reduced cost.
Our Bullseye initiative, which We see more opportunities for savings Naked wrap, a type of cellophane focuses on sharing best practice through back office integration and material, is now the standard in manufacturing, continued to more efficient management structures.
It has replaced deliver excellent improvements in cardboard cartons, delivering productivity, alongside innovative We will continue to focus on environmental and cost benefits.
and more flexible packaging and leveraging our global purchasing The number of stock-keeping units filter machines.
Our drive to reduce power to drive down the costs of has been reduced by 35 per cent irrelevant complexity has similarly indirects purchases, just as we do and the number of input materials made strong progress.
by 40 per cent, leaving a more focused, consumer-relevant portfolio.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 21 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
