REGIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW LATIN AMERICA Another year of truly exceptional results with double-digit profit growth despite some volume contraction due to excise and pricing dynamics.
Product mix improved with a strong growth in Global Drive Brands.
Mark Cobben Director, Latin America Profit in Latin America increased In Chile, volumes were higher than by 69 million to 680 million due last year and, despite an unfavourable to good performances in key markets exchange rate, profit grew due to such as Brazil and Venezuela, partly higher margins and strong up-trading offset by lower profit in Mexico and to Kent and Lucky Strike.
Volumes the adverse impact of some weaker in Peru were stable although profit local currencies.
At comparable declined due to competitive pricing.
rates of exchange, profit would In Venezuela, profit increased strongly, have increased by 86 million or despite the impact of exchange, due 14 per cent.
Volumes were 1 per cent to price rises and higher volumes, down at 151 billion as the increases in partially offset by increased costs.
Brazil, Venezuela and Chile were more Market share grew through good Development of strategic brand than offset by declines in Mexico, performances by Consul and Belmont.
portfolio in Chiletabacos Argentina and Central America.
The Central America and Caribbean Chiletabacos has an excellent track In Brazil, profit grew strongly, area benefited from higher margins record of delivering strong financial benefiting from higher volumes, and more efficient product sourcing, results.
Yet more recently it has also price rises in anticipation of the excise but this was more than offset by demonstrated sterling progress in increase in July, some improvement the impact of exchange and lower the development of a strategic brand in product mix and a stronger local portfolio where Global Drive Brands industry volumes, as a result of currency.
Market share was higher as now deliver nearly 15 per cent of its excise-driven price increases.
volumes increased due to strong brand sales volume, with total sales of Kent, and trade marketing efforts and the Pall Mall and Lucky Strike surpassing effective anti-illicit trade enforcement the 2 billion mark in 2007. actions by the government.
Led by Kent, which alone has a market share of 8 per cent, the Industry volume in Mexico suffered company has enriched its sales following a large excise-driven price mix, with Premium-priced products increase at the beginning of 2007 and now representing over 15 per cent this, together with a lower market of its sales volume.
Notwithstanding share and a weaker currency, resulted tightening regulation and competition, in lower profit.
In Argentina, profit Chiletabacos has, as a result, been grew as prices increased after the very successful in benefiting from severe price competition of the prior up-trading to these brands, all of year, as well as a better product mix which contributes to its sustainable and cost saving initiatives.
Volumes future and continued success.
and market share, however, were both down.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 37 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
