AFRICA AND MIDDLE EAST In line with our vision to strengthen our position as the leading tobacco company in the region, Africa and Middle East had a good year in 2007 with strong underlying results.
Andrew Gray Director, Africa and Middle East Profit in the Africa and Middle East In Sub-Saharan Africa, supply difficulties region was 2 million higher at in West Africa at the beginning of 470 million due to exchange rate the year impacted volume and profit, movements.
However, at comparable while a number of markets in East rates of exchange, profit would have Africa delivered productivity savings increased by 53 million or 11 per and grew volumes reflecting lower cent with strong performances from levels of illicit trade.
Volumes In the Middle East, the brand were 4 per cent lower at 101 billion, portfolio mix improved across the resulting from supply chain disruption area through the growth of premium in the Middle East and a change in brands, although profit was adversely distribution model in Turkey.
affected by lower volumes as a result Supporting the global strategy In South Africa, despite the weaker of supply chain disruptions and Global Drive Brands grew strongly average exchange rate, good profit weaker currencies.
Dunhill continued across the region.
Major milestones growth was achieved as a result of its growth in Saudi Arabia and the achieved include Dunhill selling reductions in illicit trade, an improved Arabian Gulf and grew market share.
in excess of 1 billion cigarettes in product mix and higher margins.
North Africa showed improved South Africa, Pall Mall having been The margin improvements were volume and profit performance, launched in 15 markets and Kent the result of pricing and productivity with market share in Egypt growing remaining the leading brand in improvements across the business.
as a result of strong performances the Caucasus.
Dunhill recorded its highest ever by Kent and Rothmans.
The productivity programme market share and Peter Stuyvesant Volumes, market share and profit continued to drive unnecessary cost continued its growth.
in the Caucasus were all well ahead and complexity out of the business.
It included rationalising the factory Strong profit growth in Nigeria of last year.
The higher volumes footprint, changing management was the result of higher margins, reflected significant increases in structures and obtaining economies the benefits of productivity initiatives Dunhill and Vogue, while Kent of scale through consolidation of and an improved product mix.
In spend and implementation of shared Share performance was particularly Turkey, volumes and market share services.
Effective stakeholder strong for Benson & Hedges and was were higher but operating losses engagement continued, with supported by Dunhill and Pall Mall.
increased due to the one-off costs increased dialogue on industry Volumes were marginally lower as a associated with the change in the issues including anti-illicit trade result of trade fide-stocking following distribution model in January and and smokeless tobacco.
higher brand support with the launch of new brands.
38 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
