DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction ended 31 December 2007.
If approved, this dividend will The Directors present their report and the audited financial be paid on 7 May 2008 to shareholders on the register statements for the Group and the Company for the year at the close of business on 7 March 2008.
Full details of ended 31 December 2007.
A report from the Directors on dividends in respect of 2007 are given on page 108 in corporate governance is set out on pages 76 to 83 and note 8. the Remuneration Committee report is on pages 58 to 75.
Annual General Meeting Business review The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Mermaid Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 requires Conference & Events Centre, Puddle Dock, Blackfriars, British American Tobacco p. l. c. the Company to produce London EC4V 3DB at 11.30am on 30 April 2008.
The information that has been prepared of the business to be proposed at the meeting are to a standard which fulfils the requirements of that business contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting review can be found in the Operating and Financial Review which is sent to all shareholders and is also published OFR on pages 8 to 45, those pages being incorporated on bat.
by reference into this Directors Report.
The preparation Directors of the OFR has also taken into account, where considered The following persons are the current Directors of the appropriate, the best practice set out in the UK Accounting Company: Standards Boards Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review.
The OFR reports on the Groups Chairman Jan du Plessis development and performance during the past year together with its strategy and prospects, with particular Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent reference to the business measures on pages 12 and 13.
Non-Executive Director The OFR also includes information in respect of financial Kenneth Clarke and other risks under the heading of Key Group Risk Executive Directors Factors pages 28 to 31 and employee involvement Paul Adams Chief Executive and employment practices pages 26 and 27.
Paul Rayner Finance Director The Annual Report and Accounts is published on bat.
Nicandro Durante Chief Operating Officer It is issued only to those shareholders who have elected Non-Executive Directors to receive it.
Otherwise, shareholders are notified that Karen fide Segundo the Annual Report and Accounts is available on the Robert Lerwill website and will, at the time of that notification, receive Ana Maria Llopis a Performance Summary which sets out an overview of Christine Morin-Postel the Groups performance, headline facts and figures and Anthony Ruys key dates in the Companys financial calendar together Sir Nicholas Scheele with a Proxy Form and Notice of Annual General Meeting Thys Visser and Circular to Shareholders.
Rupert Pennant-Rea and Piet Beyers retired as NonPrincipal activities Executive Directors on 26 April 2007 and 30 June 2007 British American Tobacco p. l. c. is a holding company respectively, Christine Morin-Postel and Karen fide which owns, directly or indirectly, investments in the Segundo were appointed as Non-Executive Directors numerous companies constituting the British American on 1 October 2007, and Antonio Monteiro fide Castro Tobacco Group of companies.
The principal subsidiaries retired as Chief Operating Officer on 31 December 2007. and associates are listed on pages 166 to 168.
All Nicandro Durante was appointed to the Board as Chief subsidiary undertakings are involved in activities related to Operating Officer on 1 January 2008. the manufacture, distribution or sale of tobacco products.
Paul Rayner will retire as Finance Director at the Group results and dividends conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 30 April The Group results are addressed fully in the financial 2008.
Ben Stevens has been appointed to the Board with statements pages 86 to 165 and in the OFR pages effect from 3 March 2008 and will succeed Paul Rayner 8 to 45.
The Board has recommended to shareholders as Finance Director on 30 April 2008. a final dividend of 47.60p per ordinary share for the year 48 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 In accordance with the Articles of Association, the and 169 set out their responsibilities in relation to those Directors named below retire from the Board at the financial statements.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial eligible, offer themselves for reappointment: statements for each financial year which give a true and Jan du Plessis fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Ana Maria Llopis Group as at the end of the financial year and of the profit Anthony Ruys or loss of the Group for the financial year.
In preparing Karen fide Segundo those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Nicandro Durante 1 select appropriate accounting policies and apply Christine Morin-Postel them consistently: Ben Stevens 2 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable Biographical and related information about the Directors and prudent: is given on pages 46 and 47 and will also be given in the Secretarys letter in the Notice of Annual General Meeting 3 state whether applicable accounting standards have for those Directors who are offering themselves for been followed, subject to any material departures being reappointment.
disclosed and explained: and Directors interests and indemnities 4 prepare the financial statements on the going concern The interests of the Directors of the Company in the basis, unless they consider that to be inappropriate.
issued share capital of the Company including interests The applicable accounting standards referred to in in share options and deferred shares are shown in the 3 above are: a United Kingdom Generally Accepted Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 75.
Accounting Principles UK GAAP for the Company: and b International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS No Director had any material interest in a contract of as adopted by the European Union for the Group.
significance other than a service contract with the Company or any subsidiary company during the year.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company Details of the Executive Directors service contracts keeps proper accounting records to disclose with reasonable and the letters of appointment for the Non-Executive accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and Directors, their emoluments and share interests the Company and to enable them to ensure that the Group including interests in share-based payments are financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 given in the Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 75. and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the Company The Companys practice has always been to indemnify financial statements and the Directors Remuneration its Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are Association and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under the assets of the Company and the Group and, in that which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, context, having proper regard to the establishment of in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association appropriate systems of internal control with a view to the and to the maximum extent permitted by law, in respect prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
of all costs, charges, expenses or liabilities, which they The Directors are required to prepare financial statements may incur in or about the execution of their duties to the and to provide the auditors with every opportunity to take Company, or any entity which is an associated company whatever steps and undertake whatever inspections the as defined in Section 256 of the Companies Act 2006, or auditors consider to be appropriate for the purpose of as a result of duties performed by the Directors on behalf enabling them to give their audit report.
of the Company or any such associated company.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and Directors responsibilities in relation to the integrity of the Annual Report and Accounts on bat.
com financial statements in accordance with the UK legislation governing the The following statement sets out the responsibilities preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
of the Directors in relation to the financial statements Access to the website is available from outside the UK, of both the Group and the Company.
The reports of where comparable legislation may be different.
the independent auditors shown on pages 84 and 85 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 49 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued The Directors consider that they have pursued the of both the Company and B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. Following actions necessary to meet their responsibilities as set that meeting the Company and B.
A. T Industries p. l. c. out in this Statement.
entered into these deeds of release for no consideration in favour of the present and certain former Directors of both Directors declaration in relation to relevant companies releasing them from liability arising from the audit information aforementioned unlawful dividends and share repurchases.
Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the The invalidly repurchased shares were subsequently Companys auditors, each of the Directors confirms that: repurchased on 1 March 2007 from their holders, the 1 to the best of his or her knowledge and belief, there Companys brokers, at the same prices agreed between is no relevant audit information of which the Companys 22 September 2006 and 4 December 2006. auditors are unaware: and Share capital 2 he or she has taken all steps that a Director might As at 31 December 2007, the Company had: reasonably be expected to have taken in order to make 1 an authorised share capital comprising 2,858,265,349 himself or herself aware of relevant audit information ordinary shares of 25p each with an aggregate nominal and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware value of 714.57 million and 241,734,651 convertible of that information.
redeemable preference shares of 25p each CRPS with Going concern an aggregate nominal value of 60.43 million: and After reviewing the Groups annual budget and plans, the 2 an allotted and fully paid share capital of Directors consider that the Group has adequate resources 2,024,504,341 ordinary shares of 25p each with an to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable aggregate nominal value of 506.13 million including future and that it is therefore appropriate to continue to treasury shares and shares owned by the employee share adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The CRPS are no longer in issue with 50 per cent being redeemed for cash in June 2000 and 50 per cent Auditors converted into the same number of ordinary shares in Resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General June 2004, in accordance with the terms of their issue.
Meeting to reappoint  LLP as the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors Stock market listings to agree their remuneration.
The Audit Committee will The Companys ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock recommend the appropriate level of fees to the Board.
They are also traded on the American Stock Interim dividend 2006 and related party transaction Exchange, New York, in the form of American Depositary In the Companys Annual Report and Accounts for the Receipts ADRs under the symbol BTI with a CUSIP number year ended 31 December 2006, it was reported that, in 110448107.
ADRs represent two of the Companys ordinary December 2006, the Company had become aware of shares and at 31 December 2007, 26,501,452 ADRs were a technical issue concerning: i the payment of certain outstanding, represented by 53,002,904 ordinary shares.
A. T Industries p. l. c. a wholly The Company has unlisted trading privileges for its ADR owned subsidiary of the Company : ii the payment programme and none of its securities are listed on any of the Companys interim dividend in September 2006: United States securities exchange or registered pursuant and iii the repurchase by the Company pursuant to to the securities laws of the United States.
its on-market share buy-back programme of 6,927,790 Major shareholder ordinary shares of 25p each for an aggregate consideration At 27 February 2008, the following substantial interest of 100 million between 22 September 2006 and 3 per cent or more in the Companys ordinary share capital 4 December 2006 which caused such dividends and voting securities had been notified to the Company.
share repurchases to be unlawful and invalid.
Percentage Number of of issued These matters were drawn to shareholders attention at the ordinary shares share capital Annual General Meeting in April 2007 and were ratified R&R Holdings S. A. by way of a shareholders resolution.
At the same general direct holding 604,336,627 29.95 meeting, shareholders also approved entering into deeds Note: of release in favour of Directors and certain former Directors The percentage of issued share capital shown excludes treasury shares.
50 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Pursuant to the Standstill Agreement dated 11 January During the year ended 31 December 2007, the Company 1999 the Standstill Agreement entered into between made on-market repurchases totalling 45,268,285 of its the Company and R&R Holdings S. A. then named own ordinary shares, representing 2.24 per cent of the Rothmans International Holdings S. A., Compagnie issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at Financire Richemont SA then called Compagnie 31 December 2007 and for an aggregate consideration Financire Richemont AG and Rembrandt Group Limited of 750 million.
Of these repurchased shares, 38,379,505 together the R and R Parties, the R and R Parties gave were cancelled and the share capital was reduced certain undertakings to the Company including the accordingly.
Since 1 October 2007, the Companys policy following: a that the R and R Parties and persons acting has been to hold any repurchased shares as treasury shares in concert with any of them will not exercise at any and as at 31 December 2007 the number of treasury general meeting of the Company more than 25 per cent shares was 6,888,780.
Whilst treasury shares are held no dividends are paid on them and they have no voting of the voting rights attached to shares of a class carrying rights: treasury shares may be re-sold at a later date.
rights to vote in all circumstances at general meetings of the Company: b the interests of the R and R Parties and The present authority for the Company to purchase its own persons acting in concert with any of them in the issued shares will expire at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
ordinary share capital of the Company will not exceed The Directors will be seeking fresh authority for the 27.8 per cent except in certain specified circumstances Company to purchase its ordinary shares as part of the e. g. the Company making a purchase of its own shares planned continuation of the share buy-back programme.
or otherwise having reduced its issued share capital: and Continuation of the Companys share buy-back c if the R and R Parties have already disposed of 5 per programme may result in the shareholding of R&R cent or more of the Companys issued shares within the Holdings S. A. the Companys largest shareholder see preceding six month period, no further shares of the above increasing to 30 per cent or more.
This would Company may be disposed of by them unless at least trigger an obligation on the part of R&R Holdings S. A. five business days notice has been given prior to the to make a general offer for the remainder of the entire proposed additional disposal and the Company and its issued share capital of the Company under the City Code brokers have been consulted regarding the marketing on Takeovers and Mergers.
With the approval of the of the shares.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, shareholders, given at the Annual General Meeting held the interests of the R and R Parties changed as a result of on 26 April 2007, this requirement was waived by the the Company continuing its share buy-back programme Panel on Takeovers and Mergers in 2007 until the end see below.
Further to a reorganisation of the Rembrandt of the AGM in 2008.
The Company has requested the Group in August 2000, the interest of Rembrandt Group Panel to consider a further waiver of the requirement Limited in R&R Holdings S. A. is now held by Remgro and approval of the independent shareholders will be Limited, which company has become a party to the sought by means of an ordinary resolution at the 2008 Standstill Agreement.
Full details of the waiver will Purchase of own shares be sent out in a circular to shareholders which will From March 2007, the Board continued its on-market accompany the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
programme of buying back the Companys ordinary In November 2007, the R and R Parties made preliminary shares of 25p each in order to enhance its earnings under announcements that they were considering restructurings the authority granted by shareholders in 2006.
At the that might entail providing their respective shareholders 2007 Annual General Meeting, the Company was given with the option of becoming direct shareholders in the authority to purchase up to 206,200,000 of its ordinary Company.
The Company has agreed, if requested, to shares.
The minimum price which must be paid for such obtain a secondary listing for its ordinary shares on the shares is 25 pence and the maximum price is an amount Johannesburg Stock Exchange with a view to facilitating equal to 105 per cent of the average of the middle market any such restructurings.
prices shown in the quotation for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List Significant agreements change of control for the five business days immediately preceding the day The following significant agreements contain certain on which the ordinary share is contracted to be purchased.
termination and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control of the Company.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 51 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued The provisions of the Standstill Agreement referred to cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company, above will terminate if: the Borrower shall immediately prepay any outstanding advances.
Where there is a change of control in respect 1 a general offer, made by a person being independent of the Company, the Lenders can require all amounts of the R and R Parties as defined above, becomes wholly outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
unconditional: or Details of the change of control provisions contained 2 the date on which a court scheme, having the effect in the Companys long term incentive plans are given of giving control of the Company to such a person, in the Remuneration Report on page 64. becomes effective.
Memorandum and Articles of Association On 8 March 2005, the Company, B.
A. T. International The following description summarises certain provisons Finance p. l. c. B.
A. T Capital Corporation and British of the Companys current Memorandum of Association American Tobacco Holdings The Netherlands B. V. and its Articles of Association as adopted by special as Borrowers and, in the case of the Company, as resolution at the Annual General Meeting on 26 April a Borrower and guarantor entered into a revolving 2007 and applicable English law, the Companies Act credit facility agreement with HSBC Bank plc as agent 1985 and the Companies Act 2006 the Companies Acts.
and certain financial institutions as Lenders pursuant This summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to to which the Lenders agreed to make available to the the Companies Acts and the Company Memorandum Borrowers 1.75 billion for general corporate purposes and Articles of Association, a copy of which is available the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should a Borrower on bat.
other than the Company cease to be a direct or A resolution will be put to the Annual General Meeting indirect subsidiary of the Company, such Borrower to be held on 30 April 2008 to adopt new articles of shall immediately prepay any outstanding advances association to reflect the provisions of the 2006 Act which made to it.
Where there is a change of control in respect came into effect in 2007 after the adoption of the most of the Company, the Lenders can require all amounts recent Articles of Association at the Companys 2007 outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
AGM as well as those which will take effect during 2008.
On 7 August 2007, British American Tobacco Mexico, As the 2006 Act will not be fully in force until October S. A. fide C. V. as Borrower and the Company, B.
A. T. 2009, it is not yet possible to incorporate entirely all International Finance p. l. c. and B.
A. T Capital Corporation of the 2006 Act changes, and so it is anticipated that as guarantors entered into a term credit facility shareholders will be asked to approve further changes arrangement with Barclays Capital as mandated lead to the Articles of Association at the 2009 AGM.
If adopted, arranger, HSBC Bank plc as agent and certain financial the substance of the new Articles of Association will be institutions as Lenders pursuant to which the Lenders reflected in the summary of the articles which will appear agreed to make available to the Borrower US$690 million in the 2008 Annual Report and Accounts.
to refinance existing facilities and for general corporate All of the Companys ordinary shares are fully paid and, purposes the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should the accordingly, no further contribution of capital may be Borrower cease to be a direct or indirect subsidiary of the required by the Company from the holders of such shares.
Company, the Borrower shall immediately prepay any outstanding amounts.
Where there is a change of control Objects and purposes in respect of the Company, the Lenders can require all The Company is incorporated under the name of British amounts outstanding under the Facility to be repaid.
American Tobacco p. l. c. and is registered in England and Wales under registered number 3407696.
A. T. International Finance p. l. c. objects and purposes are set out in the fourth clause of its as Borrower and the Company as guarantor entered Memorandum of Association and cover a wide range of into a revolving credit facility agreement with Barclays activities, including the principal objective of carrying on Bank PLC as agent and certain financial institutions as the business of a holding company.
The Memorandum of Lenders pursuant to which the Lenders agreed to make Association grants the Company a broad range of general available to the Borrower 1.8 billion to finance certain powers to effect that objective.
acquisition activities and refinance existing debt the Facility.
Pursuant to the Facility, should the Borrower 52 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 Directors as an officer, creditor or shareholder, provided that he is The Companys Articles of Association provide for a Board not the holder of or beneficially interested in one per cent of Directors, consisting unless otherwise determined by or more of the equity share capital of that company or of ordinary resolution of the shareholders of not fewer than any other company through which his interest is derived five Directors, not subject to any maximum, who shall and not entitled to exercise one per cent or more of the manage the business of the Company.
The quorum for voting rights available to members of the relevant company meetings of Directors is two Directors.
The Directors may disregarding, for the purposes of this proviso: i any delegate any of their powers to a committee which must shares held by a Director as bare or custodian trustee consist of one or more Directors and if thought fit one and in which he has no beneficial interest: ii any shares or more other persons.
The quorum at a meeting of a comprised in an authorised unit trust scheme in which committee may be decided upon by the Directors at the the director is interested only as a unit holder: and meeting provided that any committee with two or more iii any shares of that class held as treasury shares : and members shall have a quorum of two Directors.
6 any proposal concerning the purchase of Directors The Articles of Association place a general prohibition and officers liability insurance.
on a Director voting at a meeting of the Directors on The Company may by ordinary resolution suspend or any resolution concerning a matter in which he has an relax to any extent, either generally or in respect of any interest other than by virtue of his interest in shares in particular matter, any provision of the articles prohibiting the Company.
However, in the absence of some other a Director from voting at a meeting of the Directors or interest not indicated below, a Director is entitled to of a committee of the Directors.
vote and to be counted in a quorum for the purpose of any vote relating to a resolution concerning the Fees for Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman following matters: shall be determined by the Directors but shall not exceed in aggregate an annual sum of 2,000,000, 1 the giving to him of a guarantee, security or indemnity unless determined otherwise by ordinary resolution of the in respect of money lent to, or an obligation incurred shareholders.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors by him for the benefit of, the Company or any of its is determined by the Remuneration Committee which is subsidiaries: comprised of independent Non-Executive Directors.
2 the giving to a third party of a guarantee, security or Directors appointment and removal indemnity in respect of an obligation of the Company or The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution any of its subsidiaries for which the Director has assumed may appoint a person who is willing to act as a Director, responsibility in whole or part and whether alone or either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
A jointly with others under a guarantee or indemnity or Director appointed by the Directors shall retire at the by the giving of security: next Annual General Meeting and will put himself herself 3 any proposal concerning his being, or intending forward to be reappointed by the shareholders.
to become, a participant in the underwriting or subAt each Annual General Meeting, at least one-third of underwriting of an offer of any such shares, debentures the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation or other securities for subscription, purchase or exchange: or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, 4 any arrangements which relate in any way to a the number constituting at least one-third, shall retire retirement benefits scheme or any arrangement for the from office.
Notwithstanding this, at the Annual General benefit of the employees of the Company or any of its Meeting every Director who was not appointed at either subsidiaries including but without being limited to an of the two previous Annual General Meetings and who employees share scheme, which does not accord to has served as a Director for more than two years since any Director any privilege or advantage not generally his appointment shall retire.
Subject to the provisions of accorded to the employees and or former employees the Companies Acts and the Articles of Association, the to whom the arrangement relates: Directors to retire by rotation will be those who have been in office the longest since their appointment or 5 any transaction or arrangement with any other company, last reappointment.
If a Director retires at an Annual being a company in which the Director is interested only General Meeting and is not reappointed he shall retain Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 53 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued office until at the meeting someone is appointed in his a Director has knowledge and of which it is unreasonable to place.
If no one is appointed in his place he shall retain expect him to have knowledge is not treated as his interest.
office until the end of the meeting.
Dividend rights Without prejudice to the provisions of the Companies Holders of the Companys ordinary shares may, by Acts or any claim to damages for breach of any contract ordinary resolution, declare dividends but may not declare the Director may have with the Company or a subsidiary, dividends in excess of the amount recommended by the the shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, remove any Directors.
The Directors may also pay interim dividends Director from office before the expiration of his period if it appears that such dividends are justified by the of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint profits available for distribution.
No dividend shall be another person in his place.
A Director so appointed paid otherwise than out of profits available as specified shall be subject to retirement at the same time as if he under the provisions of the Companies Acts.
had become a Director on the day on which the director The Directors may, with the sanction of an ordinary in whose place he is appointed was last appointed.
resolution of the shareholders, offer any holders of ordinary Borrowing powers shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares credited Without prejudice to their general powers, the Directors as fully paid instead of cash in respect of the whole or part may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow of all such dividends as may be specified by the resolution.
money and to mortgage or charge its undertaking, Any general meeting declaring a dividend may, upon property, assets present and future and uncalled the recommendation of the Directors, direct payment capital or any part thereof, and subject to the provisions or satisfaction of such dividend to be wholly or partly of the Memorandum and Articles of Association to issue by the distribution of specific assets.
Where difficulty debentures, debenture stock and other securities whether arises in regard to distribution, the Directors may ignore outright or as security for any debt, liability or obligation fractions or issue fractional certificates, fix the value for of the Company or of any third party.
distribution of any assets and may determine that cash shall be paid to any shareholder in order to adjust the Interested Director transactions rights of such members.
Notwithstanding his office, a Director: Any dividend which has been unclaimed for twelve years may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any from the date when it became due for payment shall, if transaction or arrangement with the Company or the Directors so resolve, be forfeited and shall cease to in which the Company is otherwise interested: be owing by the Company.
may be a Director or other officer of, or employed The Company can cease sending dividend warrants and by or may be a party to, or otherwise interested in, any cheques by post or otherwise if these have been returned transaction or arrangement with any body corporate undelivered to, or left uncashed by, the shareholder on at promoted by the Company or in which the Company least two consecutive occasions, or, if following one such is otherwise interested: and occasion, reasonable enquiries have failed to establish the will not, by reason of his office, be accountable to the members new address.
No dividend shall bear interest Company for any benefit which he derives from any against the Company, unless provided by the rights such office or employment or from any such transaction attached to the share.
or arrangement or from any interest in any such body Voting rights corporate and no such transaction or arrangement will be Voting at any general meeting of shareholders is by liable to be avoided because of any such interest or benefit.
a show of hands unless a poll is demanded.
On a show For the purposes of the Articles, a general notice given to of hands, every shareholder who is present in person the Directors that he is to be regarded as having an interest at a general meeting and every proxy appointed by of the nature and extent specified in the notice in any a shareholder and present at a general meeting has transaction or arrangement in which a specified person or one vote regardless of the number of shares held by the class of persons is interested is deemed to be a disclosure shareholder or represented by the proxy.
On a poll, that the Director has an interest in any such transaction of every shareholder who is present in person or by proxy the nature and extent so specified: and an interest of which has one vote for every share held by the shareholder.
54 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 A poll may be demanded by any of the following: value any assets and determine how the division is to take place as between the shareholders or different classes of the chairman of the meeting: shareholders.
Alternatively, with the same sanction, the not less than five shareholders having the right to vote liquidator may vest the whole or any part of the assets in at the meeting: trustees upon trusts for the benefit of the shareholders, but no shareholder will be compelled to accept any asset a shareholder or shareholders representing not less than upon which there is a liability.
one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right to vote at the meeting excluding any Transfer of shares voting rights attached to treasury shares : or Shares may be transferred by an instrument of transfer in any usual form or in any other form which the Directors a shareholder or shareholders holding shares which may approve.
The instrument of transfer shall be executed confer a right to vote on the resolution at the meeting by or on behalf of the transferor and, where the share is being shares on which an aggregate sum has been paid not fully paid, by or on behalf of the transferee.
The up equal to one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all directors can, in their absolute discretion and without shares conferring that right excluding any voting rights giving any reason, refuse to register the transfer of a share attached to treasury shares.
which is not fully paid, provided that such a refusal would Matters are transacted at general meetings of the Company not prevent dealings in shares in certificated form which by proposing and passing of two kinds of resolutions: are not fully paid from taking place on a proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a ordinary resolutions, which can include resolutions for the share unless the instrument of transfer: appointment, re-appointment and removal of Directors, the receiving of the Annual Report and Accounts, the is lodged, duly stamped, and is deposited at the declaration of final dividends, the appointment and registered office of the Company or such other place re-appointment of the external auditor, the increase as the Directors may appoint and is accompanied by of authorised share capital and the grant of authority a certificate for the shares to which it relates and such to allot shares: and other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: special resolutions, which can include resolutions amending the Companys Memorandum or Articles is in respect of only one class of shares: and of Association and resolutions relating to certain is in favour of not more than four transferees.
matters concerning a winding-up of the Company.
In the case of uncertificated shares transfers shall be An ordinary resolution requires the affirmative vote of a registered only in accordance with the terms of the simple majority of the votes cast at a meeting at which Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 so that there is a quorum in order to be passed.
Special resolutions Directors may refuse to register a transfer which would require the affirmative vote of not less than three-quarters require shares to be held jointly by more than four of the votes cast at which there is a quorum in order to persons.
If the Directors refuse to register a transfer of be passed.
The necessary quorum for a meeting of the shares, they must give the transferee notice of this refusal Company is a minimum of two shareholders present in within two months of the instrument of transfer being person or by proxy or by a duly authorised representative lodged with the Company.
No fees may be charged for of a corporation which is a shareholder and entitled to vote.
the registration of a transfer of shares.
Subject to the In the case of an equality of votes, whether on a show of Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001, the registration hands or on a poll, the chairman of the meeting is entitled of transfer of shares or of any class of shares may be to a casting vote in addition to any other votes he may have.
suspended for such periods, not exceeding thirty days in any year, as the Directors may determine.
Winding-up If the Company is wound up, the liquidator may, with Pre-emptive rights and new issues of shares the sanction of a special resolution and any other sanction While holders of ordinary shares have no pre-emptive required by law, subject to the provisions of the Acts, rights under the Articles of Association, the ability of the divide among the shareholders the whole or any part of Directors to cause the Company to issue shares, securities the assets of the Company, and may, for that purpose, convertible into shares or rights to shares, otherwise than Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 55 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS DIRECTORS REPORT continued pursuant to an employee share scheme, is restricted.
Under of the percentage of the voting rights in the Company he the Companies Acts, the directors of a company are, with directly or indirectly holds or controls, or has rights over, certain exceptions, unable to allot any equity securities through his direct or indirect holding of certain financial without express authorisation, which may be contained in instruments, if the percentage of those voting rights: a companys articles of association or given by its shareholders reaches, exceeds or falls below 3 per cent and or in general meeting, but which in either event cannot last any subsequent whole percentage figure as a result for more than five years.
Under the Companies Acts, the of an acquisition or disposal of shares or financial Company may also not allot shares for cash otherwise than instruments: or pursuant to an employee share scheme without first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to reaches, exceeds or falls below any such threshold them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion as a result of any change in the number of voting to their respective shareholdings, unless this requirement rights attached to shares in the Company.
is waived by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The Disclosure and Transparency Rules set out in detail Alteration of share capital the circumstances in which an obligation of disclosure will The Company may, from time to time, by ordinary resolution: arise, as well as certain exemptions from those obligations for specified persons.
1 increase its share capital by such amount as the resolution prescribes: Under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006, the Company may, by notice in writing, require a person that 2 consolidate and divide all or any of its shares into the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe is shares of a larger amount than its existing shares: or was during the three years preceding the date of notice 3 sub-divide any of its shares into shares of smaller amount interested in the Companys shares to indicate whether than is fixed by the Companys Memorandum of Association: or not that is the case and, if that person does or did hold an interest in the Companys shares, to provide certain 4 determine that, as between the shares resulting from information as set out in that Act.
The Disclosure and such a sub-division, any of them may have any preference Transparency Rules further deal with the disclosure by or advantage as compared with the others: and persons of interests in shares or debentures of the companies 5 cancel shares which, at the date of the passing of the of which they are directors and certain associated companies.
resolution, have not been taken or agreed to be taken by The City Code on Takeovers and Mergers also imposes any person, and diminish the amount of its share capital strict disclosure requirements with regard to dealings by the amount of the share so cancelled.
in the securities of an offeror or offeree company on The Company may, by special resolution, reduce its share all parties to a takeover and also on their respective capital, its capital redemption reserve and any share associates during the course of an offer period.
premium account in any way.
Subject to the provisions General meetings and notices of the Companies Acts, the Company may purchase its At least 21 clear days written notice of an Annual General own shares, including redeemable shares, and may hold Meeting is required.
Any general meeting which is not an such shares as treasury shares or cancel them.
Annual General Meeting is called an Extraordinary General Disclosure of interests in the Companys shares Meeting.
At least 14 clear days written notice of any There are no provisions in the Articles of Association whereby Extraordinary General Meeting is required, unless a special persons acquiring, holding or disposing of a certain resolution or a resolution on which special notice has percentage of the Companys shares are required to make been given to the Company is proposed, in which case disclosure of their ownership percentage, although there 21 clear days written notice is required.
are such requirements under the Companies Acts.
The Variation of rights basic disclosure requirement under Part 6 of the Financial If the capital of the Company is divided into different Services and Markets Act 2000 and Rule 5 of the Disclosure classes of shares then the rights attached to any class of and Transparency Rules made by the Financial Services shares may only be varied and abrogated, either in such Authority imposes a statutory obligation on a person to a manner as provided by those rights or in the absence notify the Company and the Financial Services Authority of any provision, with the consent in writing of three- 56 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS MANAGEMENT go online at www.
com annualreport2007 quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that Research is also undertaken into aspects of the science class or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution and behavioural science related to smoking and we passed at a separate meeting of holders of such shares.
continued to provide funding for independent studies.
At any separate meeting, the necessary quorum is two Creditor payment policy persons together holding or representing by proxy at Given the international nature of the Groups operations, least one-third in nominal amount of the issued shares there is not a global standard code for the Group in of the class but at an adjourned meeting shall be any respect of payments to suppliers.
In the UK, the operating one person holding shares of the class or his proxy.
subsidiaries have signed up to the Better Payment Practice Unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights Code under which each company undertakes to: attached to any shares, those rights shall be deemed 1 seek agreement on payment terms with its suppliers to be varied by the reduction of the capital paid up at the outset of each transaction: on those shares and by the creation or issue of further shares ranking in priority for payment of a dividend or in 2 explain its payment procedures to its suppliers: respect of capital or which confer on the holders voting 3 pay bills in accordance with the agreed terms and rights more favourable than those conferred by the firstall legal requirements: and mentioned shares, but shall not otherwise be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares 4 inform suppliers without delay when contesting an ranking pari passu with them or subsequent to them.
invoice and settle disputes quickly.
Details of the Code are available on the website, payontime.
Repurchase of shares Subject to authorisation by shareholder resolution, the Non-UK operating subsidiaries are responsible for Company may purchase its own shares in accordance agreeing terms and conditions for their business with the Companies Acts.
Any shares which have been transactions when orders for goods and services are placed, ensuring that suppliers are aware of the terms bought back may be held as treasury shares or, if not so of payment and including the relevant terms in contracts held, must be cancelled immediately upon completion where appropriate.
These arrangements are adhered to of the purchase, thereby reducing the amount of the provided that suppliers meet their contractual Companys issued share capital.
Charitable and political contributions Creditor days have not been calculated for the Company Payments for charitable purposes in 2007 amounted to as it is an investment holding Company and had no trade 16.1 million 2006: 17.6 million, 2.2 million of which creditors at 31 December 2007. was paid in the UK 2006: 3 million.
No donation was made to any political party registered in the UK under OECD Guidelines the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
The Group recognises its responsibilities to the countries Subsidiaries of the Company in Australia and Jamaica in which it operates and, in this context, notes the OECD made contributions to non-EU political parties in their Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises in their current respective countries of incorporation totalling 85,183 form.
Intra-group pricing Research and development The prices agreed between Group companies for intraThe Groups research and development activities are group sales of materials, manufactured goods, charges for focused on developing new products and new processes, royalties, commissions, services and fees are based on the as well as maintaining and improving the quality of normal commercial practices which would apply between existing products.
Research is also carried out on risk independent businesses.
characterisation, building a framework to assess the On behalf of the Board relative risk of novel and conventional products and a better understanding of how consumers use them.
Risk Nicola Snook reduction, such as developing technologies that have the Secretary potential to lower exposure to toxicants in smoke, is also a 27 February 2008 central part of the research and development programme.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 57 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
