MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT BOARD The role of the Management Board The Management Board, chaired by the Chief Executive, comprises the Executive Directors of British American Tobacco p. l. c. together with the executives shown on this page.
The Management Board has delegated responsibility for overseeing the implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the policies and strategy set by the Board of Directors, and for creating the conditions for their successful 1 2 3 day-to-day operation.
Ben Stevens British Director, Latin America and Caribbean Director, Human Resources Director, Europe Joined British American Tobacco in 1993.
He has Joined British American Tobacco in 1988.
He Appointed Director, Europe in January 2004 held a number of senior roles across the Group has held a number of senior human resources having previously joined the Management including General Manager in Switzerland, roles in the Group and his responsibilities have Board in 2001 as Development Director.
Since Argentina, Russia and, most recently, Germany.
covered Europe, Africa, the Middle East and joining British American Tobacco in 1989, he He has been Director, Latin America and Central and South Asia.
He has been Director, has covered a number of senior marketing, Caribbean since October 2007.
50 finance and management roles particularly in Europe, South Asia and Russia.
Michael Prideaux British appointed Executive Director with effect from Director, Asia-Pacific Director, Corporate and Regulatory Affairs 3 March 2008 and will succeed Paul Rayner Joined the Management Board as Regional Appointed Director, Corporate and Regulatory as Finance Director on 30 April 2008.
48 Director for Asia-Pacific in October 2004.
He Affairs in 1998 following the demerger of B.
A. T held a number of senior management roles Industries.
Peter Taylor British for Rothmans International in Europe and the from Charles Barker, a leading financial and Global Operations Director Far East before becoming Area Director for corporate public relations, advertising and Joined British American Tobacco in 1980 and the Middle East and North Africa in 2001.
51 design agency, where he was Chief Executive.
worked in a variety of operational and general 57 management roles across the Group.
Andrew Gray Brazilian British appointed Global Operations Director in 2003.
Director, Africa and Middle East 6.
Jimmi Rembiszewski German 55 Appointed Director, Africa and Middle East Group Marketing Director in January 2008.
He joined British American Joined the Group as a Marketing Director and as 9.
Neil Withington British Tobacco 21 years ago and has held a variety a Territorial Director in 1991, having had various Director, Legal and Security and General of senior marketing and general management senior marketing and business appointments in Counsel roles in South America including President Procter & Gamble and Jacobs Suchard.
He has Appointed Director, Legal and Security and of Souza Cruz and also in Central America, been a member of the Management Board General Counsel of British American Tobacco the Caribbean and Malaysia.
57 in 2000, having previously been the Groups Deputy General Counsel.
He joined the Group in 1993 after a career at the Bar and in the chemical and pharmaceutical industries.
He has been a Director of Reynolds American Inc. since July 2004.
51 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 47 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
