HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review Group Chairmans statement Group Chairmans statement these customer groups, our insurance operations made further progress.
Our North American results continue to be adversely affected by high loan impairment charges as we respond to the impact on our portfolio of credit deterioration arising largely from housing market weakness in the US.
The management team has taken vigorous action to address and mitigate the problem.
In Europe, excluding the positive effect of movements in the fair value of HSBCs own debt, performance was broadly in line with 2006.
In the UK, Commercial Banking generated pre-tax profits of over US$2 billion for the first time and, in Turkey, further expansion of the branch network helped drive strong organic growth in numbers of personal and business customers.
Financial strength underpins our progressive 2007 was a year when large parts of the international dividend policy financial system came under extraordinary strain.
The Directors have declared a fourth interim For HSBC to achieve another new high in earnings, dividend for 2007 of US$0.39 per ordinary share in despite these conditions and the exceptionally weak lieu of a final dividend which, together with the first performance of our US business, underscores the three interim dividends for 2007 of US$0.17 already value of the strategic focus we announced early last paid, will make a total distribution in respect of the year to drive sustainable growth by concentrating on year of US$0.90 per share US$0.81 per share in the faster growing markets of the world.
respect of 2006, an increase of 11.1 per cent.
The Pre-tax profits in 2007 increased by 10 per cent dividend will be payable on 7 May 2008 with a scrip to US$24 billion and earnings per share rose by dividend alternative, to shareholders on the register 18 per cent to US$1.65.
Excluding the dilution gains on 25 March 2008.
HSBCs dividend has increased arising from our strategic investments in mainland by 10 per cent or more every year for 15 years.
China, which I highlighted at the interim stage, profits grew by 5 per cent.
Consistent with our A clear and compelling strategy playing to strategy of focusing on emerging markets where we our strengths are the worlds leading international bank, profits At the beginning of 2007, we refreshed our strategy, from those businesses, excluding dilution gains, considering how we should shape HSBC for the grew by 41 per cent to US$15 billion.
Our deliberations were influenced by some Our return on shareholders equity exceeded fundamental long-term trends that will shape 15 per cent, revenue growth was in double digits for tomorrows world: emerging markets will continue the fifth year running, our cost efficiency ratio to grow faster than mature ones: world trade will improved and our capital ratios remained strong.
continue to grow faster than world output: and HSBCs financial strength in terms of both capital people are living longer than ever before with all the and liquidity is a powerful driver of sustainable implications that has for long-term savings and growth and helps ensure continued resilience.
Our thinking was also informed by a clear Strong operating performance in 2007 appreciation of HSBCs strengths.
We believe that We produced exceptionally strong results in Asiathe global leadership we have built in emerging Pacific, Latin America and the Middle East while markets and in trade, and our international facing considerable business challenges in North perspective, are compelling advantages that set America.
In our customer groups, we also achieved HSBC apart for our customers, our shareholders and record results in Commercial Banking and Private our people.
Banking, and a strong performance in Global As we explained in March 2007, our conclusion Banking and Markets, despite write-downs arising was that the Group should place renewed emphasis from market turbulence in the second half of the on investing in fast moving emerging markets in year.
In addition, Personal Financial Services Asia-Pacific, the Middle East and Latin America.
We produced record profits in emerging markets.
Within 6 believe we can grow strongly and sustainably.
We Building on our position as the worlds achieved our position as the number one leading international emerging markets international bank in Asia-Pacific and the Middle bank East over many years: by contrast, we have built one During 2007, we continued to build our businesses of Latin Americas largest financial services in emerging markets organically.
For example, on a businesses in little more than a decade.
like-for-like basis, risk-weighted assets in these areas In mature markets, we are determined to focus grew by 42 per cent compared with 16 per cent for our businesses on areas where we can build on our the Group as a whole.
unique global franchise, so as to benefit from the As the leading international bank in the country long-term trend of increasing international of our birth, China, we were delighted to be among connectivity.
We have international customer bases the first to incorporate locally in the mainland.
We across many of our businesses, from the largest have built the largest branch network of any corporates, through to small or medium-sized international bank and we have significant and enterprises, to the internationally mobile mass profitable strategic investments in our Chinese affluent and other personal customers with specific associates.
We have developed a clear approach which is enabling our business to In mainland China, through our own businesses focus strongly on these groups of customers now and and in conjunction with our associates, we achieved in the years ahead.
for the first time in our history a profit before tax of over US$1 billion, in addition to over US$7 billion Where opportunities arise, we shall seek to generated in Hong Kong.
redeploy capital towards emerging markets through divestment of assets of greater strategic value to As China continues to reshape itself as a others.
In France, we have received a firm cash offer 21st century powerhouse, HSBC seeks to play a of US$3.1 billion for our seven, separately branded, constructive role in its continued progressive regional banks and have entered into exclusive economic and social development.
We were the first discussions.
This potential transaction, which is international bank to establish and open a rural bank.
subject to necessary approvals and consultation, Hang Seng Bank has agreed to acquire 20 per cent of could complete in mid-2008.
We remain committed Yantai City Commercial Bank in the fast growing to France through our HSBC-branded network Bohai region of China.
serving retail and commercial customers and through Elsewhere in Asia-Pacific, we have sought to our activities in Global Banking and Markets, further strengthen our position through a series of Private Banking, asset management and insurance.
In South During 2007, we acquired the 50 per cent of Erisa, Korea, we have agreed to acquire 51 per cent of our French insurance business, which we did not Korea Exchange Bank for US$6.5 billion, subject to own.
In Taiwan, we acquired We will also build businesses, in both our Chailease Credit Services, a factoring company emerging and mature markets, that help our serving commercial customers, and agreed to acquire customers with their long-term savings needs, as the assets, liabilities and operations of The Chinese demographics and wealth creation trends around the Bank, which will extend our network by 39 branches world make this ever more important to them.
and bring us many new customers.
Finally, we will shape our business operations so As foreign investment rules are eased, we have that we use our scale to deliver better, more efficient made significant investments to expand our business services to our customers.
Their use of technology in Vietnam with the acquisition of a further 5 per increasingly dictates how they interact with us.
We cent interest in Techcombank, bringing our stake increasingly employ technology to create better to 14.4 per cent, and the purchase for some products which we can deliver globally at lower US$255 million of a 10 per cent interest in Bao Viet, cost.
As we grow our direct banking business, we the leading insurance company in the country.
will create opportunities to meet more of our The latter investment reflects our determination customers financial needs.
to increase the contribution of insurance to Group earnings.
We also entered into agreements to invest in a 26 per cent interest in a new life insurance joint venture in India, in partnership with two of the larger state-owned banks, and to acquire just under 50 per cent of Hana Life Insurance Company in South 7 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Group Chairmans statement Korea.
We have entered a number of strategic them.
We have set ourselves challenging targets to alliances to ensure that we have the best products for increase both employee and customer engagement.
our customers and the support to grow our activities.
They will help us build on our position as the worlds number one global banking brand.
A fifth consecutive year of rising oil prices facilitated growth in public and private investment Changes to your Board in the Middle East.
As a result, infrastructure development accelerated and consumption and Independent oversight of our company and of the employment rose.
Our businesses in the Middle East execution of strategy is the responsibility of one of were well positioned to benefit from this and have the most experienced and international Boards in the had an excellent year.
I am delighted that we will benefit from international business leaders of the calibre of Jos Our acquisition of Grupo Banistmo in Central Luis Durn and Sam Laidlaw, who joined the Board America and Banco Nazionale in Argentina in 2006 as independent non-executive Directors on 1 January strengthened our existing business.
We also welcome two other global business year of integrating these operations.
It is a testimony leaders, Safra Catz and Narayana Murthy, who will to the strength of our Latin American businesses that join as independent non-executive Directors on we have been able to grow profits by 26 per cent to 1 May 2008. over US$2 billion while investing in the integration, and despite the increase in loan impairment charges The Board will be further strengthened by the in Mexico as our loan portfolio began to mature.
appointment of three executive directors: Vincent Cheng, effective 1 February 2008: and Sandy A people business Flockhart and Stuart Gulliver, who will join the Board, effective 1 May 2008.
These are three of our It is people, of course, who define an organisation: most talented and experienced executives - all and any businesss success is dependent on the emerging market specialists.
2007 was a demanding year in many respects and it is testament to the talent and Baroness Dunn, Sir Brian Moffat and Lord professionalism of my 330,000 colleagues around Butler will retire as non-executive Directors at the world that HSBC successfully met its challenges HSBCs Annual General Meeting on 30 May 2008 and excelled in so many areas.
I would like to take and will not seek re-election.
I should like to pay this opportunity to extend my personal thanks to my tribute to their tremendous contribution to HSBC.
colleagues their commitment and expertise have We have been privileged to enjoy their counsel and greatly benefited the Group and our shareholders.
stewardship for so many years.
Measuring the results of our strategy HSBCs core strength in uncertain times Today we are publishing, for the first time, the key The outlook for the rest of 2008 is uncertain.
The metrics which we will use to measure our economic slowdown and the credit outlook in the US performance in future.
These include a number of may well get worse before they get better.
With measures that cover financial performance, customer significant parts of the international financial system recommendation and employee engagement.
in developed markets still in difficulty, HSBCs emphasis on faster growing emerging markets means In financial terms we are aiming for a return that we are better positioned than many of our on equity in a range over the investment cycle of competitors.
15-19 per cent: a cost efficiency ratio in the range of 48-52 per cent: Tier 1 capital under the Basel II Emerging markets have only partly decoupled framework of 7.5-9.0 per cent: and total shareholder from the US.
Hence, while these economies are return in the top half of that achieved by our peers.
exhibiting more domestic momentum, they will not be entirely immune from the impact of a US Financial measures are important but not slowdown.
However, the major long-term trends are sufficient: it is our people and our relationship with still intact.
Emerging markets will continue to customers that will drive our business and ultimately outperform mature economies: and world growth, determine our success.
For the first time, in 2007, even in this year of relative weakness for the US 290,000 HSBC colleagues completed our new global economy, will be reasonable albeit slower than in people survey, allowing us to benchmark ourselves 2007.
Meanwhile, trade and investment patterns will and, over time, raise our game.
Similarly, we have continue to evolve to reflect a more interconnected established customer engagement metrics which world, notwithstanding some signs of protectionist enable us to measure and improve our service to sentiment in several key mature markets.
In 8 particular, we will see further strategic investments from emerging markets into mature markets, as well as into other emerging markets, a trend from which we are well placed to benefit.
2008 is likely to be a year of caution in the financial sector until liquidity, transparency and the proper pricing of risk return to financial markets.
We expect to be able to improve margins on the use of our capital and we will continue to invest in building market presence at a time when others with weaker capital positions are constrained.
The fundamentals of HSBC are very strong.
The deleveraging of the financial system clearly plays to HSBCs strengths, given our conservative balance sheet and international presence.
There can be few banks in the world that are better positioned to withstand market turbulence and grasp strategic opportunities.
We will continue to focus HSBC on the parts of the global economy that promise the best prospects for higher growth over the long term.
We will continue to invest for profitable growth in line with our strategy, and we will do so while maintaining HSBCs financial strength, which is at the heart of our success.
S K Green, Group Chairman 3 March 2008 9 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review Principal activities Strategic direction KPIs Page Strategic direction Principal activities 10 HSBCs strategic direction reflects its position as Strategic direction 10 The Worlds Local Bank, combining the largest Key performance indicators 11 global emerging markets banking business and a Reconciliation of reported and underlying uniquely cosmopolitan customer base with an profit before tax 14 extensive international network and substantial financial strength.
Customer groups and global businesses...... 16 Personal Financial Services.................... 17 The Groups strategy is aligned with key trends Commercial Banking 21 which are shaping the global economy.
In particular, Global Banking and Markets.................. 25 HSBC recognises that, over the long-term, emerging Private Banking 28 markets are growing faster than developed Other................ 31 economies, world trade is expanding at a greater rate Analysis by customer group and global than GDP and life expectancy is lengthening business......... 33 everywhere.
Against this backdrop, HSBCs strategy Geographical regions 36 is focused on delivering superior growth and earnings over time by building on the Groups Summary of geographical regions........... 36 heritage and skills.
This local knowledge and international North America 91 breadth is supported by a substantial financial Latin America. 110 capability founded on balance sheet strength.
Other information 126 HSBC is, therefore, reshaping its business by Products and services 126 investing primarily in the faster growing emerging Property............ 129 markets and, in developed markets, focusing on Legal proceedings..... 129 businesses which have international connectivity.
Central to these activities is the maintenance of Principal activities HSBCs financial strength and continued investment in the business.
HSBC is one of the largest banking and financial services organisation in the world, with a market The Group has identified three main business capitalisation of US$198 billion at 31 December models for its customer groups and global businesses 2007. that embody HSBCs areas of natural advantage: Through its subsidiaries and associates, HSBC businesses with international customers for provides a comprehensive range of banking and whom emerging markets connectivity is crucial related financial services.
Headquartered in London, Global Banking and Markets, and Private HSBC operates through long-established businesses Banking: and has an international network of some 10,000 businesses with local customers where properties in 83 countries and territories in five efficiency can be enhanced through global scale geographical regions: Europe: Hong Kong: Rest of the small business segment of Commercial Asia-Pacific, including the Middle East and Africa: Banking and the mass affluent segment of North America and Latin America.
Within these Personal Financial Services: and regions, a comprehensive range of financial services is offered to personal, commercial, corporate, products where global scale is possible through institutional, investment and private banking clients.
building efficiency, expertise and brand global Services are delivered primarily by domestic banks, product platforms such as cards and direct typically with large retail deposit bases, and banking.
Taken together, the The means of executing the strategy, and further five largest customers of HSBC do not account for integrating the company, are clear: more than one per cent of HSBCs income.
the HSBC brand and global networks will be The principal acquisitions made during the year leveraged to reach new customers and offer are described on page 415.
There were no significant further services to existing clients: disposals.
10 efficiency will be enhanced by taking full compared with the same group of 28 comparator advantage of local, regional and global banks as for the total shareholder return TSR economies of scale in particular by adopting performance condition.
a common systems architecture: and Financial KPIs appropriate objectives and incentives will be adopted to motivate and reward staff for being To support the Groups strategy and ensure that fully engaged in delivering the strategy.
HSBCs performance can be monitored, management utilises a number of financial KPIs.
The Key performance indicators table below presents these KPIs for the period from 2004 to 2007.
At a business level, the KPIs are The Board of Directors and the Group Management complemented by a range of benchmarks which are Board monitors HSBCs progress against its strategic relevant to the planning process and to reviewing objectives.
Progress is assessed by comparison with business performance.
the Groups strategy, its operating plan targets and its HSBC is publishing a number of key targets historical performance using both financial and nonagainst which future performance can be measured.
Financial targets have been set as follows: the return As a prerequisite for the vesting of performance on average total shareholders equity over the shares, the Remuneration Committee must satisfy medium term has been set at 15-19 per cent: the cost itself that HSBCs financial performance has shown efficiency ratio has been set in the range of 48-52 per a sustained improvement in the period since the cent: and the TSR in the top half of that achieved by award date.
In determining this, the Remuneration peers.
The cost efficiency ratio has been set as a Committee takes into account HSBCs financial range within which the business is expected to performance with regard to the financial key remain in order to accommodate the need for performance indicators KPIs described below.
continued investment in support of future business For awards made since 2005, the financial KPIs are growth.
2 As a percentage of net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
3 Other income comprises net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions less net interest income and net fee income.
4 Total operating expenses divided by net operating income before loan impairment and other credit risk charges.
5 Net operating income divided by average risk-weighted assets.
6 Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders divided by average invested capital.
7 The percentage increase in dividends per share since the previous year, based on the dividends paid in respect of the year to which the dividend relates.
8 Basic earnings per ordinary share is defined in Note 12 on the Financial Statements.
9 The return on average total shareholders equity is defined as profit attributable to shareholders of the parent company divided by the average total shareholders equity.
10 Presentational changes introduced under IFRSs on 1 January 2005 distort comparison of 2004 data with succeeding years.
11 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued KPIs Revenue growth provides an important guide mainly generated from the faster-growing to the Groups success in generating business.
In 2007, total revenue grew by 20.8 per cent to Return on average invested capital measures US$79.0 billion, 13.5 per cent on an underlying the return on the capital investment made in the basis, reflecting HSBCs expansion into new business, enabling management to benchmark HSBC products and markets, improved brand recognition against competitors.
In 2007, the ratio of 15.3 per and refinements in segmentation to better meet cent was 0.4 percentage points higher than that customer needs.
The trend maintained the strong reported in 2006.
This increase reflected the fact that performance in 2006 when the underlying increase profitability grew faster than the capital utilised in was 10.5 per cent.
Higher revenue was largely driven generating the profit.
The main drivers were the by balance sheet growth and strong contributions higher income generated, mainly in the fasterfrom faster-growing economies.
Fair value gains also growing economies, which was not consumptive of helped revenue growth.
These gains were primarily capital, and the fair value adjustment on the driven by a widening of credit spreads on debt issued widening of credit spreads on debt issued by HSBC by HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries and Holdings and its subsidiaries.
Dilution gains of designated at fair value.
The movements will reverse US$1.1 billion made on investments in HSBCs over the life of the debt unless it is repaid before its associates also made a positive contribution towards contractual maturity.
the return on average invested capital ratio.
Revenue mix represents the relative distribution HSBC aims to deliver sustained dividend per of revenue streams between net interest income, share growth for its shareholders.
The dividend net fee income and other revenue.
It is used to growth for 2007, which is based on the year to which understand how changing economic factors affect the dividends relate rather than when they were the Group, to highlight dependence on balance sheet paid, amounts to 11.1 per cent, a marginal increase utilisation for income generation and to indicate of 0.1 percentage points over 2006.
This basis differs success in cross-selling fee-based services to from the disclosure in the five-year comparison on customers with loan facilities.
HSBC has delivered a compound rate of assists management in making business investment increase in dividends of 11.2 per cent per annum decisions.
Comparison of the revenue mix since over the past five years.
2005 shows a clear trend of net fee income increasing at a faster rate than net interest income.
Basic earnings per share EPS is a ratio that The percentage of revenue attributable to net interest shows the level of earnings generated per ordinary income fell from 52.8 per cent in 2006 to 47.8 per share.
EPS is one of two KPIs used in rewarding cent in 2007.
Net fee income grew by 1.6 percentage employees and is discussed in more detail in the points to 27.9 per cent.
Directors Remuneration Report on page 325.
EPS for 2007 was US$1.65, an increase of 17.9 per cent Cost efficiency is a relative measure that on 2006.
This demonstrated the benefit of diversified indicates the consumption of resources in generating earnings as the losses in the US consumer finance revenue.
Management uses this to assess the success business were more than compensated for by strong of technology utilisation and, more generally, the growth in other markets and products.
In 2006, EPS productivity of the Groups distribution platforms grew by 2.9 per cent over that reported in 2005. and sales forces.
The cost efficiency ratio for 2007 improved over the previous two years Return on average total shareholders equity notwithstanding the continued investment in HSBCs measures the return on average shareholders businesses, particularly in emerging markets, and in investment in the business.
This enables improving the Groups distribution and technology management to benchmark Group performance platforms.
against competitors and its own targets.
In 2007, the ratio was 15.9 per cent or 0.2 percentage points Credit performance as measured by riskhigher than in 2006.
This is in line with adjusted margin is an important gauge for assessing managements target of achieving a range of whether credit is correctly priced so that the returns between 15 and 19 per cent.
available after recognising impairment charges meet the Groups required return parameters.
The ratio Total shareholder return TSR is used for 2007 was 6.0 per cent, showing a decrease of as a method of assessing the overall return to 0.3 percentage points over 2006.
The marginal shareholders on their investment in HSBC, and is decrease arose from the significant credit losses in defined as the growth in share value and declared the US, partly offset by the increase in income dividend income during the relevant period.
TSR is a key performance measure in rewarding employees.
12 In calculating TSR, dividend income is assumed to Brand perception be invested in the underlying shares.
As the The score for brand perception is set by data comparator group includes companies listed on from surveys that are conducted by accredited, overseas markets, a common currency is used to independent, third party organisations.
A weighted ensure that TSR is measured on a consistent basis.
score card is used to produce an overall score on a The TSR benchmark is an index set at 100 and 100 point scale which is then benchmarked against measured over one, three and five years for the HSBC's main competitors.
The scores from each purpose of comparison with the performance of a market are weighted according to the risk adjusted group of competitor banks which reflect HSBCs revenues earned in that market to obtain the overall range and breadth of activities.
The TSR levels at the company score.
end of 2007 were 95.6, 111.3, and 158.8 over one, three and five years respectively.
HSBCs TSR over The 2007 brand scores for Personal Financial all above mentioned periods has underperformed the Services and Commercial Banking were each ahead benchmark.
This is attributed largely to the impact of the competitor average by 6 and 7 points, on the share price of the current weakness in the US respectively, on a 100 point scale.
The 2008 brand sub-prime mortgage business and investor perception target is to increase the gap to 9 points preference over this time for companies with smaller and 8 points, respectively.
market values, particularly those for which there is the possibility of participating in domestic or Customer satisfaction regional consolidation.
HSBC has regularly conducted customer satisfaction Management believes that financial KPIs must surveys in its main markets over many years.
HSBC remain relevant to the business so they may be now uses a consistent measure of customer changed over time to reflect changes in the Groups recommendation to gauge customer satisfaction with composition and the strategies employed.
the services provided by the Group's Personal Financial Services business.
This survey is also Non-financial KPIs conducted by accredited, independent, third party organisations and the resulting recommendation HSBC has chosen four non-financial KPIs which are scores are benchmarked against competitors.
important to the future success of the Group in delivering its strategic objectives.
These nonThe 2007 customer recommendation scores for financial KPIs are currently reported internally Personal Financial Services was ahead of the within HSBC on a local basis.
competitor average by 1 point on a 100 point scale.
The 2008 target is to increase that gap to 2.5 points.
Employee engagement IT performance and systems reliability Employee engagement is a measure of employees emotional and rational attachment to HSBC.
HSBC tracks two key measures as indicators of IT performance: namely, the number of customer In 2007, HSBC conducted its first Global transactions processed and the reliability and People Survey.
This comprised questions designed to resilience of systems measured in terms of service measure employee engagement levels consistently availability targets.
The survey covers HSBCs entire permanent global workforce, and responses were Number of customer transactions processed received from almost 290,000 employees, a response rate of 88 per cent.
The number of customer transactions processed is a reflection of the increasing usage of IT in each of the The overall employee engagement index score delivery channels used to service customers.
is to manage the rate of increase in customer Survey questions were grouped into twelve transaction costs effectively and ensure that dimensions.
Employees rated HSBC above the customer growth is enabled in the appropriate external global norms in all these dimensions.
The transition of customer transactions dimensions, reputation and corporate responsibility, from labour intensive branch, call centre and others employees rated HSBC as achieving the external to automated credit card, internet, self-service and best in class norm.
The survey results have been other e-channels is occurring.
The following chart shared with all employees and action plans are being shows the 2005, 2006 and 2007 volumes per developed at all levels of the organisation.
delivery channel: 13 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued KPIs Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax Customer transactions Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax 2,500 HSBC measures its performance internally on a like- 2,000 for-like basis, eliminating the effects of Group 1,500 currency translation gains and losses, acquisitions and disposals and gains from the dilution of the 1,000 Groups interests in associates, which distort the 500 year-on-year comparison.
HSBC refers to this as its underlying performance.
0 Branch Call Credit card Internet Self-Service Other Others Centre-Agent Terminal e-Channels payment, The tables below show the underlying clearing, etc performance of HSBC for the year ended in millions 31 December 2007 compared with the year ended 2005 2006 2007 31 December 2006.
Comparative information The call centre, internet and self-service transaction numbers comparing the years ended 31 December 2006 and for 2006 have been restated to align them with the definition of 2005 is also set out below.
Equivalent tables are customer transactions adopted in 2007. provided for each of HSBCs customer groups and geographical segments in their respective sections Percentage of IT services meeting or exceeding below.
targets The main differences between HSBCs reported HSBCs IT function establishes with its end-users and underlying financial performances were: agreed service levels for systems performance, such as systems running 99.9 per cent of the time and Foreign currency translation differences, mainly credit card authorisations within two seconds, due to the weakening of the US dollar, most and monitors the achievement of each of these significantly in Europe due to the size of commitments.
The following chart reflects the HSBCs operations in the UK.
The Groups percentage of IT services meeting and or exceeding profit before tax for 2007 compared with 2006 the agreed service targets.
Overall results in Europe, increased by 10 per cent, of which the effect of Hong Kong and Latin America were each affected the change in foreign currency translation rates by a single months service issue, which skewed a accounted for 4 percentage points.
The trend of flat or improving service performance.
equivalents for 2006 compared with 2005 were 5 per cent and 1 per cent, respectively.
Percentage of IT services meeting or exceeding There were a number of acquisitions and targets disposals that affected both comparisons.
The 100% most significant were the acquisitions of Metris 99% Companies Inc. Metris in North America in 98% 97% December 2005: in Latin America, the 96% Argentine operations of Banca Nazionale del 95% 94% Lavoro SpA Banca Nazionale in May 2006 93% 92% and Grupo Banistmo now HSBC Bank 91% Panama in November 2006: and HSBCs 90% Europe Hong Kong Rest of North America Latin America partners share in life insurer, Erisa S. A. and Asia-Pacific property and casualty insurer, Erisa I.
A. R. D. 2006 2007 together now renamed HSBC Assurances in France in March 2007: and the deemed disposals of the stakes in Ping An Insurance Group Company of China, Limited Ping An Insurance, Bank of Communications Limited Bank of Communications and Industrial Bank Co. Limited Industrial Bank, as a consequence of their making share offerings on the domestic A share market in mainland China.
15 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Customer groups Summary Business highlights Banking and Markets, and Private Banking.
Customer groups and global Personal Financial Services incorporates the Groups businesses consumer finance businesses, reflecting their Summary increasing integration within mainstream financial services around the world.
The largest of these is HSBC manages its business through two customer HSBC Finance Corporation HSBC Finance, one groups, Personal Financial Services and Commercial of the leading consumer finance companies in the Banking, and two global businesses, Global Banking US.
The remainder of the Groups gain on own debt is included in Global Banking and Markets.
While such allocations The results are presented in accordance with the have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, accounting policies used in the preparation of they necessarily involve a degree of subjectivity.
HSBCs operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, Where relevant, income and expense amounts the presentation of customer group data includes presented include the results of inter-segment internal allocations of certain items of income and funding as well as inter-company and inter-business expense.
These allocations include the costs of line transactions.
All such transactions are certain support services and head office functions, to undertaken on arms length terms.
16 Personal Financial Services Strategic direction Profit before tax HSBCs strategic direction in Personal Financial Year ended 31 December Services is to use its global scale and local 2007 2006 2005 knowledge to grow profitably in selected markets.
US$m US$m US$m The strategy focuses on growth in: Net interest income........... 29,069 26,076 23,351 markets where HSBC has or can build or Net fee income.................. 11,742 8,762 7,313 acquire scale, particularly in Asia-Pacific, Latin Trading income excluding America, Turkey and the Middle East: net interest income......... 38 391 360 Net interest income on markets where HSBC has scale, such as the UK trading activities............. 140 220 214 and Hong Kong: 5 Net trading income.......... 178 611 574 HSBC Premier customers, who appreciate the Net income from financial benefits of a bank with strong international instruments designated connectivity: and at fair value.................... 1,333 739 574 Gains less losses from consumer finance, cards, direct banking and financial investments..... 351 78 19 other product families where HSBC has global Dividend income............... 55 31 16 scale and competitive advantages.
Net earned insurance premiums 8,271 5,130 4,864 Other operating income.... 387 782 729 Business highlights in 2007 Total operating income.. 51,386 42,209 37,440 Pre-tax profits in Personal Financial Services 6 declined by 38 per cent to US$5.9 billion in Net insurance claims....... 8,147 4,365 3,716 4 2007, 41 per cent on an underlying basis.
This Net operating income..... 43,239 37,844 33,724 was due to a US$6.2 billion increase in loan Loan impairment charges impairment charges, of which US$5.2 billion and other credit risk arose in the US, substantially all from the provisions 16,172 9,949 7,537 consumer finance business.
Excluding US Net operating income..... 27,067 27,895 26,187 consumer finance, profit before tax increased by Total operating expenses.. 21,757 18,818 16,427 18 per cent, 12 per cent on an underlying basis, Operating profit.............. 5,310 9,077 9,760 driven by exceptionally strong net operating income growth in Asia and, to a lesser extent, Share of profit in associates Latin America.
and joint ventures........... 590 380 144 Profit before tax.............. 5,900 9,457 9,904 As Asian stock markets grew in value during 2007, HSBC delivered a wider array of products By geographical region and services to meet demand.
5,900 9,457 9,904 HSBC Premier Premier, a global banking and wealth management service for affluent % % % customers, was relaunched in September 2007 Share of HSBCs profit before tax 24.4 42.8 47.2 with a high-profile advertising campaign.
Cost efficiency ratio.......... 50.3 49.7 48.7 Premier offers a comprehensive and consistent service to customers in 35 markets supported by 7 over 280 international Premier centres.
Balance sheet data Customer reaction to the relaunch was very US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to positive with a net 340,000 joining the Premier customers net............... 464,726 448,545 398,884 service in 2007, of which more than 50 per cent Total assets 588,473 546,568 484,314 were new to HSBC.
At the end of the year there Customer accounts............ 450,071 388,468 321,240 were more than 2.1 million Premier customers For footnotes, see page 130. across the Group and gross revenue generated per customer during 2007 averaged in excess of US$2,000 per year.
17 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Business highlights HSBC Direct, the Groups online banking and businesses.
The HSBC Insurance brand was savings offering launched in the US in 2005, launched along with several insurance initiatives continued to grow strongly in 2007.
Now also across Asia: these are discussed below.
established in Taiwan, South Korea and Canada, HSBCs cards in force globally exceeded HSBC Direct will be introduced into further 120 million at the end of 2007, an increase of markets in 2008.
In the US, deposits reached 6 per cent.
26 per cent were in emerging markets US$11.5 billion from over 620,000 customers, compared with 20 per cent in 2006, reflecting an increase of 60 and 80 per cent, respectively, HSBCs strategic focus there.
Around three since the end of 2006.
In Asia, over 240,000 quarters of HSBCs cards in force are now on a customers had deposited US$1.2 billion by single global system, part of the One HSBC the end of 2007.
Additional services were suite of common Group IT systems.
introduced in South Korea in October, including online overdrafts and time deposits.
The most HSBC continued to expand its consumer finance recent launch of HSBC Direct was in Canada business in Asia.
In India, the Group opened an in June 2007, with an enhanced local online additional 18 consumer finance branches and savings account.
45,000 customers, three loan centres, more than doubling customer quarters of whom were new to HSBC, had numbers.
In Indonesia, HSBC opened 36 new deposited over US$800 million by the end of consumer finance centres in 2007, taking the the year.
The consequences of the downturn in the US Europe housing market, which began in 2006 and accelerated during 2007, continued to affect In the UK, HSBC invested significantly in its HSBCs business in North America.
It is now distribution network to meet changing customer clear that the US is experiencing one of the demands for service.
52 new-style branches deepest housing market corrections since the were either opened or refurbished in a Second World War, and the effects have spread programme which included both the relocation beyond their origins in the sub-prime mortgage of branches and the opening of new sites across sector to the wider economy.
25 per cent of all face-to-face refinancing opportunities in a market of falling customer contact occurred at these new-style house prices, negligible investor demand for branches.
This was supported by a significant non-prime asset-backed securities and the investment in self-service devices.
tightening of underwriting criteria by lenders HSBCs focus on innovative competitive will continue to delay any recovery.
liability products, together with consumer In 2006, HSBC was one of the first lenders in confidence in the strength of the HSBC brand, North America to identify a problem in the US led to a 15 per cent rise in UK average savings mortgage sector.
Consequently, in the second balances in 2007. half of 2006, HSBC began to contact customers In March 2007, HSBC acquired its partners who were facing increased payments on their share of insurer, HSBC Assurances, in France.
adjustable-rate mortgages, tighten underwriting Integration began in the second half of the year, criteria and, as credit conditions in the US and there was early evidence of good progress.
deteriorated further in 2007, HSBC took the Sales of life-wrapped investment products decision to cease correspondent mortgage increased by 9 per cent year on year, acquisitions and close Decision One Mortgage outperforming the market.
Corporation Decision One, its wholesale business.
The size and value of the mortgage In Turkey, HSBC opened 45 new branches, services portfolio which encompasses both the taking the total to 195.
Strong organic growth wholesale and correspondent businesses, is was driven by excellent customer acquisition, now decreasing.
Weaker credit conditions also with new customers rising by over 600,000. affected the consumer lending business and, Encouragingly, the cross-sell ratio continued in the second half of 2007, HSBC stopped to improve, driven by a systematic after sale underwriting certain products and reduced the follow-up process.
branch network to better align it with anticipated demand.
Hong Kong In 2007, HSBC announced a strategy to Personal Financial Services had an outstanding accelerate growth in the Groups insurance year in Hong Kong, with pre-tax profits rising 18 by 46 per cent.
HSBC provided its customers US sub-prime mortgage market by contacting, with an array of products and services, and with throughout 2007, customers facing increased the local stock exchange performing strongly in payments on adjustable-rate mortgages.
Since 2007, fee income from investment products inception of this programme in 2006, HSBC has grew by 144 per cent and securities turnover by contacted over 41,000 customers and modified 167 per cent.
10,300 loans with a value of US$1.6 billion.
The Group reduced the mortgage services portfolio Insurance and retirement products were also a by US$13.3 billion in 2007, or 27 per cent, to significant driver of growth in Hong Kong.
HSBC launched a number of new products during the year and became the leading provider HSBC Insurance launched a US direct channel of single-premium life policies.
at the end of 2006, offering term life insurance directly to consumers, which increased the As the popularity of internet banking continued Groups market share to 7 per cent of annualised in Hong Kong, the proportion of all transactions premiums.
that were conducted outside the branch network in 2007 was 96 per cent.
HSBC Direct continued to be an effective alternative channel for gathering deposits and HSBC consolidated its position as the largest reaching new customers, with more than 70 per credit card issuer in Hong Kong.
Cards in force cent resident outside New York State.
By the rose by 6 per cent to 4.9 million.
end of the year, HSBC Direct in the US had attracted US$11.5 billion of deposits.
During Rest of Asia-Pacific 2007, two new complementary products were In April 2007, HSBC was one of four foreign launched, certificates of deposit and an online banks to incorporate in mainland China.
allowed HSBC to start providing a full range of The US retail bank opened 26 branches in 2007, retail banking products, including local currency taking the total to 465, of which 17 per cent are services to domestic individuals, paving the way now outside the banks original geographic base.
for Personal Financial Services to become an The new branches helped aid the growth of increasingly important part of HSBCs business Premier in California, Florida and Connecticut.
HSBC nearly doubled its branch network in Latin America mainland China during 2007.
The new outlets HSBC continued to integrate HSBC Bank also included the first ever rural branch opened Panama.
Its acquisition in 2006 provided HSBC by a foreign bank.
At the end of the year HSBC with access to a market of 83 million people had more than 80 outlets in mainland China.
across Central America and northern South During 2007, HSBC announced several America.
Investment in re-branding the acquired insurance initiatives in India, Vietnam, Taiwan, branch network has begun.
mainland China, South Korea and the Middle A buoyant market, combined with attentive East.
HSBC agreed to form a joint venture with customer service and an expanded network in two local banks in India, and it entered into an Brazil, helped HSBC gain market share and agreement to acquire almost 50 per cent of Hana scale in core products.
For example, credit cards Life in South Korea.
HSBC also acquired 10 per in force rose by 28 per cent and, in HSBC cent of Bao Viet, a leading insurance company Pension Funds, contributions grew by 39 per in Vietnam.
HSBC launched insurance cent compared with the market average of operations in Taiwan and an Islamic insurance 23 per cent, positioning HSBC among the business in the Middle East.
HSBC launched an online savings product in the Tu Cuenta, HSBCs packaged account in United Arab Emirates UAE at the end of the Mexico, continued to be successful with first quarter of 2007.
By the end of the year, 1.3 million accounts at the end of 2007, a rise almost 10,000 accounts had been opened and of 29 per cent.
Additionally, HSBC increased more than US$500 million of deposits placed.
its market share of credit cards in Mexico by 3.5 percentage points to 10 per cent.
20 Commercial Banking Strategic direction Profit before tax HSBCs Commercial Banking strategy is focused on Year ended 31 December two key initiatives: 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m to be the leading international business bank, using HSBCs extensive geographical network Net interest income........... 9,055 7,514 6,310 together with product expertise in payments, Net fee income.................. 3,972 3,207 2,876 trade, receivables finance and foreign exchange Trading income excluding to support customers trading and investing net interest income......... 265 204 150 across borders: and Net interest income expense on trading to be the best bank for small businesses in target activities 31 20 3 markets, building global scale and creating 5 Net trading income.......... 296 224 147 efficiencies by sharing best practices, including in marketing and credit scoring, and selectively Net income expense from financial instruments rolling-out the direct banking model.
22 22 12 designated at fair value.. Commercial Banking enhances the customer Gains less losses from financial investments..... 90 44 9 experience through a strong multi-channel approach Dividend income............... 8 6 9 to customer relationships, leveraging HSBCs IT Net earned insurance platforms and operational processing capabilities.
premiums 733 258 236 Additional value is captured through strong Other operating income.... 165 250 327 connectivity with each of the other customer groups.
Total operating income.. 14,341 11,481 9,902 6 Net insurance claims....... 391 96 118 Business highlights in 2007 4 Net operating income..... 13,950 11,385 9,784 Pre-tax profit increased by 19 per cent to Loan impairment charges US$7.1 billion, with considerable growth in and other credit risk both net interest income and net fee income.
Total operating expenses.. 6,252 4,979 4,453 Growth was driven by strong results in Hong Operating profit.............. 6,691 5,709 4,784 Kong up by 23 per cent on 2006, mainland Share of profit in associates China 65 per cent, Mexico 69 per cent and and joint ventures........... 454 288 177 the UAE 29 per cent.
As a result, the share of Profit before tax.............. 7,145 5,997 4,961 profits from faster-growing economies increased from 47 per cent in 2006 to 52 per cent in 2007.
By geographical region Total customer numbers grew faster than in Europe 2,516 2,234 1,939 Hong Kong 1,619 1,321 955 previous years, by 8 per cent to 2.8 million, Rest of Asia-Pacific....... 1,350 1,034 818 driven by growth in the small business segment, North America............... 920 957 892 particularly in Turkey, Mexico, the UAE, the Latin America................ 740 451 357 UK and Hong Kong.
The rise in customer 7,145 5,997 4,961 numbers helped drive an increase of 25 per cent in deposits, particularly in Hong Kong and the % % % Rest of Asia-Pacific region.
Share of HSBCs profit before tax 29.5 27.2 23.7 Lending growth of 27 per cent was also robust, Cost efficiency ratio.......... 44.8 43.7 45.5 while loan impairment charges remained low at less than 0.5 per cent of average assets.
7 Balance sheet data Notwithstanding the investment which US$m US$m US$m underpinned the substantial expansion in Asia Loans and advances to customers net............... 220,068 172,976 142,041 and Latin America, the cost efficiency ratio was Total assets 261,893 213,450 175,120 broadly stable at 44.8 per cent.
The number of Customer accounts............ 237,987 190,853 148,106 full-time equivalent employees in commercial banking grew by 14 per cent to 26,000, For footnotes, see page 130. including nearly 7,400 relationship managers.
21 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Business highlights HSBC continued to improve its capacity to meet Sales of Global Banking and Markets products customers cross-border business requirements.
increased strongly, particularly in treasury International Banking Centres covering a further products which had revenue increases of over 38 countries and territories were opened, 30 per cent on an underlying basis and more increasing their coverage to 54 countries and than 50 per cent in Asia.
nearly all of the customer base.
Customer experience was improved with the launch of Europe SmartForms electronic account opening forms Expansion in Europe continued with the in 16 countries, the appointment of specialist broadening of product capabilities and corporate international teams in the UK and geographical reach.
Receivables Finance was France and the creation of new country desks in launched in four countries and International mainland China.
Banking Centres in a further seven.
Investment The effect of these initiatives was demonstrated continued within Central and Eastern Europe, by growth of 125 per cent in the number of especially in Poland, where HSBC now offers successful referrals through the Global Links services in six cities.
Following receipt of a system, with aggregate transaction values retail banking licence in Russia in July 2007, doubling to US$6 billion.
HSBC opened offices in two cities in addition to Moscow.
HSBCs success in its strategy to be the best bank for small business was recognised with In Turkey, rapid expansion continued with the awards in Hong Kong and the UK for the opening of a further 29 branches serving small Business Internet Banking BIB platform, and business customers and the ongoing recruitment HSBCs service quality was recognised with of experienced relationship managers.
This multiple Best Partner awards in Hong Kong contributed to a 48 per cent rise in customer and the top ranking for overall satisfaction in the numbers, particularly in small and micro Canadian Federation of Independent Business businesses.
A number of investment banking survey.
advisory and structured finance transactions were referred to Global Banking and Markets Direct channel capabilities were improved from Commercial Bankings corporate and through the upgrade of BIB platforms in Hong mid-market business.
Kong and in six countries in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region, and the enhancement of Further segmentation was applied in the UK HSBCnet.
A total of 800,000 customers are now with the expansion of multicultural banking, active users of BIB, an increase of 24 per cent in including the UKs first dedicated Polish 2007, while the number of transactions on commercial banking unit.
Following the HSBCnet grew during the year by 157 per cent realignment of the relationship management and to 27 million.
distribution approach in commercial centres, customer satisfaction improved by 8 percentage Commercial Banking continued to make points.
progress in meeting customers insurance needs with product launches in Hong Kong In the UK, 25 per cent more start-up businesses FlexiCommercial, Privileged Term and Capital chose HSBC for their banking than in 2006 and Protection Plan and the UK Motor Fleet, nearly a quarter of all new small and micro Professional Indemnity and High Risk customers chose Business Direct accounts.
A number of further projects Improvements in internet banking led to a with strategic partners are currently under 30 per cent increase in the number of users and development for launch in 2008 in other resulted in recognition from independent countries, including Brazil, France and Mexico.
surveys for both customer usage and functionality.
Commercial Banking continued to grow its cross-referrals to and from other customer groups.
In the first half of 2007, over 50 per cent of new small business customers in key markets had existing Personal Financial Services relationships.
Referrals of Commercial Banking customers to Private Banking resulted in US$1.8 billion of assets under management.
22 Hong Kong North America HSBCs service excellence was recognised by a In the US, HSBCs payments and cash number of awards, notably Best Bank in the management services won Euromoneys Best Euromoney 2007 Awards for Excellence and Cash Management in North America award for Best SME small and medium-sized enterprise the second year running.
The appointment of Partner by three organisations.
dedicated resources underpinned strong growth in cross-sales of treasury and debt products to HSBC built on its longstanding reputation for Commercial Banking customers.
trade services with the launch of EasyTrade for the small business segment.
Other product Increased customer segmentation and the launches included FlexiInsurance and Green reorganisation of branch roles in Canada Equipment Financing.
enabled larger mid-market and real estate relationships to be managed centrally.
Combined The number of SME centres expanded from with product enhancements in the payments and eight to 10, and there was an increase in the cash management arena, such as six new number of dedicated SME relationship product launches and functionality managers to nearly 100. improvements across HSBCnet and BIB, New functionality was added to BIB, such as Commercial Banking grew strongly.
For forward contract booking and cheque status example, fee income from cross-border enquiries.
The number of active BIB users payments increased by 27 per cent.
increased by 43 per cent and the BIB service was recognised with two awards, the Best Latin America Integrated Corporate Site for Asia from Global International Banking Centres now provide Finance 2007 Worlds Best Internet Banks services to all countries in Latin America, with awards, and the Best SME e-banking award Mexico providing a regional hub for Central from SMB World magazine.
America and Brazil for smaller South American countries.
Rest of Asia-Pacific In Mexico, trade services revenues increased by Trade and payments and cash management 33 per cent and the number of customers grew revenues grew strongly, particularly in the UAE, by 123 per cent.
The receivables finance product India and Vietnam, as HSBC positioned itself in range was expanded and relaunched using growing economies to benefit from the even Group IT systems.
faster growth of intra-Asian trade flows.
The Greater China regional model was advanced by In Brazil, sales of products through electronic the acquisition of Chailease Credit Services and telephone channels increased by 95 per Company Ltd Chailease in Taiwan, which cent, as new products were launched and the expanded HSBCs receivables finance business number of customers using internet banking and strengthened both domestic and rose to 117,000.
The Segmento Empreendedor international trade capabilities.
The integration product local BusinessDirect was launched in of branches from The Chinese Bank Co. Ltd. Sao Paulo and Curitiba.
The Chinese Bank announced in December 2007, is expected to provide HSBC with a presence in every major city in Taiwan, contributing to the strategy for growth across Greater China.
In the Middle East, new business banking units were established in the UAE, Bahrain, Jordan, Lebanon, Oman and Qatar, contributing to a 30 per cent growth in customers.
Cross-sales of investment banking products were strong in India and the Middle East, including sukuk deals and two initial public offerings IPOs.
HSBC Amanah trade products were introduced in Malaysia.
24 Global Banking and Markets Strategic direction Profit before tax In 2007, the implementation of the emerging Year ended 31 December markets-led and financing-focused strategy was 2007 2006 2005 completed and Corporate, Investment Banking and US$m US$m US$m Markets was renamed Global Banking and Markets.
Net interest income........... 4,430 3,168 3,001 HSBCs strategy is to be a leading wholesale bank Net fee income.................. 4,901 3,718 2,967 by: Trading income excluding utilising HSBCs extensive distribution net interest income......... 3,503 4,890 2,919 network: Net interest income expense on trading developing Global Banking and Markets hubactivities 236 379 306 and-spoke business model: and 5 Net trading income.......... 3,267 4,511 3,225 continuing to build capabilities in major hubs to Net income from financial support the delivery of an advanced suite of instruments designated at services to corporate, institutional and 164 20 67 fair value government clients across the HSBC network.
Gains less losses from financial investments..... 1,313 534 475 Ensuring that this combination of product depth Dividend income............... 222 235 79 and distribution strength meets the needs of existing Net earned insurance premiums 93 73 76 and new clients will allow Global Banking and Other operating income.... 1,218 1,378 1,621 Markets to achieve its strategic goals.
Total operating income.. 15,280 13,637 11,511 6 Business highlights in 2007 Net insurance claims....... 70 62 54 4 Pre-tax profit increased by 5 per cent to Net operating income..... 15,210 13,575 11,457 US$6.1 billion, despite a total of US$2.1 billion of Loan impairment charges write-downs on credit trading, leveraged and recoveries and other acquisition financing positions, and monoline credit risk provisions..... 38 119 272 credit exposures resulting from disruption and Net operating income..... 15,172 13,694 11,729 deterioration in the credit markets.
In North Total operating expenses.. 9,358 7,991 6,838 America, the mortgage-backed securities Operating profit.............. 5,814 5,703 4,891 operation was closed to new business and was downsized.
Strong results were reported across Share of profit in associates and joint ventures........... 307 103 272 most other businesses with record revenues from foreign exchange, equities, securities services, Profit before tax.............. 6,121 5,806 5,163 payments and cash management, and HSBC By geographical region Global Asset Management.
The rise in operating expenses Rest of Asia-Pacific....... 2,464 1,649 1,207 reflected increased volumes in payments and cash North America............... 965 423 573 management and securities services.
% % % HSBCs leading position in emerging markets and Share of HSBCs profit financing was recognised by various industry before tax 25.3 26.3 24.6 awards, including being named Middle East Cost efficiency ratio.......... 61.5 58.9 59.7 Mergers and Acquisitions Adviser of the Year For footnotes, see page 130 and Middle East Loan House of the Year by Acquisitions Monthly and International Financing Review, respectively.
In the Euromoney 2007 Awards for Excellence, HSBC was named global Best Risk Management House, Best Foreign Exchange House in Asia and, for the tenth consecutive year Best Risk Management House in Asia.
25 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Business highlights Management view of total operating income In Global Banking, the credit market dislocation led to a fair value write-down in respect of loan Year ended 31 December 9 9 commitments outstanding when credit spreads 2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m widened in the second half of 2007, though robust growth in fees resulting from a greater transaction Global Markets................. 5,074 5,533 3,982 volume more than offset this.
Asset and structured Foreign exchange......... 2,178 1,552 1,233 Credit and Rates........... 419 1,334 947 finance also benefited from a small number of Structured derivatives... 647 874 511 significant transactions, while revenues in the 10 Equities 742 397 336 capital markets businesses were boosted by Securities services........ 1,926 1,376 955 greater market activity in Europe and Hong Kong.
Global Banking................. 4,836 3,907 3,437 The continued growth in payments and cash Financing and capital management revenues reflected a rise in deposit markets 2,832 2,249 2,179 balances and higher transaction volumes across Payments and cash management............... 1,632 1,257 907 most regions.
Other transaction HSBC advised on several notable cross-border services 372 401 351 transactions, including Singapore Balance sheet Telecommunications US$758 million acquisition management.................. 1,226 713 1,246 of a 30 per cent stake in Warid Telecom of HSBC Global Asset 11 Management............... 1,336 1,066 775 Pakistan: National Titanium Dioxide of Saudi Principal Investments....... 1,253 686 715 Arabias S$1.2 billion acquisition of Lyondell 12 Other........ 1,555 1,732 1,356 Chemicals inorganic chemicals business in the Total operating income..... 15,280 13,637 11,511 US: and Dubai Drydocks S$650 million acquisition of Pan-United Marine of Singapore.
7 Balance sheet data HSBC was lead arranger of US$9.2 billion of facilities for the acquisition of GE Plastics by Loans and advances to: Saudi Basic Industries: 2.25 billion for the customers net.............. 250,464 210,220 169,435 banks net.................... 199,506 156,548 106,123 acquisition of Mlnlycke Health Care by Investor Total assets 1,375,240 994,436 755,056 AB: and 3.4 billion for the acquisition of Customer accounts............ 299,879 235,965 202,361 National Grid Wireless by Macquarie.
Trading assets, financial instruments designated at In debt capital markets, HSBC ranked first in fair value, and financial the Asian local currency bond league table investments................... 674,647 487,943 373,787 compiled by Bloomberg, first in the sterling Deposits by banks............. 126,395 92,954 65,853 bond league table and fifth in the international For footnotes, see page 130. bond league table.
The increase in balance sheet management In Global Markets, structured derivatives revenues was driven by higher spreads, and continued to benefit from investment made in arose principally from the recovery in Asia.
technical expertise and systems in previous years, notwithstanding the decline in income Group Investment Businesses was rebranded as from structured credit products.
Foreign HSBC Global Asset Management following a exchange reported strong growth across all closer alignment with other businesses within regions.
Positive revenue trends reflected higher Global Banking and Markets.
A rise in income customer volumes against the backdrop of a was driven by continuing strong revenue growth weakening US dollar and greater market from emerging market products across all volatility, particularly in the second half of regions and a notable increase in funds under 2007.
Equities recorded a significant increase management.
Successes included the development especially in Europe and particularly due to of the global liquidity and multi-manager HSBCs differentiation in emerging markets businesses, established in late 2006 and early products.
Securities services benefited from new 2007, both of which have reported strong inflows mandates and increased volumes in higher value of new business.
Funds under management rose products, particularly in Asia, as clients by 16 per cent to US$380 billion.
Assets Principal Investments reported significant gains under custody rose by 30 per cent.
from a small number of realisations benefiting from higher exit multiples.
27 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Business highlights Private Banking Strategic direction Profit before tax The strategy for Private Banking is to be one of the Year ended 31 December worlds leading international private banks, by 2007 2006 2005 providing excellent client service.
US$m US$m US$m HSBCs global network and brand provides a Net interest income........... 1,216 1,011 848 base from which Private Banking, working in Net fee income.................. 1,615 1,323 1,080 conjunction with HSBCs other customer groups Trading income excluding and global businesses, serves the complex net interest income......... 525 362 317 international needs of its clients, utilising Net interest income traditional and innovative ways of managing on trading activities........ 9 2 and preserving the wealth of high net worth 5 Net trading income.......... 534 364 317 individuals while optimising returns.
Net income expense from Private Banking aims to grow annuity revenue financial instruments designated at fair value.. 1 1 1 streams through product leadership in areas Gains less losses from such as credit, hedge funds, emerging markets, financial investments..... 119 166 45 investment advice and estate planning.
This Dividend income............... 7 5 9 will be achieved by attracting, retaining and Other operating income.... 58 61 68 motivating talented individuals, by close Total operating income.. 3,548 2,931 2,366 communication with clients and employees 6 Net insurance claims....... and by increasing expenditure targeted on IT, 4 Net operating income..... 3,548 2,931 2,366 marketing and brand awareness initiatives.
Private Bankings onshore business and intraLoan impairment group partnerships will also be strengthened.
charges recoveries and other credit risk provisions 14 33 12 Business highlights in 2007 Net operating income...... 3,534 2,898 2,378 Pre-tax profits increased by 24 per cent Total operating expenses.. 2,025 1,685 1,466 or 22 per cent on an underlying basis to US$1.5 billion, primarily due to an outstanding Operating profit.............. 1,509 1,213 912 performance in Hong Kong, and strong growth Share of profit in associates in Switzerland and throughout the Americas.
and joint ventures........... 2 1 Profit before tax.............. 1,511 1,214 912 Approximately 3,500 inward referrals from other customer groups in HSBC in 2007 resulted By geographical region in US$6 billion of net new money.
In addition, Europe 915 805 539 Global Banking and Markets mandated or Hong Kong 305 201 190 completed 34 transactions that originated in Rest of Asia-Pacific....... 92 80 78 Private Banking, on which fees for the Group North America................ 174 114 104 Latin America................ 25 14 1 are expected to be US$70 million.
1,511 1,214 912 HSBC Private Banking was awarded third best Global Private Bank in the Euromoney survey, % % % for the third year running.
Share of HSBCs profit before tax 6.2 5.5 4.4 Client assets increased by 26 per cent to Cost efficiency ratio.......... 57.1 57.5 62.0 US$421.0 billion, of which US$35.9 billion 7 related to net new money, reflecting strong Balance sheet data US$m US$m US$m investment performance and increased Loans and advances to marketing expenditure.
28 Client assets remains a centre of excellence for private wealth 2007 2006 management.
Client assets increased by 38 per cent to Client assets by investment class US$93.0 billion, of which US$12.9 billion 2007 2006 related to net new money.
At 31 December 421 333 Onshore private banking in mainland China received regulatory approval in December 2007, Total client assets, including some non-financial and was launched in January 2008.
The first assets held in client trusts, amounted to branches will be opened in Shanghai, Beijing US$494.1 billion at 31 December 2007.
represented a 21 per cent increase over the previous year.
This measure is equivalent to A savings product with returns linked to the competitors assets under management figures.
Hong Kong Stock Exchange the Forward Accumulator was introduced by HSBC in Asia.
In response to client demand, a number of new investment products were launched in 2007 Americas with particular emphasis on private equity HSBC continued to expand and improve its in emerging markets.
Amanah Investment business in North America.
In January 2007, Solutions, a shariah Islamic lawcompliant Private Banking services were launched in fund, was added to the successful range of Canada, since when the business has contributed multi-manager fund solutions.
US$8 million to Private Bankings pre-tax profits.
In addition, a new Private Banking Hedge fund services performed well.
HSBC office was opened in Washington.
Alternative Investments Ltd successfully launched the HSBC Special Opportunities Fund and earned A strategic decision was made to exit the Wealth a number of awards in 2007, including Hedge and Tax Advisory Services business in order to Fund of the Year at the UK Pension Awards, and focus on core Private Banking activities.
The was shortlisted by the Financial Times as the Best management buyout was completed on Client Services provider.
The domestic businesses in Brazil and Mexico Europe experienced strong growth as local entrepreneurs launched IPOs and invested in Private Banking further expanded its business in local markets.
The acquisition of HSBC Bank the UK and Ireland with offices established in Panama facilitated the establishment of Private Edinburgh and Dublin, taking the total number of Banking operations there.
offices in Private Banking to 93.
As a result of new operations in Canada and Client assets increased by 19 per cent to Panama and client acquisition by the enlarged US$258.4 billion, of which US$20.2 billion related franchise in the region, client assets increased to net new money.
This was driven by an by 42 per cent to US$69.6 billion.
30 Other Notes Profit before tax For a description of the main items reported Year ended 31 December under Other, see footnote 8 on page 130.
2007 2006 2005 US$m US$m US$m Dilution gains of US$1.1 billion were recorded in the first half of 2007 following share Net interest expense.......... 542 625 472 offerings made by three of HSBCs associates: Net fee income expense.. 228 172 220 Ping An Insurance, Bank of Communications Trading income expense and Industrial Bank.
Although HSBCs holding excluding net interest in these entities was diluted, its share of the income 127 228 90 capital raised resulted in a gain.
Similarly, Net interest income dilution gains of US$11 million and expense on trading activities 1 82 13 US$5 million were recorded following share Net trading income issues made by Financiera Independencia, a 5 expense 126 146 103 Mexican banking associate, and Techcombank Net income expense from in Vietnam, respectively.
financial instruments designated at fair value.. 2,893 81 406 Net income from financial instruments Gains less losses from designated at fair value of US$2.9 billion was financial investments..... 83 147 144 recorded in 2007, primarily driven by the Gains arising from dilution of interests in widening of credit spreads on debt issued by associates 1,092 HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries in North Dividend income............... 32 63 42 America and Europe, and designated at fair Net earned insurance value.
These movements will reverse over the premiums 21 207 260 life of the debt unless it is repaid before its Other operating income.... 3,523 3,254 2,634 contractual maturity.
Total operating income.. 6,958 2,991 3,131 6 In 2006, the results of HSBC Insurance Brokers Net insurance claims....... 181 179 were reported within Other.
This contributed 4 Net operating income..... 6,958 2,810 2,952 US$591 million to net operating income before Loan impairment charges loan impairment charges and US$363 million to and other credit risk operating expenses.
In 2007, these results were provisions 11 13 1 reallocated to other customer groups.
Net operating income..... 6,947 2,797 2,951 The number of countries using Group Service Total operating expenses.. 3,562 3,259 2,976 Centres GSCs increased to 31 following the Operating profit loss.... 3,385 462 25 opening of six new centres in 2007.
The GSCs Share of profit in joint now have 30,000 employees in five countries in ventures and associates.. 150 74 51 Asia.
Operating expenses at HSBC Technology Profit loss before tax.... 3,535 388 26 Services increased by 16 per cent, due to increased demand for services from other Group By geographical region entities.
Substantially all service provider costs Europe 1,056 278 168 are recharged to the relevant customer groups Hong Kong 375 175 178 Rest of Asia-Pacific....... 1,343 287 94 and revenue is reported under Other operating North America............... 1,508 217 165 income.
Latin America................ 3 5 113 HSBC made a US$73 million gain following 3,535 388 26 a change in the embedded value of HSBC % % % Assurances, an associate in France, prior to Share of HSBCs profit the acquisition of its remaining share capital before tax 14.6 1.8 0.1 by HSBC.
31 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Business highlights Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax Year ended 31 December 2007 compared with year ended 31 December 2006 2006 Acquisitions, 2006 at 2007 disposals as Currency exchange and dilution Underlying 2007 as Reported Underlying 1 2 reported translation rates gains change reported change change Other US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Net interest expense........ 625 22 647 105 542 13 16 Net fee income expense.
32 Analysis by customer group and global business Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data Year ended 31 December 2007 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 8 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 29,069 9,055 4,430 1,216 542 5,433 37,795 Net fee income expense........... 11,742 3,972 4,901 1,615 228 22,002 Trading income excluding net interest income 38 265 3,503 525 127 4,458 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 140 31 236 9 1 5,433 5,376 5 Net trading income.................... 178 296 3,267 534 126 5,433 9,834 Net income expense from financial instruments 1,333 22 164 1 2,893 4,083 designated at fair value........... Gains less losses from 351 90 1,313 119 83 1,956 financial investments.............. Gains arising from dilution of 1,092 1,092 interests in associates............. Dividend income.. 55 8 222 7 32 324 Net earned insurance premiums.
33 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Customer groups Profit before tax Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data continued Year ended 31 December 2006 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 8 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 26,076 7,514 3,168 1,011 625 2,658 34,486 Net fee income 8,762 3,207 3,718 1,323 172 17,182 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 391 204 4,890 362 228 5,619 Net interest income expense 220 20 379 2 82 2,658 2,603 on trading activities................ 5 Net trading income expense... 611 224 4,511 364 146 2,658 8,222 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 739 22 20 1 81 657 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 78 44 534 166 147 969 Dividend income 31 6 235 5 63 340 Net earned insurance premiums.
34 Year ended 31 December 2005 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 8 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 23,351 6,310 3,001 848 472 1,704 31,334 Net fee income 7,313 2,876 2,967 1,080 220 14,456 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 360 150 2,919 317 90 3,656 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 214 3 306 13 1,704 2,208 5 Net trading income expense... 574 147 3,225 317 103 1,704 5,864 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 574 12 67 1 406 1,034 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 19 9 475 45 144 692 Dividend income 16 9 79 9 42 155 Net earned insurance premiums.
35 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Geographical regions Summary Competitive environment Geographical regions Summary of geographical regions In the analysis of profit by geographical regions that follows, operating income and operating expenses include intra-HSBC items of US$1,985 million 2006: US$1,494 million: 2005: US$938 million.
Additional information on results in 2007 may be Rest of Asia-Pacific including the found in the Report of the Directors: Financial Middle East Review on pages 131 to 191.
HSBC offers personal, commercial, global banking and markets services in mainland China, mainly Europe through its local subsidiary, HSBC Bank China HSBCs principal banking operations in Europe are Company Limited HSBC Bank China, which was HSBC Bank plc HSBC Bank in the UK, HSBC incorporated in March 2007.
The banks network France, HSBC Bank A. S. in Turkey, HSBC Bank spans 18 major cities, comprising 18 branches and Malta p. l. c. HSBC Private Bank Suisse S. A.
Hang Seng Bank offers personal HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and HSBC and commercial banking services and operates 10 Guyerzeller Bank AG.
Through these operations branches, 14 sub-branches and one representative HSBC provides a wide range of banking, treasury office in 10 cities in mainland China.
HSBC also and financial services to personal, commercial and participates indirectly in mainland China through corporate customers across Europe.
its three associates, Bank of Communications 19.01 per cent owned, Ping An Insurance Hong Kong 16.78 per cent and Industrial Bank 12.78 per cent, and has a further interest of 8 per cent in Bank HSBCs principal banking subsidiaries in Hong of Shanghai.
Kong are The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited The Hongkong and Shanghai Outside Hong Kong and mainland China, HSBC Banking Corporation and Hang Seng Bank Limited conducts business in 21 countries in the Asia-Pacific Hang Seng Bank.
The former is the largest bank region, primarily through branches and subsidiaries incorporated in Hong Kong and is HSBCs flagship of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking bank in the Asia-Pacific region.
It is one of Hong Corporation, with particularly strong coverage in Kongs three note-issuing banks, accounting for India, Indonesia, South Korea, Singapore and more than 65 per cent by value of banknotes in Taiwan.
HSBCs presence in the Middle East is led circulation in 2007. by HSBC Bank Middle East Limited HSBC Bank 36 Middle East, whose network of branches, HSBC faces competition from specialist providers subsidiaries and associates has the widest coverage and the investment banking operations of other in the region: in Australia by HSBC Bank Australia commercial banks.
Limited: and in Malaysia by HSBC Bank Malaysia Regulators routinely monitor and investigate the Berhad HSBC Bank Malaysia, which is the competitiveness of the financial services industry largest foreign-owned bank in the country by of which HSBC is a part in a number of areas, operating income and pre-tax profits.
HSBCs particularly in the UK and continental Europe.
associate in Saudi Arabia, The Saudi British Bank HSBCs policy is to co-operate and work positively 40 per cent owned, is the Kingdoms sixth largest with all its regulators, providing data and perspective bank by total assets.
on those issues which affect all financial service providers both directly and through industry bodies.
North America HSBCs North American businesses are located in Global factors the US, Canada and Bermuda.
Operations in the US Market liquidity are primarily conducted through HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC Bank USA which is concentrated in The credit crunch disruption in credit markets that New York State, and HSBC Finance, a national began in the latter half of 2007 is resulting in the consumer finance company based in Chicago.
HSBC movement of assets back on to banks balance Markets USA Inc. is the intermediate holding sheets, absorbing capital and constraining banks company of, inter alia, HSBC Securities USA Inc. ability to lend.
The disruption has created an a registered broker and dealer of securities and a imbalance between the supply and demand for registered futures commission merchant.
HSBC many classes of financial assets and has led to the Bank Canada and The Bank of Bermuda Limited traditional buyers of debt adopting a very cautious Bank of Bermuda operate in their respective approach to the purchase of any securities which are countries.
neither fully transparent in risk profile nor of assured liquidity.
Although this liquidity strain began in the Latin America asset-backed securities markets, it has since spread to more traditional investment classes.
In this HSBCs operations in Latin America and the environment, the scope for a bank to originate assets Caribbean principally comprise HSBC Mxico, S. A. beyond its capacity to hold them to term is limited HSBC Mexico, HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco by its available capital and funding resources.
This Mltiplo HSBC Bank Brazil, HSBC Bank environment is less disruptive to banks that fund Argentina S. A. HSBC Bank Argentina and their lending through deposits than those that rely on HSBC Bank Panama S. A. HSBC Bank Panama, the securitisation markets for funding.
formerly Grupo Banistmo S. A. which owns subsidiaries in Costa Rica, Honduras, Colombia, Progressive alignment of the capital adequacy Nicaragua and El Salvador.
HSBC is also framework towards economic capital represented by subsidiaries in Chile, the Bahamas, Peru, Paraguay and Uruguay and by a representative As major banks move to the new Basel II capital office in Venezuela.
In addition to banking services, adequacy framework see Basel II on page 284, HSBC operates insurance businesses in Mexico, their capital requirements will necessarily be more Argentina, Brazil, Panama, Honduras and closely matched with their risk profiles.
In Brazil, HSBC offers consumer environment of economic uncertainty, many banks finance products through its subsidiary, Losango.
may need to reduce lending due to forecast increases in capital requirements arising from deterioration in Competitive environment the quality of their credit risk exposures.
This reduction in risk appetite may potentially accelerate HSBC believes that open and competitive markets the deterioration in credit quality as credit are good for both local economies and their availability is restricted during a downturn in the participants.
The Group faces very strong economic cycle.
When coupled with a lack of market competition in the markets it serves.
In personal and liquidity, this may lead to polarisation within the commercial banking, it competes with a wide range banking system.
Banks with greater capital and of institutions including commercial banks, liquidity resources are better placed to meet the consumer finance companies, retail financial service ongoing banking requirements of their customers companies, savings and loan associations, credit than other banks which are more constrained in this unions, general retailers, brokerage firms and regard.
In investment banking, 37 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Competitive environment Advances in technology into the long-term evolution of the industry.
Legislators are enforcing legislation with the aim of Customer transaction volumes continue to grow at a improving competition and protecting consumers.
rate considerably ahead of the growth in underlying balances or accounts, leading many banks to seek to In November 2007, the European Commission reduce unit costs per service transaction in order to announced that in order to improve the maintain margins.
The deployment of automated competitiveness and efficiency of European retail secure transaction channels requires significant financial services markets, reviews would be investment, providing a competitive advantage to undertaken to improve customer choice and mobility banks with larger scale.
Despite widespread adoption within the single market: better facilitate retail by both banks and customers of new distribution insurance markets: achieve progress towards channels, the expected reduction in volumes of adequate and consistent rules for the distribution of transactions through traditional channels has been retail investment products: and promote financial slow to materialise and many banking customers education, financial inclusion and adequate redress continue to prefer to use them.
generation of customers, however, tends to be more Following a long running investigation, the comfortable with system-aided self-service, Competition Directorate-General determined that particularly for savings accounts, credit cards and MasterCards multilateral interchange fees for crosssimple investments.
HSBC expects the sophistication border payment card transactions violate EU of products sold in direct channels and adoption rates competition rules.
MasterCard has six months to to increase, as the use of 24-hour self-service comply or respond.
HSBC is fully engaged in the channels, such as ATMs, internet, mobile, and voice case through its membership of MasterCard.
response units becomes increasingly commonplace.
A number of key EU measures intended to Regulation facilitate development of the single market and increase competition came into effect during the Initiatives such as Basel II, together with the year: principally, transposition of the Markets in increasing international scope of financial services, Financial Instruments Directive in November 2007. have increased the level of cooperation between Implementation of phase 1 of the Single Euro regulatory authorities in different countries.
Payments Area programme occurred in January Enhanced understanding of how risks are originated 2008. and dispersed in modern financial markets has reinforced the need to address how best to regulate UK the increasingly integrated and international nature of banking and financial services: this has been Financial services, including retail banking, is a evidenced most recently in coordinated discussions highly competitive sector in the UK, led by several on the global liquidity disruption.
In addition, the national and international institutions which compete enlargement of the EU, the introduction of the on both price and service quality.
Domestic Markets in Financial Instruments Directive acquisitions or mergers are limited.
The sector is MIFID and the continued effort to endorse closely regulated, and a series of investigations with consistent standards and enforcement has particular relevance to Personal Financial Services encouraged regulatory bodies to work together more remain in progress.
Interaction and cooperation have led to In July 2007, a group of seven banks including competitive and regulatory issues emerging in one HSBC and one building society announced that they country rapidly being taken up in other jurisdictions.
had agreed with the Office of Fair Trading OFT Uniform global standards, however, continue to be that the legal status and enforceability of certain of complicated by differing local interpretations, or the charges applied to their personal customers in additional local regulation.
relation to unauthorised overdrafts should be tested in the High Court.
Certain preliminary issues in the Regional factors case came before the High Court in a trial starting Europe in January 2008 and this part of the case concluded in February 2008.
At the date of this report, Across Europe, in all sectors, HSBC competes with a judgement in the case is awaited.
The OFT is also growing range of institutions.
These markets are conducting a market study into competition for characterised by rapid innovation, margin personal current accounts.
compression through competition and a constant flow of new entrants.
Regulators monitor the financial services sector closely and conduct reviews 38 The Competition Commission CC In the middle of 2007, downward pressure on commenced an investigation into the payment interest rates and an overall improvement in the protection insurance PPI market in February 2007 property market led to increased demand for and published its Emerging Thinking document in mortgages.
Prices for high-end properties rose, November 2007.
Provisional findings are due in though competition in traditional mortgage products May 2008 and the final report towards the end of the remained fierce.
Similarly, the Financial Services Authority Rising equity markets stimulated sales of FSA conducted the third phase of its review of investment products and related loans.
After a lull in the sales processes and systems around the sale of demand in August and September, when disruption PPI policies and is now undertaking further to money markets intensified as the implications for assessment of firms performance in this area.
asset-backed securities of the growing credit crisis In December 2007, the CC announced its were reassessed, the market experienced intense decision to lift the price controls imposed in 2003 on volatility, accentuated by the possibility of a HSBC and the other three largest banks providing recession in the US.
services to small and medium-sized enterprises in Funds were attracted to Hong Kong during the the UK.
This is expected to result in greater year in anticipation of sustained appreciation of the competition and innovation within the market.
renminbi as well as a positive outlook for the During 2007, the OFT continued to investigate mainland Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong.
competition issues in connection with the setting of Deposit growth remained robust throughout the year multilateral interchange fees for domestic credit card and the status of Hong Kong as the chief financial payments.
centre to service the needs of businesses in Southern China was enhanced.
France Rest of Asia-Pacific In 2007, interest rates in the eurozone increased including the Middle East while growth in real estate investment stabilised.
Income tax relief on new personal real estate loans The business environment in the region remained was introduced following the presidential elections, highly competitive, notwithstanding increased though potential benefits to customers were offset by demand for credit in Asian countries partially higher interest rates.
Real estate mortgage loans resulting from lower interest rates.
In particular, remained the primary product by which banks short-term interest rates in mainland China, India, attracted new customers and, as a result, competitive Indonesia, Malaysia and Singapore were less than pricing led to decreased margins.
the nominal Gross Domestic Product GDP growth rate.
The French government introduced various fiscal incentives in the second half of 2007 which Mainland China reduced tax on overtime pay and introduced a cap on the total tax paid by households at 50 per cent of The Peoples Bank of China indicated that it would income.
These measures increased the disposable continue to apply tight monetary policy to address income of wealthier individuals who qualify for excess domestic liquidity, to curb lending and to HSBC Premier and Private Banking services.
Loan growth in mainland China remained robust despite this The commercial treasury bills market contracted tightening and the benchmark one-year lending rate and companies had difficulty obtaining facilities in increased to 7.47 per cent by the end of 2007.
The the second half of 2007 due to market uncertainty.
renminbi reserve requirement ratio for depository This trend is expected to continue in 2008. financial institutions increased to 14.5 per cent.
Hong Kong India The lending market remained active in 2007, Loan growth in 2007 slowed due to earlier monetary initially driven by investment-related loans and, tightening and adverse regulatory policies which subsequently, as interest rates declined and market restricted the activities of recovery agents.
uncertainty increased, by property loans.
A robust Aggressive growth strategies by several banks labour market and rising household wealth supported compressed margins and reduced overall asset growth in consumer spending.
for personal loans and credit cards rose.
39 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Competitive environment Middle East of credit availability, with particular impact on financial institutions exposed to sub-prime The competitive environment in the Middle East residential mortgages.
Illiquidity in the markets for intensified during 2007 as the regional economy related credit derivatives impacted the valuation of prospered on the back of record oil prices, which such instruments.
prompted a surge in infrastructure development and construction activities.
The Dubai International The remaining sub-prime mortgage providers Finance Centre and the Qatar Financial Centre tightened underwriting standards and increased rates continued to attract a number of international to reduce volumes, as they were obligated to retain institutions to set up operations in the region, originated loans.
Previously, most of these loans had particularly in the investment and private banking been packaged and sold to third party investors on sectors.
Major market participants acted to reduce the number of foreclosures resulting Islamic banking activities continued to grow as from ARMs by offering modified loan terms to a percentage of the market with the establishment of customers in financial distress.
These initiatives two prominent banks during the year.
A number of were supported and encouraged by federal and state competitor banks introduced innovative products and regulators.
HSBC was one of the first institutions to launched reward programmes to attract and retain take a lead in this respect.
Regulatory scrutiny of the credit card industry Malaysia, South Korea, Indonesia and Taiwan increased in 2007 and, although no new major legislation was announced, a number of institutions, Competition in the Malaysian banking sector including HSBC, amended credit card terms and remained high as average lending rates continued to changed certain charging practices, benefiting decline, despite no change to central bank policy.
customers but at a cost to lenders.
Notwithstanding Banks in South Korea faced increased funding costs this, credit card competition remained fierce as they competed for deposits with securities firms throughout 2007, with the launch of a number of who offered competitive rates on cash management innovative new products including .
Measures to cool the real estate sector also themed initiatives and online substitutes for resulted in deterioration of asset quality for loans traditional cards.
associated with real estate and construction.
Loan growth in Indonesia increased in late 2007, as the Canada central bank of Indonesia continued to ease monetary policy.
In Taiwan, loan demand increased In Canada, the six largest banks retained their in 2007 although it remained relatively low.
significant presence in the countrys financial services industry.
Markets remained competitive, North America however, with largely equivalent products being offered by banks, insurance companies and other US financial institutions.
Canadian financial markets The Groups principal US subsidiaries, HSBC Bank felt the effects of the downturn in US residential USA and HSBC Finance, faced unprecedented shifts property markets as certain asset-backed commercial and uncertainties in the credit environment as the US paper conduits experienced difficulty funding their housing market continued to deteriorate.
A group of Canadian and international precipitated significant changes in the competitor banks established accords to support these vehicles.
Latin America Increased payments on resetting adjustable-rate mortgages ARMs, together with falling house Mexico prices, led to turmoil in the mortgage industry as In Mexico, the banking industry remained centred deteriorating credit quality led to a loss of appetite around the five largest institutions including among buyers of securitised mortgages in the HSBC, which control 80 per cent of the banking secondary market.
The contraction of this important systems assets.
Penetration of the formal financial funding source undermined the business models of system remained low compared with other many market participants and over 100 competitors developing economies in the region, while closed, declared bankruptcy or were taken over in demographics indicated a young and growing 2007.
Influences on the market for securitised population.
Bank financing to the private sector was mortgages had consequential effects on broader less than 20 per cent of GDP, indicating significant credit markets and resulted in a general tightening room for growth.
In this context, the overall banking 40 system continued to expand credit rapidly and loan International banks operating in Central growth has exceeded 20 per cent per annum over the America increased their presence and, hence, the last two years.
availability of reliable financing sources.
These banks are also expected to accelerate the adoption of In 2007, eight new banking licences were improved corporate and risk management practices granted and over 350 non-bank intermediaries in the region, together with a more efficient entered the consumer market.
An amendment to allocation of resources.
legislation late in 2007 granted specialised banking licenses with reduced regulatory requirements.
This Brazil is expected to further boost competitive forces.
In Brazil, the top ten banking groups accounted for Mexican banks faced additional legislation with 71 per cent of banking assets and 87 per cent of the imposition of tariff restrictions on deposit branches, unchanged from 2006.
These groups account fees and ATM commissions.
HSBC include local state-owned banks, privately-owned continued to increase its market share in core banks and large foreign banks including HSBC.
consumer, commercial and corporate banking Privately-owned banks continued to grow their products, and sought to differentiate itself through market share from 57 per cent in 2006 to 62 per customer service.
HSBC is well positioned to cent in 2007, through consolidation and growth in capitalise on economic growth with its extensive credit operations, due to the positive economic branch and ATM network.
Further consolidation took place when Banco Santander acquired Banco Real as part of the Central America successful consortium bid for ABN Amro.
HSBC has financial services operations in Panama, Total lending as a percentage of GDP was El Salvador, Costa Rica, Honduras, Colombia and 35 per cent, remaining relatively low by international Nicaragua.
Central Americas banking industry has standards.
Improved access to financial services and attracted significant foreign investment in recent increased participation in the formal economy years due to its expanding domestic economies.
In indicate the potential for further growth in the the last two years, a number of international groups financial services sector.
established major retail banking operations through a series of purchases.
In El Salvador and Costa Rica, Argentina foreign banks and local governments own the majority of banking institutions.
Panama, Honduras International financial groups and local banks with and Guatemala continued to be served by several largely equivalent product and service offerings large, independent domestic banking institutions.
formed HSBCs major competition in Argentina.
43 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Europe 2007 Year ended 31 December 2007 compared came from strength in business investment and with year ended 31 December 2006 exports as global demand remained strong, particularly from emerging markets.
Consumption Economic briefing was relatively subdued, despite declining In the UK, GDP growth accelerated in 2007 to unemployment, although fiscal reforms particularly 3.1 per cent from 2.9 per cent in 2006, mainly as in Germany are believed to have depressed a result of buoyant consumer and investment household expenditure.
Net trade depressed GDP growth through steadily during the second half of the year to an 2007, and the current account deficit reached a annual rate of 3.1 per cent in December, driven record 5.7 per cent of GDP in the third quarter of the largely by rises in food and energy prices.
Employment growth was fairly subdued, rising European Central Bank ECB raised interest rates by approximately 0.7 per cent during the year.
by 50 basis points during 2007, to finish the year at Consumer Price Index CPI inflation reached 4 per cent.
a decade-long high of 3.1 per cent in March but In Turkey, economic activity softened as the subsequently fell back to 2.1 per cent by the yearyear progressed, with GDP rising by 3.9 per cent end, close to the Bank of Englands 2 per cent target.
during the first three quarters of 2007 against the After a strong start to the year, nominal house prices comparable period of 2006.
Headline inflation declined and housing activity diminished in the final remained under pressure from increases in energy months of 2007.
The Bank of England raised interest and food prices, though core indicators improved rates by 75 basis points during 2007 to a peak of markedly, prompting Turkeys central bank to 5.75 per cent, but subsequently reduced them to cautiously ease monetary policy.
The current 5.5 per cent at the end of 2007. account deficit stabilised at about 7 per cent of GDP The expansion of the eurozone economy with rising service sector receipts from tourism, continued steadily in 2007, with GDP growth of although high energy costs may cause the trade 2.7 per cent.
As in the UK, much of the momentum balance to deteriorate.
The results of HSBC Assurances are excluded from the underlying commentary below.
European operations reported a pre-tax profit of US$8.6 billion, compared with US$7.0 billion in In Commercial Banking, growth in deposit and 2006, an increase of 23 per cent.
On an underlying lending balances in the UK and ongoing business basis, pre-tax profits improved by 13 per cent.
expansion in Turkey and Malta led to steady growth in revenues.
This was partly offset by increased loan In March 2007, HSBC acquired its partners impairment charges and higher costs associated with shares in life, property and casualty insurer, HSBC 44 business expansion.
In Global Banking and Markets, credit appetite to customers who satisfied tighter higher income from most businesses was offset by underwriting criteria.
Spreads narrowed as the trading losses in Credit and Rates and increased portfolio mix shifted towards these better quality, costs.
Strong profit growth in Private Banking lower-yielding loans.
was driven by an increased client appetite for Savings balances grew by 15 per cent, driven by discretionary portfolios, a rise in lending volumes competitive rates and new products, such as the and further improvements in cross-referrals.
In Online Bonus Savers, a one click savings product Personal Financial Services, a fall in pre-tax profits offering real-time account opening, instantly ready reflected ex gratia payments expensed in respect of for funding.
Together with improved spreads, this overdraft fees applied in previous years and a contributed to a 29 per cent increase in net interest provision for reimbursement of certain charges on income on savings products.
historic will trusts and other related services.
The Other segment benefited from a US$1.3 billion fair Average current account balances in the UK value gain in HSBCs own debt.
Sales of HSBCs premium service, fee-based current accounts HSBC The following commentary is on an underlying Premier and Plus remained major drivers of basis.
underlying performance, with significant year-onPersonal Financial Services reported a pre-tax year sales growth.
profit of US$1.6 billion, a decrease of 31 per cent UK credit card balances grew by 4 per cent in a compared with 2006.
Income growth lagged cost declining market, with growth concentrated in the growth, principally as a result of ex gratia payments Partnership card and Marks and Spencer M&S expensed in respect of overdraft fees applied in Money portfolios.
This benefit was more than previous years which are subject to current legal offset by pressure on spreads driven by a run-off in challenge.
higher-yielding accounts in the Partnership cards In the UK, HSBC continued to concentrate on business.
In line with the Groups risk-based enhancing services offered to customers, with the concentration on a narrower range of customers, intention of making HSBC the Best Place to Bank.
HSBC disposed of part of its non-core credit card HSBC Premier was relaunched simultaneously in portfolio, principally the Marbles brand, in the last 35 countries, including the UK.
All Personal Internet quarter of 2007.
Banking customers now have the ability to send In light of changing market conditions, money in over 80 currencies to 234 countries.
To significant investment was made in retraining the make its fees and charges more transparent, HSBC mortgages sales force during 2007.
Average in the UK began to show warning messages on mortgage balances were broadly in line with last ATMs if the customers cash withdrawal would year, while the portfolio mix shifted towards fixed cause a fee to be incurred.
This, together with base rate rises, In France, successful marketing campaigns caused spreads to tighten.
continued to improve brand awareness and grow In France, customer acquisition and the customer numbers, specifically HSBC Premier and consolidation of existing relationships resulted in an Student accounts.
The latter benefited from the 8 per cent rise in average deposit balances, higher signing of 120 partnerships with business schools.
than the overall market increase.
Average lending In Turkey, the benefit of significant growth balances grew by 16 per cent, mainly propertyfrom new customer acquisition, boosted by related lending.
The benefit of these increases in successful cross-sell activities and higher balances, volumes was more than offset by narrower spreads more than offset increased costs incurred in due to competitive pressures and maturing of supporting business expansion.
As a result, net interest income fell by 11 per cent.
Net interest income was broadly in line with 2006.
In the UK, effective deposit pricing, coupled In Turkey, net interest income increased by with interest rate rises in the first half of 2007, led to 17 per cent due to strong balance sheet growth.
wider deposit spreads and higher balances.
This HSBC added over 600,000 new personal customers benefit was partly offset by lower margins on during 2007, significantly exceeding its target.
mortgages as customers switched to fixed rate Average deposit balances rose by 28 per cent, products.
largely driven by customer recruitment through new branch openings and ongoing efforts to build brand Average unsecured lending balances in the UK awareness.
Deposit spreads remained narrow as declined by 5 per cent as HSBC restricted its 45 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Europe 2007 interest rates started to decline during the second half portfolios at a profit.
In 2006, HSBC benefited from of 2007 following rate rises earlier in the year.
a share of the gain on the sale of its stake in The Average lending balances increased by 28 per cent.
The income benefit from these increases was partly Loan impairment charges and other credit risk offset by the impact of market-wide credit calming provisions of US$2.0 billion were 4 per cent higher measures which, together with increased than in 2006.
In the UK consumer finance business, competition, adversely affected margins on lending refinements to the methodology used to calculate and credit cards.
roll-rate percentages resulted in a higher charge in Net fee income increased by 13 per cent, largely the first half of the year.
Excluding this, loan driven by higher sales of fee-earning packaged impairment charges were marginally lower than in current accounts in the UK and credit cards in 2006.
Loan impairment charges in the second half of Turkey, where HSBC recorded significant growth of 2007 were lower than in the first half of the year, as over 740,000 new cards.
This was partly offset by a overall credit quality improved following measures US$25 million decrease in credit card default fees in taken in the recent past to tighten underwriting the UK as HSBC reduced its fee following the standards and improve the credit quality of new outcome of an investigation by the OFT in April business.
Although losses from mortgage lending 2006.
In France, fee income grew by 7 per cent remained low, maximum loan to value ratios were through improved transactional commissions, mainly reduced during the year to mitigate the effects of a from increased sales of packaged accounts and possible housing market downturn.
In France, loan higher life insurance fees.
impairment charges remained low, albeit higher than In the UK, pensions and life investment sales in 2006, as credit quality remained good.
In Turkey, increased as did home and motor insurance sales, the credit quality remained stable and growth in loan success of the M&S Money motor insurance impairment charges followed increases in lending campaign led to M&S Money rising to fourth in the balances.
However, the insurance Operating expenses were 11 per cent higher than results were adversely affected by lower income in 2006.
In the UK, US$227 million arose from ex from payment protection products and flood claims gratia payments expensed in respect of overdraft in the summer.
fees applied in previous years, and a further Net trading income largely reflected the fair US$169 million was provided for reimbursement value measurement of embedded options linked to of certain charges on historic will trusts and other government regulated home savings products in related services.
In 2006, there was a large gain: this did not HSBC concentrated discretionary investment recur in 2007. on technology that promotes straight-through Gains on the sale of financial investments in processing, allowing customers to purchase products 2007 included a share in HSBCs sale of Marfin online.
This will improve processing time and reduce Popular Bank, an investment acquired in a share errors caused by human intervention.
As part of the swap agreement with The Cyprus Popular Bank as ongoing branch refurbishment programme, a further part of the sale of HSBCs stake in the latter in 2006.
In addition, a gain arose from the merger of two In France, operating expenses rose as HSBC payment services providers and there were two made further investments to take advantage of Group further gains on the share of profits from the synergies.
In October 2007, IT systems were MasterCard Incorporated IPO, although to a lesser successfully migrated onto HSBCs core banking extent than in 2006. platform.
This will enable HSBC France to integrate Other operating income declined significantly, its branded operations and benefit from the Groups due to a fall in the present value of in-force PVIF expertise in technology, process and products.
In long-term insurance business, following a change in Turkey, ongoing investment in capacity and FSA regulations which permitted certain rules infrastructure to support business growth, as relating to the calculation of actuarial liabilities for evidenced by the opening of 45 branches during the long-term insurance business to be relaxed.
This 2007, contributed to a 17 per cent increase in was offset by a corresponding reduction in operating expenses.
provisions reported in Net insurance claims and Commercial Banking reported a pre-tax profit movements in liabilities to policyholders.
HSBC of US$2.5 billion, an increase of 4 per cent.
recorded a loss on the disposal of the Marbles brand Revenues rose by 12 per cent as a result of both cards portfolio, offset by the sale of other card balance sheet growth and an increase in fee-based 46 product income, driven by customer recruitment and service offerings for its micro, small and mid-market the expansion of the small and mid-market segments business customers.
Income benefited from growth in Turkey and Malta.
These benefits were partly of 108 per cent in small and micro customer lending offset by higher loan impairment charges, principally together with a 114 basis point increase in spreads.
on corporate relationship managed accounts in the This upward trend in lending spreads was driven by UK and increased operating expenses from ongoing new product bundles and growth in Commercial business expansion throughout the region.
Average deposit balances rose by 4 per cent in Turkey, in part HSBC continued to expand the scope of its due to an increase in cash management clients, with services in European emerging markets with the wider margins further benefiting income.
recruitment of a further 36 relationship managers.
HSBCnet was launched in Armenia, Kazakhstan, Net fee income increased by 18 per cent.
Malta, Poland, the Czech Republic and Slovakia Excluding Commercial Bankings share of Insurance during the year.
Significant income growth was Brokers fees previously reported in the Other recorded in Armenia and Poland, countries which segment, net fee income rose by 5 per cent.
In the offer potential for high GDP growth going forward UK, a modest increase in net fee income was driven and demand for conventional trade services.
by growth in foreign exchange fees and card activity following the small-business credit card product In support of HSBCs strategy to be the successfully launched in May 2006.
In Turkey, net leading international commercial bank, dedicated fee income grew by 42 per cent, driven by international corporate teams were established in investment banking, advisory and structured finance London and Paris to drive and support cross-border transactions, mainly due to a 15 per cent increase in business.
Global Links and International Business corporate clients.
Trade products also drove fee Centres are now available in 11 European countries, income and referrals from other HSBC Group simplifying cross-border account opening for offices which further contributed to the increase.
In customers and more than tripling successful outward France, net fee income grew by 9 per cent, as referrals over 2006. customer acquisition and the consolidation of Net interest income increased by 7 per cent in existing relationships led to a 9 per cent increase in 2007, largely from growth in the UK, Turkey, transaction fees.
In the UK, a 10 per cent growth Gains on the sale of financial investments in in deposit balances was primarily driven by a 2007 reflected Commercial Bankings share of successful negotiated-rate deposit product launched HSBCs sale of Marfin Popular Bank, an investment in 2005.
This helped fund lending growth of 14 per acquired in a share swap agreement with The Cyprus cent, which was largely the result of strong growth in Popular Bank Limited Cyprus Popular Bank, as corporate and structured banking and customer part of the sale of HSBCs stake in the latter in 2006. numbers in commercial centres.
These income 2007 benefited from further gains on the share of benefits were partly offset by narrower margins on profits from the MasterCard Incorporated IPO, to a loans and overdrafts as a result of increasingly similar extent as in 2006. competitive market conditions.
Other operating income declined significantly, In France, HSBC continued to increase its client due to a fall in the PVIF long-term insurance base, reflecting the ongoing success of initiatives to business, following a change in FSA regulations.
raise its brand profile and improve customer This was offset by a corresponding reduction in segmentation.
HSBC reinforced its position as the provisions reported in Net insurance claims and leading international bank and increased the movements in liabilities to policyholders.
The nonrecruitment of new customers, particularly small recurrence of Commercial Bankings US$38 million businesses with high potential.
Average lending share of the gain on the sale of HSBCs stake in balances increased by 19 per cent and average Cyprus Popular Bank also contributed to the fall in deposit balances, boosted by the financial markets other operating income.
crisis in the second half of the year, increased by 22 per cent.
The income benefit of this balance sheet Loan impairment charges and other credit risk growth was more than offset by competitive provisions remained low despite a 23 per cent rise on pressures on margins and the maturity of previously levels recorded in 2006.
In the UK, loan impairment higher-yielding hedging products.
As a result, net charges increased: this was concentrated in four interest income was slightly lower than 2006. large corporate accounts.
In France, credit quality remained good and loan impairment charges stayed Net interest income in Turkey increased by 46 per cent, as HSBC continued to develop its 47 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Europe 2007 2006 low despite balance sheet growth.
In Turkey, equities, strong trading income from core products increased charges reflected growth in lending was supplemented by a gain from the sale of volumes as general credit quality remained Euronext shares.
In France, the continuing trend of satisfactory.
higher income from structured derivatives reflected the benefit of investment to enhance capabilities.
Excluding Insurance Brokers, operating The credit market dislocation also led to an adverse expenses increased by 7 per cent.
Across Europe, fair value adjustment in respect of loan commitments costs were higher as a result of sales staff outstanding when global credit spreads widened in recruitment and other costs to support business the second half of 2007. development and expansion, particularly in Turkey and Eastern Europe.
In addition, France incurred The UK principal investments business incremental restructuring costs relating to the benefited a small number of significant realisations migration of IT systems onto HSBCs core banking during the year.
Gains less losses from financial platform.
investments rose to US$1.1 billion.
Global Banking and Markets in Europe A net recovery on loan impairment charges, reported a pre-tax profit of US$2.5 billion, broadly albeit lower than in 2006, reflected the continued in line with 2006 despite write-downs in credit, low level of corporate credit defaults.
structured credit derivatives and certain positions in Operating expenses rose by 12 per cent to leveraged and acquisition finance, resulting from the US$5.2 billion.
Operational costs rose in Global challenging credit market in the second half of 2007.
Markets, particularly in structured derivatives where Apart from these product lines, the Global Markets the French businesses invested to support local and Global Banking businesses reported robust revenue growth.
Costs also rose in payments and growth complemented by significant gains on cash management and securities services, driven by principal investments.
The cost efficiency ratio the rise in business volumes.
Additional staff costs deteriorated by 3 percentage points.
resulted from recruitment in selected businesses Total operating income increased by 7 per cent during 2006. to US$7.6 billion.
Strong foreign exchange and HSBCs share of profits from associates equities trading income drove revenue growth, recovered due to the non-recurrence of an enhanced by higher advisory fees and fair value impairment charge on a private equity investment gains in financing and capital markets.
Securities held by an associate in 2006. services benefited from higher transaction volumes driven by increased market volatility.
A rise in Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of revenues from payments and cash management and US$915 million, an increase of 11 per cent.
A strong principal investments further boosted income.
This performance in Switzerland was driven by the growth was partly offset by significant write-downs promotion of advisory and discretionary mandates, in credit and structured derivatives.
with existing clients further leveraging their portfolios.
Profits in the UK declined as a result of In the UK, payments and cash management lower gains from the partial disposal of the income grew due to higher customer balances, which Hermitage Fund.
Excluding this transaction, UK rose as the liquidity crisis led customers to increase revenue increased strongly.
The cost-efficiency ratio their cash balances.
In Turkey, higher balance sheet increased slightly by 0.9 percentage points to management revenues contributed US$12 million.
56.9 per cent, affected by lower investment gains in Net fee income was 28 per cent higher, with 2007.
Despite this, the cost efficiency ratio is one of robust growth in income from financing businesses the strongest in the industry.
in line with greater market activity in the UK and Net interest income rose by 14 per cent to France in the first half of 2007.
In securities services, US$793 million.
Switzerland contributed the a rise in volumes and new client mandates drove the majority of the increase.
Loans and advances increase in revenues.
Assets under custody grew by to customers increased by 31 per cent to 16 per cent.
US$13.8 billion, as existing clients further leveraged Overall, income from trading activities fell due their portfolios to take advantage of alternative to US$713 million of write-downs reported in credit, investment opportunities.
Monaco and Germany structured credit derivatives and leveraged and also contributed to the rise in net interest income.
acquisition finance in the UK.
These were partly In Germany, net interest income increased by 14 per offset by strong growth in foreign exchange driven cent due to a large growth in deposits.
Similarly, in by market volatility and a weakening US dollar.
In Monaco, customer accounts rose, augmented by 48 higher lending balances as existing clients increased Year ended 31 December 2006 compared their leverage.
with year ended 31 December 2005 Net fee income increased by 15 per cent to Economic briefing US$1.0 billion, mainly due to a 10 per cent increase UK GDP growth increased in 2006 to 2.9 per cent in funds under management in Switzerland with from 1.8 per cent in 2005.
This followed a recovery discretionary and advisory funds generating higher in both household and company spending.
Client investments in structured inflation increased through the year from 1.9 per products and brokerage fees also contributed to the cent in January to 3 per cent in December, following rise in fee income.
In the UK, fees increased by large increases in the price of petrol and gas.
The 10 per cent, driven by a rise in wealth and loan fees.
Bank of England raised interest rates from 4.5 per Trading income was 63 per cent higher at cent to 5 per cent, citing concerns about spare US$170 million, mainly driven by foreign exchange capacity, rapid money growth and the possibility of trading by clients in Switzerland.
inflation staying above target for some time.
House price inflation remained strong but consumer Gains from financial investments decreased by spending appeared unaffected.
Secured lending 23 per cent to US$115 million.
This primarily related continued to increase although unsecured lending to a gain from a partial disposal of a seed capital plateaued.
There was evidence that a number of investment in the Hermitage Fund which was lower households were struggling with the burden of debt than that recognised from an earlier disposal in 2006. as personal insolvencies and repossessions increased.
Client assets, which include deposits and funds Employment rose, although by less than the increase under management, grew by 19 per cent to in available workers as migrant inflows remained US$258.4 billion.
The large growth in client assets strong and the participation rate of UK residents in was driven by positive market performance and the labour force increased.
As a result, the US$20.2 billion of net new money, with Switzerland unemployment rate increased, contributing to contributing US$7.1 billion and the UK and Monaco constrained wage growth throughout the year despite contributing US$3.7 billion and US$3.6 billion each.
relatively high rates of headline inflation.
The growth in cross-referrals continued, with inward The recovery in the eurozone economy gathered referrals from other customer groups contributing momentum through the course of 2006.
GDP rose by US$3.9 billion to total client assets.
approximately 2.7 per cent, the fastest rate since Operating expenses were 15 per cent higher than 2000.
Much of the improvement reflected increases in 2006, driven by business expansion.
More in exports and investment, as global demand front-office staff, higher performance-related remained strong and corporate activity and profits bonuses, IT and marketing costs all contributed to rose.
Consumer spending remained subdued, despite the rise.
The overall increase in operating expenses a gradual rise in employment.
German growth was partially offset by the effect of a change in improved sharply, while growth in France and Italy pension arrangements.
Eurozone inflation was heavily affected by rises in energy and food prices.
Inflation, Within Other, fair value movements in HSBCs excluding energy and food, remained contained at own debt and related derivatives resulted in gains of just 1.7 per cent.
The ECB increased the key policy US$1.3 billion, largely as a consequence of interest rate from 2.25 per cent at the beginning of movements in credit spreads.
These movements will 2006 to 3.5 per cent in December.
The ECB reverse through the income statement over the life of continued to describe monetary policy as the debt unless the debt is repaid before its accommodative, thereby effectively ending the contractual maturity.
This segment also benefited year with a bias towards tightening.
from a US$73 million adjustment to the embedded value of HSBCs associate, HSBC Assurances, prior Turkeys economy slowed markedly in the to the acquisition of its remaining capital, from third quarter, with year-on-year GDP growth of which date it was accounted for as a subsidiary.
3.4 per cent, down from 7.8 per cent in the second quarter.
The current account deficit continued to widen, reaching 8 per cent of GDP in December, partly from high-energy prices but also from the increasing substitution of imported materials for local ones due to the overvalued currency.
More than half of the deficit was financed by healthy foreign direct investment inflows.
Monetary Funds programme for Turkey remained Costs grew by 7 per cent, reflecting investment in on track.
infrastructure throughout the region, and the cost efficiency ratio rose by 1.2 percentage points to Review of business performance 59.2 per cent.
European operations reported a pre-tax profit In the UK, HSBC responded to concerns over of US$7.0 billion compared with US$6.4 billion in high levels of consumer indebtedness and the growth 2005, an increase of 10 per cent.
On an underlying in personal bankruptcies and individual voluntary basis, pre-tax profits grew by 8 per cent.
Underlying arrangements IVAs by adopting more selective net operating income increased by 8 per cent, in line underwriting criteria and reducing credit origination.
Commercial Banking Revenues from credit-related insurance declined as a delivered a third successive year of growth, driven consequence.
In response, HSBC increased its focus by strong balance sheet growth in the UK and on non credit-related income streams, particularly organic expansion in Turkey.
Record profits in savings and high-value current accounts.
Strong Private Banking were driven by strong client asset balance growth in these products was achieved inflows, a more sophisticated product mix and through marketing initiatives, competitive pricing lending growth.
Global Banking and Markets made and the success of innovative propositions such as encouraging gains in trading activities, and operating the packaged Plus and Passport current accounts, expenses rose in line with net operating income.
In the latter supported by the implementation during the Personal Financial Services, net operating income year of a more refined approach to customer growth slowed as HSBC tightened its underwriting segmentation.
An emphasis on deposit, wealth and insurance products contributed to an Considerable strategic attention was given to increase in costs, which were driven by enhancing product distribution and channel infrastructure investment both in the physical management.
The branch refurbishment programme environment and direct channels.
continued and improvements were made to direct banking, notably the introduction of self-service The following commentary is on an underlying machines and the upgrading of cash machine service basis.
HSBCs internet offering was also Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax enhanced to offer personalised content and sales profit of US$1.9 billion, 2 per cent lower than in capabilities, with improved customer accessibility.
Net operating income rose by 4 per cent and In France, a marked improvement in brand loan impairment charges increased by slightly more awareness after the 2005 rebranding to HSBC than revenues as increasing numbers of debtors France, supported by competitive pricing, aided the sought formal protection from their obligations.
recruitment of target customers and consequential 50 balance sheet growth, most notably in residential restricted credit appetite.
Spreads increased modestly property lending.
Despite this growth, there was a compared with 2005. decline in profit before tax, due to competitive Average UK mortgage balances rose by pressures on margin and the time lag between 11 per cent to US$68.9 billion, primarily in fixed incurring costs on customer acquisition and earning rate mortgages.
Growth was achieved through incremental revenue from future opportunities to competitive pricing and targeted marketing cross-sell.
strategies, including the launch of new fixed, In Turkey profit before tax declined by 2 per discount and tracker-rate mortgages during the year.
cent, as revenue growth was offset by investment A slight narrowing of spreads reflected a change in costs.
Organic development was furthered by the mix away from variable rate mortgages to fixed rate opening of 37 new branches during the year, mortgages, and the competitive positioning referred bringing the total to 193, and a number of marketing to above.
initiatives to build brand awareness.
Balance sheet Average unsecured lending balances in the UK and revenue growth accelerated as a result, as did declined by 4 per cent, reflecting HSBCs decision customer recruitment.
Overall customer numbers to contain growth through stricter underwriting stood at 2.3 million at the end of 2006. criteria.
Spreads narrowed, following the Net interest income increased by 5 per cent to introduction in 2005 of preferential pricing for US$5.7 billion, substantially from balance sheet lower-risk customers, and a change in mix towards growth throughout the region.
In the UK, net interest income was driven by In France, net interest income fell by 8 per cent.
growth in savings, deposit and current accounts, with Spreads narrowed as older higher-yielding higher balances achieved through targeted sales and investments matured, while competitive pricing marketing efforts.
Interest income from credit cards reduced lending yields, particularly in the residential and mortgages also increased.
These pressures on margin were only partially offset by strong balance sheet growth.
A focus on liabilities helped boost new UK Marketing campaigns building on the HSBC savings account volumes markedly in a buoyant yet France brand aided strong sales and customer highly competitive savings market.
HSBCs recruitment, most notably in residential property competitive internet-based products were the key lending and current accounts and also increased driver of growth.
Cash invested in First Directs future cross-selling opportunities.
e-savings product trebled: balances in HSBCs Online Saver increased sixfold.
Overall, average In Turkey, net interest income rose by 14 per savings balances, excluding money market cent.
Lending grew strongly, substantially funded by investments, increased by 28 per cent and net deposit growth.
Overall, deposit balances rose by interest income rose by 25 per cent.
over 50 per cent, largely driven by customer recruitment aided by the branch network expansion Current account balances in the UK increased referred to above.
Spreads widened following by 6 per cent to US$26.0 billion.
Within this, the increases in overnight interest rates and the value of proportion of value-added packaged current accounts funds rose as a consequence.
Marketing initiatives attracting fees rose significantly.
The number of and cross-sales with credit card customers helped HSBCs fee-based accounts more than doubled more than double average unsecured lending during 2006.
In aggregate, packaged current account balances.
Mortgage lending was also strong, with a balances increased by 25 per cent and represented 60 per cent increase in balances.
Credit card nearly half of the overall increase in current balances rose by 22 per cent, with growth dampened accounts.
Spreads remained broadly in line with by credit calming measures imposed by government 2005. regulation.
Average UK credit card balances rose by 5 per Net fee income increased by 8 per cent to cent, to US$13.7 billion, driven by promotional US$2.5 billion.
In the UK, rising sales of fee-earning campaigns and marketing.
Growth was strongest in packaged current accounts, travel money and M&S branded cards, which represented 4 percentage investment products drove fee growth.
Fees from points of the increase, driven by an increased sales unsecured lending also rose.
These benefits were focus which included extensive media advertising.
partly offset by lower creditor protection income, This was partly offset by declining balances within reflecting the steps taken by HSBC to constrain the store cards business and the cards business of lending growth.
Reduced loan sales and smaller HFC Bank Ltd HFC, reflecting HSBCs more average loans the result of this initiative led to both 51 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Europe 2006 lower insurance sales and a reduction in average Within the UK, loan impairment was most premiums.
pronounced in consumer finance unsecured portfolios, in which delinquency also rose as the In France, banking fees rose through higher effect of interest rate increases on relatively high sales of packaged current accounts.
Transactional levels of indebtedness put pressure on household and overdraft fees and insurance distribution fees cash flows.
In HSBCs other portfolios, action also increased, reflecting growth in the customer undertaken by HSBC during 2005 and early 2006, base.
In Turkey, strong growth in lending volumes predominantly tightening underwriting criteria and and, to a lesser extent, credit cards, helped drive fee collections procedures, proved successful in income growth.
Additional sales staff were recruited improving credit quality indicators on more recently to reinforce the emphasis on wealth management, written debt.
In the second half of 2006, HSBC and the launch of new pension products also helped strengthened the measures available to manage boost fees.
insolvencies and impaired debt including, inter alia, In 2006, MasterCard became publicly listed the further development of predictive modelling to through an IPO, and the US$37 million gain from enhance underwriting decisions.
financial investments mainly reflected Personal In France, credit quality was sound Financial Services share of the proceeds of the IPO.
notwithstanding strong growth in customer Responding to changes in work and shopping advances, and the loan impairment charge remained patterns among its customers and the increasing low.
In Turkey, overall credit quality was also acceptance of direct channels.
HSBC appraised its sound, and delinquency on credit cards improved UK property portfolio during the year, and higher following enhanced collections efforts and changes other operating income reflected Personal Financial in government regulation.
This was reflected in a Services share of revenue from branch sale and 36 per cent reduction in loan impairment charges.
Personal Financial Services Operating expenses increased by 7 per cent.
US$37 million share income on the sale of HSBCs A US$57 million write-down of intangibles was stake in Cyprus Popular Bank was also included attributed to card portfolios acquired in the UK within other operating income.
which were written off in the light of the higher Lower sales of life and creditor repayment impairment charges being experienced.
Excluding protection, which were driven by the constraints on this item, the increase was 6 per cent, primarily personal lending growth referred to above, and a reflecting investment in upgrading and expanding change in reinsurance arrangements at the end of capacity and infrastructure across the region.
2005, contributed to the decrease in net earned In the UK, 104 branches were refurbished insurance premiums.
Responding to changing customer linked insurance products, together with the effect of preferences and upgrading its customer service, market movements on related insurance and HSBC extended its opening hours in certain investment assets, contributed to the decline in net branches, necessitating the recruitment of additional income from financial instruments designated at fair counter staff, and increased its IT investment in selfvalue.
This was largely offset by a corresponding service machines and other direct banking channels, decrease in net insurance claims and movements in in the process improving cost efficiency.
In France, there was a 4 per cent rise in Loan impairment charges and other credit risk operating expenses, driven by the recruitment of provisions of US$1.8 billion were 6 per cent higher additional sales staff, higher marketing expenditure than in 2005, largely reflecting lending growth in the to attract new customers, and the migration to a region.
In Turkey, the opening of In the UK, the 8 per cent rise in loan impairment 37 new branches and associated growth in numbers charges was broadly in line with lending growth.
of sales staff and infrastructure costs drove a 26 per Actions taken on underwriting and collection cent rise in costs.
Marketing expenditure also activities mitigated a continuation of the rising trend increased in support of the growing consumer in personal bankruptcies and IVAs seen since the lending, insurance and pensions businesses.
In 2006, IVAs became Commercial Banking reported a pre-tax profit the main driver of loan impairment growth across the of US$2.2 billion, an increase of 14 per cent industry as the availability and marketing of thirdcompared with 2005.
Adjusting for the sale of the party debt reduction services increased.
UK fleet management and vehicle finance leasing business, which was sold in the autumn of 2005, 52 profit before tax grew by 17 per cent, driven by denominated accounts as customers were offered growth of 10 per cent in net operating income more attractive pricing.
compared with just 4 per cent in costs.
Revenues HSBC boosted the recruitment of small and increased by 9 per cent through balance sheet micro business customers in the UK by holding growth, customer recruitment and improved commercial theme weeks and increasing client cross-sales in the UK, and expansion of the middle contact by embedding business specialists in selected market, small and micro-businesses in Turkey.
These initiatives delivered increases in the 4 per cent growth in operating expenses primarily number of start-up accounts and the number of reflected investment to support business expansion customers who switched their business from other throughout the region.
Higher-value international and In the UK, HSBC invested to expand sales foreign currency accounts rose as a consequence.
capacity and improve service through recruitment Net interest income in France was broadly in and the opening of commercial centres.
To support line with 2005 as the benefit of strong balance sheet HSBCs strategic intention to lead the market in growth, driven by the acquisition of new customers international commercial banking, a dedicated and improved levels of customer retention, was International Banking Centre was created which, as offset by narrowing spreads from competitive market part of a global network, simplified cross-border pressures and lower earnings from free funds.
HSBC also simplified and launched new foreign currency accounts.
Significant Net interest income in Turkey increased by progress was made in enhancing the functionality of 41 per cent, driven by a doubling in lending HSBCs award-winning internet banking, including balances.
HSBC extended its geographic coverage the implementation of the UKs first same-day highthrough expansion of the branch network, including value payments offering and the launch of HSBCs the launch of eight new centres dedicated to smaller first commercial direct banking proposition, commercial customers, and these boosted customer Business Direct, which attracted over 19,000 small recruitment.
The introduction of pre-approved credit and micro business accounts during the year.
limits for existing customers also contributed to lending growth, and the focus on attracting liability In France, HSBC increased customer products helped more than double deposit balances.
recruitment by approximately one third by concentrating on improving brand awareness among Net fee income increased by 4 per cent to commercial businesses.
HSBC became the principal US$1.7 billion.
Current account and money banker for the majority of new customers recruited.
transmission fees rose as a result of customer In Turkey, the establishment of eight centres, the recruitment and higher transaction volumes in most recruitment of additional relationship management countries.
In the UK, client workshops and other staff and a focus on maintaining high service levels promotional activities were deployed to support contributed to a 40 per cent increase in the number increased sales of treasury products, boosting of active customers as HSBC successfully sustained treasury revenue as foreign exchange volumes grew.
its efforts to grow its share of middle market, small In France a 2 per cent increase in income was largely and micro-business banking.
in transactional current account fees, reflecting growth in the customer base.
Net interest income increased by 8 per cent, largely driven by increases in the UK and Turkey.
In Other operating income was 41 per cent lower France, the benefit of strong balance sheet growth than in 2005 and reflected lower asset finance was more than offset by competitive pressure on revenues following the sale of the UK fleet margins.
management business referred to above.
This was partly offset by the inclusion of Commercial HSBC slowed the rate of growth in lending in Bankings share of the gain on the sale of the UK during 2006 by refining underwriting criteria HSBCs stake in Cyprus Popular Bank and emphasising non-lending related revenue US$38 million, and the income from UK branch streams and, consequently, average lending balances sale and lease-back transactions.
rose by 8 per cent during the year and spreads remained broadly flat.
Increased priority was given Credit quality in Commercial Banking was to raising deposits through transactional and savings stable in most countries.
In the UK, loan impairment accounts and, as a result, deposit balances rose by charges and other credit risk provisions fell by 37 per cent and current account balances by 8 per 16 per cent, largely due to the non-recurrence of an cent.
The benefit of this volume growth was partly individual loan impairment allowance against a offset by spread compression on sterlingsingle customer in 2005.
Excluding this, there was a 53 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Europe 2006 modest decline in UK impairment charges, as the acquisitions and recent expansion initiatives also effect of lending growth was more than offset by contributed to higher revenues.
improved credit quality, particularly in relation to Net fee income rose by 23 per cent, reflecting a HSBCs larger exposures.
In France, loan 63 per cent fee increase in the global capital markets impairment charges, while remaining low, returned business and fees more than doubling in the to a more normal level after relatively high securities services business.
The financing and recoveries in 2005.
In Turkey, higher loan advisory businesses benefited from a higher number impairment charges reflected growth in lending.
of deals mandated and a broader product range.
Operating expenses decreased by 1 per cent.
Assets under custody grew by 22 per cent with Excluding the sale of the UK fleet management notable increases in alternative fund assets, activities referred to above, costs were 4 per cent particularly from Ireland and Luxembourg.
higher than in 2005, reflecting investment to drive In HSBC Global Asset Management, revenues business growth throughout the region.
As a result of increased significantly, boosted by a 4 per cent revenues growing significantly faster than costs, increase in funds under management and higher there was a 3.1 percentage point improvement in the performance fees allied to revenues from disposals cost efficiency ratio.
In the UK, increased costs of property and structured finance fund investments.
reflected the recruitment of additional sales staff and higher IT expenditure.
Costs in France fell by 2 per Trading income increased with positive revenue cent compared with 2005 as savings from cost trends in the key product areas where HSBC has control offset increases from the recruitment of invested, notably Credit and Rates, foreign exchange additional sales staff and expenses associated with and structured derivatives.
Revenues increased the migration to common IT platforms.
In Turkey, substantially, particularly in the area of interest rate recruitment and marketing costs incurred in support derivatives, which benefited from opportunities of the growing small and micro businesses drove a created by a relatively volatile market.
Additional 38 per cent rise in expenses.
gains were reported in emerging market bonds due to higher volumes, as investors adjusted their risk Global Banking and Markets reported a preappetite and responded to a general improvement in tax profit of US$2.3 billion, an increase of 5 per market sentiment towards developing economies.
A reduction in recoveries Higher foreign exchange revenue was driven by of loan impairment charges and lower private equity greater customer volumes and increased trading gains masked strong growth in core operating opportunities offered by a combination of US dollar activities.
Global Markets revenues were 36 per volatility and more uncertain economic conditions in cent higher than in 2005 as robust performances in emerging markets.
Structured derivatives income the global capital markets and securities services increased by 88 per cent as HSBC leveraged its businesses were complemented by strong trading investment in this business to meet the needs of its gains.
The cost efficiency ratio improved modestly institutional clients.
Gains from sales of financial investments, at Total operating income was US$6.6 billion, US$413 million, were in line with 2005. Notable 17 per cent higher than in 2005.
This was despite the among the investments realised in the year were the fact that in the UK, France and Turkey, balance sales of specialist property and structured finance sheet management revenues continued to fall, fund investments by HSBC Global Asset resulting in an overall decline of 56 per cent.
shortfall was partly offset by higher net interest income in securities services as customer volumes Other income declined by 26 per cent as one-off grew in higher-value products such as securities gains from restructuring and syndication of assets in lending and foreign exchange.
The lending business Global Investment Banking were not repeated.
delivered a 13 per cent increase in corporate The overall credit environment remained balances and corporate spreads remained broadly in favourable with market liquidity supporting debt line with 2005. reconstruction as credit spreads tightened.
As a Net interest income in the payments and cash result, HSBC achieved net recoveries for the third management business rose as deposit balances year in succession, albeit at a lower level than in increased by 18 per cent.
Surplus liquidity in the 2005, when HSBC benefited from a release of market fed higher business volumes.
Increased collective impairment allowances in the second half.
transaction volumes resulting from new client Operating expenses were 14 per cent higher at US$4.2 billion, largely supporting volume growth 54 in various businesses and performance-related Managed Portfolio product.
A significant compensation in Global Markets, where revenues performance fee came from the Hermitage Fund, a increased by 36 per cent.
Costs in 2006 also reflected public equity fund dedicated to Russia, which was the full-year effect of the investment made US$23 million greater than in 2005.
The expansion throughout 2005 as well as ongoing investment in of HSBCs residential property advisory business, product development, particularly in structured which opened new offices in the UK and France, derivatives and Credit and Rates.
In HSBC Global also contributed to fee income growth.
Asset Management, a robust performance resulted in Gains from financial investments in both 2005 higher staff and support costs.
and 2006 arose mainly from the sale of debt and A rise in operational expenditure was driven by investment holdings.
Gains in 2006 included increased volumes as well as new business won in US$108 million from the partial disposal of HSBCs respect of payments and cash management funds investment in the Hermitage Fund.
administration, securities services and Group Excluding gains from financial investments, Investment Businesses.
trading and other operating income was marginally The decline in HSBCs share of profits in lower than in 2005. associates and joint ventures reflected a loss arising Client assets, including deposits, rose by 18 per from an impairment charge on a private equity cent to US$218 billion.
Net new money was investment within an associate.
This was US$19 billion, with the largest inflows arising in compounded by the non-recurrence of one-off gains Switzerland and the UK.
In Switzerland, improved realised in 2005, a significant proportion of which brand awareness, successful product placement and were recognised in the second half of the year.
cross-referrals with other customer groups, all Private Banking delivered a record pre-tax contributed to significant net new money of profit of US$805 million in Europe, an increase of US$11 billion.
In the UK, net new money of 48 per cent compared with 2005.
The cost efficiency US$3 billion was garnered from referrals from ratio improved by 6.7 percentage points to 55.7 per Commercial Banking and the retail network, new cent.
There was a US$108 million gain on the partial regional offices and continued growth in the sale of an investment in the Hermitage Fund and, underlying business.
Net new money in Monaco and excluding this, pre-tax profit increased by 28 per Germany exceeded US$1 billion and US$2 billion, cent.
This result was achieved through growth in respectively, also contributing to the growth in client client assets, increased lending and transaction assets.
The value of clients investments in HSBCs volumes and distribution of a broader and more discretionary managed suite of SIS and CIS products sophisticated product range.
Growth in intra-Group grew very strongly, reaching US$1.7 billion.
referrals with other customer groups was Operating expenses were 13 per cent higher encouraging and also contributed to increased than in 2005 due to higher performance-related revenues.
remuneration, recruitment of client-facing Net interest income was 23 per cent higher at professionals across the region to support the US$675 million, driven by balance sheet growth, growth of the business, and continued investment primarily in the UK and Switzerland.
Lending in the recently opened UK regional offices.
The balances were 24 per cent higher and were funded by combination of HSBCs principal trust businesses in increased deposits.
In the UK, the 31 per cent Switzerland also added to costs in 2006 but is expansion of the lending book resulted primarily expected to bring efficiency gains in subsequent from growth in mortgage balances driven by a years.
Overall increased expenses were more than market which remained buoyant at the upper end.
In offset by greater revenue generation which Switzerland, an 18 per cent rise in lending largely contributed to the 6.7 per cent improvement in the reflected client appetite for leverage to facilitate cost efficiency ratio.
equity and alternative investment opportunities.
In Other, increases in US interest rates led to Fee income increased by 19 per cent to higher earnings on capital, which were partly offset US$869 million.
This growth resulted from by increased subordinated debt-servicing costs.
increased funds under management and a favourable Movements in the fair value of own debt and mix change towards higher fee-generating associated hedges were US$33 million, compared discretionary and advisory managed funds, including with an adverse movement of US$15 million in the continued success of the Structured Investment 2005, principally from movements in HSBCs Solutions SIS and Core Investment Solutions own credit spread.
The fair value of own debt CIS products and the launch of the Actively 55 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Europe Profit loss before tax by customer group incorporates an element attributable to the credit not alter the cash flows envisaged as part of the spread on HSBCs debt instruments.
As HSBCs documented interest rate management strategy.
credit spreads narrow, accounting losses are Operating expenses decreased by 5 per cent, reported, and the reverse is true in the event of driven by the non-recurrence of litigation expenses spreads widening.
These valuation adjustments do in France.
Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business Year ended 31 December 2007 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Europe US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 6,604 3,419 1,361 793 86 4,517 7,746 Net fee income expense........... 3,060 2,194 2,316 1,032 171 8,431 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 60 36 2,657 161 89 3,003 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 7 30 610 9 1 4,517 3,940 5 Net trading income expense... 53 66 2,047 170 90 4,517 6,943 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value............ 126 31 185 1,254 1,226 Gains less losses from financial investments........ 50 36 1,100 115 25 1,326 Dividend income.... 1 4 155 7 4 171 Net earned insurance premiums.
56 Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business continued Year ended 31 December 2006 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Europe US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 5,653 2,923 1,222 675 14 2,198 8,289 Net fee income....... 2,533 1,707 1,673 869 326 7,108 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 119 27 2,636 99 39 2,842 Net interest income expense 6 15 523 2 1 2,198 1,687 on trading activities................ 5 Net trading income expense... 113 42 2,113 101 38 2,198 4,529 Net income from financial instruments designated at 80 27 11 26 144 fair value............ Gains less losses from financial 37 22 413 149 3 624 investments........ Dividend income.... 2 3 171 5 2 183 Net earned insurance premiums.
57 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Europe Profit loss before tax by customer group Hong Kong Year ended 31 December 2005 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Europe US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 5,309 2,659 827 548 95 1,217 8,221 Net fee income....... 2,314 1,621 1,339 730 295 6,299 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 81 16 1,493 93 23 1,660 Net interest income expense on trading activities................ 3 2 159 5 1,217 1,376 5 Net trading income expense... 84 18 1,652 93 28 1,217 3,036 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 305 71 17 31 362 Gains less losses from financial investments........ 4 4 396 27 16 439 Dividend income.... 2 7 27 9 18 63 Net earned insurance premiums.
59 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Hong Kong 2007 Year ended 31 December 2007 compared In response to interest rate cuts in the US and with year ended 31 December 2006 capital inflows into the local market, Hong Kongs main interest rate was cut on three separate Economic briefing occasions during the final months of 2007, with the Hong Kongs economy remained robust during prime rate ending the year at 6.75 per cent, down by 2007, with the annual rate of growth remaining at one per cent from its high for the year.
Local asset around 6 per cent.
Domestic consumption was the markets benefited accordingly.
The previously very major contributor to economic expansion, supported strong levels of export growth slowed in the second by the strong labour market.
The unemployment rate half of 2007, as demand from the US moderated and fell to below 4 per cent, a nine year low, as the the reduction in mainland Chinas export tax rebate supply of labour remained very tight.
Global in July temporarily affected Hong Kongs re-exports.
increases in food and oil prices affected Hong Kong, Despite relatively modest trade growth, external but the territory also experienced wage inflation, demand for Hong Kongs services remained strong rising import prices and growth in property rental due to the buoyant tourism sector and increasing costs.
Inflation increased as a result, exceeding 3 per cross-border business activities, especially within the cent in the final quarter of the year.
In Global Banking and Markets, income growth reflected improved performance in balance HSBCs operations in Hong Kong reported a record sheet management, and strong results from the pre-tax profit of US$7.3 billion, an increase of trading businesses and securities services in the 42 per cent compared with US$5.2 billion in 2006. buoyant economic environment.
Higher demand for The underlying change was in line with the reported structured products and mutual funds drove the change.
Net operating income increased by 32 per increased Private Banking profits.
Cost efficiency cent, double the rate of growth in operating ratios improved in all customer groups.
The commentary that follows is on an In Personal Financial Services, performance was underlying basis.
driven by increased fee income, particularly from retail brokerage and investment products, as well as Personal Financial Services reported a record growth in net interest income following higher pre-tax profit of US$4.2 billion, an increase of deposit balances and lending.
In Commercial 47 per cent compared with 2006, largely driven by Banking, balance sheet growth was driven by an increase in fee income in a year in which buoyant customer acquisition, increased trade flows and stock markets encouraged high volumes of share supporting businesses expanding into mainland trading.
The higher fee income, combined with 60 growth in loan and deposit balances, generated a rise The volume of retail securities transactions in net operating income of 37 per cent.
The cost registered over 167 per cent growth with 80 per efficiency ratio improved to 27.2 per cent.
Increased cent of trades performed online.
In response to business volumes fed through to higher costs, but significant increases in market volumes during the these were considerably lower than revenue gains as year, online trading capacity was augmented to efficiencies were attained from productivity gains in handle a four-fold increase in the peak number of the sales force and the increased use of automated users.
In the fourth quarter, credit-related liquidity channels and straight-through processing.
concerns, fears of a US recession and the implementation of measures in mainland China to Net interest income grew by 16 per cent to dampen the economy led to equity market falls US$3.3 billion in 2007, due to better margins and which slowed the rate of growth of fee income from growth of average deposit balances.
Effective share dealing and investment activities.
balance sheet management and the successful marketing of key products, including HSBC Premier, Over the course of 2007, investment market further contributed to deposit growth.
sentiment together with continued IPO activity, largely from mainland China, drove total funds Average customer deposits grew by 10 per cent, under management higher.
The introduction of new driven by a series of tactical campaigns and new funds and the launch of awareness campaigns helped deposit initiatives, including Deposits SmartPicks, to boost income from retail investment funds and which led to new customer acquisition.
The relaunch structured investment products by 144 per cent.
of Premier, which incorporates seamless WealthMaster, a new portfolio wealth management international banking connectivity and enhanced sales tool, was introduced during 2007 to support service benefits, supported strong growth in the branch staff sales of these products.
Equity market number of customers using the service.
At the end of performance was a catalyst for significant increases 2007, the number of Premier customers was 15 per in broking income in Hong Kong.
cent higher than at the end of 2006, at more than 290,000. Credit card fee income rose by 20 per cent, as promotional campaigns led to increased cards in An active property market was underpinned by circulation and contributed to a 17 per cent rise in strong economic conditions and stable domestic cardholder spending.
interest rates throughout most of the year.
The volume of new mortgages grew but spreads Life insurance commission income increased by tightened in a competitive market.
The cross-selling 50 per cent, boosted by the launch of new products, of mortgage-related insurance products, including LifeInvest and LifeSave, a medical cover policy HomeSurance, enhanced overall revenue and incorporating retirement savings.
HSBC extended its customer value.
Premier customers were responsible market leadership position for share of life insurance for 45 per cent of new mortgage balances while the new business premiums.
Emphasis on lower cost launch of a deposit-linked mortgage repayment plan online channels increased the percentage of non-life was successful in strengthening customer policies sold through them to 53 per cent, while relationships.
distribution through telemarketing channels also contributed to increased sales.
A number of credit card programmes were launched in 2007 which successfully increased Loan impairment charges rose by 47 per cent overall card balances by 15 per cent, and the total due to increased card balances.
Despite a rise in number of cards in circulation rose by 6 per cent to bankruptcies in Hong Kong, credit quality was stable 4.9 million at the end of the year.
HSBCs credit and non-performing loans as a percentage of card business maintained its leading position in advances fell by 10 basis points.
terms of cards in circulation, spending and balances.
Operating expenses rose by 16 per cent due to HSBCs development of its investment and higher performance-related pay and a rise in wealth management platforms benefited from the premises costs as demand for space in Hong Kong buoyant stock market in Hong Kong.
This led to an put upward pressure on rents.
Increased marketing increase in fees from the sale of retail securities and expenses reflected business growth and the launch of retail investment funds, leading to a 103 per cent new initiatives.
Higher IT costs were also incurred as increase in net fee income to US$2.0 billion.
This new systems were developed.
The cost efficiency was mainly due to higher trading volumes, reflecting ratio improved as increased revenues were delivered rising market turnover and value gains compared by sales productivity gains and the use of direct with the prior year.
61 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Hong Kong 2007 Commercial Banking reported pre-tax profits The business card launched by HSBC in 2006 of US$1.6 billion, 23 per cent higher than in 2006, was quickly adopted: in 2007, over 21,000 new due to strong balance sheet growth.
The rise in asset business credit cards were issued.
Spreads, however, balances was supported by active marketing efforts tightened due to competitive pressures.
and increased trade volumes in Hong Kong.
Higher Net fee income of US$526 million was 16 per customer numbers across all segments helped to cent higher, driven by increased sales of investment boost deposits and fee income rose as a result of a products, remittances, and trade services.
Demand wider product range and increased sales of from commercial clients for retail securities, unit investment products.
The cost efficiency ratio trusts and structured products helped fee income improved by 1.2 percentage points.
from these products to rise by 173 per cent.
While strong economic growth was a stimulus Remittance income rose by 26 per cent, boosted by to revenue growth, HSBC also actively increased its an increase in transaction volumes.
In addition, a customer base by opening business banking branches focus on straight-through processing and simplified and adding frontline staff.
Market share increased account opening procedures attracted customers to for key products, including remittances and the fee-based products as the convenience of the internet integrated account package, Business Vantage, and other direct options provided them with more which attracted 36,000 new accounts.
Revenues flexible options for their business operations.
from payments and cash management rose by 17 per As a result of several commercial insurance cent.
A series of reward programmes and customer marketing campaigns launched during the year, and events strengthened existing client relationships.
The a realigned sales force, insurance fee income launch of SmartForms for cross-border as well as increased by 11 per cent and net earned insurance domestic account openings further improved premiums rose by 37 per cent.
Composite sales accessibility to services for small businesses.
Total teams were established to enable general insurance customer numbers grew by 9 per cent.
sales managers to also sell life products.
Net interest income rose by 15 per cent as a Improved trading income was underpinned by result of higher deposits, as strong economic growth exchange rate volatility, which drove increased generated demand for savings products.
New payments and trade activity as well as income from customers based in mainland China increased the foreign exchange and derivatives.
Targeted small and mid-market client base and generated an marketing and the enhancement of Business Internet increase in Hong Kong dollar deposits.
Foreign Banking BIB to include forward contracts helped currency deposits, including US dollars, also to increase transactions.
Trading between US and increased significantly as global interest rates rose Hong Kong dollars and the hedging of renminbi and spreads were actively managed in a highly transactions also led to higher transaction volumes.
Loan impairment charges fell sharply by 59 per Overall, loans and advances to customers grew cent due to releases of provisions in a stable credit by 10 per cent as HSBC continued to increase its environment.
lending to manufacturers who were expanding their operations in mainland China, while intra-Asian Expenses rose by 12 per cent as a result of trade flows continued to accelerate.
HSBC also higher staff costs and rising commercial rents.
Staff promoted its Green Equipment Financing option to cost increases reflected a combination of wage borrowers in Hong Kong to enable them to finance inflation, performance-related compensation and the energy-efficient equipment.
Successful cross-border costs of additional client-facing staff to support referrals rose by 95 per cent, due to continued enhanced product offerings.
In addition, marketing initiatives promoting regional interaction.
Hang Seng costs rose to support branding and campaign activity.
Bank also targeted the cross-border activity of small A total of 176,000 customers were registered as and medium-sized businesses by promoting its internet users at the end of 2007, reflecting wide import and export products.
Market competition adoption of direct channel offerings.
The BIB site squeezed asset spreads on lending to corporate and was relaunched in the first quarter of the year, mid-market business customers.
leading to processing cost efficiencies.
Call centres Increased sales of packaged products to small were also re-engineered to promote the sale of and micro businesses were partially driven by packaged products.
Transactions through direct lending campaigns for equipment financing and channels constituted 40 per cent of the total number micro lending.
62 Global Banking and Markets in Hong Kong geographical reclassification, the underlying increase reported a pre-tax profit of US$1.6 billion, which was 72 per cent.
Client demand for structured represented a rise of 65 per cent compared with products increased, encouraged by the buoyant 2006.
This was principally due to a recovery in stock market.
The cost efficiency ratio improved balance sheet management revenues, a strong by 6.4 percentage points to 43.1 per cent.
performance in Global Markets, including significant Excluding a US$42 million geographic growth in fees from securities services, and higher reclassification, net interest income grew income from payments and cash management.
A significant rise was recorded in both cost efficiency ratio improved by 10.5 percentage deposits and lending.
An increase in relationship points.
managers and HSBCs brand reputation attracted Total operating income increased by 43 per cent new deposits, and clients continued to leverage their to US$2.6 billion, rising significantly as balance investments due to the relatively low cost of sheet management revenues recovered and Global borrowing.
This was supported by improved treasury Markets benefited from market volatility, boosting performance, as US dollar and Hong Kong dollar trading income from structured derivatives, foreign interest rates declined.
Fee income rose by 46 per cent as more clients Along with the improvement in balance sheet invested in mutual funds to take advantage of the management performance, net interest income local stock market performance.
In addition, the growth was driven by the continued rise in deposit promotion of discretionary products further balances and related margins, reflecting the buoyant contributed to the rise in revenues.
The SIS product, local markets.
which provides clients with externally managed portfolios tailored to their specific needs, proved Net fee income rose by 28 per cent as the strong particularly popular.
equities market and healthy investor confidence drove increases in volumes in securities services.
Trading income also benefited from the strength Assets under custody rose by 56 per cent due to of equity markets, with a 59 per cent increase to strong growth in new business.
Demand for alternative funds and structured equity products was high, particularly for Trading income increased by 20 per cent, the Forward Accumulator, a product linked to the mainly from foreign exchange, structured Hong Kong Stock Exchange.
Global Markets benefited from interest rate volatility during the year Client assets grew by 43 per cent to and a buoyant equity market backed by mainland US$72.7 billion.
Net new money contributed to Chinese stocks listed in Hong Kong, as well as 49 per cent of the increase, driven by a rise in the currency volatility as regional currencies rose against number of relationship managers and a wide variety the US dollar.
Structured products generated strong of discretionary products.
Cross-referrals from other earnings, particularly due to higher sales of products customer groups also increased, with inward incorporating equity derivatives.
Initiatives taken in referrals from other customer groups contributing previous years to extend the product range, ongoing US$898 million of net new money.
investments in technical and operating capabilities, Operating expenses were 17 per cent higher and sustained cross-sales efforts stimulated revenue at US$231 million, mainly due to increased growth.
employee numbers, predominantly in the front The corporate credit environment remained office, higher remuneration and performance-related benign with a small loan impairment charge, bonuses awarded in order to retain key staff in a very compared with a net release in 2006. buoyant market.
Operating expenses of US$1.0 billion rose by Within Other, the non-recurrence of gains in 13 per cent, 30 percentage points less than revenue 2006 from the sale of properties and investments, growth.
The expansion of certain businesses, notably the sale of UTI Bank Limited and the then including equities, structured derivatives and Hang Seng head office building, resulted in a higher securities services resulted in higher operational pre-tax loss in this segment.
Staff cost growth reflected performance incentives in line with the rise in revenues, and higher staff numbers.
Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of US$305 million.
Excluding a US$39 million 63 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Hong Kong 2006 Year ended 31 December 2006 compared cent towards the end of 2006, and the labour market with year ended 31 December 2005 began to tighten in certain sectors, with wage pressure increasingly evident.
Despite this, inflation Economic briefing remained low, averaging 2 per cent in 2006.
Hong Kong experienced sustained economic Investment growth surged in the second half of the expansion in the second half of 2006 with growth, year as the local interest rate cycle peaked.
The particularly in exports, regaining momentum residential property market divided, with prices of following a mild slowdown in the second quarter.
luxury property exceeding levels last seen in the Domestic demand underpinned the economy boom in 1997 while, elsewhere in the sector, activity throughout 2006 despite volatility in the stock and prices remained flat.
At the same time, market, which suffered a correction in the second investment in the construction sector was weak in quarter but recovered strongly in the second half of the absence of large-scale infrastructure projects and the year.
Falling unemployment, improved general uncertainty.
Externally, trade performance household incomes and positive longer-term improved in the second half of 2006 following economic prospects were the key elements difficulties in the first half of the year due to volatile supporting domestic consumption.
Hong Kongs external demand from western markets.
unemployment rate fell to a six-year low of 4.4 per Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax Year ended 31 December 2006 compared with year ended 31 December 2005 2005 2005 at 2006 Acquias Currency exchange sitions and Underlying 2006 as Reported Underlying 1 2 reported translation rates disposals change reported change change Hong Kong US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Net interest income.......... 4,064 5 4,069 616 4,685 15 15 Net fee income................. 1,674 2 1,676 380 2,056 23 23 3 Other income.................. 1,769 1 1,770 93 1,863 5 5 4 Net operating income..... 7,507 8 7,515 1,089 8,604 15 14 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.................... 146 146 26 172 18 18 Net operating income...... 7,361 8 7,369 1,063 8,432 15 14 Operating expenses.......... 2,867 3 2,870 399 3,269 14 14 Operating profit............... 4,494 5 4,499 664 5,163 15 15 Income from associates... 23 23 4 19 17 17 Profit before tax............... 4,517 5 4,522 660 5,182 15 15 For footnotes, see page 130. Review of business performance The following commentary is on an underlying basis.
HSBCs operations in Hong Kong reported a pre-tax profit of US$5.2 billion compared with Personal Financial Services pre-tax profits US$4.5 billion in 2005, an increase of 15 per cent.
increased by 9 per cent to US$2.9 billion.
Net On an underlying basis, pre-tax profit also grew by operating income before impairment charges grew 15 per cent.
Underlying net operating income by 13 per cent, driven by higher income from increased by 14 per cent, driven by widening deposit savings and current accounts and increased fee spreads in Personal Financial Services and income.
Marketing activities were successful, Commercial Banking and strong net fee income helping HSBC enlarge its share of the credit card growth in all customer groups.
In Global Banking and mortgage markets and attract higher deposit and Markets, an increase in trading income offset the balances.
As a result, customer numbers increased negative impact of lower balance sheet management by over 100,000.
The cost efficiency ratio improved income.
Underlying operating expenses rose by by 1.1 percentage points as cost growth of 9 per cent 14 per cent.
was restricted to less than the increase in net revenue.
Credit quality remained favourable and 64 loan impairment charges were low, although higher servicing fees.
HSBC focused on attracting than in 2005 when a modest recovery was recorded.
additional funds from existing Premier customers during 2006 and deposits managed on their behalf Net interest income of US$2.9 billion was increased by 29 per cent, reflecting the success of 10 per cent higher than in 2005, principally as a marketing campaigns and enhanced customer result of deposit growth and wider liability spreads.
Average savings balances increased by 7 per cent to US$119 billion, reflecting the success of Insurance fee income increased by 21 per cent promotional campaigns and HSBCs competitive and insurance premiums rose by 13 per cent.
The pricing strategy, and supported by increased demand development of HSBCs retirement planning for deposit products in the rising interest rate proposition was reflected in the launch of new environment.
Effective deposit pricing amid rising savings, protection and medical insurance products, interest rates led to wider deposit spreads.
supported by increased promotional and marketing activity and the successful development of internet HSBC increased its share of new mortgage and telephone distribution channels.
As a result, business to 33 per cent, the highest of any lender, sales of life and non-life insurance products rose.
benefiting from the launch of a simplified, transparent pricing structure in the first half of Gains less losses from financial investments 2006 which was supported by extensive media increased to US$14 million, reflecting proceeds from coverage.
The relaunch of a number of key products the MasterCard Incorporated IPO.
In July 2006, and the introduction of a two-month interest free HSBC transferred most of its Asian card acquiring offer in the fourth quarter of 2006 also contributed to business into a joint venture with Global Payments the increase in market share.
Excluding the reduction Inc. HSBC retained a 44 per cent stake in the new in balances under the Government Home Ownership venture and recognised an overall gain on transfer of Scheme, HSBCs mortgage portfolio grew by 7 per US$55 million, of which US$12 million was cent to US$23 billion.
allocated to the Hong Kong Personal Financial Services business and reported in Other operating Average cardholder balances increased by income.
16 per cent to US$3.5 billion and HSBC issued over 1 million new cards during 2006, which led to a Following a net release in 2005, loan 17 per cent rise in cards in issue to a record impairment charges of US$119 million reflected 4.6 million.
The launch of a mass card acquisition asset growth and lower releases and recoveries.
In programme comprising increased promotional 2005, rising property prices led to the release of activity, direct marketing and the use of incentives to impairment allowances against HSBCs mortgage increase cardholder spending contributed directly to lending portfolio and against restructured lending this rise.
As a result, HSBCs share of the Hong facilities, neither of which were repeated in 2006.
Kong credit card market increased to 46 per cent of Increased staff numbers, additional marketing card receivable balances.
activity and higher IT expenditure led to a 9 per cent Net fee income increased by 32 per cent to rise in operating expenses.
Staff recruited to support US$977 million.
Buoyant regional and global stock extended opening hours, together with higher markets led to increased demand for equity-based performance-related remuneration and annual pay products among local investors and HSBC rises, led to increased employment costs.
These responded by launching 69 new investment funds, were mitigated by a reduction in branch back-office including a number of innovative fund products, staff numbers as customers utilised lower-cost designed to meet investors changing demands in a distribution channels for an increasing proportion rising interest rate environment.
These launches of their banking business.
Rising Hong Kong were supported by greater marketing activity, commercial property rental yields in 2006 coincided improved pricing transparency and the development with the expansion of certain branches with high of new customer retention activities.
As a result, growth potential and resulted in higher premises sales of unit trusts rose by 61 per cent and fee costs.
Marketing costs rose in support of promotional income from the sale of investment products, activity related to credit cards, insurance and wealth and custody and broking activities increased by management products.
Similarly, IT expenditure 39 per cent.
rose as improved portfolio management systems and enhanced channel capabilities were delivered in The increase in cards in issue led to a 24 per order to drive revenue growth.
cent rise in credit card fees.
Expansion of the current account base, partly due to higher sales of packaged In Commercial Banking, pre-tax profits products, led to increased remittance and account increased significantly by 38 per cent to 65 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Hong Kong 2006 US$1.3 billion.
Net operating income grew by 32 per HSBC increased by 12 per cent and small business cent, driven by higher deposit balances and fee lending balances rose by 9 per cent.
Increased income, increased liability spreads and lower loan competition led to a 12 basis point narrowing of impairment charges.
Cost growth was comfortably asset spreads.
within the growth in revenues, and the cost Net fee income of US$454 million was 13 per efficiency ratio improved by 1.1 percentage points to cent higher than in 2005.
Cash management and 26.1 per cent.
remittance fees increased by 18 per cent, driven by During 2006, HSBC launched a number of growth in the number of current account customers, initiatives designed to further its position in the small enhancements to the product range and increased business banking market, including customer service cross-border remittances.
Robust local equity enhancements, improvements to account opening markets prompted the launch of 88 new investment procedures and targeted promotional activity.
As a products amid resurgent demand.
Sales of unit trusts result, Commercial Banking customer numbers were consequently 15 per cent higher, while increased by 13,000 to 377,000, as did the number derivative and structured product sales rose by of products sold per customer.
enhance the attractiveness of HSBCs distribution The establishment of a new Commercial channels improved customer service, facilitated Banking insurance business in October 2005 customer acquisition and encouraged the migration contributed to life insurance policy sales more than of routine transactions to automated channels.
doubling and an 18 per cent rise in non-life policies Net interest income rose by 23 per cent to in force.
As a result, insurance fee income more US$1.3 billion.
Deposit and current account balances than doubled and premium income increased by increased by 10 per cent, partly due to the 23 per cent.
deployment of a team dedicated to attracting Effective promotion contributed to a 31 per cent deposits from small businesses, and other service rise in receivables finance fee income, while enhancements.
BusinessVantage, HSBCs market increased hedging activity and a rise in the value of leading integrated account for business, reinforced multi-currency transactions by Commercial Banking its leadership position through increased promotional customers contributed to a 57 per cent increase in activity, including a new referral programme.
opened over 25,000 new BusinessVantage accounts in 2006, 21 per cent more than in 2005.
Interest rate The transfer of the majority of HSBCs card rises led to a 30 basis point widening of deposit and acquiring business into a joint venture with Global current account spreads and contributed to increased Payments Inc. realised a gain of US$13 million for demand for savings products.
Commercial Banking, reported in Other operating income.
Fee income in HSBCs remaining card Non-trade lending balances increased by 16 per acquiring business not included in the transfer rose cent to US$16.8 billion.
The continued strength of by 43 per cent, reflecting an increase in the number the Hong Kong economy and, most importantly, its of merchant customers and higher transaction values.
proximity to the strongly growing mainland Chinese market, led to increased business activity among Loan impairment charges decreased by 59 per mid-market clients, resulting in higher demand for cent, principally due to the non-recurrence of credit.
Lending to the property and retail sectors was significant charges against a single client in 2005. particularly strong, while manufacturers with Credit quality remained strong and non-performing operations in mainland China raised borrowings to loans as a proportion of lending balances fell by fund further expansion and take advantage of both 22 basis points to 62 basis points, reflecting prudent the growing Chinese domestic market and the strong lending policies and risk mitigation procedures.
HSBCs regional alignment Operating expenses increased by 17 per cent to programme, which is designed to identify and US$491 million to support the strong revenue capitalise on cross-border financing opportunities opportunities evident in the market.
The recruitment between Hong Kong, mainland China, Taiwan and of additional sales and support staff and the Vietnam was instrumental in contributing to the development of the Commercial Banking insurance growth in mid-market lending balances.
business contributed to higher staff numbers which, Growth in small business lending was facilitated together with the effect of pay rises, resulted in through a streamlined lending process and the higher staff costs.
Marketing costs rose as HSBC adoption of a new credit scorecard.
As a result, the stepped up its advertising and promotional activity, number of small business customers borrowing from including the launch of the global Commercial 66 Banking campaign to build market share.
Investments in equity sales and efficiency was improved by the continuing migration trading operations in previous years led to higher of sales and transaction activity to lower-cost direct revenues.
HSBC also benefited from internal channels.
synergies linking product structuring and hedging capabilities with distribution scale, as foreign Global Banking and Markets reported a exchange option-linked deposits and other pre-tax profit of US$955 million, an increase of instruments were offered to retail and corporate 3 per cent compared with 2005.
performance remained robust, with encouraging revenue growth in areas in which HSBC has Private Equity investments also performed invested, complemented by strong income growth in strongly.
However, Credit and Rates were adversely the securities services business.
The cost efficiency affected by lower volumes due to unfavourable ratio increased slightly, primarily due to the first market conditions in a rising interest rate full year effect of various growth initiatives taken environment.
The overall credit environment remained stable Total operating income of US$1.8 billion was with a net recovery of US$27 million.
Although balance sheet Operating expenses increased by 12 per cent to management reported an overall decline, revenues US$911 million, primarily due to the first full year recovered modestly in the second half of 2006 as effect of initiatives implemented in the second half lower yielding positions matured.
In Global of 2005 which extended the product range in Global Banking, net interest income from payments and Markets and strengthened the regional investment cash management activity rose sharply as a 6 per banking platform in Hong Kong.
cent increase in deposits was complemented by wider spreads.
Revenues benefited from improved Additional cost increase reflected a rise in customer flows following the launch of services performance-related remuneration coupled with offered through HSBCnet in the latter part of 2005. higher operational costs in line with increased Income from lending activities decreased as the volumes, particularly in payments and cash benefit of higher lending balances was more than management and securities services businesses.
offset by the effect of spread compression resulting Private Banking contributed a pre-tax profit of from an abundance of credit in a highly competitive US$201 million, an increase of 5 per cent compared market.
Growth in client assets and rising sales of Net fee income rose by 24 per cent.
Securities higher fee-generating discretionary managed services reported a 28 per cent increase in fees as products were partially offset by the adverse effect buoyant stock markets drove higher customer of a flattening yield curve on income from the activity.
Debt underwriting volumes increased as investment of surplus liquidity.
Demand for tightening credit spreads encouraged issuers to lock experienced private banking staff in Hong Kong was in to the favourable credit environment by extending fierce as competitors built up their locally-based the term of finance or by raising new debt in local operations and, despite strong revenue growth, markets.
By contrast, equity underwriting fees the resultant increase in staff costs led to a declined.
5.2 percentage points deterioration in the cost efficiency ratio to 49.5 per cent.
HSBC Global Asset Management used HSBCs extensive distribution network to take advantage of Net interest income was US$76 million, in line the global trend of strong investment flows to with 2005.
Steady growth in deposit balances was emerging markets.
Higher fees reflected strong offset by competitive pressure on deposit rates and performance fees from HSBCs emerging market by a challenging interest rate environment for funds.
Client funds under management grew by treasury management activities.
Loans and advances 23 per cent to US$35 billion, as HSBC launched new to customers at 31 December 2006 were marginally funds to capture increased demand for equity-based lower than at the same point in 2005 as higher investments.
Fees from the asset and structured interest rates reduced clients appetite for credit.
There was excellent growth in fee income, Net trading income increased by 18 per cent.
which increased to US$123 million, a rise of 31 per HSBC retained its leadership position in foreign cent.
Growth in funds under management and exchange, with revenues strengthening as trading success in increasing the proportion of clients assets activity increased in response to volatility in the invested in higher fee-earning discretionary managed value of the US dollar and economic conditions in assets contributed towards increased fee revenue.
67 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Hong Kong 2006 Profit loss before tax by customer group Fee income growth also benefited from increased experienced private bankers was high.
Performanceclient holdings of funds and alternative investments.
related remuneration rose, reflecting strong revenue Trading and other revenues were 18 per cent higher growth and a 19 per cent increase in customer at US$199 million, driven largely by sales of bonds relationship staff.
Increased marketing expenditure and structured products.
and technology costs were incurred in support of growing the business.
Client assets increased by 27 per cent to US$51 billion, with net new money inflows of The sale of part of HSBCs interest in UTI Bank US$8 billion.
This growth was assisted by better Limited resulted in gains of US$101 million, marketing and successful product placement, recognised in Other.
The disposal of Hang Sengs including a broadening of the discretionary managed head office building realised a gain of product range.
Sales of HSBCs discretionary US$100 million and the resulting reduction in managed SIS and CIS products, in which the value HSBCs investment property portfolio, together with of investments by clients reached US$1.4 billion, slower growth in the Hong Kong property market, continued to be a key driver of this asset class.
led to lower property revaluation gains.
Continued investment in relationship management, Increased US interest rates led to higher costs of improved stock market performance and growing servicing US dollar denominated floating rate cross-referrals from within the Group, primarily the subordinated debt, partly offset by higher earnings retail and commercial networks, also added to the on centrally held funds.
from higher dividend income from strategic Operating expenses were 31 per cent higher than investments.
Hong Kong head office and central IT in 2005, primarily due to increased staff costs driven costs rose, reflecting increased activity in support of by recruitment and the retention of front office staff HSBCs growing Asian businesses, offset by higher in a competitive market, where demand for recoveries from other customer groups.
69 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Hong Kong Profit loss before tax by customer group Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business continued Year ended 31 December 2006 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Hong Kong Net interest income expense.... 2,882 1,344 553 76 646 476 4,685 Net fee income expense........... 977 454 534 123 32 2,056 Trading income excluding net interest income 84 57 573 176 34 924 Net interest income on trading activities........... 4 88 77 476 307 5 Net trading income 88 57 661 176 111 476 617 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 373 53 5 1 66 260 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 14 1 9 140 162 Dividend income.. 1 1 2 57 61 Net earned insurance premiums.
The catalyst for expansion was a fifth consecutive year of rising oil Economic briefing prices, which facilitated continued growth in public Mainland Chinas economy continued to grow and private investment.
Consumption rose as strongly, with GDP rising by 11.4 per cent in 2007, employment levels increased and low interest rates the fifth consecutive year of double-digit growth: supported an ongoing expansion in credit.
Strong this was despite a combination of measures aimed at population growth, accelerated in parts of the region curbing investment, such as increases in interest by high levels of immigration, also boosted demand rates and reserve ratios required for banks.
High oil revenues resulted in a further performance remained primarily dependent on year of fiscal and current account surpluses investment and exports.
Bank loan growth also throughout the Middle East, boosting reserves and remained very strong.
Export growth slowed from holdings of overseas assets.
Rapid economic growth, very high levels as the year progressed, reflecting the low interest rates and currency weakness increased mild downturn in global trade.
Consumer spending inflation, however, fuelling demands in some grew steadily in 2007, with retail sales rising by quarters for adjustments to the long-standing dollar about 16 per cent.
Regional equity markets recovered from their with consumer price inflation exceeding 6 per cent 2005-06 downturns to perform strongly in 2007. towards the end of the year, mainly due to higher Elsewhere in the region, the Indian economy food prices.
Mainland Chinas foreign exchange expanded by 8 per cent in 2007, although there was reserves rose further, to more than US$1.5 trillion, evidence that recent interest rate rises and the while the renminbi appreciated by over 5 per cent strength of the rupee were slowing some areas of the against the US dollar in 2007. economy, and inflationary pressures eased in 2007.
Japans economy, the largest in the region, The economies of Vietnam and Singapore recorded expanded modestly in 2007.
Private capital strong performances too, expanding by just under investment decelerated after five years of firm 8 per cent in 2007.
Growth was approximately 6 per growth but a rise in exports, especially to Asia, cent in Indonesia and Malaysia.
Domestic demand in drove overall growth.
Private consumption also all these countries has become an increasingly made a positive contribution, helped by a gradual important source of GDP growth with investment, increase in employees income.
Core consumer price particularly in the construction sector, expanding inflation remained around zero throughout the course rapidly.
Inflationary pressures intensified in 2007, of the year.
largely as a result of higher oil and food prices, but remained under control.
The South Korean economy In the Middle East, economies continued to accelerated in 2007 as exports continued to flourish grow, although growth rates slowed slightly on those and household spending recovered from levels recorded in 2006, largely as a result of OPECrecorded in 2006. mandated cuts in oil production.
Concerns over liquidity growth prompted the central domestic demand remained lacklustre due to a lack bank to increase interest rates by 50 basis points to of government initiatives which is expected to 5 per cent during the year.
A gradual cooling of continue beyond the presidential and parliamentary demand and concerns over rapid exchange rate elections scheduled for 2008.
Generally robust appreciation are expected to limit the scope for economic performances in the Philippines, Thailand, further interest rate rises in 2008.
Buoyant exports and Pakistan in 2007 were overshadowed to varying supported economic growth in Taiwan, while degrees by political risks.
HSBCs operations in Rest of Asia-Pacific reported a pre-tax profit of US$6.0 billion compared with Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax US$3.5 billion in 2006, an increase of 71 per cent.
profit of US$760 million, an increase of 51 per cent On an underlying basis, excluding dilution gains of compared with 2006, due to significant growth in US$1.1 billion, profit before tax increased by operating income and in the contribution from 34 per cent, bolstered by sustained growth and associates.
Loan impairment charges declined business expansion across the region.
slightly with the absence of the exceptional credit card losses incurred in Taiwan in 2006 largely offset In Global Banking and Markets, profit before tax by new loan impairment charges from expansion in increased significantly, driven by an enhanced consumer lending throughout the region.
Continued product offering combined with buoyant local investment in the regions emerging markets and in markets.
Commercial Banking revenue benefited Japan resulted in a slight deterioration in the cost from increased customer volumes as a result of new efficiency ratio.
In Personal Financial Services, profit before tax rose as a result of strong Global and regional emphasis on distinctive balance sheet growth and increased contributions product offerings, including HSBC Premier and from associates.
Private Banking delivered a solid HSBC Direct, as well as significant investment in performance, underpinned by robust stock markets branches and marketing, and growth of consumer and increasing wealth in the region.
assets in emerging markets, helped attract an additional 1.1 million active customers, bringing the HSBCs three associates in mainland China, total to over 9 million.
87 new branches in mainland Ping An Insurance, Bank of Communications and China, India, Indonesia, the Philippines, Sri Lanka, Industrial Bank, all raised new capital in 2007 in the Bangladesh and Malaysia expanded the total branch A share market in Shanghai in which HSBC is not network to 410.
These initiatives spurred brisk able as a foreign investor to participate.
A similar growth of the business, with double-digit revenue dilution gain from Techcombank, in Vietnam, was growth in most countries in the region.
recorded in the second half of 2007.
The resulting dilution of the Groups interests was considerably HSBC Premier was relaunched in 22 markets less than its share of the new monies raised and in the region, extending international banking HSBCs results therefore include within Other connectivity to 35 countries globally.
The number aggregate pre-tax gains of US$1.1 billion which of Premier customers within Rest of Asia-Pacific should be regarded as exceptional.
76 In mainland China, pre-tax profit grew by 71 per credit card business continued to expand while also cent, as the share of profit from associates made delivering operating income growth of 33 per cent.
Operating income from own In Malaysia, revenues grew robustly as strong branded operations increased, though operating profit income growth was achieved in cards and personal fell due to continuing investment expenditure in key lending.
HSBC also recorded significant deposit regions within mainland China.
The Chinese growth, with balances 12 per cent higher than governments Qualified Domestic Institutional last year.
Investors QDII scheme, which allows mainland Chinese citizens to invest overseas, contributed to an In Indonesia, expansion of consumer finance and increase in net fee income.
HSBCs own-branded development of the wealth management business network expanded to 18 branches and 44 subhelped increase revenues which, with more moderate branches and, following local incorporation, HSBC loan impairment charges, resulted in an improvement began full renminbi-denominated services.
was the first foreign bank to qualify to provide local In Taiwan, a pre-tax loss of US$52 million was currency services in Beijing.
New branches were 70 per cent better than in 2006.
Revenues and added in the key economic zones of the Pearl River expenses were in line with the previous year, while Delta, the Yangtze River Delta and the Bohai Rim.
loan impairment charges were lower due to the nonIn addition, Hang Seng Bank added an additional recurrence of regulatory changes.
three branches and seven sub-branches, bringing its total to 25 outlets.
HSBC has the largest branch Net interest income of US$2.0 billion was network among foreign banks and remained focused 23 per cent higher, driven by strong growth across on offering Premier services.
This led to significant the region, particularly in the Middle East, India, deposit growth and a 51 per cent rise in the total Malaysia, the Philippines, Indonesia, mainland number of customers.
China, Singapore, Thailand and South Korea, due to higher balances from personal lending, credit cards In the Middle East, pre-tax profit grew strongly, and deposit accounts.
other than in Saudi Arabia, and in aggregate increased by 4 per cent.
Revenue growth across Average deposit balances rose by 23 per cent, the region was offset by a reduced contribution from partly as a result of the global relaunch of HSBC HSBCs associate in Saudi Arabia, which resulted Premier and the addition of 136 dedicated Premier from lower stock market-related income than the outlets, which led to notable increases in Singapore, exceptional levels in 2006.
Balance sheet growth mainland China, Malaysia, India and the Middle continued in the UAE across core asset and liability East.
In South Korea, Taiwan and the Middle East, lines, with the latter also benefiting from improved deposit growth was boosted by the successful launch margins.
Promotions were instrumental in raising of HSBC Direct, the Groups online savings offering, credit card balances as well as related interest income which attracted more than 376,000 accounts with and fees.
total savings balances exceeding US$1.2 billion at the end of 2007.
An online savings product was In Singapore, pre-tax profit increased by 33 per also launched in the Middle East.
Deposit spreads cent, largely attributable to strong sales of unit trusts, widened, particularly in India and Australia during along with successful campaigns to increase credit the first half of the year, as interest rates rose in much card usage and deposit balances.
Average deposit of the region.
balances rose by 23 per cent compared with 2006.
Average asset balances also increased and In India, a pre-tax loss of US$70 million was spreads widened as the asset mix shifted towards recorded due to planned investment in growing a higher margin products.
Personal lending grew by consumer finance business and higher loan 3 per cent despite the sale of mortgage portfolios in impairment charges.
The personal lending portfolio, Australia in the second half of 2006 and in New excluding mortgages, grew by 67 per cent during Zealand in July 2007.
Excellent growth in operating income was personal lending grew by 8 per cent.
achieved across all key products with 23 per cent growth in the number of active customers to over Cards in circulation rose to 8.9 million and 2.4 million.
HSBC is among the market leaders in card balances were 23 per cent higher than in 2006.
India in new credit card issuance and retail mutual Various promotional initiatives in the Middle East funds distribution.
The wealth management business contributed to a 30 per cent rise in card accounts and continued to perform strongly with a 91 per cent a 62 per cent rise in balances, as card usage among increase in funds under management and the number consumers increased.
Balances rose in India and of insurance policies in force more then doubled.
The Australia due to portfolio growth and, in the latter, 77 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Rest of Asia-Pacific 2007 increased use of point-of-sale financing.
By the In India, higher loan impairment charges were end of 2007, nearly 2.7 million credit cards were in due to volume growth of the portfolio, along with a circulation in India and over 1.2 million cards in the change in the collection methods of staff and Middle East.
In Malaysia, the Group is the third agencies and regulatory restrictions on collections.
Spreads in the region improved Loan impairment charges in Malaysia also increased.
slightly due to lower funding costs.
In Thailand, loan impairment charges rose from a previously low level, partly because of the one-off The mortgage business in each market in effect of a regulatory increase during the year in the Asia-Pacific was affected to varying degrees by minimum payment due on credit cards.
competitive pressures on balances and margins, and by local regulatory requirements.
Excluding Ongoing expansion in the region led to increases Australia and New Zealand, which were affected by in headcount and performance-related staff costs, the portfolio sales, mortgage balances grew by 7 per particularly in mainland China and the Middle East, cent.
In the Middle East, mortgage balances more which contributed to a 27 per cent increase in than doubled.
operating expenses to US$2.1 billion.
Staff numbers rose from 750 to nearly 1,900 in mainland China, Net fee income rose by 40 per cent to primarily in new branches.
In India, an additional US$766 million, with increases from most products, 700 employees were added to drive business notably cards and the wealth management businesses.
expansion, bringing the total to over 4,600.
Increased sales of unit trusts and other Additional staff in the Middle East were concentrated investment products across the region was a key in the UAE, where the number of employees driver of higher fee income.
Funds under increased from nearly 1,200 to 1,500, reflecting management rose by 57 per cent.
In the Middle East, investment in the region.
retail sales benefited from the strong performance of Investment expenditure during 2007 was focused local markets largely due to sustained higher oil on implementing new business initiatives in prices, and improved volumes of key products.
consumer finance, HSBC Direct and expansion in Strong investment sales were recorded in India, mainland China.
In India, the consumer finance South Korea, Singapore and mainland China, where branch network and the credit card business were HSBC offered residents renminbi-denominated expanded.
In Indonesia, HSBC added 36 consumer products through its QDII offerings.
In mainland China, key cities Credit card fee income increased, primarily in were identified for increased investment and a total the Middle East, India, the Philippines and Malaysia, of 27 new branches and sub-branches were opened.
due to a combination of additional cards in Income from HSBCs strategic investments in its circulation, increased spending and higher balances.
associates increased by 45 per cent, predominantly Distribution capabilities for insurance products due to an increased contribution from Ping An were expanded through strategic alliances and the Insurance, which experienced steady growth in its addition of new branches.
In addition, marketing key business segments as well as improved campaigns promoted HSBCs expertise in life and investment returns.
In the Middle East, Saudi British non-life products.
As a result, insurance fees and new Banks performance was lower than in 2006, as the premiums rose by 170 per cent and 50 per cent local stock market did not reach the volume of respectively.
The improved and extended sales activity seen in that year.
management in the Middle East, Taiwan and India Commercial Banking reported a profit before increased fees from the distribution of insurance tax of US$1.4 billion, 27 per cent higher than in products.
The regions economies performed strongly, Loan impairment charges and other credit risk and this generated excellent trade and investment provisions declined by 1 per cent.
The launch of secure and enhanced online charges were significantly lower in Taiwan due to the banking services, and new International Banking non-recurrence of regulatory measures which, in Centres established to support the increase in the 2006, had led to an increase in loan impairment customer base, contributed to strengthened deposit charges.
In Indonesia, lower impairment charges growth.
Costs rose to fund investment in expansion were a result of an improved economic environment in mainland China and India, initiatives directed at and continued collection efforts.
The Middle East small and medium-sized businesses in selected businesses benefited from lower delinquencies and countries and additional employee numbers to better collections.
The cost efficiency ratio was largely in line with 2006.
78 In the Middle East, operating profit grew by mainland China, Malaysia, Vietnam and Mauritius, 29 per cent, underpinned by strong economic growth spurring deposit and loan growth.
and the success of new International Banking Centres The UAE drove a strong increase in net interest and dedicated Business Banking Centres.
Smallincome in the Middle East.
Deposits and lending business banking was introduced in Bahrain, Qatar each recorded substantial volume growth as the and Jordan.
In the UAE, additional relationship region continued to experience high levels of managers in the business banking unit helped to drive investment and business expansion which buoyed a 30 per cent increase in revenues.
The region local economic activity.
Trade flows in the region performed well, particularly in deposits and tradealso benefited small and medium-sized businesses related lending.
Trade-related lending rose Operating profit grew by 56 per cent in mainland by 45 per cent.
China to US$46 million, reflecting growing lending In India, net interest income grew by 78 per cent, volumes to mid-market customers and improved largely due to trade-related lending products in spreads on lending products.
Lending volume growth combination with growth in deposits.
Both lending resulted in part from increased cross-border activity, and deposits benefited from an increase in the new branches and additional front-line employees.
number of frontline sales staff in provincial cities.
In Singapore, profit before tax rose by 19 per Net interest income from small and medium-sized cent, driven by higher net interest income from businesses rose by 49 per cent.
Increased margins on balance sheet growth.
Enhancements to the current accounts reflected the higher interest rates in receivables finance offering contributed to strong the region.
Local incorporation in Mauritius allowed growth in fee income.
closer alignment with HSBC in India.
In India, profit before tax grew by 76 per cent.
In mainland China, net interest income rose by Growth was broadly based with both net interest 79 per cent as the opening of new branches and income and net fee income registering healthy recruitment of additional frontline employees increases of 78 per cent and 57 per cent, respectively.
succeeded in attracting new deposits and additional Net interest income rose from wider asset spreads sales of lending products.
HSBC utilised country and balance sheet growth, driven by selective lending desks to facilitate a greater number of cross-border related to the booming Indian real estate sector.
transactions with South Korea, Vietnam, Hong Kong Higher foreign exchange volumes and treasury and Taiwan, which partly contributed to the 68 per product sales drove growth in fee income.
cent growth in commercial lending volumes.
The widening of liability spreads also contributed to net Revenues in Malaysia rose by 9 per cent, again interest income growth.
due to strong balance sheet growth, further supported by initiatives to grow deposit balances and Net interest income also rose strongly in complemented by improved liability margins.
Singapore and Malaysia, mainly due to higher Lending rose, particularly due to corporate term deposit balances.
In Malaysia, improvements to lending, but competition resulted in narrower direct channels helped to generate increased balances spreads.
Results in 2006 benefited from net in current accounts, and spreads rose accordingly.
recoveries on loan impairment charges which Growth in South Korea was partly the result of the did not recur.
successful acquisition of new customers.
Cross-border activity was facilitated in part Net fee income increased by 26 per cent, largely through the cross-border referral system, Global due to the continued growth of trade services, Links, which was extended across most of the region.
particularly in the Middle East, and cross-border Regional alignments and the acceleration of crosstransaction fees in India.
border activity led to an 87 per cent increase in Trade-related lending fees rose by 24 per cent.
A further 19 International The majority of this increase arose in the Middle Banking Centres were opened in 2007, taking the East, where intra-regional trade flows increased as a coverage to 26 of the regions countries and result of strong economic performance.
customer acquisition of SME businesses, in Net interest income grew by 29 per cent to combination with higher volumes of transactions US$1.1 billion.
The opening of new branches, an from existing customers, increased trade-related increased commercial presence supported by call fees by 81 per cent.
TradeSmart in Malaysia and centres, and the enhancement of BIB in Asia-Pacific Tradeline in Bangladesh were among the initiatives contributed to customer acquisition, particularly in used to maintain HSBCs reputation for providing 79 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Rest of Asia-Pacific 2007 2006 strong support for small and medium-sized business an emerging markets-led and financing-focused trade.
business, there were strong revenue performances in Global Banking and Markets in India, mainland Fees generated from small and micro businesses China, the Middle East, Singapore and Malaysia, rose as the customer base increased, in part due to which more than offset a 26 per cent increase in customer acquisition campaigns, enhanced internet operating expenses.
The cost efficiency ratio banking capabilities and the acquisition of Chailease, improved by 3.0 percentage points to 34.5 per cent.
a factoring company in Taiwan which facilitates cross-border transactions.
Total operating income increased by 37 per cent to US$3.3 billion with growth of over 20 per cent in Trading income increased by 45 per cent, as all major countries, led by securities services, balance volatility among Asian currencies resulted in sheet management and foreign exchange trading.
increased business flows and higher volumes.
Volatile exchange rates also drove demand for Net interest income grew by 54 per cent, hedging products, leading to an improvement in reflecting balance sheet growth and improved foreign exchange earnings, particularly in India and spreads compared with the first half of 2006.
Additional volumes were driven by the environment of buoyant local markets and favourable launch of an online trading platform.
In the Middle deposit spreads, payments and cash management and East, trading income rose due to higher demand from balance sheet management reported notable increases customers for foreign exchange and interest rate across the region, particularly in mainland China, hedging products.
In the Middle East, growth in income was driven by higher liability balances and Loan impairment charges were US$61 million improved spreads.
compared with a net release in 2006.
The charges mainly arose in Thailand and Indonesia, largely due Net fee income rose by 34 per cent to to portfolio growth and a small number of delinquent US$952 million with good performances throughout customer accounts.
The overall increase in loan the region in securities services, driven by a sustained impairment charges was balanced by recoveries in level of transaction volumes and investment flows.
the UAE, Singapore and Mauritius.
In securities services, assets under custody increased by 83 per cent, due to the successful transfer of Total operating expenses grew by 28 per cent, as Westpacs sub-custody clients in Australia and New growth was supplemented by investment in branch Zealand, and high market volumes, particularly in expansion in India and mainland China, and smallIndia.
Additionally, there was especially high fee business initiatives in the Middle East.
Additional income in Singapore, particularly from financing and staff were recruited to support sales growth, business capital markets, and payments and cash management.
In mainland China, HSBC established a rural bank targeting micro HSBC Global Asset Management income grew borrowers.
Continued emphasis on the use of lower by 68 per cent, following continued success in cost delivery media resulted in a substantial rise in distributing emerging market funds to the Japanese the number of customers registered for BIB: the market and a second year of strong performance fees number of transactions undertaken through internet from BRIC Brazil, Russia, India and China funds channels was 4 million, an increase of 127 per cent generating growth in Singapore.
A significant rise in trading income was mainly Income from associates rose by 64 per cent.
due to record revenues from foreign exchange Bank of Communications and Industrial Bank in trading, driven by increased customer flows as a mainland China substantially increased their result of volatility in exchange rates against the contributions compared with 2006, largely due to US dollar across the region.
Rates trading also balance sheet growth.
contributed, benefiting from favourable market conditions in most countries.
Global Banking and Markets reported a record pre-tax profit of US$2.5 billion in Rest of AsiaOperating expenses increased by 26 per cent, Pacific, an increase of 44 per cent on 2006.
Robust mainly in the Middle East, Singapore, India and growth across most revenue lines was driven by the mainland China.
Increased technology and successful delivery of HSBCs global products to infrastructure costs were incurred in support of clients throughout the region, against a backdrop of business expansion initiatives.
Higher staff costs rapid growth in regional economies and continuing reflected increases in employee numbers and international and domestic investor confidence in performance-related pay in response to robust local stock markets.
In line with the strategy to build growth in operating income.
80 The share of profits in associates and joint Year ended 31 December 2006 compared ventures increased by 47 per cent, reflecting higher with year ended 31 December 2005 contributions from HSBCs investments in Bank of Economic briefing Communication, Industrial Bank and Ping An Insurance, largely due to balance sheet growth.
Mainland Chinas economy continued to grow strongly, with GDP rising by 10.7 per cent in 2006, Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of the fourth consecutive year of double-digit growth.
US$92 million, an increase of 15 per cent.
Strong Despite the governments stated intention of revenue growth was achieved in Singapore, with promoting consumption in favour of investment further improvements in Japan, underpinned by growth, economic performance remained primarily buoyant stock markets and rapidly expanding wealth dependent on investment and exports.
However, this was offset by some success was achieved in this respect, as urban increases in operating expenses, with the result that fixed-asset investment slowed significantly to about the cost efficiency ratio worsened by 2.8 percentage 22 per cent in the second half of 2006 from 31 per points to 57.6 per cent.
cent in the first half of the year.
This resulted from a Net interest income rose by 71 per cent to combination of measures, including several interest US$60 million, mainly due to increased lending rate rises, increases in banks required reserve ratios, volumes in Singapore and improved treasury and the draining of liquidity via bill sales and performance, as US dollar and Hong Kong dollar window guidance, the exercise of influence by the interest rates declined.
authorities over the banks on policy matters, such as slowing lending growth.
In Singapore, increased client appetite for discretionary portfolios and the SIS multi-manager Export growth remained strong, accelerating product contributed to the 23 per cent increase in net slightly during the second half of 2006 despite fee income.
evidence of slower global growth.
Although a slowdown in the US growth rate in 2007 could Trading income marginally decreased, with negatively affect mainland Chinas exports, the increased demand for structured products being slowdown in investment spending referred to above offset by higher funding costs.
provides the authorities with the scope to ease policy Client assets grew by 21 per cent to and stimulate domestic spending if exports falter.
US$20.3 billion, with strong growth in Singapore Consumer spending rose steadily in 2006 with retail and Japan.
Net new money of US$2.2 billion was sales rising by about 13 per cent, and bank loans mainly attributable to the recruitment of additional continued to grow rapidly.
The inflationary relationship managers and a wider range of environment remained benign, with consumer prices discretionary products.
rising by less than 2 per cent.
Mainland Chinas foreign exchange reserves rose to above Operating expenses were up by 29 per cent to US$1 trillion, the worlds highest level.
The majority of the rise was in appreciated gradually against the US dollar, with an Singapore, as a result of increased employee increase of over 3 per cent in 2006. numbers, particularly in the front office, and alignment of salaries to market conditions to support Japans economy, the largest in the region, grew future growth.
Also contributing to the rise were in 2006.
Export growth was steady despite a slight operating expenses in India, which more than slowing in the second half of the year, and private doubled as HSBC continued to build its Private capital investment remained firm, driven by record Banking business there.
levels of corporate profits and the need to upgrade the capital stock to maintain global competitiveness.
In Other, GSC activity increased substantially as Consumer spending was disappointing, however, and the number of countries using service centres rose to was the major reason why GDP growth was less than 31 from 24 in 2006.
Costs rose by 40 per cent to expected.
Core consumer prices generally rose.
US$790 million following the opening of six new GSCs and the resultant increase in staff and Economic growth in the Middle East remained administrative costs, all of which were recovered robust over the second half of the year, continuing a in the form of other operating income from HSBCs strong expansionary phase that HSBC estimates will customer groups.
result in GDP in the Gulf region doubling in the space of just four years.
Buoyed by high oil prices and strong production, earnings from energy reached record highs in 2006.
Strong revenue growth encouraged government spending across the region, 81 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Rest of Asia-Pacific 2007 2006 particularly on capital projects.
Private investment, were exports, demand for technology, and domestic from both domestic and foreign sources, was also consumption, with investment demand lagging high while abundant liquidity, rising employment and behind.
India was among the strongest performing rapid population growth supported further increases economies in the world, with GDP growth of about in private consumption.
Although interest rates rose, 9 per cent in 2006.
This led to some signs of tracking those in the US over the course of the year, overheating, with inflation rising during the year.
The credit growth continued to be strong.
Robust Reserve Bank of India responded by raising interest domestic demand and the weakness of the US dollar rates, and there may be more increases to come.
Following corrections in Singapore grew by 8 per cent in 2006, in Vietnam in the first half of 2006, the major regional stock by over 7 per cent and in Malaysia by approximately exchange indices continued to trade at significant 6 per cent, their economies benefiting from generally discounts to the record levels registered in late 2005, low inflation and strong domestic and external with markets remaining generally sluggish.
Most Asian currencies ended 2006 stronger than the US dollar.
A US slowdown is a risk for the Elsewhere in the region, most economies region.
continued to perform impressively, particularly India, Singapore and Vietnam.
The main drivers of growth Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax Year ended 31 December 2006 compared with year ended 31 December 2005 2005 2005 at 2006 Acquias Currency exchange sitions and Underlying 2006 as Reported Underlying 1 2 reported translation rates disposals change reported change change Rest of Asia-Pacific US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Net interest income.......... 2,412 30 2,442 605 3,047 26 25 Net fee income................. 1,340 1 1,341 281 1,622 21 21 3 Other income.................. 1,265 21 1,286 767 2,053 62 60 4 Net operating income..... 5,017 52 5,069 1,653 6,722 34 33 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.................... 134 3 137 375 512 282 274 Net operating income...... 4,883 49 4,932 1,278 6,210 27 26 Operating expenses.......... 2,762 22 2,784 764 3,548 28 27 Operating profit............... 2,121 27 2,148 514 2,662 26 24 Income from associates... 453 4 457 159 249 865 91 54 Profit before tax............... 2,574 31 2,605 159 763 3,527 37 29 For footnotes, see page 130. Review of business performance significant rise in loan impairment charges arising primarily from industry-wide credit deterioration in HSBCs operations in Rest of Asia-Pacific delivered the credit card portfolio in Taiwan, mainly in the first a pre-tax profit of US$3.5 billion compared with half of 2006.
Significant increases in total operating US$2.6 billion in 2005, an increase of 37 per cent.
income and pre-tax profits were reported in the On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits grew by Middle East, India, Singapore and Malaysia.
In 29 per cent, with the major change in composition of Taiwan, HSBC launched the direct savings the Group being the additional 10 per cent stake proposition which had been received very positively purchased in Ping An Insurance in August 2005 in the US.
HSBCs strategic investments in mainland which made that company a 19.9 per cent owned China, Bank of Communications and Industrial associate of HSBC.
Bank, contributed to a 54 per cent underlying Pre-tax profits in the region have nearly doubled increase in income from associates.
in the past two years, justifying HSBCs strategy of The commentary that follows is on an underlying investing in emerging markets.
was strong, with underlying net operating income increasing by 26 per cent, notwithstanding a 82 Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax reflecting higher cardholder spending and a 21 per profit of US$477 million, 16 per cent lower than in cent increase in cards in circulation.
Strong operating trends were masked by a cards were issued during 2006, with new products US$160 million rise in loan impairment charges in launched in the Middle East, Sri Lanka and Taiwan, which suffered from regulatory changes Singapore.
HSBC ran marketing and incentive introduced to address high levels of consumer campaigns in a number of countries and card indebtedness.
Pre-provision operating income balances rose substantially in Malaysia, the Middle increased by 29 per cent, driven by balance sheet East, Indonesia, India and the Philippines.
growth, wider deposit spreads and increased fee Average mortgage balances increased by income.
Income growth was supported by business 13 per cent to US$18.9 billion, reflecting robust development activity which contributed to a 26 per growth in Singapore, Taiwan, India and Malaysia.
In cent increase in operating costs.
The cost efficiency Singapore, HSBC used targeted promotional rates to ratio improved by 1.3 percentage points.
build market share and this, together with increased The development of HSBCs regional business marketing activity, contributed to a 25 per cent continued apace, and double digit profit growth increase in mortgage balances.
In Taiwan, was achieved in 5 sites, namely the Middle East, competitive pricing and customer retention initiatives mainland China, Malaysia, Singapore and the contributed to a rise in customer numbers and Philippines.
Customer numbers increased by resulted in a 22 per cent increase in average mortgage 1.5 million, or 21 per cent, to 8.9 million, through balances.
In India, mortgage balances rose by 27 per strong growth in the credit card business, increased cent, benefiting from increased marketing and direct marketing activity and expansion of the sales force.
sales efforts, while in Malaysia, the successful 36 new branches and 28 consumer loan centres were promotion of Homesmart, a flexible offset mortgage opened in 13 countries, most notably Indonesia, product, enabled HSBC to increase average mortgage mainland China and the Middle East, and at the end balances by 10 per cent and widen spreads in a of 2006, HSBC had 396 branches in Rest of Asiahighly competitive market.
Pacific region and 7.3 million cards in issue.
Personal lending balances increased by Net interest income increased by 24 per cent to 22 per cent, partly as a result of significant growth US$1.6 billion.
Average asset and liability balances in HSBCs consumer finance business in India, grew strongly, while interest rate rises contributed to Australia and Indonesia.
In Indonesia, HSBC opened a 31 basis point widening of deposit spreads.
Asset 28 dedicated consumer finance outlets while, in spreads were in line with 2005.
India, 25 new outlets were opened in branches.
In Australia, consumer finance was developed in Average deposit balances rose by 16 per cent to partnership with well known international retailers US$34.4 billion, principally due to growth in the such as IKEA and Bang & Olufsen, together with HSBC Premier customer base.
Development of the established local retailers including Clive Peeters Premier business was supported by a concerted and Bing Lee.
HSBC signed a number of exclusive customer acquisition campaign which included supplier agreements with retailers and, as a result, the regional and local advertising and the establishment number of retail distribution outlets grew to more of new, dedicated Premier centres.
Overall deposit than 1,100, which enabled HSBC to increase its balance growth was especially strong in Singapore, market share.
In Malaysia, the success of HSBCs the Middle East and mainland China.
In Singapore, instalment loan product, Anytime Money, which was promotional campaigns, which included a deposit relaunched in 2005, contributed to a 93 per cent rise product sale, contributed to a 23 per cent increase in in average personal lending balances.
In the Middle liability balances while, in the Middle East, HSBC East, HSBC focused on promoting a select portfolio ran a deposit raising campaign with new product of products following a product simplification launches, marketing and internal sales incentives, exercise instigated in the fourth quarter of 2005 leading to a 20 per cent rise in average deposit which led to a 22 per cent rise in personal lending balances.
In mainland China, growth in HSBC balances.
Investments in HSBCs South Korean Premier, which accompanied the opening of 12 new operations had immediate results and personal Premier sub-branches, contributed to higher deposit lending balances more than doubled.
Net fee income rose by 24 per cent to Average loans and advances to customers rose US$524 million.
Regional card fees were 30 per cent by 16 per cent, driven by higher credit card advances higher, reflecting solid growth in cardholder and increased mortgage balances.
Average card spending while, in Indonesia, higher card fee income balances increased by 22 per cent to US$3.1 billion, was a consequence of a rise in delinquencies.
83 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Rest of Asia-Pacific 2007 2006 The robust performance of regional stock Expansion of the branch network and development of markets during 2006 contributed to strong demand sales and support functions led to higher staff for investment products and led to the launch of new numbers and, together with higher  funds, which together generated a 27 per related incentive payments, contributed to a rise in cent increase in investment fee income, including staff costs.
The new branch openings increased custody and broking fees.
Growth was particularly premises and equipment costs.
The establishment of strong in South Korea, Taiwan, India and Singapore.
a number of consumer finance businesses and HSBC Sales of investment products, including unit trusts, Directs introduction in Taiwan were also factors in bonds and structured products, increased by 19 per the rise of operating expenses.
cent to US$8.0 billion and funds under management Marketing costs rose as HSBC increased grew by 19 per cent to US$8.6 billion.
advertising and promotional activity directed to HSBC continued to develop its regional attracting new customers, enlarging HSBCs share of insurance business by launching medical insurance in the credit card, mortgage and unsecured personal Singapore and establishing a Takaful joint venture in lending markets and increasing deposit balances.
In Malaysia, offering shariah-compliant insurance the Middle East, IT expenditure rose as HSBC products.
In the Middle East, cardholder credit introduced a new internet banking infrastructure, insurance was launched in the fourth quarter of implemented HSBCs WHIRL credit card system 2006.
These product launches were supported by and made major updates to customer relationship increased marketing activity and targeted investment management software.
to increase HSBCs presence and market share.
Largely driven by a strong performance in Consequently, the number of policies in force at the HSBCs strategic investment in Ping An Insurance, end of 2006 rose by 89 per cent to 800,000 and which reported record results in 2006, income from insurance fee income and insurance premiums rose associates rose by 59 per cent.
In Saudi Arabia there by 12 per cent and 4 per cent respectively.
were buoyant revenues from stock trading and Other operating income increased by investment business, particularly in the first half of US$71 million due to gains on the sale of HSBCs 2006 although, subsequently, turbulent local stock Australian stockbroking, margin lending and markets affected investor sentiment and contributed mortgage broker businesses.
Additionally, HSBC to lower income in the second half of the year.
established a joint venture with Global Payments Inc. Commercial Banking reported a pre-tax to manage the majority of the banks Asian card profit of US$1.0 billion, 25 per cent higher than in acquiring business.
This was transferred to the 2005.
Pre-provision operating income increased by joint venture in July 2006, realising a gain of 25 per cent, driven by higher deposit and lending US$10 million in the regions Personal Financial balances and widening liability spreads.
migration of routine activities to lower-cost channels Loan impairment charges and other credit risk helped to mitigate business expansion costs, and provisions more than doubled to US$545 million, operating expenses consequently increased by 21 per mainly due to higher charges for personal lending in cent.
The cost efficiency ratio improved by Taiwan and Indonesia.
In Taiwan, regulatory changes 1.4 percentage points.
restricted collection activities and eased repayment During 2006, HSBC focused on developing its terms for delinquent borrowers.
These changes, cross-border business banking activities and coupled with a deteriorating credit environment, led increasing its presence in the small business market, to a US$160 million increase in loan impairment supported by investment in delivery channels and charges related mainly to the credit card portfolio, increased promotional activity.
International business most of which were realised in the first half of 2006. banking benefited from the strong performance of In Indonesia, changes in minimum repayment HSBCs two regional alignment programmes, amounts, along with hardship following a significant centred on mainland China and the Middle East, reduction in the government subsidy of fuel prices, together with the establishment of International led to increased delinquency rates on credit cards, Business Centres in seven sites including Australia, also mainly in the first half of 2006.
Elsewhere in the mainland China, India and Taiwan.
In addition, new region, credit quality was broadly stable and growth branches in mainland China, India, Malaysia, in impairment charges followed increases in credit Bangladesh and Sri Lanka were complemented by card and personal lending balances.
enhancements to internet banking services in Operating expenses increased by 26 per cent to Malaysia and India and improved self-service US$1.6 billion, largely tracking revenue growth.
terminals in a number of countries.
The launch of 84 HSBCs inaugural global Commercial Banking Trading income increased by 25 per cent.
In the advertising campaign, increased local marketing Middle East, HSBC continued to invest in its activity and the realisation of business development Commercial Banking treasury business to support teams throughout the Asia-Pacific region contributed an increasingly international customer base.
As to an 8 per cent increase in Commercial Banking customer demands became more sophisticated, customer numbers to 177,000, with particularly 15 new products were launched in 2006, while higher strong growth in Malaysia, mainland China and marketing activity and the establishment of an online India.
e-trading platform also contributed to a rise in customer trading volumes.
Increased hedging activity Net interest income rose by 33 per cent to among Commercial Banking customers also led to US$848 million.
Higher customer numbers increased foreign exchange earnings in India and contributed to increased average asset and liability Malaysia.
balances, while interest rate rises led to wider liability spreads, partly offset by narrower asset The transfer of the majority of HSBCs Asian spreads.
card acquiring business into a joint venture with Global Payments Inc. led to the recognition of a gain Interest rate rises also contributed to higher of US$10 million in Commercial Banking, reported demand for deposit products and liability balances in Other operating income.
increased in a number of countries, most notably the Middle East, Singapore, Taiwan, Malaysia and India.
Strong economic conditions supported a further In the Middle East, HSBC successfully initiated a net release of loan impairment charges, which targeted marketing campaign offering preferential decreased by 57 per cent compared with 2005. savings rates to selected customers while, in Underlying credit quality remained strong.
Singapore and Taiwan, enhanced sales incentives Operating expenses increased by 21 per cent to contributed to growth in liability balances.
In US$554 million in support of business expansion.
Malaysia, expansion of the branch network together HSBC recruited additional sales and support staff, with fresh marketing campaigns, competitive pricing increased its Commercial Banking presence in the and product enhancements increased customer branch network and committed to higher marketing numbers and led to a 31 per cent rise in average activity in a number of countries, most notably the liability balances.
In India, current account and Middle East, India and mainland China.
Strong deposit balances increased by 40 per cent, partly revenue growth resulted in higher performance from liquidity chasing new IPOs, which surged in payments and this, together with salary inflation, line with strong local equity markets.
added to rising staff costs.
In South Korea, the In 2006, HSBC successfully launched a number Commercial Banking business expansion proceeded of initiatives designed to increase asset balances as planned, staff numbers more than doubled, and throughout the Rest of Asia-Pacific region to deploy HSBC incurred higher premises, equipment and the additional deposit base being attracted.
For infrastructure costs as a consequence.
In the Middle example, in Malaysia, television and press East, increased business volumes necessitated advertising helped trigger a 31 per cent increase in systems improvements which resulted in higher IT average non-trade lending balances.
marketing campaigns launched in Malaysia and India Income from HSBCs strategic investments in in the wake of higher regional trade flows, offered associates increased by 47 per cent.
Income from customer incentives designed to expand HSBCs Bank of Communications rose by 45 per cent as a market share in trade lending.
Targeted incentive result of higher asset and liability balances, effective programmes were also launched in Singapore, Sri credit control and improvements in the cost Lanka, mainland China, South Korea and Indonesia.
efficiency ratio, while income from Industrial Bank In the Middle East, strong demand for credit was 55 per cent higher.
In the Middle East, net underpinned by robust economic expansion resulted releases of loan impairments, following net charges in a 26 per cent rise in average lending balances.
in 2005, led to strong growth in Commercial Banking Net fee income rose by 7 per cent to income in The Saudi British Bank.
US$330 million as volume-related increases in trade Global Banking and Markets delivered a fees were recorded in the Middle East and India.
record pre-tax profit of US$1.6 billion, an increase of HSBC in India also benefited from higher fees from 35 per cent compared with 2005.
Positive revenue lending activities, reflecting growth in the number of trends were reported across most countries, reflecting borrowing customers, while payments and cash continued growth in HSBCs wholesale banking management fee income rose in the Middle East.
The Middle East, 85 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Rest of Asia-Pacific 2007 2006 India, Taiwan and Singapore accounted for 66 per benefited from higher foreign investment flows as cent of the increase in pre-tax profits.
The cost investor confidence in the improved stability of efficiency ratio improved by 3.5 percentage points to emerging economies grew.
In the second half of 37.6 per cent.
2006, growth in revenues from retail structured investment products moderated as investors sought Total operating income increased by 29 per cent outright exposure to equities, and deposit yields compared with 2005 to US$2.3 billion.
However, in the Middle East, there was Markets, the securities services business benefited strong demand for structured interest rate products from investment flows into and within emerging among corporate and institutional customers and for markets, leading to higher customer volumes in risk management advisory products as clients buoyant local markets.
In Global Banking, payments and cash Gains on the disposal of financial investments management services increased in all countries, with were higher than in 2005, largely due to income from significant contributions from businesses in India, the the sale of debt securities in the Philippines in 2006, Middle East, Singapore and mainland China reflected together with the non-recurrence of losses on the in higher net interest income.
The strength of disposal of US dollar securities in Japan in January domestic economies within emerging markets, 2005. coupled with the global trend of rising interest rates, drove deposit balances and improvements in spreads.
The net recovery in loan impairment charges Corporate lending income in the Middle East declined significantly due to the non-recurrence of a increased by 33 per cent as economic growth large recovery in Malaysia in 2005. continued and infrastructure investment rose.
These Operating expenses increased by 18 per cent to gains were partly offset by lower balance sheet US$869 million, in part due to an increase in management revenues.
performance-related incentives which reflected the Net fee income increased by 38 per cent to robust growth in operating income.
A significant increase in fee income East and India, higher staff costs also arose from in Global Markets was driven by higher securities additional recruitment to support the expansion of services business volumes, reflecting improved capabilities across various businesses.
investment sentiment and buoyant local markets, In Global Markets, support costs increased in particularly in early 2006.
Debt underwriting line with higher transaction volumes and greater volumes increased, particularly in the Middle East, as product complexity, while a rise in payments and lower credit spreads encouraged issuers to lock into cash management activity, primarily in HSBCs the favourable credit environment by extending the operations in India, mainland China, Singapore, term of finance or raising new debt in local markets.
South Korea and Indonesia, resulted in higher In Global Banking, income from the advisory operational expense.
business was boosted by a steady flow of new deals, The share of profits in associates increased by driven by the strong momentum provided by 47 per cent, primarily reflecting higher contributions economic development in the Middle East.
Trade from HSBCs investments in Bank of finance and payments and cash management fee Communications in mainland China and The income also benefited from higher customer Saudi British Bank.
Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of HSBC Global Asset Management revenues more US$80 million, a modest increase compared with than doubled, reflecting higher funds under 2005.
Revenue growth was strong across the region management and performance fees on emerging despite challenging market conditions, particularly in market funds.
Singapore, with notable contributions from the Net trading income of US$717 million rose by onshore Private Banking operations launched in the 26 per cent, benefiting from an increasing interest Middle East and India during 2005.
Employee rate environment and volatile foreign exchange benefits rose at a faster rate than revenue, driven by markets.
Although, generally, volatility levels were a fiercely competitive market for experienced private lower than those experienced in 2005, the emerging banking staff, and this led to a deterioration of the market correction in May 2006 combined with a cost efficiency ratio from 50.7 per cent in 2005 to rapid recovery in the second half of the year to 54.5 per cent in 2006. stimulate a rise in foreign exchange and Credit and Net interest income grew by 21 per cent to Rates volumes in most countries.
Growth was predominantly in 86 Singapore, where treasury performance improved and Investment in funds benefited from higher demand unfavourable positions unwound, and India, where for HSBC and third party manager funds, including the recently launched business was successful in the SIS and CIS products in which the value of client attracting deposits.
investments grew to US$291 million.
Higher deposits and investments in equities also contributed to the Fee income increased by 62 per cent to growth in client assets.
US$68 million, with significant growth in Singapore, India and the Middle East.
Initiatives to attract clients Operating expenses increased by 25 per cent, to HSBCs suite of discretionary managed products, reflecting continued investment in the onshore particularly the SIS and CIS products, proved Japanese operations and growth of the business in successful.
Staff costs rose as competition for front-office professionals intensified, putting upward pressure on Trading and other operating income was slightly staff rewards, and the full-year impact of the lower than in 2005, due to sluggish stock market expansion in staff recruitment in 2005 fed through.
performance and correspondingly subdued client activity.
HSBC sold properties in Japan and India, realising gains of US$87 million in Other, Client assets increased by 12 per cent to US$77 million higher than in 2005.
Costs and US$16 billion, benefiting from the recruitment of recoveries in the GSCs both rose, reflecting increased front office staff, client appetite for investment in activity supported by higher staff numbers.
Interest newly launched funds and the successful growth of rate rises and higher retained earnings led to a recently launched onshore businesses in the region.
doubling of earnings on centrally held funds.
87 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Rest of Asia-Pacific Profit before tax by customer group Profit before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business Year ended 31 December 2007 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Rest of Asia-Pacific including Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total the Middle East US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 1,965 1,131 1,295 60 153 461 4,143 Net fee income....... 766 429 952 85 14 2,246 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 72 129 1,000 71 70 1,202 Net interest income expense 2 22 4 461 441 on trading activities................ 5 Net trading income expense... 70 129 978 71 66 461 1,643 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 73 4 3 1 38 111 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 5 4 28 1 38 Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates............. 1,081 1,081 Dividend income.... 2 6 8 Net earned insurance premiums.
88 Year ended 31 December 2006 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Rest of Asia-Pacific including Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total the Middle East US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 1,520 848 802 35 61 219 3,047 Net fee income....... 524 330 688 68 12 1,622 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 61 86 717 74 3 935 Net interest income on trading activities............. 27 219 246 5 Net trading income.................... 61 86 717 74 24 219 1,181 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value............ 59 4 4 12 79 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 2 2 38 1 41 Dividend income.... 1 4 5 Net earned insurance premiums.
89 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Rest of Asia-Pacific Profit before tax by customer group North America Profit before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business continued Year ended 31 December 2005 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Rest of Asia-Pacific including Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total the Middle East US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 1,208 631 614 30 54 125 2,412 Net fee income....... 419 307 498 43 73 1,340 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 37 70 579 74 7 753 Net interest income expense 1 1 21 3 125 107 on trading activities................ 5 Net trading income expense... 38 69 558 74 4 125 860 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value............ 44 1 4 9 58 Gains less losses from financial investments.............. 4 12 2 18 Dividend income.... 1 4 5 Net earned insurance premiums.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared in the second half of the year slightly higher at with year ended 31 December 2006 4.8 per cent.
The trade deficit narrowed in 2007 as export growth strengthened.
Consumer price Economic briefing inflation averaged around 4 per cent in the final In the US, GDP growth in 2007 was 2.2 per cent, quarter of 2007.
This was largely due to higher 0.7 percentage points less than that recorded in 2006 energy prices: excluding food and energy, consumer as the housing-led downturn gathered pace.
price inflation averaged 2.3 per cent in the fourth Consumer spending in 2007 grew by 2.9 per cent, quarter.
The Federal Reserve lowered short-term the weakest annual expansion since 2003.
Housing interest rates by 100 basis points in the second half activity continued to weaken in 2007, with of 2007, from 5.25 per cent to 4.25 per cent, as residential investment falling by 17 per cent during policymakers attempted to mitigate the worst effects the year.
Both new and existing home sales also of the sub-prime related credit squeeze upon declined to new lows in 2007.
10-year note yields reached a rate averaged 4.6 per cent in 2007, with the average high of 5.3 per cent in June 2007, before falling to 92 4 per cent by the year-end.
Declines in the final labour market.
The unemployment rate averaged months of 2007 left the Standard & Poors S&P500 6 per cent for the year, reaching a historical low of stock market index practically unchanged compared 5.8 per cent in October.
After hitting a high of with the end of 2006.
2.5 per cent in April, core consumer price inflation slowed to 1.5 per cent by the end of 2007.
The Canadian GDP increased by 2.4 per cent during Canadian dollar appreciated during the year, the first eleven months of 2007 compared with the particularly in the second half.
In July, the Bank of equivalent period of 2006.
Domestic demand Canada raised its overnight interest rate from remained strong despite tighter credit conditions in 4.25 per cent to 4.5 per cent before reversing this the latter part of the year, supported by the robust move in the final weeks of 2007.
Reconciliation of reported and underlying profit before tax Year ended 31 December 2007 compared with year ended 31 December 2006 2006 Acquisitions, 2006 at 2007 disposals as Currency exchange and dilution Underlying 2007 as Reported Underlying 1 2 reported translation rates gains change reported change change North America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % % Net interest income.......... 14,268 65 14,333 514 14,847 4 4 Net fee income................. 4,766 26 4,792 1,018 5,810 22 21 3 Other income.................. 2,593 10 2,603 20 497 2,126 18 19 4 Net operating income.
21,627 101 21,728 20 1,035 22,783 5 5 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.................... 6,796 3 6,799 5,357 12,156 79 79 Net operating income.... 14,831 98 14,929 20 4,322 10,627 28 29 Operating expenses.......... 10,193 47 10,240 26 290 10,556 4 3 Operating profit............. 4,638 51 4,689 6 4,612 71 98 98 Income from associates... 30 1 31 11 20 33 35 Profit before tax............. 4,668 52 4,720 6 4,623 91 98 98 For footnotes, see page 130. Review of business performance Banking were the result of balance sheet growth achieved from the continued expansion of the HSBCs operations in North America experienced a business, although this revenue growth only partially significant fall in pre-tax profits of 98 per cent in offset rises in expenses and loan impairment charges.
2007, on both reported and underlying bases.
Private Banking profits rose significantly as a result It is now clear that the US housing market is of the launch of services in Canada, improved undergoing a significant correction and recovery is performances in the US and Bermuda and the not likely in 2008.
The US economy began to slow non-recurrence of a significant loan impairment in the fourth quarter and recent evidence suggests charge in 2006. that some parts of the country may already be in The commentary that follows is on an recession.
As the housing market slump has affected underlying basis.
the real economy, the deterioration in credit quality that began in the mortgage services business has Personal Financial Services reported a extended to include other consumer finance pre-tax loss of US$1.5 billion, a decline of businesses in the US.
In HSBC, this was reflected in US$4.9 billion from 2006.
Performance was a 79 per cent rise in loan impairment charges and a significantly affected by rising loan impairment loss before tax of US$1.5 billion in Personal charges in the consumer finance business in Financial Services.
mortgage lending, cards and branch personal lending.
Actions taken to manage exposure and A loss of US$965 million in Global Banking realign the business in response to changes in the and Markets arose from credit-related and liquidity market included stopping new purchases in mortgage event write-downs as asset-backed securities markets services, tightening underwriting criteria, restricting became illiquid and credit spreads widened the product range in consumer lending, decreasing markedly.
Increased revenues in Commercial 93 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America 2007 credit lines and reducing the volume of balance by 16 per cent.
Deposit spreads tightened, reflecting transfers in credit cards, and restructuring the a change in the product mix from lower-paying consumer lending branch network by closing some savings accounts to the higher-paying offerings 400 branches of HSBC Finance to reflect expected available online and in branches.
HSBC Bank USA lower demand.
These measures gave rise to opened 26 new branches during the year.
restructuring charges of US$103 million in the The slowdown in the US housing market first US in 2007. noted in 2006 accelerated in 2007, with further US pre-tax losses of US$1.8 billion were deterioration in sales of new and existing homes and predominantly due to higher loan impairment lower new-build activity.
Market surveys showed a charges, trading losses in the wholesale mortgage broad-based decline in house prices, especially for origination business and lower income from fewer larger loans and in states that had experienced the receivables in the correspondent mortgage services fastest rates of house price appreciation in recent business.
In line with industry trends, the credit years.
Average US mortgage balances declined by quality of loans weakened steadily throughout the 2 per cent to US$123 billion.
year, particularly those underwritten in 2005, 2006 Average mortgage balances originated through and the first half of 2007. the consumer lending branch network rose by In Canada, profit before tax rose by 2 per cent to 18 per cent, primarily driven by lower levels of US$265 million, benefiting from the strong local repayments and the severe contraction in market economy.
Of this, the retail bank generated capacity, which drove qualifying borrowers to the US$116 million, including an US$8 million gain on few remaining market participants.
Actions taken by the sale of shares in the Montreal Exchange.
HSBC to restrict the product range, increase Consumer finance operations added US$149 million collateral requirements, raise prices and close or through balance sheet expansion in the first part of consolidate about 400 branches of HSBC Finance the year, prior to a fourth quarter restructuring to during 2007 combined to curb lending growth align with changes in the US consumer finance towards the end of the year.
Yields on consumer lending mortgages declined Net interest income grew by 1 per cent to overall due to increases in delinquency, loan US$13.2 billion as growth in card and average modifications which deferred scheduled moves to deposit balances marginally offset a fall in US higher rates and levels of non-performing loans, and deposit margins.
In the US, net interest income rose decreases in repayments, which resulted in reduced by 1 per cent as the mix of business changed to prepayment penalties.
Interest spreads narrowed as higher yielding activity and HSBC raised rates on funding costs rose.
new consumer finance mortgages to reflect increased In the mortgage services business, average risk.
The beneficial effect on yields was, however, balances declined by 14 per cent to US$43 billion, more than offset by the impact of non-performing reflecting HSBCs decision to wind down this book assets and a higher cost of funds.
Higher volumes of in response to the deterioration in market conditions.
Fewer Spreads fell, driven by higher non-performing loans mortgages repaid early as refinancing activity and increased funding costs.
declined substantially, and this also resulted in lower prepayment penalties.
These factors combined to HSBC Bank USAs average mortgage balances limit HSBCs ability to pass on in full the increased fell by 9 per cent to US$31 billion.
HSBC continued cost of funds in a higher average rate environment.
to sell down new loan originations to governmentThis led to an overall decline in spreads.
sponsored enterprises and private investors and, with the exception of certain products, did not replace the In the US, average deposit balances were 19 per existing portfolio being run-off.
Interest rate spreads cent higher, reflecting growth in the online savings on the prime mortgage portfolio declined, primarily account and certificate of deposit products.
A due to loan portfolio run off.
competitively priced special promotional rate offer in the first quarter of 2007 led to 147,000 new Average credit card balances increased by account openings and US$5 billion of new balances 14 per cent to US$29 billion.
Volumes in the during the year, offset in part by decreases in money sub-prime and near-prime portfolios rose due to market term deposits.
At 31 December 2007, online additional marketing to this segment in late 2006 and savings balances with HSBC Direct stood at the first half of 2007.
Expansion slowed during the US$11.5 billion, held by more than 620,000 second half of 2007 as HSBC restricted growth in customers.
HSBC Premier customer numbers rose customer loans and advances in light of the 94 economic outlook.
Beginning in the third quarter of competitive margin compression.
Average deposit 2007, HSBC decreased marketing expenditure in an balances rose by 8 per cent as the rollout of the new effort to slow the growth of balances in the credit high-rate and direct savings accounts continued.
In the fourth quarter of 2007, to These products added US$935 million in new further slow this growth, HSBC slowed the rate of balances and some 11,900 in incremental customer new account acquisition, tightened the criteria for numbers.
HSBC Premier recorded a rise in customer authorising initial credit lines and for underwriting numbers of 19,000.
Deposit spreads were broadly credit line increases, closed inactive accounts, unchanged as the effects of a change in mix to higher decreased credit lines, reduced balance transfer paying high-rate and direct savings products were volume and restricted access to cash.
Excluding the offset by the benefits of an increased proportion of one-off increase from a methodology change for higher yielding deposits.
effective interest on introductory rate credit card Average lending balances in Canada rose by loans which increased yields in 2006, yields 9 per cent as the strength of the economy and improved due both to repricing and a change in the buoyant housing market drove demand for loans.
product mix towards a higher proportion of subWhile asset spreads at both the retail bank and the prime and near-prime balances, coupled with lower consumer finance business narrowed due to levels of promotional balances.
Spreads widened on competitive pressure, overall spreads widened due to an underlying basis as rate increases preceded any the increased proportion of higher yielding consumer rise in funding costs.
Credit expansion was across all In retail services, average balances rose by segments with the consumer finance operations 4 per cent to US$17 billion, driven by organic achieving growth in their real estate secured, private growth and the deepening of HSBCs relationships label and credit card portfolios.
Spreads widened as higher Net fee income rose by 24 per cent to yields on promotional balances due to fewer people US$4.6 billion, mainly from the US credit cards and choosing to pay balances during the introductory retail services businesses, reflecting growth in period, and the benefit of price increases more than balances.
In the US, net fee income rose by 25 per offset higher funding costs.
Risk mitigation cent, largely from higher late, overlimit and measures enacted included the tightening of credit Intellicheck fees in the credit card book.
Revenues across selected retail businesses, especially the from enhancement services also rose, primarily from power sports sector, closure of inactive accounts and higher sales of services to new and existing a reduction in the limits for certain other accounts.
customers, growth in balances and an increase in Average vehicle loan balances grew by 5 per new accounts.
In the fourth quarter of 2007, HSBC cent to US$13 billion despite the adverse effect on changed fee practices on credit cards to ensure they the motor vehicle market of higher interest rates, fully reflected HSBCs brand principles.
This rising fuel prices and reduced incentive programmes reduced income by US$55 million in 2007 and is from manufacturers.
The main driver of growth was expected to have a full year effect of up to the successful expansion of the consumer direct approximately US$250 million in 2008. channel, with online and direct sales rising by Taxpayer financial services generated fee 52 per cent.
Refinancing volumes were higher due to income of US$247 million, 4 per cent lower than in pricing and increased operational capacity.
Interest the previous year due to changes in contractual terms rate spreads tightened as a result of a shift in which increased partner payments, and lower portfolio mix toward higher credit quality loans.
Following a Average balances in personal non-credit card strategic review, pre-season and pre-file products loans rose by 4 per cent, with actions taken to reduce and cross-collections were discontinued with effect risk including a reduction in direct mail campaigns, from the beginning of the 2008 tax season.
the withdrawal of the personal homeowner loan Fee income in Canada rose by 3 per cent on product in September 2007, and tightening higher investment administration fees from growth underwriting criteria.
As a result balances declined in funds under management, higher fees from the towards the end of 2007.
Spreads tightened as the Immigrant Investor Programme, higher credit fees benefits of a shift in mix to higher yielding products and service charges from credit expansion and were offset by rising levels of non-performing loans, increased foreign exchange income.
This was partly which reduced yields, and increased funding costs.
offset by lower retail brokerage fees.
In Canada, net interest income rose by 14 per At the US retail bank, net fee income rose by cent due to asset and deposit growth, partly offset by 14 per cent to US$320 million, driven by increases 95 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America 2007 in servicing fees on mortgages, credit card fees and unemployment or illness.
Bankruptcy levels also deposit service charges.
increased from the exceptionally low levels seen in 2006 which followed changes in bankruptcy Trading losses in 2007 were US$215 million legislation in 2005. compared with trading income of US$274 million in 2006.
Conditions in the housing market meant that In mortgage services, loan impairment charges sub-prime mortgages could not be securitised, which rose by 41 per cent to US$3.1 billion.
Due to the led to significantly wider credit spreads and a factors noted above, delinquencies increased at a considerable loss of market liquidity across all assethigher rate than was expected from normal portfolio 1 backed securities classes.
These two factors, the loss seasoning, particularly for second lien customers.
of liquidity and wider credit spreads, resulted in In consumer lending, loan impairment charges substantial reductions in the value of mortgages held rose by 139 per cent to US$4.1 billion as evidence of for sale.
In light of this, HSBC closed Decision One, credit quality deterioration was seen across the loan its wholesale mortgage business, in the second half portfolio in the second half of 2007, in particular on of 2007. first lien loans originated in 2006.
There was also Gains less losses from financial instruments rose increased delinquency on second lien loans to US$176 million from US$14 million in 2006, due purchased between 2004 and the third quarter of to the sale of MasterCard Inc. shares following its 2006.
Lower run-offs of loans, growth in average IPO.
lending balances, normal seasoning and a rise in bankruptcy filings to historically more usual levels Other operating income fell by 109 per cent.
after the exceptional decline in 2006, also Losses on foreclosed properties rose due to the contributed to the rise.
There was a marked increase combined effect of an increase in the stock of such in loan delinquency in those states most affected by properties and a reduction in their value due to the fall in home values.
Total foreclosed assets rose to US$1.0 billion from US$670 million in 2006.
The Credit card impairment charges rose by 83 per fall in other operating income also reflected a cent to US$2.8 billion as a result of weaker US$123 million gain in 2006 from the sale of economic trends, growth in balances, normal HSBCs investment in Kanbay, a global IT services portfolio seasoning, a rise in bankruptcy rates closer firm which did not recur in 2007. to historical levels, and a shift in mix to a higher proportion of non-prime loans.
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions rose by 78 per cent to Loan impairment charges in Canada rose by US$11.9 billion.
US loan impairment charges rose 38 per cent, in line with the rise in loan balances and by 79 per cent as the deterioration in housing credit seasoning of the vehicle finance and credit card markets extended to affect loans of all product types portfolios.
In addition, an impairment charge on nonand vintages, particularly loans originated in 2005, bank asset-backed commercial paper ABCP was 2006 and the first half of 2007.
The combination of recognised in 2007. reduced financing options for consumers and weak Operating expenses rose by 2 per cent to or falling property values had a significant impact on US$7.6 billion.
In the US, while origination costs delinquency levels.
Developments in the credit fell as loan growth was curtailed, additional markets have raised fundamental concerns about the resources were deployed to collection activities and viability of the originate and distribute business the retail bank added selectively to its branch model for securitising residential mortgages.
Within the consumer finance resulting industry-wide tightening of underwriting operations, restructuring costs in 2007 totalled criteria, and the elimination of many loan products US$103 million, following the decision to reposition previously offered to consumers, reduced the general the US consumer finance business, the closure of the availability of credit and borrowers ability to wholesale mortgage services business and the refinance.
This, in turn, exacerbated house price reduction in the number of branches in the US falls, most notably in those areas which had seen the consumer lending network to around 1,000 to align most rapid appreciation in recent years.
with the level of demand expected in light of the Lower house prices reduced the equity which Groups revised risk appetite.
The retail bank customers had in their homes, removing a key source incurred higher staff costs due to expansion of the of accessible funds and reducing customers capacity branch network, higher average salaries due to to deal with unexpected problems such as normal annual pay increases, and a change in mix of 1 Seasoning describes the emergence of credit loss patterns in portfolios over time.
96 staffing to support business growth initiatives.
Also recently opened offices in Chicago, Washington DC contributing was US$70 million of one-off costs and the West Coast contributing to growth.
Net arising from the indemnification agreement with interest income growth slowed as a result of Visa ahead of the companys planned IPO.
declining commercial real estate activity, with higher repayments and slower replacement business Marketing costs to support the growth in reflecting market conditions and credit appetite.
Personal Financial Services lending increased in There were also narrower spreads on deposits, as 2007, but in the second half expenditure on credit customers migrated to higher yielding products.
cards, co-branded credit cards and personal noncredit card marketing declined following the Average deposit balances in the US rose by decision to slow loan growth in these portfolios.
In 20 per cent, led by a 21 per cent increase in volumes HSBC Bank USA, marketing costs rose as a result of from small business customers.
The expansion of the campaigns promoting the online savings product and network and targeted marketing initiatives were key investment in the HSBC brand, including the factors in the rise.
Spreads narrowed as the product Newark Airport branding and the HSBC Premier mix changed towards higher yielding accounts, relaunch.
The expansion of the bank branch network particularly among small business customers, partly in existing and new geographical areas also offsetting the gains to income from higher balances.
increased premises and other branch operating costs.
Average loan balances in the US were 4 per cent In Canada, operating expenses increased by higher.
Loan growth was primarily due to strong 13 per cent due to the strategic growth of the branch activity in middle market lending, up 20 per cent, network, marketing to support new products, related with growth coming equally from existing branches investment in systems, and higher transaction costs and geographic expansion.
Overall loan growth was, caused by the rise in customer numbers.
Staff however, much lower as a result of a slowdown in numbers, premises and equipment costs rose, partly financing commercial real estate activity, where due to the opening of five new branches.
Marketing lending volumes fell by 6 per cent.
Competitive costs rose too, principally due to direct savings and pressures led to narrower spreads.
The Canadian In Canada, net interest income rose by 14 per consumer finance business restructured its business cent, driven by strong loan growth, particularly in model to align with changes in the US consumer Western Canada.
Average deposit balances rose by finance operations, reducing lending through its 10 per cent, with volumes lifted by the success of the branch network and closing the correspondent payments and cash management business.
A total of 29 consumer finance rose as repricing initiatives on key products offset branches were closed.
the effects of competitive pressures and increased Commercial Bankings pre-tax profits of funding costs over the last four months of 2007, due US$920 million declined by 6 per cent compared to the disruption caused to the ABCP market by with 2006.
In the US, loan and deposit balances constrained liquidity, as described above.
grew with the continuing expansion of the branch Average lending balances rose by 17 per cent, network outside its traditional base into 16 of the buoyed by the strong economic backdrop.
There was top 25 business centres by the end of the year, notable expansion in Western Canada, where the complemented by a restructuring of the branch sales resource economy continued to underpin force.
Despite this growth, overall performance performance.
Spreads were tighter due to spread declined as business expansion costs, restructuring compression on floating rate loans.
costs, lower gains on asset disposals, a slowdown in commercial and real estate activity and a In Bermuda, net interest income increased by deterioration in the credit environment more 15 per cent.
Average deposit balances fell by 6 per than offset the benefit of higher volumes.
cent, mainly due to lower than expected growth in volumes of fixed term deposits.
In Canada, profit before tax was broadly flat at US$466 million, driven by strong balance sheet Net fee income was broadly unchanged at growth, notwithstanding the wider funding and US$338 million.
In the US, fee income was flat liquidity pressures which arose from the freezing of compared with 2006.
The growth in deposit accounts the non-bank ABCP market in Canada in August.
and a focus on business debit cards for small and micro businesses led to a rise in deposit service In the US, net interest income rose by 10 per charges and card fees.
This was, however, offset by cent to US$804 million, driven by average deposit lower fees on the syndication of commercial real growth of 20 per cent and loan growth of 6 per cent.
estate loans as balance activity declined.
In Canada, Organic expansion underpinned the increase, with 97 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America 2007 2006 fee income rose with the increase in activity and higher outstanding unsyndicated loan balances volumes.
Higher service charges and credit fees in financing and capital markets.
were the main fee generators.
Payments and cash management delivered a Loan impairment charges rose by 151 per cent 43 per cent increase in net interest income as a result to US$191 million, reflecting the growth in the loan of growth in demand deposits, and a 15 per cent book.
In the US, loan impairment charges rose by increase in transaction fees as higher volumes were 91 per cent, mainly due to the higher probability of generated from a wider range of product offerings.
default among commercial real estate loans and a Net fee income was 6 per cent ahead of 2006. change in methodology for loan impairment Apart from the growth in payments and cash allowances on a small business revolving loan management referred to above, a strong performance portfolio.
Several condominium development in HSBC Global Asset Management reflected projects took longer to complete than intended, favourable market conditions in the first half of resulting in cash flow issues for some customers.
This hindered their ability to obtain a mortgage at the end of the construction phase which, in some Trading losses of US$734 million compared cases, precipitated downgrades by ratings agencies, with income of US$818 million in 2006.
The decline all of which combined to generate increased was driven by write-downs in credit and structured impairment charges.
In Canada, loan impairment derivatives, as detailed above, including charges increased due to exposures to certain sectors US$282 million relating to monoline exposures, of affected by the strength of the Canadian dollar.
An which those below investment grade have been fully impairment charge for non-bank ABCP was also written down.
These losses were only partly offset taken.
The risk reflected the historically low by strong foreign exchange revenues where trading impairment charges incurred in 2006. volumes benefited from market volatility and positioning against a weakening US dollar.
Trading Operating expenses rose by 8 per cent to income from the rates business also increased, driven US$893million.
US costs rose by 9 per cent as the by investor demand for lower risk products.
expansion of the branch network led to higher staff and administration costs.
Costs for collection The credit market dislocation also led to an activities also rose.
In Canada, costs rose by 2 per adverse fair value adjustment for loan commitments cent due to an increase in headcount, higher staff outstanding when global credit spreads widened in incentives, increases in business licenses, taxes, and the second half of the year.
Including this and the higher cheque clearing costs in line with rises in credit and structured derivatives write-downs business activity levels.
The tight labour market referred to above, the total write-down was added upward pressure on staff costs and created US$1.4 billion.
challenges in filling vacancies, particularly in The benign corporate credit environment Western Canada.
experienced in recent years continued and Global Banking and Markets in North impairment charges were low, albeit higher America reported a pre-tax loss of US$965 million, than in 2006. compared with a profit of US$423 million in 2006.
Operating expenses declined by 5 per cent, Improvements across most businesses were mainly as a result of reduced performance-related overwhelmed by significant losses in mortgages, remuneration resulting from lower revenues.
mortgage-backed securities and structured credit Expenses were also reduced by savings initiatives products held for trading, which were driven by started in late 2006 and early 2007 though these widening credit spreads following the deterioration were offset by the restructuring costs associated in credit markets in the second half of 2007.
In with the Groups exit from the mortgage-backed addition, leveraged and acquisition finance recorded securities business.
write-downs on underwriting positions held.
Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit Total operating income of US$645 million was of US$174 million.
Excluding a US$39 million 69 per cent lower than 2006, reflecting the impact of geographical reclassification, the underlying the above-mentioned losses and write-downs, partly increase was 27 per cent, reflecting improvements offset by higher net interest income from corporate in Bermuda and the US, the addition of Private lending and increased deposit balances in payments Banking in Canada and a one-off gain from the sale and cash management.
of Wealth and Tax Advisory Services WTAS to The 38 per cent rise in net interest income partly its management.
The revenue growth was partially reflected increased lending driven by client demand offset by increased costs from the launch of Private 98 Banking in Canada.
The cost efficiency ratio followed by annualised declines of 19 per cent in the reflected this, remaining broadly flat at 69.3 per cent.
third and fourth quarters of the year.
There was some optimism that housing starts may have begun to Net interest income increased by 14 per cent stabilise by the year-end, with housing permits rising to US$273 million, excluding a US$42 million in December after ten successive monthly falls.
This was driven by Continued strong profits growth meant that business new business in Canada and an increase in deposit investment remained robust but industrial production volumes in Bermuda.
Net interest income in the US weakened markedly towards the end of the year.
The remained broadly flat as a result of competitive unemployment rate remained relatively low, pressures.
The trade deficit Growth in net fee income of 16 per cent to stabilised through most of the year and narrowed in US$279 million was driven by higher investment in the final months of 2006 in response to strong global discretionary funds especially the multi-manager growth and a weaker US dollar.
Inflation rose by products offered in the US.
WTAS also contributed 4.3 per cent in the first half of the year due to energy to the rise: this business was subsequently sold on price rises but subsequently fell to an annual rate of 31 December 2007 in order to enable Private about 2 per cent as energy prices declined.
The Banking to focus on core activities.
The sale resulted Federal Reserve raised short-term interest rates by in an US$18 million gain in other operating income.
1 per cent in the first half of 2006 to 5.25 per cent, but kept rates unchanged thereafter.
After rising Client assets of US$58 billion, an increase from 4.4 per cent to 5.2 per cent in the first half of of 35 per cent, reflected expansion into Canada, a 2006, 10-year note yields fell to a low of 4.4 per cent market-driven rise in assets and net new money of in early December before increasing to 4.7 per cent US$933 million.
The S&P500 stock market index Loan impairment charges decreased by 71 per rose by 13.6 per cent in the year.
cent to US$10 million, reflecting the non-recurrence The Canadian economy slowed during 2006, of a large single loan impairment charge in 2006. with GDP growth falling from an annualised rate of Operating expenses rose by 17 per cent to 3.6 per cent at the beginning of the year to 1.7 per US$415 million, with a rise in staff costs in both cent by the third quarter, largely reflecting slower support and front-office positions and the launch export growth.
Domestic demand remained robust of operations in Canada.
and HSBC expects the momentum seen in 2006 to continue through 2007, supported by historically low Within Other, profit before tax increased to levels of unemployment and a housing market US$1.5 billion, driven largely by significant which, although showing signs of moderation, fair value movements on HSBCs own debt as a remained strong throughout 2006.
Although energy result of the widening of credit spreads and related prices eased, 2006s commodity boom was expected derivatives in the second half of the year.
to continue benefiting the Canadian economy HSBC Technology USA Inc. and hsbc.
Inflation remained problematic with provide technology services across North America, core prices moving above the Bank of Canadas the costs of which are recharged to specific entities.
preferred target rate of 2 per cent, and productivity Increased activity during the period contributed to a remained relatively weak.
Having raised its 14 per cent rise in operating expenses which were overnight interest rate from 3.25 per cent at the recovered through Other operating income.
start of 2006 to 4.25 per cent in May, the Bank of Canada kept rates on hold for the rest of the year.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared with year ended 31 December 2005 Review of business performance Economic briefing HSBCs operations in North America reported a pre-tax profit of US$4.7 billion compared with In the US, GDP growth in 2006 was 2.9 per cent.
US$5.9 billion in 2005, a decrease of 21 per cent.
On Growth in the second half of the year moderated to an underlying basis, pre-tax profits declined by 25 below 3 per cent, after average annualised growth of per cent.
Underlying net operating income before 4.1 per cent in the first half of the year.
Consumer loan impairment charges was higher by 6 per cent, spending in 2006 grew by 3.4 per cent, with average reflecting the income benefit of asset growth in annualised growth of 3.6 per cent in the second half Personal Financial Services.
This revenue growth of the year.
Housing activity weakened substantially was more than offset by a significant rise in loan in 2006, with annualised declines in residential impairment charges in the correspondent mortgage investment of 11 per cent in the second quarter 99 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America 2006 services business within HSBC Finance, as slowing management revenues, which were constrained by house price appreciation and the projected effect of compressed spreads in a flat interest rate yield curve interest rate resets impacted loss estimates from environment.
Underlying operating expenses rising credit delinquency.
This is described more increased by 13 per cent to support investment in fully below and on page 221.
In Commercial business expansion and branch openings in the Banking, investment in distribution channels Personal Financial Services business.
delivered growth from increased lending and deposit The commentary that follows is on an taking.
In Global Banking and Markets, strong underlying basis.
Personal Financial Services generated a predelivery systems.
During 2006 the strategy included tax profit of US$3.4 billion, a decrease of 23 per cent various initiatives, the most important of these being compared with 2005.
Net operating income rose at a growing the deposit base by emphasising more slower rate than cost growth, due to constrained competitive pricing and introducing high yielding balance sheet growth in the second half of the year, products, including internet savings accounts.
These higher collection expense and significantly higher have grown significantly since late 2005 to loan impairment charges.
The increased loan US$7 billion, of which US$6 billion arose in 2006 impairment charges recognised in respect of HSBC and US$5 billion of the 2006 growth was from new Finances correspondent mortgage services business customers.
Retail branch expansion in existing and more than offset the non-recurrence of charges new geographic markets was also a key initiative, arising in respect of hurricane Katrina and the with 25 new branches opened in 2006. change in bankruptcy legislation in 2005.
The cost In Canada, profit before tax was 21 per cent efficiency ratio worsened as costs rose faster than lower, partly due to the absence of provision releases revenues.
made in 2005 in the core banking operations.
In the US, pre-tax profit of US$3.1 billion was Revenues rose but this was offset by costs incurred 24 per cent lower than in 2005, reflecting the in support of expansion in consumer finance and significantly higher loan impairment charges noted investments made in the bank distribution channels.
above and additional costs incurred in support of Net interest income of US$13.0 billion was business expansion in both the consumer finance 7 per cent higher than in 2005.
In the US, there was company and the retail bank.
Beginning in 2004, strong growth in mortgages, cards and other personal HSBC implemented a growth strategy for its core non-credit card lending, particularly in the first half banking network in the US which included building of the year, and this, coupled with higher deposit deposits over a three to five year period across balances, led to a 6 per cent increase in net interest multiple markets and segments utilising diverse 100 income as competition reduced both asset and HSBC began to witness deterioration in the deposit spreads.
performance of mortgages acquired in 2005, particularly in the second lien and portions of the Average deposit balances in the US rose by first lien portfolios.
This deterioration continued in 21 per cent to US$32.2 billion, mainly led by the the third quarter and began to affect the equivalent continued success of online savings.
The HSBC loans acquired in 2006.
In the final quarter of 2006, Premier investor product also continued to grow the deterioration worsened considerably, mainly in strongly.
During the year over 22,000 new accounts first lien ARM balances and second lien loans.
were opened and balances rose by 139 per cent as US$2.1 billion in incremental deposits were taken.
A series of actions were initiated in the third Customers migrated to higher yielding products quarter to mitigate risk in the affected components which led to a change in product mix, and the of the portfolio.
These included revising pricing consequent reduction in spreads partly offset the in selected origination segments, tightening benefits of balance growth.
underwriting criteria to eliminate or substantially reduce higher risk products especially in respect of There was a marked slowdown in the US second lien, stated income low documentation and housing market during 2006, although towards the lower credit scoring segments, and enhancing end of the year demand for housing showed signs of segmentation and analytics to identify higher risk stabilising.
However, the supply of houses for sale portions of the portfolio and increase collections.
remained high, with the overall outlook still These initiatives led to a decline in overall portfolio uncertain.
Average mortgage balances rose by 9 per balances during the second half of 2006, mostly cent to US$123.8 billion, with growth concentrated attributable to lower purchases of second lien and in non-prime balances in the mortgage services certain higher-risk products, along with the normal correspondent and branch-based consumer lending run-off of balances.
Prime mortgage balances originated and retained through the core banking network continued Average credit card balances in the US rose by to decline.
This reflected an ongoing strategic 6 per cent to US$26.8 billion.
The market continued initiative to manage the balance sheet by selling the to be highly competitive with many lenders placing majority of new prime loan originations to reliance on promotional rate offers to generate government-sponsored enterprises and private growth.
HSBC took a strategic decision to reduce the investors, along with planned securitisations and the amount of its equivalent offers and instead grew its normal run-off of balances.
Overall, yields improved HSBC branded prime, Union Privilege and nonfrom the combined effects of a change in product prime portfolios largely from targeted marketing mix to higher-yielding non-prime mortgages and recampaigns.
Margins widened, reflecting improved pricing initiatives.
Despite this improvement in yields as the product mix changed towards higher yields, spreads narrowed due to higher funding costs levels of non-prime and lower levels of promotional as interest rates rose, and this reduced the positive balances, coupled with other re-pricing initiatives income benefit of the higher lending balances.
undertaken on variable rate products.
This more than offset the adverse effect of higher funding costs and The following comments on mortgage lending augmented the income benefits of the increased loan relate to HSBC Finance as mortgage lending growth book.
in 2006 was concentrated in this business.
In the retail services business, average balances In the branch-based consumer lending business, rose by 6 per cent to US$15.8 billion.
This was average mortgage balances grew by 15 per cent to mainly driven by newer merchants, changes in US$41.2 billion as lending secured on real estate, product mix and the launch of three co-branded which included a near-prime product introduced in programmes: the MasterCard and Visa partnerships 2003, was pursued.
This growth was augmented with Best Buy and Saks Fifth Avenue, and the by portfolio acquisitions, most notably the Neiman Marcus co-branded card with American US$2.5 billion Champion mortgage portfolio Express.
The positive income benefits from higher purchased from KeyBank, NA in November 2006. balances were more than offset by lower spreads, as In the mortgage services correspondent a large proportion of the loan book priced at fixed business, average balances of US$49.9 billion were rates was affected by higher funding costs.
This was 28 per cent higher than in 2005.
During 2005 and the further affected by changes in the product mix as first half of 2006, emphasis was placed on increasing lower yielding department store card balances grew both first and second lien mortgages by expanding more strongly, and by competitive downward pricing sources for the purchase of loans from pressures.
Changes in merchant contractual correspondents.
In the second quarter of 2006, obligations also led to lower net interest income, 101 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America 2006 though this was offset by reduced partnership overdue payments contributed further to the payments to those merchants.
Growth opportunities in the motor vehicle In the US mortgage-banking business, net fee financing industry were particularly challenging in income declined.
Although mortgage loan service 2006, driven by a reduction in incentive programmes volumes grew in 2006, contributing additional fee offered by manufacturers and a rising interest rate income from the greater proportion of mortgages environment.
Notwithstanding these factors, average originated and then sold with mortgage servicing balances rose by 12 per cent.
This was led by strong rights MSRs retained, these benefits were more organic growth in the near-prime portfolio from an than offset by higher amortisation charges and lower increased emphasis on strengthening relationships releases of temporary impairment provisions on with active dealers, and greater volumes generated MSRs.
The taxpayer financial services business from the consumer direct programme.
Refinancing generated higher fee income from increased loan volumes rose, directly attributable to the successful volumes during the 2006 tax season.
consumer refinance programme, which recorded a In Canada, net fee income rose by 5 per cent to 48 per cent increase in originations.
Continued growth in the wealth In Canada, net interest income rose by 16 per management business resulted in higher investment cent due to lending and deposit growth.
Average administration fees, and credit card fee income rose, mortgage balances grew as a result of the continued driven by increased lending.
strength of the housing market and ongoing branch Trading income fell by 17 per cent, due to lower expansion in the consumer finance business.
The income on HSBC Finances Decision One mortgage strong economy drove higher levels of unsecured balances held for resale to secondary market lending as consumer spending rose.
This primarily reflected additional losses consumer finance motor vehicle proposition and the incurred following the repurchase of certain launch of a MasterCard programme in 2005 mortgages previously sold to external third parties contributed further to asset growth, while increased which had subsequently gone into default.
Higher marketing activity led to a rise in personal non-credit losses on derivatives that did not meet the criteria for card lending balances.
Asset spreads narrowed, hedge accounting contributed further to the decrease.
largely from lower yields which reflected changes in product mix and competitive market conditions.
A US$20 million gain from the MasterCard Incorporated IPO was the key reason for the increase Average deposit balances grew by 6 per cent in gains from financial instruments.
compared with 2005, with the notable success of a new high rate savings account and a sale campaign Other operating income also rose, primarily celebrating HSBCs 25th anniversary in Canada.
driven by gains on various asset disposals.
Most Deposit spreads widened as interest rates rose, notably, a US$123 million profit was achieved on contributing further to the increase in net interest disposal of HSBCs investment in Kanbay income.
International Inc, a worldwide information technology services firm.
Income from overnight Net fee income grew by 13 per cent to and short-term money market investments also rose.
US$3.7 billion, with increases in both the US and These benefits were partly offset by greater losses Canada.
The 13 per cent rise in the US was largely incurred on sales of repossessed properties, led by higher fees from the credit card and retail following a 42 per cent rise in such properties as services businesses.
Credit card fee income from the customers defaulted on their mortgage payments.
consumer finance business increased by 8 per cent, primarily from balance growth in the non-prime Loan impairment charges and other credit risk portfolio, improved interchange rates and lower fee provisions of US$6.7 billion were 28 per cent higher charge-offs.
Revenues from credit card partnership than in 2005.
In the US, loan impairment charges enhancement services rose due to greater sales rose by 28 per cent despite the non-recurrence of volumes, expansion into new customer segments and significant charges which arose in 2005 following balance growth.
hurricane Katrina and increased levels of bankruptcy filings in the final quarter of the year.
Loan Within the US retail services business, net fee impairment charges were also higher in the second income rose, reflecting lower merchant payments, in half of 2006 compared with both the preceding half part due to changes in contract obligations with and the second half of 2005.
The increase was certain merchants.
A rise in late fees from growth in primarily driven by significantly higher customer account balances and higher fees on delinquencies and losses in the mortgage services 102 correspondent business, concentrated in second lien were 11 per cent higher than in 2005.
In the and portions of first lien mortgages originated and consumer finance business, the rise was driven by purchased in 2005 and 2006.
As noted previously, increased headcount to support incremental HSBC witnessed a deterioration in the performance collections activity, and greater volumes.
Higher of these 2005 originations during the first half of costs were incurred in marketing cards to support the 2006.
This deterioration continued into the third launch of new co-branded credit cards, greater levels quarter and started to affect equivalent loans of mailing and other promotional campaigns in the originated in 2006.
In the final quarter of 2006, cards and retail services businesses.
IT and deterioration of these loans, largely the first lien administrative expenses grew in support of higher adjustable-rate and second lien loans, worsened asset balances.
A lower level of deferred origination considerably.
The heightened risk of loss was costs in the mortgage services business, due to a attributable to lower equity in homes as price growth decline in volumes, contributed further to the cost moderated or reversed, together with a higher growth.
prospective interest burden from ARM resets.
As In HSBC Bank USA, expense growth was many of these mortgages were being re-priced in an primarily driven by branch staff costs from environment of higher interest rates, slower asset additional headcount recruited to support investment price appreciation and tightening credit, HSBC in business expansion and new branch openings.
considers it highly likely that these factors will lead Greater emphasis placed on increasing the quality to increased instances of default in the future on both and number of branch staff dedicated to sales and first and any associated second lien loans.
customer relationship activities, which changed the Accordingly, a significant increase in loan staff mix, also contributed to cost growth.
The impairment charges was recorded in the final continued promotion of the online savings product, quarter of the year.
new branch openings and branding initiatives at the Higher lending, the seasoning of the loan John F. Kennedy International and LaGuardia portfolio, and a return to more normal historical airports in New York led to a rise in marketing costs.
levels of delinquency from the exceptionally IT costs also grew following significant investment favourable credit conditions experienced in recent expenditure incurred on several key network periods, all contributed to the overall increase in efficiency projects.
impairment charges in the US.
This was partly offset In Canada, costs rose by 19 per cent, mainly due by lower numbers and levels of bankruptcy filings to higher staff and marketing costs.
Staff costs grew and the positive effect of low unemployment.
The by 13 per cent, with increased headcount supporting credit card business, in addition, benefited from expansion of the consumer finance business and improved recovery rates from loans previously bank distribution network.
Continuing investment in written off.
Notwithstanding the accelerated credit growing the wealth management business and higher weakness witnessed in the mortgage services incentive costs reflecting improved revenues also correspondent business, credit performance as contributed to the increase.
Marketing costs grew measured by delinquency and loss in the majority of following external campaigns to improve brand the other lending portfolios, including mortgage awareness.
balances originated through the branch-based consumer lending business gradually deteriorated Commercial Bankings pre-tax profits rose by from the seasoning of a growing portfolio and the 4 per cent to US$957 million, largely driven by rising proportion of credit card balances.
Loan lending and deposit growth and higher fee income, impairment charges in these portfolios were partly offset by increased loan impairment charges.
consequently higher in the second half of 2006 as Costs rose mainly from geographical expansion in these portfolios seasoned, coinciding with the the US and branch and business expansion in weakening housing market.
The cost efficiency ratio worsened by 2.1 percentage points, as costs grew faster than In Canada, loan impairment charges were 38 per revenues.
This primarily reflected the nonrecurrence of loan impairment releases from core Net interest income grew by 15 per cent to banking operations, which occurred in 2005, as well US$1.4 billion.
In the US, net interest income was as growth in both secured and unsecured lending 13 per cent higher, as HSBC continued to expand its balances and higher delinquency rates in the motor geographical presence, notably in Boston, vehicle finance business.
Connecticut, New Jersey, Philadelphia, Washington D. C. Chicago and Los Angeles.
Average deposit Operating expenses grew by 12 per cent balances rose by 30 per cent, aided by geographical to US$7.4 billion.
In the US, costs of US$6.7 billion 103 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America 2006 expansion and greater focus placed on generating There was a small reduction in other operating balances from commercial real estate companies and income, largely due to the net effects of lower gains middle market customers.
In particular, there was an on asset disposals in the US.
increased emphasis on attracting high margin Also in the US, the redemption of bonds balances from cash management sales activities.
issued by the Venezuelan government led to a Rising interest rates encouraged customers to US$19 million gain from financial instruments.
transfer funds to higher yielding products and the resulting change in product mix led to a narrowing Loan impairment charges were US$74 million of liability spreads.
compared with a net release of US$21 million in 2005.
In the US, the increase reflected strong growth The 7 per cent growth in average lending in lending balances to small and middle market balances was principally led by greater volumes customers, higher write-offs in the small business generated from small business and middle market segment and the exceptionally low charges recorded customers.
This was achieved by a combination of in 2005 compared with historical levels.
Loan geographical expansion, increased marketing activity impairment charges rose in Canada following the and the recruitment of additional small-business non-recurrence of releases which occurred in 2005 relationship managers.
Asset spreads narrowed due and, in Bermuda, net releases compared with charges to competitive pricing pressures, particularly in the in 2005. middle market customer segment, which partly offset the income benefits from higher lending Operating expenses grew by 21 per cent to volumes.
The 27 per cent rise in the US was driven by a combination of increased costs incurred In Canada, net interest income increased by in support of geographical expansion and the 14 per cent.
The strong economy encouraged recruitment of additional sales staff to drive revenue continued business investment by customers and growth.
In Canada, operating expenses were 14 per this, in conjunction with HSBCs reputation for cent higher from additional headcount recruited to customer service and relationship management, support branch and network expansion and increased helped generate a 15 per cent growth in average salary and bonus costs, which reflected improved lending balances.
Loan spreads were broadly in line revenues.
Expenditure incurred in order to develop with 2005.
There was a 35 per cent improvement in the business, largely due to HSBC brand campaigns, average deposit balances, driven by various factors contributed further to cost growth.
including the acquisition of new customers, strengthening relationships with existing ones, and Income from associates rose by US$34 million, enhancing payment and cash management products.
including HSBCs share from an equity investment Deposit spreads widened as interest rates rose, in Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank N. A. of augmenting the income benefits from higher US$11 million in the US.
Income from associates of balances.
US$22 million in Canada was attributable to higher gains and distributions from private equity fund Net interest income in Bermuda grew by investments.
These funds, in which HSBC has 42 per cent, partly due to interest rate rises which maintained a minority interest, were established to widened deposit spreads.
Deposit balances increased provide institutional investors with access to private by 26 per cent, while increased cross-sales activity equity investment opportunities.
contributed to a 26 per cent rise in average lending balances.
Global Banking and Markets reported a pretax profit of US$423 million, 28 per cent lower than Net fee income improved by 13 per cent to in 2005.
The result in 2005 benefited from a US$329 million.
In the US, the 11 per cent rise was US$106 million favourable movement on ineffective primarily due to an increase in syndication hedges on HSBCs own debt and, excluding this, capabilities, which led to higher commercial profit before tax decreased by 12 per cent.
The fall in mortgage fees, and from business expansion into profits was primarily due to a decline in balance new geographical markets.
In Canada, growth in sheet management revenues.
Balance sheet new lending business led to higher levels of service management activity continued to be constrained charges, and credit fees increased following the rise by compressed spreads in a flat interest rate in customer numbers.
Product enhancements and yield curve environment, with a resultant decrease of additions to the sales force helped grow fee income US$347 million.
Operating expenses were higher by from payment and cash management services.
19 per cent with a significant portion of the increase driven by the first full year effect of recruitment and business expansion in 2005, and by specific 104 initiatives taken in early 2006.
This investment in A 50 per cent increase in other income was extending the trading platform, notably in mortgagedriven in part by higher revenues in HSBCs backed securities, structured derivatives, metals and Sharia-compliant property fund business, which foreign exchange, produced record trading revenues.
were offset by higher related costs.
Net fee income and trading income also grew, The overall credit environment remained stable, reflecting the measures taken to strengthen HSBCs although a small loan impairment charge of presence in the region.
US$3 million compared unfavourably to a net release of US$64 million in 2005.
In Global Banking, net interest income in payments and cash management rose by 66 per cent, Operating expenses increased by 19 per cent to largely due to an over 50 per cent growth in US$1,641 million, mainly due to the first full year balances.
effect of the business expansion which took place in 2005 and additional expenditure in early 2006.
In Net fee income rose by 13 per cent to Global Markets, cost growth was primarily driven US$656 million.
Increases in fee income within the by the mortgage-backed securities, structured newly expanded mortgage-backed securities and derivatives and equity businesses.
Staff costs equity underwriting businesses were driven by increased by 11 per cent, reflecting the first full year higher volumes.
The securities services business effect of people recruited in 2005, performance benefited from a combination of new client volumes incentives that rose in line with revenue and and market-driven asset growth.
However, income selective hires in early 2006. from debt underwriting activity declined due to fewer deals, particularly in the second half of the Operational expenses in the payments and cash year.
In Global Banking, higher transaction volumes management and the securities services businesses in the recently enhanced payments and cash increased as business volumes grew and the related management business, and an increase in customer support businesses were expanded.
volumes driven by a wider product offering, led to HSBCs share of profits from associates higher net fee income.
declined significantly reflecting the non-recurrence HSBCs operation in Canada reported a 31 per of distributions from a private equity associate.
cent increase in fees, reflecting a growth in funds Private Banking contributed a pre-tax profit under management within HSBC Global Asset of US$114 million, an increase of 12 per cent Management, coupled with higher fees from the compared with 2005.
HSBCs onshore presence was lending business and securities services.
enhanced by the opening of offices in Chicago and Net trading income more than doubled to Greenwich, Connecticut.
Revenue growth, driven US$818 million.
In Global Markets, a wider product by significantly higher core fees and commissions offering and improved sales capabilities drove and improved trading results, was offset in part significant gains across all major client-related by loan impairment charges of US$35 million, activities.
Revenues were further boosted by the first US$29 million of which related to a single customer.
full year contribution from the mortgage-backed The cost efficiency ratio improved by 6.2 percentage securities trading business.
Credit and Rates points to 70.4 per cent.
benefited from tightening credit spreads and Net interest income increased by 15 per cent to increased customer flows.
A deposit-raising campaign proved income more than doubled, reflecting successful successful at garnering funds, the total raised by the product launches as well as increased sales of year-end reaching US$2.5 billion.
Revenues in the foreign exchange balances rose by 25 per cent and lending balances business remained robust against the backdrop of a increased by 14 per cent.
Deposit spreads were weakening US dollar.
In Canada, trading income more than doubled, Net fee income grew strongly, increasing by with higher gains from foreign exchange: a result of 20 per cent to US$240 million.
WTAS continued to increased volatility of the Canadian dollar against expand its client base it rose by 31 per cent in 2006 the US dollar.
and reported significant revenue growth, benefiting Gains from financial investments were from restrictions placed on the major auditing firms 79 per cent lower as income from the disposal of with regard to providing personal tax advice to securities declined.
Higher funds under management and an increase in referrals with other 105 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America 2006 Profit loss before tax by customer group HSBC businesses also contributed to the increased In Other, movements in the fair value of own level of fee income.
debt and associated swaps resulted in losses of US$128 million in 2006, compared with profits of A one-off gain of US$9 million arose from a US$401 million in 2005. partial disposal of a holding in the Hermitage Fund, offsetting the non-recurrence of US$9 million of Business expansion led to higher transaction income following the sale of a number of small trust volumes, which resulted in increased utilisation of businesses in 2005.
Branch expansion, the integration of Metris, and the launch of new products Client assets increased by 5 per cent to also contributed to an 8 per cent increase in costs and US$43 billion, with net new money of US$5 billion.
income at the groups North American technology This included a significant contribution from the centre.
com, accrued costs associated with higher fee-earning discretionary SIS and CIS the development of HSBCs second generation products in which the value of client assets rose to internet banking platforms were recharged to other US$1.4 billion.
customer groups, which resulted in higher operating Operating expenses of US$355 million were income.
This rise was primarily attributable to hiring front office Private Banking staff and fee-earning staff within WTAS.
106 Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business Year ended 31 December 2007 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total North America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 13,175 1,558 378 273 17 520 14,847 Net fee income expense........... 4,571 338 701 279 79 5,810 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 349 2 871 11 78 1,289 Net interest income expense 134 137 44 520 747 on trading activities................ 5 Net trading income expense... 215 2 734 11 122 520 542 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value 11 1,739 1,750 Gains less losses from financial investments 176 1 65 2 3 245 Dividend income 47 1 57 105 Net earned insurance premiums.
107 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued North America Profit loss before tax by customer group Year ended 31 December 2006 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total North America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 12,964 1,362 266 212 52 484 14,268 Net fee income expense........... 3,675 329 656 240 134 4,766 Trading income expense excluding net interest income 66 13 746 12 220 617 Net interest income expense 208 72 23 484 741 on trading activities................ 5 Net trading income expense... 274 13 818 12 243 484 1,358 Net expense from financial instruments designated at fair value 11 52 63 Gains less losses from financial investments 14 19 12 9 4 58 Dividend income 23 1 61 85 Net earned insurance premiums.
108 Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business continued Year ended 31 December 2005 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total North America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 11,636 1,157 661 185 114 230 13,295 Net fee income expense........... 3,050 283 577 200 158 3,952 Trading income excluding net interest income 119 7 95 7 22 250 Net interest income expense 210 4 221 21 230 635 on trading activities................ 1 5 Net trading income.................... 329 3 316 6 1 230 885 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 10 23 1 402 434 Gains less losses from financial investments...... 12 1 57 1 47 Dividend income.. 8 33 41 Net earned insurance premiums.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared index.
As a result, the Bank of Mexico raised its with year ended 31 December 2006 overnight interest rate by a total of 50 basis points, and has maintained its restrictive monetary policy Economic briefing despite reductions in interest rates by the US Federal In response to fluctuations in export demand from Reserve.
the US, economic growth in Mexico moderated The Brazilian economy expanded strongly in during the course of 2007, with GDP rising an 2007, with GDP expected to have grown by 5.4 per estimated 3.1 per cent during the year, compared cent compared with 3.7 per cent in 2006.
Inflationary pressures growth was driven by domestic demand, with private remained significant throughout 2007, with consumption rising considerably.
As a consequence, consumer price inflation averaging 4 per cent, driven the average unemployment rate fell to 9.3 per cent in by increases in international prices of commodities, 2007 from 10 per cent in 2006.
After declining to which affected domestic food prices in the core 111 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Latin America 2007 3.1 per cent at the end of 2006, the annual rate of and as a result the rate of growth of fiscal spending consumer price inflation climbed to 4.5 per cent by doubled to 45 per cent on an annual basis.
As a December 2007, mainly from higher food prices.
consequence, the primary surplus fell by around The cycle of monetary easing which began in the 1.2 per cent of GDP.
third quarter of 2005 paused in October 2007 with Throughout the region as a whole, GDP growth the overnight rate at 11.25 per cent, the lowest level roughly matched that of 2006.
The slowdown in in several decades.
After nine years of steady Mexico provided a contrast to better performances expansion, the trade balance surplus fell slightly in elsewhere in Central and Southern America.
Central 2007, and is expected to decrease further in 2008.
America grew by an estimated 6.3 per cent, up from Balance of payments fundamentals, however, 5.9 per cent in 2006 while, in South America, growth remained robust and, as a result, the Brazilian was an estimated 5.8 per cent, up from 5.3 per cent economy seemed less vulnerable to external shocks in 2006.
The most dynamic economies in Central than in previous years.
America were Panama 10.0 per cent growth in The Argentine economy also performed GDP and the Dominican Republic 8.0 per cent, strongly in 2007, with GDP expected to have risen followed by Costa Rica 6.2 per cent and Honduras by 8.7 per cent.
This strength was a consequence of 6.2 per cent.
In South America, the fastest growing several factors such as a competitive exchange rate, countries after Argentina were Peru 7.2 per cent spare capacity in the economy and a generally growth in GDP, Venezuela 7.0 per cent and favourable external environment, which helped Colombia 6.5 per cent.
In general, inflation appears Argentina extend its fiscal and external surpluses to be under control in Latin America, averaging into a fourth successive year.
Less encouraging was around 5 per cent over the past three years.
Only the fact that inflation accelerated to about 13 per Venezuela and Argentina have experienced doublecent, up from 10 per cent in 2006.
Although food digit inflation, while the US dollar-based economies inflation was part of the explanation, rapid demand of Panama, Ecuador and El Salvador have better growth was also a factor.
2007 was an election year, inflationary records.
On an HSBCs operations in Latin America reported a underlying basis, pre-tax profits rose by 14 per cent pre-tax profit of US$2.2 billion compared with as increased revenues were partly offset by higher US$1.7 billion in 2006, representing an increase of loan impairment charges, largely from Mexico, and 26 per cent.
HSBCs acquisitions of HSBC Bank increased operating costs across the region.
Panama and Banca Nazionale in 2006 strengthened the existing business platform and geographical 112 Both Mexico and Brazil made notable Demand for housing remained strong and contributions to Commercial Bankings pre-tax mortgage lending continued to grow.
HSBCs profits, which were 64 per cent higher than in 2006, mortgage positioning is based on speed of service and Brazil from SMEs, Mexico from larger corporates.
competitive rates supported by marketing campaigns.
In Personal Financial Services, profit before tax HSBC Premier was relaunched in Mexico in 2007 increased by 12 per cent as strong growth in revenues and performed well, increasing cross-sales and was partly offset by increased loan impairment income during the year.
Profit before tax in Global On the liabilities side of the balance sheet, both Banking and Markets increased as strong growth in term and demand deposits registered growth in line net fee and net interest income was partly offset by a with market conditions.
Overall spreads on Mexican decrease in trading income and higher costs related to peso-denominated accounts remained relatively business expansion.
stable while spreads on accounts in US dollars Notwithstanding continuing investment and narrowed by 141 basis points.
integration costs throughout the region, the cost In Brazil, net interest income increased by efficiency ratio improved by 2.7 percentage points to 7 per cent, as growth in private consumption fuelled 58.3 per cent.
Average customer loans were The following commentary is on an underlying 28 per cent higher than in 2006.
were 23 per cent higher, driven by a sales effort to garner deposits and the favourable economic outlook.
Personal Financial Services reported pre-tax Spreads on customer deposits narrowed by 23 basis profits of US$893 million, 3 per cent higher than in points.
2006, as strong growth in revenues across the region was partly offset by increased loan impairment The vehicle finance loan portfolio grew charges arising from the seasoning of recent organic significantly in the positive economic environment, business expansion, mainly in Mexico.
Revenue rose while spreads narrowed due to competitive pressures.
by 21 per cent, driven by higher credit card balances Net interest income on payroll loans grew as volumes in Mexico and an increased volume of personal and expanded.
Demand for personal instalment loans also vehicle finance loans in Brazil.
Four additional continued to rise, driving net interest income higher months of Banca Nazionale revenues in Argentina, a on wider spreads.
one-off adjustment to insurance embedded value in Net interest income rose by 35 per cent in Mexico and gains from sales of financial investments Argentina, as customer balances grew strongly and in Brazil, also helped boost income.
Loan impairment four additional months of Banca Nazionale revenues charges in Mexico rose significantly, driven by the were included.
Growth in customer lending reflected growth in the past two years of the credit card expansion in personal loans, car loans and credit portfolio and higher delinquencies in the selfcards, supported by cross-selling initiatives and an employed lending business.
Operating expenses active marketing campaign.
Customer liabilities increased by 12 per cent, mainly supporting increased mainly in demand and term deposit expansion in the region: despite this, the cost products.
efficiency ratio improved by 4.7 percentage points.
Net fee income was 19 per cent higher, primarily Net interest income rose by 15 per cent, as from robust business growth across the region.
steady asset and liability growth was recorded across the region.
In Mexico, fee income grew by 35 per cent with the rapidly growing credit card customer base and In Mexico, net interest income rose by 27 per continued sales of the Tu Cuenta packaged product cent, driven by a strong performance in both asset the main contributors.
Cards in force increased by 35 and liability products.
Credit cards, an area in which per cent, ATM cash withdrawals by 54 per cent and HSBC has worked to remedy its traditionally point of sale billing by 84 per cent during the year, all underweight position in Mexico, reached a positively affecting commission income.
Stricter market share of more than 10 per cent, up guidelines on the imposition of late payment fees also 3.5 percentage points compared with 2006.
This led to higher income.
Fees from Tu Cuenta rose reflected HSBCs efforts to organically grow this strongly, following a 29 per cent growth in the portfolio.
Growth was enhanced by marketing number of accounts.
A 6 per cent growth in the ATM promotions and portfolio management programmes network and increased customer activity led to a rise put in place to improve customer retention and card in HSBCs market share in interbank transactions of usage.
more than 12 million transactions or 2 percentage 113 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Latin America 2007 points to 38 per cent, resulting in higher interbank channels.
Credit models were updated during 2007 to fee income.
adjust to credit behaviour in underlying portfolios.
In Brazil, fee income rose by 3 per cent on Loan impairment charges rose only modestly in the back of growth in lending balances and a Brazil, notwithstanding strong asset growth, commensurate rise in credit facility fees.
Fee reflecting the benign credit environment and the income further benefited from re-pricing initiatives, application of proactive risk management techniques.
particularly in current account fees.
Increased loan impairment charges from the vehicle finance, cards, payroll loans and store loans Fee income in Argentina, higher by 12 per cent, portfolios were partially offset by lower loan primarily reflected an extra four months of Banca impairment charges in overdrafts and personal loans.
Business growth in In Argentina, loan impairment charges grew by bancassurance and credit cards also contributed US$14 million, again mainly due to the inclusion of to improved fees.
the Banca Nazionale portfolio, as well as organic The continued growth of insurance operations in loan growth.
the region, through increased product offerings and Operating expenses of US$3.8 billion were expanded distribution channels, led to higher 12 per cent higher, mainly because of activities insurance premiums and claims.
undertaken in support of product and distribution In Mexico, increased cross-selling activities in expansion initiatives, and integrating recent the branch network resulted in higher net insurance acquisitions.
income, mainly driven by sales of a five-year life In Mexico, operating expenses increased by assurance product.
Refinement of the recognition 14 per cent, as non-staff costs rose to support organic methodology used in respect of the PVIF long-term business growth.
Staff costs were flat as increases to insurance contracts resulted in a one-off revenue support business growth, mainly in debt collection increment in the first half of 2007. and call centres, were offset by one-off curtailment In Brazil, income grew from higher sales and settlement gains from staff transferring out of the volumes of pension and life assurance products.
The banks defined benefit healthcare scheme to a new growth in the life portfolio was driven by growth of defined contribution scheme.
Growth in non-staff 106 per cent in credit insurance products.
Pension costs was mainly attributable to supporting credit portfolio income grew by 48 per cent following card business growth and servicing, strengthening of targeted sales initiatives.
Net insurance claims also IT infrastructure and higher marketing spend on grew substantially during the year.
Increased product campaigns, promotions and sponsorships.
premium income in Argentina was generated from Campaigns included the HSBC Premier relaunch, Tu higher sales volumes of general insurance and life Cuenta and insurance.
The increased popularity of the protection policies, supported by innovative cash-back facility on the Tu Cuenta account, where a marketing campaigns.
customer receives a rebate on amounts spent by credit or debit cards, also drove up expenses.
Net gains from financial investments increased significantly, driven by a gain of US$97 million, In Brazil, operating expenses were 8 per cent following a sale of shares held in a credit bureau, a higher.
Staff costs included one-off expenditure stock exchange and a derivatives exchange in Brazil.
incurred to enable the business to improve operational efficiencies and position itself for future Loan impairment charges rose by 70 per cent growth.
Union-agreed pay rises took effect during to US$1.5 billion, mainly due to higher delinquency 2007.
Non-staff expenses, including marketing from seasoned loan growth in Mexico.
campaigns, payroll acquisition costs and transactional Mexico reported a more than threefold increase taxes also increased in support of revenue growth.
in loan impairment charges to US$737 million, Costs in Argentina rose by 39 per cent, mainly driven by higher impairments on credit cards from the inclusion of four extra months of Banca following the targeted expansion in market share, and Nazionale costs.
The rise in expenses reflected both higher delinquencies from self-employed loan continued investment in infrastructure to support balances.
The increase in loan impairment charge is business growth, and general price rises evident in part of the cost of building strong organic growth as the economy as inflation rose.
Regular reviews are undertaken to campaign spending was focused on cards, personal improve the quality of new business, based on loans and the Premier relaunch.
underwriting experience, improved collection strategies and better managed customer acquisition 114 Commercial Banking pre-tax profits rose by In Mexico, fee income grew by 13 per cent 46 per cent to US$740 million during 2007, mainly across a broad product portfolio.
Following a strategy driven by significant growth in Brazil and Mexico.
to migrate more transactions to internet-based services, payment and cash management transactions HSBCs two-pronged objective to become the increased by 11 per cent and active customers by leading international bank and the best bank for small 19 per cent, resulting in higher income generation.
A businesses delivered results as regional customer growth in the number of ATMs led to higher income numbers grew by over 14 per cent.
Income from from ATM interbank charges.
Increased use of credit payments and cash management rose by 8 per cent, cards at point of sale also increased fee income.
Trust while the network of International Banking Centres fees increased significantly, mainly due to market in Argentina, Brazil and Mexico was extended to share gains in the structured products market.
Other developments in trade services was driven by the Groups included the launch of electronic account opening geographical presence and enhanced product facilities in Mexico and BusinessDirect in Brazil.
capabilities, as market share and cross-selling Operating income showed an improvement on activities increased.
International factoring was also 2006, although this was partly offset by an increase successfully launched during 2007. in costs driven by expansion.
As a result, the cost In Brazil, fee income rose by 11 per cent, mainly efficiency ratio improved by 0.4 percentage points to on small and micro enterprises.
Payments and cash 54.3 per cent.
management income increased, mainly on higher Net interest income rose by 17 per cent, mainly volumes.
Current account income increased as a from an increase in both deposits and loans.
result of a re-pricing exercise and a rise in volumes.
Fees from loans and funds under management also In Mexico, net interest income rose by 21 per grew on higher volumes.
More than 110,000 products cent to US$496 million, reflecting volume growth in were sold over e-channels, a significant increase on deposits, commercial real estate lending, increased the previous year.
support for larger local and global commercial customers and strong volume growth in trade and In Argentina, HSBC increased fee income by factoring.
Average lending balances rose by 37 per 48 per cent, primarily due to an additional four cent, primarily on large corporates, while spreads months of Banca Nazionale revenues combined with widened on small business loans.
Spreads on deposit higher transaction volumes.
The main product drivers accounts narrowed.
Customer relationship behind the increase were current accounts, which rose management campaigns resulted in new customer by 38 per cent, and trade services, which grew by acquisition and increased cross-sales to existing 39 per cent on higher volumes, placing HSBC among customers.
the top three banks in imports and exports in Argentina.
In Brazil, net interest income increased by 10 per cent, mainly due to higher income from small Trading income rose on the back of higher and mid-market enterprises in the favourable volumes of foreign exchange transactions and sales economic environment.
Increases in volumes were of treasury products in Brazil, which reflected higher notable in the guaranteed account, giro facil, working market share and favourable market conditions.
capital facilities and rural loans.
Foreign exchange trading income also increased in Argentina.
Net interest income increased by 86 per cent in Argentina, due both to strong organic loan and Net gains from financial investments rose by deposit growth, and the inclusion of four additional US$47 million, driven by a gain of US$45 million months of Banca Nazionale revenues.
Corporate and following a sale of shares held in a credit bureau, a mid-market business grew significantly, reflecting stock exchange and a derivatives exchange in Brazil.
the successful integration of the Banca Nazionale Loan impairment charges were 28 per cent lower network, while the targeting of small and micro at US$212 million.
enterprises coupled with the launching of new products also helped drive portfolio growth.
In Mexico, HSBC recorded a net decrease in Customer loans and advances rose by 50 per cent loan impairment charges as increased delinquency while customer deposits increased by 33 per cent.
rates in the small and medium-sized business portfolios were offset by impairment allowance Net fee income was 14 per cent higher, driven releases.
Regular reviews aimed at strengthening by robust growth throughout the region.
consumer credit management and collections were put in place to better manage delinquency rates as the 115 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Latin America 2007 2006 portfolio matures.
Credit models were updated during securities services business as the strong performance 2007 to adjust to credit behaviour in underlying of Brazilian equity markets attracted foreign buyers.
Products with high credit losses were In Argentina, net interest income rose through an discontinued or restructured.
additional contribution from Banca Nazionale and higher spreads on customer loans.
Loan impairment charges rose by 4 per cent in Brazil despite a substantial growth in assets.
This Net fee income rose by 34 per cent to improved performance was mainly attributable to the US$250 million, driven by a strong performance in small business segment and resulted from changes to Brazil.
HSBC Global Asset Management revenues credit initiation and collection strategies implemented increased as a result of strong returns from funds with during the year.
In Argentina, HSBC reported a net performance fees and the success of selling locally release of loan impairment allowances following an manufactured products into Asian markets.
Increased improvement in the countrys economic performance IPO activity in Brazil boosted fees from financing during 2007 and increased collections of nonand capital markets, both from advisory services and performing loans.
Securities services also performed well in the region as new business In line with Group strategy to expand in fast volumes and strong local equity markets drove a growing economies, operating expenses in the Latin 63 per cent increase in assets under custody.
America region rose by 21 per cent to US$1.1 billion.
Net income from trading activities decreased In Mexico, operating expenses increased by by 14 per cent to US$182 million, driven by 22 per cent, largely driven by higher transaction performance in Mexico, where there were reduced costs.
Staff cost rises reflected an increase in revenue opportunities in Credit and Rates due to the salary and performance awards in line with profit relatively flat yield curve.
This was partly offset by generation.
Growth in non-staff costs was attributable income growth from foreign exchange trading, driven to higher marketing expenditure and a rise in by continuing market volatility.
transaction costs from increased business volumes.
Gains less losses from financial investments In Brazil, operating expenses rose by 15 per cent increased by 10 per cent, driven by a gain of following implementation of a union agreement on US$46 million following a sale of shares held in staff remuneration and one-off expenses incurred to a credit bureau, a stock exchange and a derivatives improve future operational efficiencies.
These were partially offset by costs, including transactional taxes, increased broadly a lower level of disposals in Mexico in 2007. in line with business expansion and revenue growth.
There were continued but lower impairment In Argentina, costs rose by 53 per cent, again releases, with a small number of significant releases mainly driven by the inclusion of four extra months in Argentina relating to impairments that arose during of Banca Nazionale costs.
Excluding this, expenses the 2001 debt crisis offsetting the non-recurrence of a rose reflecting continued investment in support of large release in 2006 in Mexico.
business growth and the general price increase evident in the local market.
Operating expenses increased by 23 per cent to US$481 million, and reflected HSBCs investment in Global Banking and Markets in Latin America increasing operational capabilities in Brazil, cost reported a pre-tax profit of US$517 million, which growth in Argentina following the inclusion of Banca represented an increase of 1 per cent from 2006.
Nazionale and continued investment in infrastructure Robust growth in net interest income and fees was to support business growth.
This caused the cost partially offset by a decrease in trading income efficiency ratio to deteriorate by 4.1 percentage and an increase in costs relating to regional business points.
Overall, this led to a deterioration in the cost efficiency ratio to 48.9 per cent.
Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of US$25 million, an increase of 47 per cent.
The cost Total operating income increased by 13 per cent efficiency ratio improved by one percentage point to US$1.0 billion.
This was chiefly driven by strong to 64.8 per cent.
The upward trend in cross-referrals revenue growth in Brazil, which more than offset continued, particularly in Brazil, with inward reduced trading income in Mexico, in comparison referrals contributing US$495 million to total with the latters strong performance in 2006. client assets.
Net interest income increased by 13 per cent, Overall, revenues increased by 42 per cent to driven by cross-referrals from Commercial Banking US$71 million, driven by Mexico and Brazil.
In and an increased volume of deposit balances in the Mexico, balance sheet growth and brokerage fees 116 drove revenues up.
Higher investment in funds and policy.
Overnight rates fell to 13.25 per cent in cross-referrals in Brazil also contributed to the rise in December 2006 from 17.25 per cent a year before.
The trade balance continued to be robust, with a surplus of US$46.1 billion in 2006, just above the Client assets grew by 62 per cent to amount achieved in 2005.
US$11.6 billion, of which US$1.8 billion represented net new money.
The increase in net new money was In Argentina, real GDP growth in 2006 driven by the acquisition of new clients, particularly exceeded 8.3 per cent and, after growing for four in Brazil and Mexico, improved product offerings consecutive years at an average rate of approximately and cross-referrals from other customer groups in 9 per cent, the countrys GDP was nearly 15 per cent Brazil.
above 1998, when its recession began.
The strong growth was due to a competitive exchange rate, a Operating expenses increased by 40 per cent to strong fiscal stance and a favourable business US$46 million to support business expansion, environment, which HSBC expects to continue in particularly in Brazil, and to create a platform for 2007.
The main potential constraint on growth future growth in the region.
remains the risk of disruption in energy supply, Profit before tax of US$3 million was reported where there has been a lack of investment and limited within Other.
price adjustments for residential consumers since 2001 2.
Inflation was approximately 10 per cent at Year ended 31 December 2006 compared the end of 2006, having tripled in the past three years, with year ended 31 December 2005 though it was below its peak of more than 12 per cent in 2005.
Interest rates rose steadily in 2006 and the Economic briefing peso weakened slightly against the US dollar.
Given Mexicos GDP growth improved significantly in Argentinas higher inflation rate, however, the 2006 to 4.8 per cent from 3.0 per cent in 2005, mostly exchange rate appreciated in real terms.
in response to increased external demand from the US.
Commercial bank credit continued to recover Review of business performance strongly, with over 80 per cent growth in real HSBCs operations in Latin America reported a mortgage loans.
By the end of 2006, headline pre-tax profit of US$1.7 billion compared inflation had increased to 3.8 per cent from 3.0 per with US$1.6 billion in 2005, an increase of cent earlier in the year, largely as a result of increases 8 per cent.
On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits in agricultural supply prices.
Record oil revenues, rose by 5 per cent.
Growth in profitability was combined with high non-oil export growth and constrained by the non-recurrence of one-off increasing inward remittances from Mexicans coverage bond receipts and other items related to the working outside the country produced an almost 2001 sovereign debt default and subsequent balanced current account for the year.
Significant pesification in Argentina, which added capital inflows, including an estimated US$18 billion US$122 million to 2005 profits.
In addition, a gain in foreign direct investment, enabled the Government of US$89 million from the sale of the property and to reduce its external debt by more than casualty insurance business, HSBC Seguros fide US$12 billion and the Bank of Mexico to increase Automoveis e Bens Limitada, to HDI Seguros S. A. foreign exchange reserves.
Excluding these prior year In Brazil, GDP is expected to have grown by profits, and on an underlying basis, profit before tax 2.6 per cent in 2006 compared with 2.3 per cent in increased by 21 per cent, with net operating income 2005.
Growth was driven by domestic demand, with increasing by 15 per cent and operating expenses by private consumption increasing by 3.8 per cent and 12 per cent.
Global Banking and Markets delivered a capital spending by 5.9 per cent.
Net exports, by strong performance, driven by growth in fee and contrast, fell by 18 per cent in the first three quarters trading income, with notable success in bringing of the year compared with the same period in Latin American borrowers to global capital markets.
2005, as the increase in domestic demand translated Commercial Banking also grew well as domestic into higher imports rather than an expansion of economies expanded.
During 2006, HSBC made two output.
The unemployment rate averaged 10.0 per significant acquisitions in the region.
In May, HSBC cent in 2006, slightly up from 9.8 per cent averaged acquired the Argentine banking operations of Banca in 2005.
Inflation continued to decline, to 3.1 per cent Nazionale to build its distribution capabilities and, in in 2006, compared with 5.7 per cent in 2005 and, as a November, HSBC Bank Panama in Central America, result, the Central Bank continued to ease monetary adding markets in five countries new to the Group.
The following commentary is on an underlying In Argentina, profit before tax was marginally basis.
higher, with strong balance sheet growth, higher fees and improved revenues from the insurance business.
Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax This was largely offset by increased loan impairment profit of US$800 million, a rise of 1 per cent over charges and cost growth incurred in support of 2005, which had benefited from a US$89 million business expansion as HSBC prepared for an gain on the sale of the Groups property and casualty improving domestic economic environment.
Adjusting for this, pretax profits grew by 16 per cent, driven by 12 per cent Net interest income rose by 11 per cent to growth in revenues and 10 per cent growth in costs.
US$3.1 billion, largely from balance sheet growth The underlying improvement in revenues was led by partly offset by lower deposit spreads.
strong asset and deposit growth together with higher In Mexico, net interest income increased by fee income, offset in part by consequential expense 12 per cent to US$1.2 billion.
Adjusting for the effect growth and a rise in impairment charges as the loan of customer account transfers to Commercial book both grew and seasoned.
Banking, net interest income rose by 20 per cent, In Mexico, profit before tax rose by 10 per cent.
driven by strong growth in credit card and mortgage During 2006, 56,000 Personal Financial Services balances and increases in deposits which were customers were transferred to the Commercial generated by the ongoing success of the Tu Cuenta Banking customer group, where HSBC is better product.
Overall, asset spreads improved as the placed to meet their banking requirements.
Adjusting relative increase in higher margin card balances led to for this, profits were 20 per cent higher, driven by a favourable change in the product mix.
By contrast, strong balance sheet growth and improved fee deposit spreads narrowed as interest rates declined.
Excluding customer account transfers, average Adjusting for the gain in 2005 from the sale of deposit balances in Mexico rose by 10 per cent.
the property and casualty business, pre-tax profits HSBC continued to be one of the market leaders with were 46 per cent higher in Brazil.
The strong respect to balance growth, despite fierce competition domestic economy stimulated robust growth in from other banks, improving its market share by lending and a rise in the number of current account 35 basis points.
A strong increase in low-cost holders.
During the year, a new and innovative deposits was reflective of the continuing success of internet banking service Meu HSBC My HSBC was Tu Cuenta, the first integrated financial services introduced to Personal Financial Services customers, product of its kind offered locally, with nearly allowing them to conduct different types of 400,000 new accounts opened in 2006.
HSBC transactions online using the same password as Premier performed well as 84,000 new customers their ATM card.
were added during the year.
Premier deposits 118 represented over one third of the total personal In Brazil, net interest income increased by 9 per deposit base at 31 December 2006.
The income cent as lower inflation and the improving domestic benefit from higher deposit balances was partly economy triggered a rise in demand for credit which, mitigated by reduced spreads in the falling interest in turn, contributed to strong lending growth.
rate environment, notwithstanding the positive shift Average loan balances were 18 per cent higher, in mix from growth in non-interest bearing deposit driven by rising customer numbers and increases in balances.
vehicle financing, pension and payroll loans.
On the liability side, there was a 7 per cent rise in current The credit card market in Mexico was buoyant account holders, largely driven by growth in the in 2006 and HSBCs business performed very number of customers with payroll loans and greater successfully with average balances doubling to levels of sales activity.
Various initiatives were implemented to develop the business, most notably Average vehicle finance balances in Brazil rose cross-sales to Tu Cuenta customers, targeted by 36 per cent, led by continued portfolio growth as customer relationship campaigns to existing clients, HSBC strengthened its relationships with car successful portfolio management strategies and dealerships.
The combined pension and payroll loan promotions, development of new sales channels and portfolios registered an 84 per cent increase in improvements in card activation times.
These average balances, a consequence of increased initiatives helped HSBC become the market leader in borrowings per customer, portfolio acquisitions, and credit card balance growth, improving market share growing customer demand for these products.
The number of cards in circulation Spreads also improved, largely as a result of lower reached 1.7 million at the year end, representing an funding costs, which augmented the positive income increase of 76 per cent.
Average card balances rose by 19 per cent, with an increase of 27 per cent in Demand for housing from first time buyers the number of cards in issue, reflecting the launch of remained strong in Mexico, and market conditions various initiatives aimed at improving retention, continued to be highly competitive.
Spreads improved from mortgage balances rose by 81 per cent to lower funding costs and price increases initiated in US$969 million, reflecting HSBCs competitive the second half of 2005, complementing the benefits pricing and innovation in product design.
HSBC was derived from higher lending volumes.
the first bank in Mexico to market pre-approved online mortgages, and enhanced this offering with the In Argentina, net interest income grew by 12 per subsequent introduction of Mortgage Express cent, primarily driven by increased demand for credit Approval, which provides customers with much card, other personal and motor vehicle lending.
This faster access to details concerning the loan amount, was largely attributable to more effective promotional duration and monthly payments at the point of activity and productivity improvements in the application.
Improvements in the processing of telemarketing and branch channels.
Higher funding mortgage applications, upgraded customer service costs, however, resulted in a narrowing of lending and increased marketing activity also contributed to spreads, offsetting volume benefits.
Deposit balances the rise in lending balances.
The income benefits of rose, reflecting the increased emphasis placed on balance growth were partly offset by narrower growing liability products, the benefit from which spreads, driven by the highly competitive market was augmented by a widening of spreads.
Net fee income was 25 per cent higher, reflecting As the Mexican economy grew strongly, there strong growth across the region generally.
was robust growth in personal and payroll lending Fee income grew by 21 per cent in Mexico, balances.
The introduction of a dedicated and mobile largely due to higher credit card and Tu Cuenta sales force during the second half of 2006 to expand income.
Fee income from cards rose by 51 per cent, distribution capabilities led to a fourfold increase in reflecting a significant growth in the number of cards average personal lending balances during the year.
in circulation and improvements made in reducing This initiative also helped to reduce time to market, activation times.
The improvement in Tu Cuenta increase cross-sales and, through closer interaction income was driven by sales of over 1 million new with the branch network, improve client coverage.
In order to capture The popularity of the personal loan product, where a higher volume of ATM revenues, HSBC added customers apply directly via HSBCs extensive and 372 new machines to its already well-positioned well-positioned ATM network grew, and this was the network, which increased ATM fees from greater key driver behind a 37 per cent rise in average payroll levels of transactional activity and a 22 per cent rise loan balances.
119 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Latin America 2006 in transactions from non-HSBC customers.
Growth in Operating expenses rose by 10 per cent.
In mutual fund fees was mainly driven by higher sales Mexico, expense growth of 10 per cent was mainly volumes and expanded product offerings in the driven by increased staff costs.
This largely reflected stronger economic environment.
the recruitment of 2,200 employees to improve customer service levels in branches and grow sales.
Fee income in Brazil rose by 25 per cent, largely Incentive costs increased as profits rose, and from increased current account fees, reflecting marketing costs grew as a result of various growth in customer numbers, greater transaction promotional campaigns.
The continued expansion volumes and re-pricing initiatives.
Higher payroll and of the branch network and ATM infrastructure, vehicle balances also led to increased fees from together with the new HSBC headquarters building lending activities.
In Argentina, higher credit card in Mexico City, led to increases in IT, premises and fees from balance growth, re-pricing initiatives on equipment costs.
savings accounts, and the discontinuance of a free current account promotion led to an improvement in In Brazil, expenses were 10 per cent higher.
in Mexico, this reflected the cost of new employees recruited to support business expansion, including the Across the region, HSBCs insurance businesses strengthening of credit operations, and new branch continued to perform well.
This, together with annual pay rises and products in Mexico remained strong, with increased increased incentive payments, triggered a 13 per cent cross-selling through the branch network of simple growth in staff costs.
Advertising costs rose to insurance products together with other Personal promote brand awareness, while an HSBC Premier Financial Services products containing insurance promotion led to higher marketing costs.
This led to a 19 per cent rise in net premiums, mainly in respect of individual life Costs grew by 26 per cent in Argentina, with insurance products.
In Brazil, excluding the effect of higher staff costs driven by union-agreed pay rises in the property and casualty insurance business sold in 2005, and increased incentives and commissions paid 2005, insurance revenues rose, largely from life and in light of revenue growth.
Marketing costs also pension products.
In Argentina, increased advertising, increased to support the launch of various promotions partnerships with established local consumer brands and campaigns.
and internal cross-selling initiatives led to a rise in Commercial Banking reported pre-tax profits of motor, home and extended-warranty insurance US$451 million, 17 per cent higher than in 2005. premium income.
Life and annuity premiums also Growth in net operating income before loan increased in line with higher customer salaries.
The impairment charges was strong at 26 per cent as Maxima pension funds business delivered higher domestic economies in the region grew and HSBC revenues helped by improvements in the economic built market share.
Cost growth in support of this climate and greater levels of employment.
expansion was held within revenue growth and the Lower other operating income reflected the noncost efficiency ratio improved by 2.5 per cent.
recurrence of profit on the sale of HSBCs Brazilian Net interest income rose by 24 per cent, largely property and casualty insurance business.
driven by business expansion in Mexico and Brazil.
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk In Mexico, net interest income rose by 49 per provisions rose by 15 per cent to US$764 million as cent, reflecting asset and deposit growth, in part due lending grew and the loan book seasoned.
In Mexico, to the transfer of the 56,000 customers from Personal the higher charge was primarily driven by the growth Financial Services noted above.
As HSBC extended in credit card lending.
In Brazil, loan impairment its presence in the small and middle market business charges increased modestly, driven by growth in segments, average deposit balances increased by vehicle finance, instalment loans credito parcelado 65 per cent 31 per cent excluding the transferred and credit card lending.
As the credit environment customer accounts, although the benefit of this weakened during the first half of the year, various volume growth was partly mitigated by lower deposit measures were taken to mitigate the effects.
These spreads in a falling rate environment.
included tightening lending criteria, enhancing credit analytics, revising the collection policy, prioritising Lending balances in Mexico were 41 per cent secured lending ahead of unsecured advances and higher, primarily driven by strong demand in the strengthening credit operations.
Following rapidly growing real estate and residential implementation of these measures, several key credit construction sectors.
During the final quarter of the indicators showed improvement.
year, HSBC opened an International Banking Centre to develop cross-border business for global 120 Commercial Banking customers, with 75 business trade services market continued to grow, building on accounts acquired since its inception.
Attention the Groups international network and product placed on higher yielding small and middle market capabilities.
Fees from international factoring and businesses, following refinements made to the domestic invoicing payment products also rose, as customer segmentation strategy, contributed to asset new products were successfully piloted and marketed growth as greater emphasis was put on increasing to existing clients.
The signing of new merchant revenues from this segment.
These volume benefits customers led to higher transaction volumes and a were augmented by improved lending spreads from subsequent 60 per cent rise in card acquiring fees.
lower funding costs in the falling interest rate In Brazil, fee income rose by 47 per cent as environment, which offset reduced yields.
effective cross-selling led to an increase in the In Brazil, net interest income was 12 per cent average number of products held per customer.
Overall, lending balances rose by 16 per cent, Current account fee income grew from higher levels primarily driven by small and middle market of transactional activity and tariff increases customers.
The recruitment of additional relationship implemented in 2005.
Pricing changes introduced managers and sales staff, investments made in part-way through 2006 led to higher revenues from receivables financing and greater levels of payment and cash management services.
There was promotional activity all combined to build HSBCs improved fee income from assets under management, position in this market segment.
There was ongoing and additional marketing to promote trade products success from the giro fcil product, offering both led to a rise in trade services fees.
revolving loan and overdraft facilities, with average Fee income in Argentina was 27 per cent higher, balances recording a 13 per cent increase.
Spreads primarily from increases in account and trade widened as interest rates fell, further augmenting the services along with payments and cash management income benefits of higher lending volumes.
A 42 per cent rise in net interest income in Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Argentina was primarily attributable to strong asset provisions doubled, reflecting strong lending growth, and liability growth.
Average lending and deposit a higher proportion of small and micro business balances increased by 39 per cent and 19 per cent lending, and the seasoning of the portfolio.
respectively, as customer numbers rose, particularly to the small and micro businesses, helped by In Mexico, strong growth in the lower-end small favourable economic conditions and investment in and micro business lending balances led to increased new sales channels.
Asset spreads declined, however, loan impairment charges during the year.
due to competitive market pressures on pricing, partly A 41 per cent rise in Brazil again reflected large offsetting the income benefits of higher lending increases in small and micro business lending volumes.
By contrast, deposit spreads improved.
balances and higher delinquency rates as the portfolio Net fee income was 36 per cent higher, driven by seasoned.
This led to a 12 basis point increase in the robust increases across Mexico, Brazil and Argentina.
proportion of impaired loans to assets.
Various actions were undertaken to manage the effects of the In Mexico, fee income rose by 28 per cent with weakening credit environment, with debt collection notable success in increasing cross-sales activity.
operations enhanced and closer cooperation forged Growth in customer numbers contributed to higher between sales and collections staff.
Changes were transactional volumes which, combined with an also made to underwriting criteria, coupled with expanded and improved product offering plus revisions to sales staff incentive schemes.
Following increased marketing activity and re-pricing these measures, an improvement in credit quality was initiatives, led to a 41 per cent rise in income from seen and charges reduced in the second half of the payments and cash management services.
The year compared with the first half.
In Argentina, Estimulo product offering, comprising a packaged releases were lower than in 2005. suite of seven different products including a loan facility, continued to perform well with fee income Operating expenses of US$822 million were nearly trebling compared with 2005.
During the third 21 per cent higher than in 2005, as businesses quarter, a similar product, Estimulo Empresarial, was expanded strongly across Latin America.
launched, targeting upper-end small business In Mexico, operating expenses rose by 26 per customers.
This product encompasses a suite of cent, largely driven by higher transactional volumes, eleven different services and since its introduction new clients acquired and increased lending activity.
more than 165 clients have been signed, generating Non-staff costs were higher, reflecting the marketing US$50 million of new loans.
HSBCs share of the and IT-related support to business growth.
121 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Latin America 2006 Profit loss before tax by customer group In Brazil, expenses grew by 19 per cent, In Mexico, a 32 per cent rise in payments and also largely from higher staff, marketing and cash management fees was driven by a wider product administrative costs.
Business expansion activities in offering and the leveraging of established credit the small and middle market customer segments related products and services.
followed the recruitment of 270 additional employees Higher revenues from trading activities in Brazil and this, together with union-agreed pay increases, flowed from marketing the wider product range and were the principal drivers behind the 21 per cent rise enhanced delivery capabilities of Global Markets.
Continued enlargement of the branch Greater volatility in local markets resulted in higher network, the opening of an International Banking business volumes in foreign exchange and currency Centre and new sales offices combined with increases derivatives.
In Argentina, economic and political in marketing and administration costs in support of stability increased liquidity in the market with foreign business expansion, contributed further to cost exchange trading benefiting from greater customer growth.
Costs in Argentina rose by 30 per cent, activity.
In Mexico, a 23 per cent increase in trading primarily staff costs which reflected annual pay income was driven by a combination of successful increases and additional headcount driven by positioning for a flattening yield curve and higher accelerated business activity.
In supporting the client volumes delivered through the extended suite growth of the business, there was increased of products.
expenditure on branding, technology and distribution, with ongoing improvements made to the internet A net release of US$26 million in loan banking service.
impairment charges reflected a stable corporate credit environment and the implementation of improved Global Banking and Markets reported a prerisk management strategies in Mexico.
tax profit of US$475 million, an increase of 30 per cent compared with 2005.
HSBCs strong global Operating expenses rose by 20 per cent to presence, together with selective investment in US$346 million, primarily driven by higher staff extending service and delivery capabilities in the costs reflecting increased performance-related region, resulted in higher volumes with new and incentives in line with revenue growth, and pay rises existing clients.
The cost efficiency ratio improved agreed with local unions.
reflected increased volumes, particularly in payments and cash management and securities services Total operating income increased by 23 per cent businesses, and the continued investment in building to US$846 million compared with 2005.
In Brazil, the Global Banking and Markets business in the balance sheet management revenues grew region.
significantly as relatively low short-term interest rates reduced funding costs.
In Argentina, higher net Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of interest income reflected an increase in index linked US$14 million, a significant increase on 2005.
Profit securities portfolios and a growing demand for credit growth was strong in both Mexico and Brazil.
In as regional economies and market confidence Brazil, revenue and cost benefits arose from continued their recent improvement.
By contrast, in initiatives to join up the business, including crossMexico, balance sheet management revenues were referrals with other customer groups.
Strong revenue constrained by a flattening of the interest rate curve growth in the newly launched business in Mexico and relatively stable market conditions.
resulted primarily from greater client participation in capital markets, notably commercial paper Net interest income from payments and cash placements, which contributed towards a 53 per cent management rose by 64 per cent as customer volumes rise in fee income.
This strong performance was grew, reflecting new client mandates.
reflected in the cost efficiency ratio which improved Net fee income increased by 29 per cent to by 23.4 percentage points to 65.9 per cent.
US$167 million, predominantly through increased Within Other, the non-recurrence of coverage performance-related fees on emerging markets funds bond receipts and other items related to the 2001 managed by HSBC Global Asset Management.
Argentinean sovereign debt crisis led to lower Income in securities services benefited from strong earnings.
equity market indices and growth in new business as assets under custody increased significantly to US$89 billion.
122 Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business Year ended 31 December 2007 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Latin America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income 3,983 1,407 410 20 3 247 5,576 Net fee income....... 1,372 485 250 40 6 2,153 Trading income excluding net interest income.. 67 39 164 2 272 Net interest income on 10 1 18 247 276 trading activities 5 Net trading income.................... 77 40 182 2 247 548 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value............ 314 6 320 Gains less losses from financial investments........ 120 51 82 1 1 253 Gains arising from dilution of interests in associates............. 11 11 Dividend income.... 5 2 2 9 Net earned insurance premiums.
123 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Latin America Profit loss before tax by customer group Profit loss before tax and balance sheet data by customer group and global business continued Year ended 31 December 2006 Personal Global InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 14 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Latin America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense.... 3,057 1,037 325 13 2 233 4,197 Net fee income 1,053 387 167 23 1,630 Trading income excluding net interest income 61 21 218 1 301 Net interest income expense 14 5 16 233 236 on trading activities................ 5 Net trading income.................... 75 26 202 1 233 537 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value........... 227 11 1 237 Gains less losses from financial investments. 11 1 72 84 Dividend income.. 5 1 6 Net earned insurance premiums.
125 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Products and services HSBC continues to see opportunities to provide Other information insurance products to more of its customer base.
Products and services HSBC also makes available a wide range of investment products.
A choice of third party and Personal Financial Services proprietary funds is offered, including traditional Personal Financial Services provides over long only equity and bond funds: structured funds 125 million individual and self-employed customers that provide capital security and opportunities for an with financial services in 57 countries.
The selection enhanced return: and fund of funds products which of products and services offered in each of these offer customers the ability to diversify their given markets is determined by HSBCs investments across a range of best-in-class fund participation strategy in that market.
managers chosen after a rigorous and objective selection process.
Comprehensive financial planning In markets where HSBC already has scale or, in services covering customers investment, retirement, the case of emerging markets where scale can be personal and asset protection needs are offered built over time, HSBC offers a full range of personal through qualified financial planning managers.
Typically, products provided include personal banking products current Delivering the right products and services for and savings accounts, mortgages and personal loans, particular target markets is a fundamental credit cards, and local and international payment requirement in any service business, and market services, together with consumer finance and wealth research and customer analysis is essential to management services.
developing an in-depth understanding of significant customer segments and their needs.
This In other markets, HSBC participates more understanding of the customer ensures that customer selectively, targeting only those customer segments relationship management systems are effectively which have strong international connectivity or used to identify and fulfil sales opportunities, and to where HSBCs global scale is crucial.
HSBC Premier is a comprehensive banking and Personal customers prefer to conduct their wealth management service for mass affluent, financial business at times convenient to them, using internationally orientated customers.
This premium the sales and service channels of their choice.
This banking service provides personalised relationship demand for flexibility is met through the increased management, a single online view of all international provision of direct channels such as the internet and accounts, free international funds transfer between self-service terminals, in addition to traditional and HSBC accounts, 24-hour priority telephone access, automated branches and service centres accessed by global travel assistance and wealth management telephone.
There are now over 2.1 million HSBC Premier customers, who can use more than HSBC Finances operations in the US, the UK 280 specially designated Premier branches and and Canada make credit available to customers not centres in 37 countries and territories, either well catered for by traditional banking operations, temporarily when visiting or on a more permanent facilitate point-of-sale credit in support of retail basis if they require a banking relationship in more purchases and support major affiliate credit card than one country.
There are some markets where HSBC maintains HSBC Finance is a major credit card issuer in a Personal Financial Services presence in order to the US, offering HSBC, Household Bank, and enhance international connectivity for the customer, Orchard bank branded cards together with affiliation principally for HSBC Premier.
These markets offer a programmes such as the GM Card and the AFL-CIO more limited range of products and services.
HSBC Finance is also a major provider of third party private label credit cards or In certain selected markets, HSBC Direct store cards through 56 merchant relationships.
provides products specifically tailored for the online market.
High net worth individuals and their families who choose the differentiated services offered within Wealth management insurance and investment Private Banking are not included in this customer products and financial planning services plays an group.
important part in meeting the needs of customers.
Insurance products distributed by HSBC through its direct channels and branch networks include loan protection, life, property and health insurance and pensions.
Acting as both broker and underwriter, 126 Commercial Banking and maximises efficiency through expertise in documentary checking and processing, and highly HSBC is one of the worlds leading and most automated systems.
international banks, with 2.8 million Commercial Treasury and capital markets: Commercial Banking customers in 64 locations, including sole Banking customers are volume users of the Groups proprietors, partnerships, clubs and associations, foreign exchange capabilities, including incorporated businesses and publicly quoted sophisticated currency and interest rate options.
At 31 December 2007, HSBC had total commercial customer account balances of Commercial cards: HSBC offers commercial US$238 billion and total commercial customer card services in 39 countries.
Commercial card loans and advances, net of loan impairment issuing provides its customers with services which allowances, of US$220 billion.
enhance cash management, improve cost control and streamline purchasing processes.
HSBC offers card HSBC segments its Commercial Banking acquiring services, either directly or as part of a joint business into corporate, mid-market, small and micro venture, enabling merchants to accept credit card businesses, allowing the development of tailored payments either in store or on the internet.
customer propositions while adopting a broader view of the entire Commercial Banking sector, from sole Insurance: HSBC offers insurance services in traders to top-end mid-market corporations.
This 28 sites which cover a full range of commercial allows HSBC to provide continuous support to insurance products designed to meet the needs of companies as they grow in size both domestically businesses and their employees, including employee and internationally, and ensures a clear focus on the benefit, pension and healthcare programmes, and a small and micro business sectors, which are typically variety of commercial risks such as buildings, the key to innovation and growth in market marine, cargo, keyman and credit protection.
products are provided by HSBC either as an intermediary broker, agent or consultant or as a HSBC places particular emphasis on supplier of in-house or third party offerings.
HSBC geographical collaboration to meet its business also provides insurance due diligence reviews, and customers needs and aims to be recognised as the actuarial and employee benefit consultancy services.
leading international business bank and the best bank for small business in target markets.
The range of Wealth management services: These include products and services includes: advice and products related to savings and investments provided to Commercial Banking Financing: HSBC provides a range of short and customers and their employees through HSBCs longer-term financing options for Commercial worldwide network, with clients being referred to Banking customers, both domestically and crossPrivate Banking where appropriate.
border, including overdrafts, receivables finance, term loans and property finance.
The Group offers Investment banking: A small number of forms of asset finance in five sites and has Commercial Banking customers need corporate established specialised divisions providing leasing finance and advisory support.
These requirements and instalment finance for vehicles, plant and are serviced by the Group on a client-specific basis.
Delivery channels: HSBC deploys a full range Payments and cash management: HSBC is a of delivery channels, including specific online and leading provider of domestic and cross-border direct banking offerings such as HSBCnet and payments, collections, liquidity management and Business Internet Banking.
The Groups extensive network of offices and direct access to numerous Global Banking and Markets local clearing systems enhances its customers ability Global Banking and Markets provides tailored to manage their cash efficiently on a global basis.
financial solutions to major government, corporate International trade: HSBC finances and and institutional clients worldwide.
Managed as a facilitates significant volumes of international trade, global business, Global Banking and Markets under both open account terms and traditional trade operates a long-term relationship management finance instruments.
HSBC also provides approach to build a full understanding of clients international factoring, commodity and insured financial requirements.
Sectoral client service teams export finance, and forfaiting services.
The Group comprising relationship managers and product utilises its extensive international network to build specialists develop financial solutions to meet customer relationships at both ends of trade flows, individual client needs.
With dedicated offices in 127 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Products and services Property Legal proceedings over 60 countries and access to HSBCs worldwide international, regional and domestic payments presence and capabilities, this business serves and cash management services: and subsidiaries and offices of its clients on a global other transaction services, including trade basis.
Global Banking and Markets is managed as four principal business lines: Global Markets, Global HSBC Global Asset Management Banking, Principal Investments and HSBC Global This offers asset management products and services Asset Management.
This structure allows HSBC to for institutional investors, intermediaries and focus on relationships and sectors that best fit the individual investors and their advisers.
Groups footprint and facilitates seamless delivery of HSBCs products and services to clients.
Other Global Markets Other products include private equity, which comprises HSBCs captive private equity funds, HSBCs operations in Global Markets consist of strategic relationships with third party private equity treasury and capital markets services for managers and other investments.
supranationals, central banks, corporations, institutional and private investors, financial Private Banking institutions and other market participants.
Products include: HSBCs presence in all the major wealth-creating regions has enabled it to build one of the worlds foreign exchange: leading private banking groups, providing private currency, interest rate, bond, credit, equity and banking and trustee services to high net worth other specialised derivatives: individuals and their families from 90 locations in 37 countries and territories, with client assets of government and non-government fixed income US$421 billion at 31 December 2007. and money market instruments: HSBC Private Bank is the principal marketing precious metals and exchange traded futures: name of the HSBC Groups international private equity services, including research, sales and banking business which, together with HSBC trading for institutional, corporate and private Guyerzeller and the private banking activities of clients and asset management services: HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt, provides the services noted below.
distribution of capital markets instruments, including debt, equity and structured products, Utilising the most suitable products from the utilising links with HSBCs global networks: marketplace, Private Banking works with its clients and to offer both traditional and innovative ways to manage and preserve wealth while optimising securities services, where HSBC is one of the returns.
Products and services offered include: worlds leading custodians providing custody and clearing services and funds administration Investment services: These comprise both to both domestic and cross-border investors.
advisory and discretionary investment services.
A wide range of investment vehicles is covered, Global Banking including bonds, equities, derivatives, options, futures, structured products, mutual funds and HSBCs operations in Global Banking consist of alternative products, such as hedge funds and fund of financing, advisory and transaction services for funds.
By accessing regional expertise located within corporations, institutional and private investors, six major advisory centres in Hong Kong, Singapore, financial institutions, and governments and their Geneva, New York, Paris and London, Private agencies.
Products include: Banking seeks to select the most suitable financing and capital markets, which comprises investments for clients needs and investment capital raising, including debt and equity capital, strategies.
corporate finance and advisory services, Global wealth solutions: These comprise bilateral and syndicated lending, leveraged and inheritance planning, trustee and other fiduciary acquisition finance, structured and project services designed to protect existing wealth and finance, lease finance, and non-retail depositcreate tailored structures to preserve wealth for taking: future generations.
Areas of expertise include trusts, 128 foundation and company administration, charitable Further details are included in Note 23 on the trusts and foundations, insurance and offshore Financial Statements.
Legal proceedings Specialist advisory services: Private Banking offers expertise in several specialist areas of wealth HSBC is party to legal actions in a number of management including tax advisory and financial jurisdictions including the UK, Hong Kong and the planning, family office advisory, corporate finance, US, arising out of its normal business operations.
consolidated reporting, industry services such as HSBC considers that none of the actions is material, charities and foundations, media, shipping, diamonds and none is expected to result in a significant and jewellery, and real estate planning.
Specialist adverse effect on the financial position of HSBC, advisers are available to deliver products and either individually or in the aggregate.
Management services that are tailored to meet the full range of believes that adequate provisions have been made in high net worth clients individual financial needs.
HSBC has not disclosed any contingent liability associated with these legal General banking services: These comprise actions because it is not practicable to do so, except treasury and foreign exchange, offshore and onshore as disclosed below.
deposits, credit and specialised lending, tailor-made loans and internet banking.
Private Banking works to On 27 July 2007, the UK Office of Fair Trading ensure its clients have full access to relevant skills OFT issued High Court legal proceedings against and products available throughout HSBC, such as a number of UK financial institutions, including corporate banking, investment banking and HSBC Bank plc, to determine the legal status and insurance.
enforceability of certain of the charges applied to their personal customers in relation to unauthorised Property overdrafts the charges.
Certain preliminary issues in these proceedings were heard in a trial in At 31 December 2007, HSBC operated from some the Commercial Division of the High Court on 10,500 operational properties worldwide, of which 17 January 2008.
This trial concluded on 8 February approximately 3,300 were located in Europe, 2008 and judgment, on the preliminary issues tested, 850 in Hong Kong and Rest of Asia-Pacific, 1,850 in is awaited.
North America and 4,500 in Latin America.
These properties had an area of approximately 69.8 million The proceedings remain at a very early stage square feet 2006: 65.4 million square feet.
and may, if appeals on the preliminary issues or, subsequently, on substantive issues are pursued, Freehold, long leasehold and short leasehold take a number of years to conclude.
A wide range of land and buildings carried on the balance sheet outcomes is possible, depending, initially, upon represented 35 per cent of HSBCs operational whether the Court finds that some, all, or none of the space.
In addition, properties with a net book value charges should be tested for fairness and or tested as of US$1,346 million were held for investment common law penalties and, if it does find that some purposes.
Of the total net book value of HSBC or all of the charges should be so tested, upon the properties, more than 73 per cent were owned or Courts subsequent assessment of each charge across held under long-term leases.
Since July 2001, there have HSBCs operational properties are stated at cost, been a variety of charges applied by HSBC Bank plc being historical cost or fair value at the date of across different charging periods under the then transition to IFRSs their deemed cost less any current contractual arrangements.
HSBC Bank plc impairment losses, and are depreciated on a basis considers the charges to be and to have been valid calculated to write off the assets over their estimated and enforceable, and intends strongly to defend its useful lives.
Properties owned as a consequence of position.
an acquisition are recognised initially at fair value.
If, contrary to HSBC Bank plcs current assessment, the Court should ultimately after Valuation of freehold and leasehold land and appeals reach a decision adverse to HSBC Bank plc buildings that results in liability for it, a large number of different outcomes is possible, each of which would HSBCs freehold and long leasehold properties, have a different financial impact.
Based on the facts together with all leasehold properties in Hong Kong, currently available to it, and a number of were valued in 2007.
The value of these properties assumptions, HSBC Bank plc estimates that the was US$2.2 billion in excess of their carrying amount in the consolidated balance sheet.
129 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Business Review continued Legal proceedings Financial Review and introduction financial impact could be approximately number of permutations of possible outcomes, and US$600 million.
To make an estimate of the the early stage of the proceedings.
In addition, the potential financial impact at this stage with any assumptions made by HSBC Bank plc may prove to precision is extremely difficult, owing to among be incorrect.
other things the complexity of the issues, the Footnotes to the Business Review The footnotes below refer to the reconciliations of reported and underlying profit before tax, and the analyses of customer groups and global businesses on pages 16 to 35 and the geographical regions on pages 36 to 125.
1 Currency translation is the effect of translating the results of subsidiaries and associates for the previous year at the average rates of exchange applicable in the current year.
2 Acquisitions, disposals and in 2007 dilution gains comprises the net increment or decrement in profits in the current year compared with the previous year which is attributable to acquisitions or disposals made, or dilution gains, in the current year.
3 Other income in this context comprises net trading income see 5 below, net income from financial instruments designated at fair value, gains less losses from financial investments, gains arising from dilution of interests in associates, dividend income, net earned insurance premiums and other operating income less net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
4 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.
5 In the analyses of customer groups and global businesses, net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received: in the statutory presentation internal interest income and expense are eliminated.
6 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders.
8 The main items reported under Other are certain property activities, unallocated investment activities including hsbc.
com, centrally held investment companies, movements in the fair value of own debt designated at fair value, and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results include net interest earned on free capital held centrally and operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC.
Other also includes the costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
9 The comparatives have been restated to reflect the current management view.
10 Equities includes a total gain of US$107 million from the disposal of HSBCs investments in Euronext N. V. and the Montreal Exchange for 2007.
11 HSBC Global Asset Management was formerly known as Group Investment Businesses.
12 Other in Global Banking and Markets includes net interest earned on free capital held in the global business not assigned to products.
13 The results of Global Banking and Markets in Europe include gains from principal investments of US$991 million 2006: US$457 million: 2005: US$610 million.
14 Inter-segment elimination comprises i the costs of shared services and Group Service Centres included within Other which are recovered from customer groups, and ii the intra-segment funding costs of trading activities undertaken within Global Banking and Markets.
HSBCs balance sheet management business, reported within Global Banking and Markets, provides funding to the trading businesses.
To report Global Banking and Markets Net trading income on a fully funded basis, Net interest income and Net interest income expense on trading activities are grossed up to reflect internal funding transactions prior to their elimination in the intersegment column.
15 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank.
16 Trading assets, financial instruments designated at fair value, and financial investments held in Europe, and by Global Banking and Markets in North America, include financial assets which may be repledged or resold by counterparties.
130 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review Introduction Page Introduction Introduction 131 The consolidated financial statements of HSBC and Critical accounting policies 132 the separate financial statements of HSBC Holdings Financial summary............. 135 have been prepared in accordance with International Income statement............ 135 Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as endorsed Net interest income......... 138 by the European Union EU.
EU-endorsed IFRSs may differ temporarily from IFRSs as published by Net fee income 141 the International Accounting Standards Board Net trading income 144 IASB if, at any point in time, new or amended Net income from financial instruments IFRSs have not been endorsed by the EU.
At designated at fair value 146 31 December 2007, there were no unendorsed Gains less losses from financial standards effective for the year ended 31 December investments................... 148 2007 affecting these consolidated and separate Gains arising from dilution of interests in financial statements, and there was no difference associates..................... 148 between IFRSs endorsed by the EU and IFRSs Net earned insurance premiums................ 149 issued by the IASB in terms of their application to Other operating income... 150 HSBC.
Accordingly, HSBCs financial statements Net insurance claims incurred and for the year ended 31 December 2007 are prepared movement in liabilities to policyholders.
152 in accordance with IFRSs as issued by the IASB.
Loan impairment charges and other Certain information for 2003 has been prepared credit risk provisions 153 under UK Generally Accepted Accounting Operating expenses...... 156 Principles UK GAAP, which are not comparable Share of profit in associates and joint with IFRSs.
ventures 159 HSBC uses the US dollar as its presentation Asset deployment 161 currency because the US dollar and currencies linked Trading assets and financial to it form the major currency bloc in which HSBC investments..... 161 transacts its business.
Unless otherwise stated, the Funds under management 162 accounting information presented in this document Assets held in custody and under has been prepared in accordance with IFRSs.
administration 162 Economic profit. 163 Constant currency Other financial information 164 Constant currency comparatives for 2006 and 2005 Average balance sheet and net interest used in the 2007 and 2006 commentaries, income............ 164 respectively, are computed by retranslating into US Analysis of changes in net interest dollars, for non-US dollar branches, subsidiaries, income............ 171 joint ventures and associates: Share capital and reserves 174 the income statements for 2006 and 2005 at the Short-term borrowings.... 177 average rates of exchange for 2007 and 2006, Contractual obligations.. 178 respectively: and Ratios of earnings to combined fixed the balance sheets at 31 December 2006 and charges........... 178 2005 at the prevailing rates of exchange on Loan maturity and interest sensitivity 31 December 2007 and 2006, respectively.
analysis 179 Deposits... 180 No adjustment has been made to the exchange rates used to translate foreign currency denominated Certificates of deposit and other time deposits 182 assets and liabilities into the functional currencies of any HSBC branches, subsidiaries, joint ventures or Off-balance sheet arrangements and special associates.
When reference is made to constant purpose entities 183 currency in tables or commentaries, comparative Special purpose entities 183 data reported in the functional currencies of HSBCs Other off-balance sheet arrangements....... 191 operations have been translated at the appropriate exchange rates applied in the current period on the basis described above.
131 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review Critical accounting policies Critical accounting policies HSBC uses two alternative methods to calculate Audited collective impairment allowances on homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually Introduction significant: The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting When appropriate empirical information is policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology.
preparation of its consolidated financial statements.
This methodology employs statistical analysis The accounting policies used in the preparation of of historical data and experience of delinquency the consolidated financial statements are described in and default to estimate the likelihood that loans Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
will progress through the various stages of When preparing the financial statements, it is delinquency and ultimately prove irrecoverable.
the directors responsibility under UK company law The estimated loss is the difference between the to select suitable accounting policies and to make present value of expected future cash flows, judgements and estimates that are reasonable and discounted at the original effective interest rate prudent.
of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio.
The accounting policies that are deemed critical to HSBCs IFRSs results and financial position, in In other cases, when the portfolio size is small terms of the materiality of the items to which the or when information is insufficient or not policy is applied, and which involve a high degree of reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate judgement including the use of assumptions and methodology, HSBC adopts a formulaic estimation, are discussed below.
approach which allocates progressively higher percentage loss rates the longer a customers Impairment of loans and advances loan is overdue.
Loss rates are based on historical experience.
HSBCs accounting policy for losses arising from the impairment of customer loans and advances is Both methodologies are subject to estimation described in Note 2 f on the Financial Statements.
uncertainty, in part because it is not practicable to Loan impairment allowances represent identify losses on an individual loan basis because managements best estimate of losses incurred in of the large number of individually insignificant the loan portfolios at balance sheet date.
Management is required to exercise judgement In addition, the use of statistically assessed in making assumptions and estimations when historical information is supplemented with calculating loan impairment allowances on both significant management judgement to assess whether individually and collectively assessed loans and current economic and credit conditions are such that advances.
Of the Groups total loans and advances the actual level of inherent losses is likely to be to customers before impairment allowances of greater or less than that suggested by historical US$1,000.8 billion 2006: US$881.7 billion, experience.
In normal circumstances, historical US$6.5 billion 2006: US$5.8 billion or 1 per cent experience provides the most objective and relevant 2006: 1 per cent were individually assessed for information from which to assess inherent loss impairment, and US$994.3 billion 2006: within each portfolio.
In certain circumstances, US$875.9 billion or 99 per cent 2006: 99 per cent historical loss experience provides less relevant were collectively assessed for impairment.
information about the inherent loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date, for example, The most significant judgemental area is the where there have been changes in economic, calculation of collective impairment allowances.
regulatory or behavioural conditions such that the HSBCs most significant geographical area of most recent trends in the portfolio risk factors are not exposure to collectively assessed loans and fully reflected in the statistical models.
In these advances is North America, which comprised circumstances, such risk factors are taken into US$301.4 billion 2006: US$284.8 billion or 30 per account when calculating the appropriate levels of cent 2006: 33 per cent of HSBCs total collectively impairment allowances, by adjusting the impairment assessed loans and advances.
Collective impairment allowances derived solely from historical loss allowances in North America were US$11.9 billion experience.
2006: US$7.1 billion, representing 72 per cent 2006: 65 per cent of the total collectively This key area of judgement is subject to assessed loan impairment allowance.
uncertainty and is highly sensitive to factors such as loan portfolio growth, product mix, unemployment 132 rates, bankruptcy trends, geographic concentrations, review of goodwill impairment represents loan product features, economic conditions such as managements best estimate of the factors below.
national and local trends in housing markets, the Firstly, significant management judgement is level of interest rates, portfolio seasoning, account required in estimating the future cash flows of the management policies and practices, changes in laws CGUs.
These values are sensitive to the cash flows and regulations, and other factors that can affect projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts customer payment patterns.
Different factors are are available, and to assumptions regarding the longapplied in different regions and countries to reflect term pattern of sustainable cash flows thereafter.
different economic conditions and laws and Forecasts are compared with actual performance and regulations.
The assumptions underlying this verifiable economic data in future years: however, judgement are highly subjective.
The methodology the cash flow forecasts necessarily and appropriately and the assumptions used in calculating impairment reflect managements view of future business losses are reviewed regularly in the light of prospects.
Note 22 shows how the key assumptions differences between loss estimates and actual loss used in estimating future cash flows for each CGU experience.
For example, roll rates, loss rates and the have changed from 2006 to 2007. expected timing of future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against actual outcomes to ensure they Secondly, the cost of capital assigned to an remain appropriate.
individual CGU and used to discount its future cash flows can have a significant effect on the CGUs The total amount of the Groups impairment valuation.
The cost of capital percentage is generally allowances on homogeneous groups of loans is derived from a Capital Asset Pricing Model, which inherently uncertain because it is highly sensitive to incorporates inputs reflecting a number of financial changes in economic and credit conditions across a and economic variables, including the risk-free large number of geographical areas.
Economic and interest rate in the country concerned and a premium credit conditions within geographical areas are to reflect the inherent risk of the business being influenced by many factors with a high degree of evaluated.
These variables are established on the interdependency so that there is no one single factor basis of significant management judgement and are to which the Groups loan impairment allowances as subject to uncertainty.
However, HSBCs loan impairment allowances are particularly When this exercise demonstrates that the sensitive to general economic and credit conditions expected cash flows of a CGU have declined and or in North America.
For example, a 10 per cent that its cost of capital has increased, the effect is to increase in impairment allowances on collectively reduce the CGUs estimated fair value.
If this results assessed loans and advances in North America in an estimated recoverable amount that is lower would increase loan impairment allowances than the carrying value of the CGU, a charge for by US$1.2 billion at 31 December 2007 impairment of goodwill will be recorded, thereby 2006: US$714 million.
It is possible that the reducing by a corresponding amount HSBCs profit outcomes within the next financial year could be for the year.
different from the assumptions built into the models, Note 22 on the Financial Statements includes resulting in a material adjustment to the carrying details of the CGUs with significant balances of amount of loans and advances.
goodwill, and states the key assumptions used to assess the goodwill in each CGU for impairment.
Goodwill impairment Goodwill impairment testing performed in 2007 HSBCs accounting policy for goodwill is described and 2006 indicated that there was no impairment of in Note 2 o on the Financial Statements.
It is possible that the outcomes within the the Financial Statements sets out the Groups cash next financial year could be different from the generating units CGUs by geographical region assumptions used, resulting in a material adjustment and global business.
The most significant amount of to the carrying amount of goodwill.
In particular, the goodwill relates to the Personal Financial Services deterioration in the economic and credit conditions North America CGU, which amounts to in North America has resulted in a severe decline in US$10.2 billion or 30 per cent of total goodwill.
the profitability of the North American consumer The process of identifying and evaluating finance business during 2007, and as a result goodwill impairment is inherently uncertain because goodwill impairment in the Personal Financial it requires significant management judgement in Services North America CGU was re-tested as at making a series of estimations, the results of which 31 December 2007.
Notwithstanding these are highly sensitive to the assumptions used.
The conditions, the recoverable amount based on 133 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Critical accounting policies Financial summary Income statement expected cash flows continued to exceed the instrument, although management judgement carrying amount including goodwill in the CGU, and may be required when the ability of the therefore no goodwill impairment has occurred.
counterparty to service the instrument in However, in the event of further significant accordance with the contractual terms is in deterioration in the economic and credit conditions doubt.
Future cash flows may be sensitive to beyond the levels already reflected by management changes in market rates: in the cash flow forecasts for the CGU, a further selecting an appropriate discount rate for special review would be made, in addition to the the instrument.
Management bases the annual review of the carrying value, including determination of this rate on its assessment of goodwill against the recoverable amount for the what a market participant would regard as the CGU.
If this review indicated that the deterioration appropriate spread of the rate for the instrument in current conditions and future outlook is over the appropriate risk-free rate: and sufficiently severe, this could result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of goodwill.
judgement to determine what model to use to calculate fair value in areas where the choice of Valuation of financial instruments valuation model is particularly subjective, for example, when valuing complex derivative HSBCs accounting policy for valuation of financial products.
instruments is described in Note 2 d on the Financial Statements.
When applying a model with unobservable inputs, estimates are made to reflect uncertainties in The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price fair values resulting from a lack of market data in an actively traded market.
If the market for a inputs, for example, as a result of illiquidity in the financial instrument is not active, a valuation market.
For these instruments, the fair value technique is used.
The majority of valuation measurement is less reliable.
Inputs into valuations techniques employ only observable market data, based on non-observable data are inherently and so the reliability of the fair value measurement uncertain because there are little or no current is high.
However, certain financial instruments are market data available from which to determine the valued on the basis of valuation techniques that level at which an arms length transaction would feature one or more significant market inputs that occur under normal business conditions.
Valuation techniques that rely to in most cases there are some market data available a greater extent on non-observable inputs require a on which to base a determination of fair value, for higher level of management judgement to calculate example historical data, and the fair values of most a fair value than those based wholly on observable financial instruments will be based on some market inputs.
observable inputs even where the non-observable Valuation techniques used to calculate fair inputs are significant.
values include comparisons with similar financial Note 33 on the Financial Statements provides instruments for which market observable prices an analysis of the basis for valuation of financial exist, discounted cash flow analysis, option pricing instruments measured at fair value in the financial models and other valuation techniques commonly statements.
The value of financial assets and used by market participants.
Valuation techniques liabilities that use a valuation technique are incorporate assumptions that other market US$625.5 billion and US$400.7 billion or 66 per participants would use in their valuations, including cent and 68 per cent of total assets and total assumptions about interest rate yield curves, liabilities measured at fair value respectively.
Note exchange rates, volatilities, and prepayment and 33 on the Financial Statements presents a sensitivity default rates.
When valuing instruments by reference analysis of fair values for financial instruments with to comparable instruments, management takes into significant unobservable inputs to reasonably account the maturity, structure and rating of the possible alternative assumptions.
Given the instrument with which the position held is being uncertainty and subjective nature of valuing financial compared.
instruments at fair value, it is possible that the The main assumptions and estimates which outcomes within the next financial year could be management considers when applying a model with different from the assumptions used, and this would valuation techniques are: result in a material adjustment to the carrying amount of financial instruments measured at fair the likelihood and expected timing of future value.
cash flows on the instrument.
For the first time in recent years, pre-tax The strength of HSBCs diversified business model profits from the Groups emerging markets was demonstrated by profit growth in a year in operations exceeded 60 per cent of total profits.
which financial markets experienced significant dislocation and the credit environment, particularly On an underlying basis, profit before tax was in the US, deteriorated markedly.
Pre-tax profits in broadly in line with 2006.
This was arrived at after 2007 increased by 10 per cent to US$24.2 billion excluding the effects of a US$1.1 billion gain from and earnings per share rose by 18 per cent to the dilution of holdings in associates in mainland US$1.65.
Despite unprecedented market conditions, China, restating comparative information using the the return on shareholders equity exceeded 15 per average exchange rates applicable in 2007, and 135 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Income statement adjusting for acquisitions and disposals.
The table on delivered higher profits, which rose by 5 per cent page 15 provides a more detailed reconciliation of to US$6.1 billion.
This was driven by record results reported and underlying profit before tax.
in its foreign exchange, payments and cash management, equities, HSBC Global Asset These results illustrated the benefit derived Management and securities services businesses: from the Groups broad diversification, both these more than offset the significant write-downs in geographically and by range of business.
An the Credit and Rates businesses, largely the excellent performance in Asia in all customer groups consequence of the market-related factors discussed compensated for the effect of deteriorating above.
conditions in the US and slower growth in other mature markets.
Commercial Banking and Private Year ended 31 December 2006 compared Banking again delivered record results, as did many with year ended 31 December 2005 of the businesses within the newly designated Global Banking and Markets segment.
HSBC made a profit before tax of US$22.1 billion, a rise of US$1.1 billion, or 5 per cent, compared with In Asia, the Group had a notably strong year.
Incremental contributions to pre-tax profit Vigorous economic activity across the region, strong from Metris in the US, the Argentine retail trade flows and buoyant equity markets helped drive operations acquired from Banca Nazionale and Ping underlying profit growth of 42 per cent in Hong An Insurance in mainland China, less the profits of Kong and 34 per cent in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
This Cyprus Popular Bank, which was sold during the growth was broadly based, with profits in all year, accounted for US$347 million of the increase customer groups and in each of the main countries in in pre-tax profit in the period.
These represented the which HSBC operates ahead of 2006.
Results in bulk of changes in the constitution of the Group.
On Latin America were also better than in 2006, as an an underlying basis, which is described on page excellent performance in Brazil more than offset 131, profit before tax increased by 3 per cent.
higher loan impairment charges in Mexico.
Average invested capital increased by Pre-tax profits in North America fell US$10.6 billion compared with 2005 and return on significantly as loan impairment charges rose and that capital fell slightly by 1.0 per cent to 14.9 per trading income declined.
Revenue growth was 13 per cent and the cost deterioration in credit quality in a particular portfolio efficiency ratio was broadly unchanged at 51.3 per of purchased mortgages in the US consumer finance cent: the Groups Tier 1 ratio strengthened to 9.4 per business, widened in the second half of 2007 to cent.
affect the consumer lending business as a whole as economic conditions deteriorated in the US, the HSBCs results in 2006 reflected the benefits of housing market contracted and market liquidity for diversified earnings.
There were a number of asset-backed securities dried up.
This lack of outstanding achievements, for example, exceeding liquidity also adversely affected credit trading and US$1 billion pre-tax profits for the first time in asset-backed securities businesses within Global Mexico and the Middle East, and in each of the Banking and Markets where fide-leveraging of traded Group Private Banking and Commercial Banking markets contributed to volatility and lower businesses in Rest of Asia-Pacific.
The effect of these factors was partially approximately US$1 billion in extra pre-tax profits offset by a gain on HSBCs own debt designated at in Rest of Asia-Pacific and globally in the fair value.
Within Europe, underlying pre-tax profit However, results in 2006 also reflected a decline performance was mixed, mainly as a consequence of in pre-tax profits of around US$725 million in the ex gratia payments expensed in respect of overdraft Groups personal businesses in the US as a portfolio fees applied in previous years and a provision for of sub-prime mortgages purchased by a subsidiary of reimbursement of certain charges on historic will HSBC Finance, mortgage services, suffered much trusts and other related services.
Offsetting this was higher delinquency than had been built into pricing a large fair value gain on the valuation of the portion these products.
of the Groups own debt that is carried at fair value.
Earnings continued to be well diversified, both Encouragingly, Personal Financial Services in the geographically and by customer group.
Regionally, UK proved very successful in attracting deposit Asia including Hong Kong had record results as did balances, which rose 15 per cent on 2006. the Groups newly designated Latin America region, In 2007, notwithstanding the severe disruption which combines Mexico and Central America with in traded markets, Global Banking and Markets HSBCs South American businesses.
Within the 136 Customer Groups, Commercial Banking again rise in the ratio of new loan impairment charges to delivered a record performance, as did Private gross average advances to customers, from 1.4 per Banking and Global Banking and Markets, which cent in 2005 to 1.6 per cent in 2006.
The charge of made strong progress in the areas in which the US$10.6 billion was US$2.8 billion, or 36 per cent, Group has been investing in recent years.
Personal higher than in 2005, 30 per cent higher on an Financial Services declined as growth in Asia and underlying basis.
Of this increase, approximately Latin America was masked by the problems in the 60 per cent arose in the Groups Personal Financial US mortgage services business.
Services businesses in North America, with the major increase being in the US sub-prime mortgage The economic backdrop in 2006 was favourable.
portfolio acquired through mortgage services.
Global equity markets enjoyed strong gains for much Impairment charges in the UK were broadly stable as of the year, encouraging expanded investment flows a percentage of lending to customers despite a rising and creating a receptive marketplace for the high trend of consumer recourse to debt mitigation level of mergers and acquisitions and IPO activity arrangements.
There was also some credit which followed.
However, in these favourable deterioration in a few emerging market countries, conditions, the cumulative effect of rising short-term notably in the first half of 2006, as a consequence of rates, benign credit conditions and strong liquidity regulatory changes.
put pressure on interest margins.
Total operating expenses of US$33.6 billion The credit environment for corporate and were US$4.0 billion or 14 per cent higher than in commercial lending continued to be exceptionally 2005, 11 per cent higher on an underlying basis.
However, on the back of slowing housing Much of the growth reflected investment to expand markets and rising interest rates, a marked the Groups geographic presence and add product deterioration was experienced in the sub-prime expertise and sales support.
This expansion was most mortgage market in the US.
This more than marked in Personal Financial Services in North outweighed the non-recurrence in 2006 of loan America, and in Global Banking and Markets, where impairment costs associated with a surge in the cost efficiency ratio improved slightly as strong bankruptcy filings in the US in the fourth quarter revenue growth offset the first full year effect of of 2005, and the effect of hurricane Katrina.
investment expenditure in previous years.
Net operating income before loan impairment HSBCs share of profit in associates and joint charges and other credit risk provisions of ventures increased by US$202 million, with US$65.4 billion was US$7.7 billion or 13 per cent improved contributions from The Saudi British higher than in 2005, 11 per cent higher on an Bank, Bank of Communications and Industrial Bank, underlying basis.
Commercial Banking, Global supplemented by a first full year contribution from Banking and Markets and Private Banking Ping An Insurance.
HSBCs share of profits from operations all achieved strong double-digit growth.
investments in associates in Rest of Asia-Pacific Operating income performance was well spread accounted for nearly a quarter of the profits from geographically, with the strongest growth in HSBCs that region.
For further detailed discussion and operations in Asia and in Latin America.
analysis by geographical segment of the Groups Loan impairment and other credit risk results see Report of the Directors: Business Review provisions, expressed as a percentage of gross from page 76. average advances to customers, at 1.4 per cent, were 20 basis points higher in 2006 than the 1.2 per cent recorded in 2005.
2 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
3 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared trading assets, while the related external with year ended 31 December 2006 revenues are reported in trading income.
In HSBCs customer group results, the cost of Net interest income of US$37.8 billion increased by funding trading assets is included within Global 10 per cent, 4 per cent on an underlying basis.
The Banking and Markets net trading income as an commentary below is on an underlying basis.
interest expense: and The change in net interest income was balance sheet management revenues increased influenced by the following factors: compared with 2006.
This was mainly due to higher average interest rates in many major recovery in Asia.
currencies resulted in higher interest income In Europe, net interest income declined by from the investment of low-cost deposits and 18 per cent.
This was mainly driven by the transactional balances in Personal Financial expansion of trading activities in both the UK and Services and the payments and cash France which resulted in higher funding costs, with management businesses within Commercial the related revenues reported in the trading income Banking and Global Banking and Markets: line, as discussed above.
This was partly offset by lending spreads in 2007 continued to reflect the higher net interest income in the personal and relatively benign corporate and commercial commercial businesses.
credit conditions which have existed for the past In the UK, Personal Financial Services three to four years, some upward re-pricing spreads widened in a rising interest rate environment occurred in personal lending as a result of and competitive pricing attracted higher balances.
growing delinquency and restricted credit This was mitigated by lower spreads on mortgages appetite.
As market liquidity was withdrawn in as customers switched to fixed rate products.
In the last four months of the year, the value and Commercial Banking, higher net interest income was cost of funding rose markedly: largely driven by growth in the UK, Turkey, HSBC continued to focus on competitive Germany and Malta.
The launch of a negotiated rate liability products, which led to a 16 per cent deposit product in previous years continued to prove growth in average deposits and current successful in driving higher deposit balances.
Strong accounts: this exceeded the 6 per cent rise in growth in corporate and structured banking for micro average loans and advances to customers: customers, together with expansion in lending to small and mid-market customers, contributed to there was an increased cost of funding HSBCs higher lending balances in the UK, although this trading activities in HSBCs overall result.
Net interest income includes the cost of funding 138 benefit was partially constrained by spread investment flows increased, higher transactional compression in a competitive market.
balances in the payments and cash management businesses also delivered higher net interest income.
Revenues from transactional balances held within the payments and cash management business In Personal Financial Services, net interest increased by 13 per cent, as credit market dislocation income rose by 23 per cent, driven by higher in the second half of the year caused customers to personal lending, credit cards and deposit balances.
After several periods of Growth was broad-based across the region.
decline, balance sheet management revenues in Commercial Banking net interest income grew by Europe increased.
Expansion of the branch network, call centres and Business Internet Banking helped to In Turkey, higher net interest income was driven drive an increase in customer numbers which, in by new customer acquisition.
In Switzerland, the turn, led to deposit and loan growth.
Private Banking business earned higher net interest income from lending to existing clients as they Net interest income in North America rose by further leveraged their portfolios.
4 per cent, as higher revenues from payments and cash management, commercial lending and cards In Hong Kong, net interest income rose by were offset by lower mortgage balances, spread 17 per cent, driven by growth in asset and liability compression and higher non-performing balances.
products in the personal, commercial and corporate businesses.
Net interest income from Global Overall average lending balances were 5 per Banking and Markets increased by 79 per cent as cent higher, as growth in credit cards and vehicle balance sheet management revenues recovered and finance offset lower mortgage balances.
The benefits deposits grew strongly with higher spreads.
A rise in of higher volumes were largely offset as asset liabilities to fund trading activities reduced net spreads narrowed due to higher funding costs.
Also, interest income, with a corresponding rise in trading although deposit balances rose, spreads reduced as income.
the product mix shifted to higher yielding products.
Business expansion and higher customer volumes Personal Financial Services net interest income drove growth in loans and deposits in Commercial grew by 16 per cent, driven by wider spreads on Banking.
A 43 per cent increase in revenue from higher deposit balances.
The relaunch of HSBC payments and cash management was due to higher Premier contributed to the growth in deposit customer balances.
Card balances were also higher, following a number of promotional programmes during the In Latin America, net interest income increased year.
In Commercial Banking, strong economic by 17 per cent.
Growth was strong across the region, growth helped generate demand for savings products with net interest income rising by 22 and 11 per cent and this, combined with strong customer acquisition, in Mexico and Brazil, respectively.
resulted in higher net interest earned from liability In Mexico, notwithstanding lower balance sheet products.
management revenues, higher net interest income In Rest of Asia-Pacific, HSBC continued to was due to both asset and liability growth.
In invest in expanding the branch network, particularly particular, increased credit card balances were driven in the large markets of mainland China, Indonesia by marketing and portfolio management initiatives to and India.
This, combined with increased marketing improve customer retention and card usage.
Net and greater brand awareness, accelerated customer interest income in Brazil increased as the sound acquisition and consequently growth in loans and economic outlook and falling interest rates resulted deposits.
Net interest income across the region rose in strong demand for credit.
Average interest-earning assets AIEA of In the Middle East, net interest income US$1,297 billion were US$121 billion, or 10 per increased significantly, driven by balance sheet cent, higher than 2006 on an underlying basis.
expansion across all customer groups, augmented by improved yields.
Balance sheet growth was underpinned by a strong local economy, higher oil prices and demand for credit for infrastructure investment.
In Global Banking and Markets, higher net interest income was driven by the recovery in balance sheet management revenues.
As trade and 139 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Net interest income Net fee income Year ended 31 December 2006 compared above: there was a corresponding rise in trading with year ended 31 December 2005 income.
This was most pronounced in the UK and France.
Net interest income of US$34.5 billion was 10 per cent higher than in 2005 and 7 per cent higher on an In the UK, growth in Personal Financial underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on Services was strong in savings and packaged current an underlying basis.
accounts, but mortgage and credit card lending also increased.
In Commercial Banking, customer Movements in net interest income were recruitment boosted growth in deposit balances and particularly influenced by the following factors: spreads widened, particularly on US dollar rising short-term interest rates in US dollars and denominated accounts.
Commercial lending balances linked currencies, and in sterling, increased the were higher, in part reflecting the strong growth value of low-cost deposits and transactional throughout 2005.
In France, revenues declined balances and increased the interest income despite growth in lending, due to competitive pricing earned from investing those balances.
This was pressures and the impact of older, higher-yielding particularly relevant to the Personal Financial hedges of the networks funding surplus maturing.
Services and Commercial Banking businesses in Global Banking and Markets balance sheet Asia and the UK, and also improved the value management revenues declined as the rising trend in of cash balances within the Groups custody and short-term interest rates continued to flatten yield payments and cash management businesses and curves.
increased the resultant investment income: In Hong Kong, net interest income rose by the cumulative effect of higher short-term 15 per cent.
Deposit spreads widened with interest rates in most major currencies in recent progressive interest rate rises, and balances increased years has been to flatten interest rate yield as customers took advantage of higher rates.
HSBC curves and to reduce the opportunities available supported this growth with a number of promotions to HSBCs balance sheet management and marketing campaigns during the year.
In operations to generate additional income.
This Personal Financial Services, average savings and reduced growth in net interest income compared deposit balances rose by 7 per cent.
The launch of a with 2005 by some 2 percentage points: simplified mortgage pricing structure helped boost mortgage balances and grow market share.
A clear strong liquidity and benign credit conditions put focus on sales and targeted marketing helped achieve pressure on lending margins in corporate and strong growth in credit card balances, and the commercial banking and credit spreads number of cards in issue rose by 17 per cent to tightened as a consequence.
Average corporate lending balances rose competition for core deposits also reduced as the economy gained momentum and investment deposit spreads in certain markets: was channelled into mainland China.
The benefit of HSBC deployed an increased proportion of these developments, however, was substantially liabilities into trading assets.
Reported net offset by spread compression through the rising cost interest income includes the cost of internally of funds, and lower balance sheet management funding these assets, while related revenue is revenues as short-term interest rates continued to included in trading income.
This was rise, and yield curves remained flat.
particularly relevant to the UK, France and the In Rest of Asia-Pacific, a 25 per cent rise in net US.
The cost of funding net long positions is interest income was fuelled by balance sheet growth included within trading as an interest expense in in Personal Financial Services and Commercial HSBCs customer group reporting: and Banking.
This reflected HSBCs continuing HSBC concentrated balance sheet expansion on investment in growing the business through network attracting liabilities and, as a result, customer expansion, customer recruitment and targeted deposits, at constant currency but including marketing and promotions.
In Personal Financial acquisitions, grew by 3 percentage points more Services, the emphasis on the recruitment of HSBC than customer loans.
Premier customers generated strong deposit growth throughout the region, which funded increased In Europe, net interest income increased by mortgage and credit card borrowing.
The benefit of balance growth in Personal unsecured lending balances also grew significantly, Financial Services and Commercial Banking was as HSBC expanded its consumer finance operations substantially offset by the increased deployment of in India, Australia and Indonesia.
In corporate and liabilities to the fund trading activity referred to commercial banking, increased deposits raised 140 through customer recruitment and through higher activity also reduced growth in net interest income, transactional balances in the payments and cash with a corresponding increase in trading income.
management and the custody businesses were In Latin America, net interest income increased significant to the growth in net interest income.
In Mexico, deposit growth was the asset side, growth reflected strong demand for boosted by the continuing success of the Tu Cuenta credit as regional economies continued to expand packaged account in Personal Financial Services.
Credit card, unsecured lending and mortgage In North America, net interest income balances also grew strongly, though the benefit of increased by 3 per cent.
In the US Personal Financial the latter was offset by competitive pressure on Services business, strong growth in mortgages, spreads.
In Brazil, where the domestic economy cards, and other personal unsecured non-credit card improved and inflation remained low, rising lending was funded by a 21 per cent rise in average consumer demand for credit, together with increased deposits to US$32.2 billion.
This was led by the sales activity and customer recruitment, drove strong continued success of the online savings product lending growth.
Deposits rose through current which grew by US$6 billion to US$7 billion at accounts linked to the growing payroll loan business.
Higher spreads in credit cards, Growth in Commercial Banking was mainly in the reflecting a lower proportion of promotional small and middle market customer segments.
HSBC balances and a degree of re-pricing, were in contrast increased focus on these businesses through network with most other portfolios.
Overall, asset spreads expansion and the recruitment of additional sales contracted, driven by the effect on funding costs of a staff throughout the region.
In Global Banking and succession of interest rate rises, while competitive Markets, improved balance sheet management pricing and customer migration to higher yielding revenues and growth in the payments and cash products reduced spreads on deposits.
Net interest management business were the major contributors to income was boosted in Canada by strong lending to interest income growth.
personal and commercial customers, supported by AIEA of US$1,113 billion were US$114 billion, deposit raising initiatives.
However, these benefits or 11 per cent, higher than in 2005.
On an underlying were partly offset by lower Global Banking and basis, growth was 10 per cent.
HSBCs net interest Markets balance sheet management income as margin was 3.10 per cent in 2006, compared with spreads narrowed as a result of higher short-term 3.14 per cent in 2005. rates coupled with a flat yield curve in the US.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared sales of fee-earning packaged accounts in the UK.
In with year ended 31 December 2006 France, HSBC recorded an increase in transaction volumes while growth in client assets resulted in Net fee income increased by 28 per cent to higher commission income in Private Banking.
Card US$22.0 billion, 23 per cent on an underlying basis.
fees increased in the UK and Turkey, mainly on The commentary that follows is on an underlying interchange and acquiring fees.
offset by a reduction in default fees in the UK Buoyant stock markets in Hong Kong and following regulatory intervention by the OFT in throughout the Rest of Asia-Pacific region 2006.
Broking income increased in the UK, resulted in markedly higher income from wealth Germany and Switzerland, mainly driven by growth management products, broking services and in client assets and transaction volumes.
Funds under global custody in the region.
management decreased on lower income from the Hermitage Fund due to the part sale of fund Card fee income increased, mainly in the US holdings.
Income growth in the US was driven by higher late and over-limit fees.
In Hong Kong, buoyant stock market activity Merchandising and services fees also increased.
drove income on a number of commission lines.
In Mexico, the credit card business continued to Broking and global custody income rose as larger grow, both in balances and in transaction trading volumes were registered on higher stock volumes.
This was enhanced by the launch of new investment schemes, awareness Increased customer activity in Europe, North campaigns and the adoption of a new portfolio America and Latin America were the main wealth management sales tool in the branch network.
drivers for increased account services income.
An increase in IPO activity through Hong Kong, In the US, growth in credit card balances mainly derived from mainland China, positively triggered a higher use of the Intellicheck service, affected underwriting fees.
Life insurance which resulted in higher account services commission income increased, boosted by the income.
In the UK, growth in the sale of feelaunch of new products.
based packaged accounts contributed to growth in account services fees.
In Rest of Asia-Pacific, fee income increased by 34 per cent.
Buoyant stock markets stimulated In Europe, fee income rose by 11 per cent.
customer appetite for unit trusts and other Account services increased on higher customer investment products.
Strong investment sales were balances and volumes of transactions, supported by recorded in India, Philippines, South Korea, 142 Singapore and mainland China.
Security services notably in HSBCs BRIC Brazil, Russia, India increased, driven by a sustained level of transaction and China funds and in the Hermitage Fund, a volumes and investment flows.
In the Middle East, leading fund investing in Russia.
increases were registered in cards, global custody, The successful promotion of packaged account credit facilities and insurance.
Increased trade products which, together with increased services income in the region reflected higher intracustomer numbers and higher transaction regional trade flows, which were driven by strong volumes, led to a 13 per cent rise in account economic performance.
Higher cross-border currency In North America, card fee income rose as a flows led to increased remittance income.
result of higher balances attracting late and overReduced sales of creditor insurance products in limit fees.
The Intellicheck service, which allows the UK were largely offset by higher fees in customers to pay their credit card balances over the HSBCs Latin American insurance businesses, telephone for a fee, proved popular with customers.
particularly in Argentina and Brazil.
Revenues from enhancement services on cards which offer services such as debt protection and Increased taxpayer services fees, higher income identity protection, rose on higher sales.
Payments from investment and other services provided by and cash management fees also increased on higher HSBCs insurance businesses, and increased volumes generated.
Canada registered growth in corporate and WTAS advisory fees in the US investor administration fees and fees on the contributed to the increase in other fee income.
Account services In Europe, account service fees increased as a fees also increased.
result of customer acquisition, higher sales of In Latin America, card fee income rose, mainly packaged products and increased transaction due to increased volumes and balances in Mexico.
Rising stock markets led to higher sales of The use of debit and credit cards grew, in part driven investment products and growth in funds under by the extended ATM network.
Strong growth in management, while product mix improvements and customer accounts delivered higher transactional service enhancements also contributed to a rise in fees and the continuing success of the Tu Cuenta investment fees.
Higher performance fees in respect product led to increased take-up with higher product of the Hermitage Fund contributed an additional fees charged to customers.
Lending-related fees US$23 million in fee income, net of performance increased in Brazil, aided by higher current account fees paid to the funds investment advisor.
Offsetting and payments and cash management fees.
these increases, HSBCs decision to constrain unsecured lending growth in the UK resulted in Year ended 31 December 2006 compared lower creditor protection insurance fees.
with year ended 31 December 2005 In Hong Kong, a buoyant IPO market together Net fee income of US$17.2 billion was 19 per cent with product launches and enhancements contributed higher than in 2005, or 16 per cent higher on an to higher sales of investment products: this was underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on augmented by increased transaction volumes an underlying basis.
following strong growth in local and regional equity markets.
As global customers continued to seek Robust global stock market performance, investment opportunities in emerging markets, funds particularly in emerging markets, led to under management increased.
Growth in cards in increased customer appetite for equity-based issue led to higher card fees.
HSBC responded by launching new investment products and increasing promotional In Rest of Asia-Pacific, higher trade and activity, which contributed to higher unit trust, remittance flows led to increased payments and cash broking and custody fees.
Investment flows into emerging market funds triggered growth in custody There was an increase in cards in issue, which and funds administration fees, while rising equity drove higher transaction volumes and balances markets and product launches contributed to and led to a 16 per cent rise in card fee income, increased investor demand and higher income from principally in the US: custody, brokerage and the sale of investments.
Strong equity market performance also In North America, card fees increased as a benefited HSBCs asset management activities.
result of higher balances and improved interchange Funds under management grew by 16 per cent rates, while private label card fees benefited from and performance fees rose strongly, most renegotiations with a number of merchants.
143 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Net trading income Increases in 2006 were partly offset by the effect of business progressed strongly, expanding its customer FFIEC guidance, which limits certain fee billings for base and reporting significantly higher fee income.
Following its launch In Latin America, increased cards in circulation in 2005, activity within HSBCs mortgage-backed and improvements in activation times led to higher securities business increased rapidly during 2006.
As card issuing fees, while growth in the merchant a result, a greater proportion of loans originated by customer base led to a rise in card acquiring income.
HSBC were sold to the secondary market and Account servicing fees benefited from higher mortgage servicing fees grew accordingly, while packaged account sales, enhancements to other income in the mortgage-backed securities business current account products, price increases and greater also rose.
Tariff increases contributed to higher transaction volumes.
The expansion of HSBCs account service fees.
Higher business volumes led to ATM network in Mexico drove higher ATM fees.
However, this cost is reinstated in Net trading income in HSBCs customer group and global business reporting.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared from deterioration in the credit market in the second with year ended 31 December 2006 half of the year.
The write-downs arose mainly in the US and, to a lesser extent, the UK.
Net trading income increased by 20 per cent to US$9.8 billion, 13 per cent on an underlying basis.
Income from foreign exchange trading increased The following commentary is on an underlying by 40 per cent, a record result.
by higher customer volumes, against the backdrop of a weakening US dollar and greater market volatility.
In line with Global Banking and Markets focus on emerging markets, total income from trading in A trading loss of US$419 million in Credit and Asia and Latin America increased by 42 per cent, Rates compared with income of US$1.3 billion in dominated by foreign exchange trading and 2006.
US$1.1 billion of this arose in the second half reflecting the benefit of HSBCs strong and of 2007.
This was due to the write-downs discussed diversified distribution network.
Net trading income was significantly affected by Trading income from structured derivatives fell a total of US$2.1 billion of write-downs on credit by 19 per cent.
The structured credit business trading, leveraged and acquisition financing incurred losses in the second half of the year due to positions, and monoline credit exposures resulting the difficult trading conditions described above.
144 This was partly offset by higher trading income from market volatility and a decrease in deal volumes in other structured derivative products, following the third quarter.
investment made in technical expertise and systems Income from structured derivatives grew by in previous years.
74 per cent, as investments in technical expertise and Record results were achieved in the equities systems enabled HSBC to address a broader business reflecting strong growth across all regions spectrum of client needs.
Increased market volatility, particularly in Europe, which benefited from together with expansion in the provision of effective product differentiation, notably in structured fund products, resulted in higher customer emerging market products.
As the business matured and markets deepened and became more transparent, revenues In Europe, trading income increased by 41 per were boosted by a rise of US$193 million in the cent, driven by the equities business and foreign recognition of income deferred in previous periods.
exchange trading, where income increased strongly, with volume and profitability driven by market Foreign exchange income remained strong volatility.
This was partly offset by the write-downs throughout 2006, principally driven by an increase in in credit, structured derivatives and leveraged and customer activity encouraged by US dollar weakness acquisition finance.
and volatility in emerging markets.
In the metals trading business, revenues doubled, primarily due to Net trading income in Europe increased the underlying strength in precious metals and following the strategic decision to expand the increased price volatility.
collateralised lending and structured derivatives businesses, the funding costs of which are reported Within the credit and rates business, higher in Net interest income.
gains from interest rate derivatives and emerging market bonds reflected increased volumes of new Income growth in Hong Kong was achieved deals, a tightening of credit spreads and greater throughout the Global Markets business, assisted by interest rate volatility.
investments made in recent years to grow the product range and customer base.
HSBC had only In Europe, a significant increase in trading very limited exposure to asset-based securities and income was driven by higher foreign exchange flows structured credit products in Hong Kong.
and a greater focus on emerging market products.
Overall, customer volumes rose, as increased Strong growth was delivered in Rest of Asiahedging activity and a change in risk appetite among Pacific, led by foreign exchange trading, with higher investors drove a general improvement in market volumes driven by increased volatility which, in sentiment towards developing economies.
turn, increased customer demand for risk management products.
On an underlying basis trading income in Rest of Asia-Pacific grew by 35 per cent, driven by HSBCs operations in North America incurred HSBCs strong distribution network and experience a trading loss following write-downs in credit, in developing markets activity, which contributed to structured derivatives, and leveraged and acquisition particularly strong increases reported in India the finance for the reasons noted above.
This was Middle East and mainland China.
compounded by trading losses on purchased loans in the mortgage services wholesale business in Performance in HSBCs operations in the US response to which, HSBC closed the business.
remained robust benefiting, in part, from the first full By contrast, foreign exchange recorded a strong year contribution from the US residential mortgageperformance, supported by activity generated by backed securities business and successful product the declining US dollar and volatile markets.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared with year ended 31 December 2005 Net trading income increased significantly in comparison with 2005, reflecting the investment made in widening Global Markets product range and developing its sales and execution capabilities.
HSBC may designate financial instruments at fair HSBC used the fair value designation principally value under the option in order to remove or reduce in the following instances: accounting mismatches in measurement or recognition, or where financial instruments are for certain fixed-rate long-term debt issues managed, and their performance is evaluated, whose interest rate characteristic has been together on a fair value basis.
All income and changed to floating through interest rate swaps, expense on financial instruments for which the fair as part of a documented interest rate value option was taken were included in this line management strategy.
Approximately 146 US$66 billion 2006: US$56 billion of the claims incurred and movement in liabilities to Groups debt issues have been accounted for policyholders.
using the fair value option.
The movement in fair value of these debt issues includes the Year ended 31 December 2007 compared effect of own credit spread changes and any with year ended 31 December 2006 ineffectiveness in the economic relationship Credit spreads widened significantly in the second between the related swaps and own debt: half of 2007, leading to a substantial increase in net as credit spreads narrow, accounting losses are income from financial instruments designated at fair booked, and the reverse is true in the event of value compared with 2006.
This was primarily driven spreads widening.
Ineffectiveness arises from the by a widening in credit spreads on certain fixed-rate different credit characteristics of the swap and long-term debt, issued by HSBC Holdings and its own debt coupled with the sensitivity of the subsidiaries.
These cumulative gains will fully floating leg of the swap to changes in short-term reverse over the life of the debt.
In addition, the economic adjustment to reserves where the policy is applied for relationship between the swap and own debt can the first time and, subsequently, the income statement be affected by relative movements in market in terms of change in own credit spread since the fair factors, such as bond and swap rates, and the value option was available, is US$1.6 billion after relative bond and swap rates at inception.
taking account of the US$3.1 billion credit in 2007.
The size and direction of the accounting Income from assets held to meet liabilities under consequences of changes in own credit spread insurance and investment contracts also rose by and ineffectiveness can be volatile from period 32 per cent, mostly from premium growth and higher to period, but do not alter the cash flows investment returns on the portfolios held by the envisaged as part of the documented interest insurance businesses in the UK and Hong Kong.
rate management strategy: The change in fair value of liabilities under for certain financial assets held by insurance investment contracts declined by 7 per cent.
operations and managed at fair value to meet liabilities under insurance contracts, and certain Year ended 31 December 2006 compared liabilities under investment contracts with with year ended 31 December 2005 discretionary participation features DPF, Net income from financial instruments designated at approximately US$17 billion of assets 2006: fair value decreased compared with 2005.
This was US$6 billion : and primarily driven by a narrowing i. e. improvement for financial assets held by insurance operations in credit spreads on certain fixed-rate long-term debt and managed at fair value to meet liabilities issued by HSBC Finance and lower net mark-tounder investment contracts, approximately market movements on this debt and the related US$14 billion of assets 2006: US$12 billion.
During 2006, HSBC Finances debt received improved ratings from both Moodys Net income from financial assets designated at and S&P.
Perversely, this improvement generated fair value which are held to support liabilities for accounting losses of some US$388 million which both insurance and investment contracts, is presented will reverse over the residual maturity of the debt as Net income from financial instruments designated instruments.
For investment contracts, where the liabilities to policyholders are designated at fair Income from assets held to meet liabilities under value, the movement in the value of the liabilities is insurance and investment contracts was some 12 per presented in Net income from financial instruments cent lower, reflecting movements in the market designated at fair value in the income statement.
On an underlying basis, gains were 35 per cent greater than in 2005.
Gains from financial Net gains of US$2.0 billion were reported by HSBC investments were mainly attributable to the as a result of the disposal of financial investments following transactions: during 2007, 102 per cent higher than in 2006, 93 per cent on an underlying basis.
The following a gain of US$93 million arising from the partial commentary is on an underlying basis.
redemption of HSBCs investment in MasterCard Incorporated following its IPO in In Europe, the sale of shareholdings and May.
The gain was distributed across all various equity investments in the UK and France, geographic regions as most HSBC Group banks including the disposal of shares in Euronext the were members of MasterCard: European stock exchange, contributed to net gains of US$1.3 billion, an increase of 101 per cent from a gain of US$101 million on the sale of part of 2006.
In Private Banking, gains of US$91 million HSBCs stake in UTI Bank Limited, an Indian arose from the sale of a further holding in the retail bank: Hermitage Fund, compared with US$117 million in the partial sale by Private Banking of a holding 2006. in the Hermitage Fund contributed a gain of In Hong Kong, gains were 42 per cent less than US$117 million for the year: and in 2006 as a result of the non-recurrence of a the sale of a portfolio of structured finance US$101 million gain on the partial sale of HSBCs investments, classified as debt securities, stake in UTI Bank Limited, an Indian retail bank, in contributed a gain of US$112 million.
Gains of US$245 million in North America Gains arising from dilution of interests in were primarily attributable to the sale of shares in associates MasterCard and gains in Latin America largely HSBCs associates, Industrial Bank, Ping An arose from the sale of equity holdings in Brazil, Insurance and Bank of Communications in mainland including HSBCs holding in a credit bureau.
China: Financiera Independencia in Mexico and Techombank in Vietnam, issued new shares for Year ended 31 December 2006 compared which HSBC did not subscribe.
As a consequence of with year ended 31 December 2005 the new monies raised by the associates, HSBCs HSBC reported net gains of US$969 million from share of their underlying assets increased by the disposal of available-for-sale financial US$1.1 billion, notwithstanding the reduction in the 148 Groups interests.
These gains are presented in the regarded as exceptional.
For further details see income statement as Gains from dilution of the Note 4 on the Financial Statements.
This was reinsuring credit insurance for other lenders.
boosted by HSBCs acquisition in the first half of 2007 of the remaining shares in HSBC Assurances in In Latin America, net earned insurance France and the purchase of HSBC Bank Panama in premiums increased by 32 per cent to Central America in late 2006.
There was good growth in all of insurance premiums grew by 21 per cent.
The HSBCs insurance businesses in the region.
Higher following commentary is on an underlying basis.
premiums in Brazil were driven by increased sales of pension products with linked-life policies.
In In Europe, net earned insurance premiums Argentina, the growth was led by the motor increased by 50 per cent to US$4.0 billion, including insurance businesses and, in Mexico, the primary growth of the Guaranteed Income Bond and motor driver was life assurance.
insurance, and the introduction of enhanced death benefits to pension contracts in the UK.
Premiums Year ended 31 December 2006 compared also grew in the UK because of a higher retention of with year ended 31 December 2005 risk compared with 2006, when a greater proportion of risk and corresponding premiums were ceded to Net earned insurance premiums of US$5.7 billion reinsurers.
There were also significant contributions were 4 per cent higher than in 2005, 3 per cent on an from increased reinsurance business in Ireland and underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on from the life assurance business in Malta.
In Hong Kong, net earned insurance premiums In Europe, net earned premium income increased by 7 per cent to US$2.8 billion, as the life decreased by 19 per cent to US$1.3 billion.
This assurance business expanded with the launch of new was largely in the UK, where lower sales of single products.
premium insurance contracts, a lower market appreciation of investment assets and the effect of In the Rest of Asia-Pacific region, net earned changes in reinsurance arrangements were the insurance premiums increased by 24 per cent to principal drivers of the decrease.
This growth was mainly generated in Malaysia by the HSBC Amanah Takaful business In Hong Kong, net earned premium income which was launched in late 2006, offering shariahincreased by 13 per cent, driven by the life insurance compliant insurance products.
New products, many designed to meet 149 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other operating income financial needs identified in HSBCs global study on from new life business underwritten in 2006, which the future of retirement, were supported by increased was substantially offset by a decline in the non-life promotional and marketing activity, and the business.
development of internet and telephone distribution Improved cross-selling drove growth across channels.
Latin America, and income rose by 18 per cent to In Rest of Asia-Pacific, net earned US$1.1 billion.
In Mexico, growth in individual life, premium income rose by 5 per cent growth to casualty and motor insurance was partly offset by US$174 million.
This was concentrated in Singapore increased reinsurance costs.
In Brazil, growth was and reflected the success of new product launches, led by strong sales of both life and pension products.
Increased sales of In Argentina, increased advertising partnerships with individual life policies were the main driver of the established local consumer brands and internal crossgrowth.
HSBC continued to expand its insurance selling initiatives led to a rise in motor, home and business across Rest of Asia-Pacific with a number extended-warranty insurance premium income.
This of initiatives including the establishment of HSBCs was, in part, offset by the effects of the disposal of first Islamic insurance company in Malaysia.
the Brazilian general insurer HSBC Seguros during the latter half of 2005, which resulted in a significant In North America, the modest rise in net reduction in non-life premium income.
Other operating income of US$1.4 billion was 43 per This had a marginally positive effect on profits as cent lower than in 2006, 51 per cent lower on an there was a corresponding reduction in policyholder underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on liabilities.
Private equity income decreased significantly, In Europe, other operating income declined by due to the non-recurrence of asset disposals in 2006.
This largely resulted from a negative Property gains included a gain on the disposal and movement in the value of in-force business in the leaseback of a London building in 2007.
The movement was driven by a change in the calculation methodology of the 150 Although HSBC sold its Canary Wharf recurrence of one-off gains from the restructuring headquarters building at 8 Canada Square in 2007, and syndication of assets in Global Investment the gain remains unrecognised as HSBC continues to Banking in 2005.
Gains on private equity were also provide bridge finance for the debt portion of the lower.
There was a 29 per cent fall in rental income, transaction.
with a compensating effect on operating expenses, following the sale of the operational functions of In Hong Kong, there was an increase of 2 per HSBCs vehicle financing and fleet management cent in other operating income, mainly due to business in 2005, combined with the non-recurrence increased cost recoveries from other HSBC sites.
of gains made in that year on disposal of structured This was partially offset by the non-recurrence of finance leases in the UK.
This decline was partly income on the sale of the former head office building offset by profit recognised on the sale of HSBCs of Hang Seng Bank and transfer of credit card stake in Cyprus Popular Bank Limited of acquiring business into a joint venture with Global US$93 million, and income from UK branch sale Payments Inc. and lease-back transactions.
Other operating income in Rest of Asia-Pacific In Hong Kong, the modest increase in other decreased by 2 per cent.
The comparative figures operating income reflected profits earned from the included gains on disposals of certain businesses sale of the former head office building of Hang Seng in Australia.
No such gains on disposals were Bank and income received from the transfer of the registered this year.
Similarly, profits from disposal credit card acquiring business into a joint venture of assets held for sale decreased due to the nonbetween HSBC and Global Payments Inc.
These recurrence of profits on sale of properties in Japan factors were partly offset by lower revaluation gains and India.
on Hang Seng Banks investment properties In North America, other operating income following a slowdown in the rate of property price decreased significantly, driven by lower prices on appreciation and the non-recurrence of the disposal sale of real estate due to the general decline in the of a leasehold residential property.
In addition, there were lower Other operating income in Rest of Asia-Pacific gains on the sale of investments, mainly due to a more than doubled, reflecting profits earned from significant one-off gain in the latter part of 2006. various business disposals in Australia and the sale In Latin America, a 97 per cent increase in of an office building in Japan.
Higher levels of other operating income reflected the recognition of activity at the Group Service Centres resulted in the embedded value calculation on the PVIF life rising income in the region and contributed further assurance business in Mexico.
The improvement on to the increase.
2006 was also aided by the non-recurrence of a loss In North America, the 42 per cent increase on sale of a portfolio of assets during that year and largely resulted from gains on the disposal of various sundry gains on foreclosed assets in 2007. investments and real estate, and higher lease income from property investments by Amanah Finance.
Year ended 31 December 2006 compared with year ended 31 December 2005 The 73 per cent decline in Latin America was mainly driven by the non-recurrence of the receipt Other operating income of US$2.5 billion was 7 per of coverage bonds issued as compensation for cent lower than in 2005, 9 per cent lower on an asymmetric pesification in Argentina last year.
The commentary that follows is on non-recurrence of the gain on sale of the insurance an underlying basis.
underwriter, HSBC Seguros, in Brazil in 2005 In Europe, other operating income declined US$89 million contributed further to the reduction.
For non-life business, amounts reported represent the cost of claims paid during the year and the estimated cost of notified claims.
For life business, the main element of claims is the liability to policyholders created on the initial underwriting of the policy and any subsequent movement in the liability that arises, primarily from the attribution of investment performance to savings-related policies.
Consequently, claims rise in line with increases in sales of savings-related business and with investment market growth.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared the investment return on these assets is shown in with year ended 31 December 2006 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.
Net insurance claims incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders of US$8.6 billion were In the Rest of Asia-Pacific region, net 83 per cent higher than in 2006.
In March 2007, insurance claims incurred and movement in HSBC acquired the remaining shares in HSBC liabilities to policyholders rose by 25 per cent Assurances in France and purchased HSBC Bank to US$253 million.
Net insurance claims incurred Net insurance claims incurred and movement in and movement in liabilities to policyholders liabilities to policyholders decreased by 7 per cent to increased by 32 per cent on an underlying basis.
US$241 million in North America, in line with the The following commentary is on an underlying change in net earned insurance premiums.
In Latin America, net insurance claims In Europe, net insurance claims incurred and incurred and movement in liabilities to policyholders movement in liabilities to policyholders grew by grew by 26 per cent to US$1.4 billion.
Most of this 121 per cent to US$3.5 billion.
This growth was in increase was in Brazil, driven by a rise in parallel with the growth in net earned insurance policyholders liabilities on the back of higher life premiums, including maintaining a higher level of insurance and pension volumes.
Growth in the risk, but it was offset by FSA rule changes which led Mexico life business also contributed.
to lower claims valuation on life policies.
There was also a rise in flood-related claims in the UK after Year ended 31 December 2006 compared record rainfalls during the summer.
with year ended 31 December 2005 In Hong Kong, net insurance claims incurred Net insurance claims incurred and movement in and movement in liabilities to policyholders liabilities to policyholders of US$4.7 billion were increased by 19 per cent to US$3.2 billion.
The 16 per cent higher than in 2005, 15 per cent on an increase was more significant than premium growth underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on because many of the liabilities were related to life an underlying basis.
Policyholders participate in the investment In Europe, net insurance claims incurred and performance of assets supporting these liabilities and movement in liabilities to policyholders decreased 152 by 35 per cent to US$531 million, primarily driven Net insurance claims and movement in by lower sales of critical illness and creditor liabilities to policyholders in North America rose protection products, along with the effect of adverse by 12 per cent to US$259 million, mainly reflecting movements in fixed interest rate markets on the an increase in reserves for new life insurance value of liabilities to policyholders.
Net insurance claims and movement in In Latin America, higher sales of life and liabilities to policyholders in Hong Kong increased pension fund products led to an increase in net by 31 per cent, predominantly in the life insurance insurance claims incurred and movement in business, in which reserves for liabilities to liabilities to policyholders of 24 per cent to policyholders rose with business growth, together US$1,023 million.
Lower movements in the non-life with the rising value of investments.
Growth in the insurance liabilities were due to the sale of the nonunderwriting of accident and health business resulted life insurance business, HSBC Seguros, in Brazil in higher non-life insurance claims reserves.
during the latter half of 2005.
The analysis that follows is on lending but also in the credit cards portfolio in an underlying basis.
the final part of the year.
Delinquency rates increased during the year as falling house prices 153 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Loan impairment charges constrained customers ability to refinance their seasoning and mix change within the credit cards loans and led to deterioration in credit markets: portfolio, and increases in bankruptcy filings after the exceptionally low levels seen in 2006 following an underlying 7 per cent increase in lending to changes in legislation, added to loan impairment customers excluding lending to the financial charges.
sector and settlement accounts : and The real estate secured portfolios experienced a sharp increase in loan impairment charges in continuing deterioration in credit quality as a lack of Mexico, primarily due to portfolio growth, demand for securitised sub-prime mortgages and seasoning, and higher delinquency rates on falls in house prices severely restricted refinancing credit cards: offset by options for many customers.
In the mortgage a continued benign environment for commercial services business, loan impairment charges rose and corporate credit in all regions.
by 41 per cent to US$3.1 billion while, in consumer lending, loan impairment charges rose by 139 per In Europe, loan impairment charges rose by cent to US$4.1 billion.
Delinquency rates exceeded 10 per cent to US$2.5 billion.
Overall credit quality recent historical trends, particularly for those loans remained broadly stable.
In the UK, loan impairment originated in 2005 and 2006.
Performance was charges rose, primarily in consumer finance lending weakest in housing markets which had previously outside HSBC Bank: within HSBC Bank, steps taken experienced the steepest home price appreciation and in 2006 to tighten underwriting standards led to an in respect of second lien products and stated income improvement in loan impairment trends.
loan impairment charges remained low in absolute US card services experienced a rise in loan terms although they were 23 per cent higher than the impairment charges from a combination of growth in level incurred in 2006.
In the UK, increased loan balances, higher losses in the final part of the year as impairment charges principally reflected allowances the economy slowed, a rise in bankruptcy rates on two large corporate accounts and the ongoing approaching historical levels, and a shift in portfolio effect of IVAs on the micro business segment.
mix to higher levels of non-prime loans.
Further Loan impairment charges in Hong Kong details are provided on page 220. continued at a low level and in line with 2006 at In Latin America, loan impairment charges US$231 million, despite strong balance sheet rose sharply, by 53 per cent to US$1.7 billion, driven growth.
This reflected good credit quality and robust by portfolio growth, normal seasoning and higher economic conditions.
delinquency rates on credit cards.
Loan impairment In Rest of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment charges for small and medium-sized businesses charges rose by 17 per cent to US$616 million.
Loan lending in Mexico also increased.
Partly offsetting impairment charges were significantly lower in these was an improvement in personal and Taiwan due to the non-recurrence of impairment commercial delinquency rates in Brazil.
charges in 2006 which resulted from regulatory For the Group as a whole, the aggregate intervention in the card market and the imposition of outstanding customer loan impairment allowances a government debt negotiation scheme.
In Indonesia, at 31 December 2007 of US$19.2 billion represented performance improved on 2006 when loan 2.0 per cent of gross customer advances net of impairment charges were affected by the reverse repos and settlement accounts, compared introduction of minimum repayment terms.
These with 1.6 per cent at year-end 2006. factors were offset by an increase in corporate loan impairment charges in several countries, higher loan Impaired loans to customers were impairment charges in India due to balance sheet US$18.3 billion at 31 December 2007 compared growth and higher loss rates on credit cards, and a with US$13.8 billion at 31 December 2006.
On a deterioration in the Malaysian mortgage portfolio constant currency basis, impaired loans to customers due to rising interest rates.
were 28 per cent higher than in 2006 compared with customer lending growth excluding loans to the In North America, loan impairment charges financial sector and settlement accounts of posted a steep rise, increasing by 79 per cent to 7 per cent.
The main factor driving this deterioration was the impact of the weaker housing market on both economic activity and the ability of borrowers to extend or refinance debt.
In addition, 154 Year ended 31 December 2006 compared of the year.
Taiwan was affected by the imposition with year ended 31 December 2005 of a mandatory government debt renegotiation scheme which allowed customers to extend and The charge for loan impairments and other credit heavily discount repayment terms, leading to risk provisions was US$10.6 billion, a 36 per cent market-wide credit losses.
Indonesia was also increase over that reported in 2005.
The analysis that affected by regulations, specifically with respect to follows is on an underlying basis.
minimum re-payment terms which compounded Charges increased by 30 per cent, reflecting: higher impairments brought about by a reduction in fuel subsidies.
Elsewhere in Rest of Asia-Pacific, increased loss experience in the US mortgage credit quality was stable.
services business, particularly in second lien, portions of first lien and ARMs acquired from In North America, the net loan impairment correspondent brokers and banks in 2005 and in charge increased significantly, by 32 per cent to the first half of 2006: US$6.8 billion, largely in the second half of 2006, driven by the credit deterioration in US sub-prime 10 per cent underlying lending growth mortgages described in the first bullet point above.
excluding lending to the financial sector and The effects of the decline in US house price inflation settlement accounts, notably in the UK, the US, and rising interest rates during 2006 were Mexico, Brazil and Asia: accentuated by the increased percentage of second the continuing effect in the UK of consumer lien loan originations to total loans originated in recourse to formal debt mitigation 2005 and the first half of 2006, and the underwriting arrangements: of stated income low documentation products.
The US net loan impairment charges increased by 37 per credit deterioration, principally in the first half cent after taking into account the most recent trends of 2006, in unsecured personal and credit card in delinquency and loss severity, projecting the lending in Taiwan and Indonesia: offset by probable impact of re-pricing ARMs, and the non-recurrence of a surge in bankruptcy incorporating the effect of re-pricing on second lien filings in the US in the fourth quarter of 2005 loans.
Further details are provided on page 217. and the effect of hurricane Katrina: and Credit delinquency in other parts of the mortgage portfolio and in other US businesses rose modestly, a continued benign commercial and corporate driven by unusually low levels at the end of 2005, credit environment.
and growing loan maturity in 2006.
Partially In Europe, net loan impairment charges rose by offsetting the effects of credit deterioration were a 10 per cent to US$2.2 billion.
In the UK, net charges decline in bankruptcy filings following the surge at rose by a modest 4 per cent as growth in the personal the end of 2005, relatively low unemployment and a customer impairment charge, which was broadly in fall in exposure estimated to result from hurricane line with lending growth, was partially offset by Katrina.
favourable movements on the impairment charge for In Latin America, the rise in impairment commercial loans in a robust corporate credit charges by 24 per cent to US$938 million was environment.
The personal sector continued to largely recorded in Mexico and, to a lesser extent, experience higher levels of IVA and bankruptcy Brazil and Argentina.
In Mexico, strong loan growth, filings, following an easing of bankruptcy particularly in 2006, led to increased loan regulations in 2004, growth in consumer impairment charges.
In Brazil, the credit weaknesses indebtedness and a rise in unemployment.
This was seen in 2005 and the first half of 2006, particularly mitigated by action taken on underwriting and in the consumer market, were mitigated by changes collections.
In France, the non-recurrence of several to underwriting procedures.
Net charges in Brazil significant recoveries in 2005 resulted in an increase increased by 7 per cent compared with 54 per cent in in net loan impairment charges in 2006.
2005 and declined in the second half of 2006 Loan impairment charges in Hong Kong compared with the first half.
In Argentina, net remained low at US$172 million, underpinned by charges rose as a result of the non-recurrence of robust personal and commercial credit quality in a releases and recoveries in 2005. strong economy with low unemployment.
The aggregate outstanding customer loan In Rest of Asia-Pacific, loan impairment impairment allowances at 31 December 2006 of charges rose sharply to US$512 million.
Taiwan and US$13.6 billion represented 1.6 per cent of gross Indonesia experienced credit deterioration during customer advances net of reverse repos and 2006, although the problem peaked in the first half 155 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Operating expenses settlement accounts, compared with 1.5 per cent at compared with US$11.4 billion at 31 December the same time in 2005.
On a constant currency basis, impaired loans were 14 per cent higher than in 2005 compared with Impaired loans to customers were lending growth excluding loans to the financial US$13.8 billion at 31 December 2006 sector and settlement accounts of 10 per cent.
As explained in the Annual Report and Accounts 2005, in light of the impressive and sustained performance and shareholder returns over the three years covered by the 2003 awards, the Group Remuneration Committee exercised its discretion, as permitted within the Plan, to waive the TSR performance condition.
Under IFRSs, this is treated as a modification which requires an additional accounting charge: this is a non-cash item.
2 Comparative information for 2006 has been restated to bring numbers for Latin America into line with the criteria for the recognition of full-time equivalent staff used in 2007.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared headcount in the region.
A change in actuarial with year ended 31 December 2006 assumptions regarding the employees defined contribution pension scheme in the UK also Operating expenses increased by US$5.5 billion to contributed to the increase.
On an underlying basis, cost growth administrative expenses were driven by ex was 10 per cent, the main drivers being: gratia payments expensed in respect of overdraft Costs rose in Europe, mainly driven by staff fees applied in previous years and a provision costs in the UK and France and non-staff costs for reimbursement of certain charges on historic in the UK.
The increase in staff costs was driven will trusts and other related services, both in the by a mixture of higher staff benefits and higher UK.
156 Staff costs in Asia rose as additional staff support business expansion, mainly in Commercial numbers were deployed in support of business Banking and Global Banking and Markets.
Increased salaries reflected the Performance-related bonuses increased in response buoyant economic conditions in the region and to revenue growth.
Increased marketing and IT costs higher performance pay.
reflected business growth and the launch of new initiatives.
As commercial rents rose in Hong Kongs In North America, costs increased marginally.
dynamic economy, property rental costs increased, Origination activities were curtailed or closed the effect magnified by a sale and leaseback in certain segments of consumer finance.
agreement on a headquarters building in 2006.
The resultant restructuring costs totalled US$103 million.
In Global Banking and Operating costs increased by 28 per cent in Markets, there was lower performance pay Rest of Asia-Pacific in line with the increase in net partly offset by exit costs on the closure of the operating income before loan impairment charges.
Business expansion continued throughout the region.
Staff costs in India, mainland China and the In meeting its commitment to expand operations Middle East rose on increases in headcount and in fast growing economies, the Group incurred performance-related bonuses due to higher revenue investment expenditure across Asia and Latin generation.
Business expansion initiatives were America.
In the Rest of Asia-Pacific region, taken in mainland China where an additional 27 new costs increased, mainly in the Middle East, India branches or sub-branches were opened.
In India, and mainland China, as the branch network was branch network, consumer finance and credit card extended.
New initiatives were implemented to business were expanded.
Marketing, technology and expand the Groups consumer finance, HSBC infrastructure costs were incurred in support of Direct and cards businesses.
Similarly, in Latin business expansion.
America costs increased from the expansion of the distribution platform, supported by In North America, operating expenses incremental marketing expenditure which increased by 3 per cent, compared with growth in net delivered higher transactional volumes with operating income before loan impairment charges of related revenues and costs.
The retail bank branch network was extended both within and beyond the Groups In Europe, costs increased by 10 per cent, traditional spheres of operation to support the compared with an equivalent growth in net operating expansion of retail and Commercial Banking income before loan impairment charges.
Premises and equipment expenses rose change in actuarial assumptions regarding the staff as a consequence.
The business incurred defined benefit pension scheme led to increased US$70 million of one-off costs arising from the costs.
Ex gratia payments were expensed in respect indemnification agreement with Visa ahead of Visas of overdraft fees applied in previous years and a planned IPO.
Communication expenses increased provision for reimbursement of certain charges on due to higher mailing volumes on cards and historic will trusts and other related services was consumer lending.
In the third quarter, expenditure raised.
Costs also increased on investments in on card marketing declined in line with a decision to technology, investing in straight-through processing slow lending growth in these portfolios.
Costs rose in payments consumer finance business incurred restructuring and cash management on higher transaction charges resulting from the discontinuation of the volumes.
Operational costs rose in Global Markets, wholesale and correspondent channels in mortgage particularly structured derivatives, where the French services and the closing of branch offices in business invested to support revenue growth.
There were corresponding France, the IT systems inherited with the acquisition benefits in origination costs.
In Canada operating of HSBC France were successfully replaced with expenses rose due to the strategic growth of the bank HSBCs universal banking platform.
Staff numbers and marketing costs investment in physical and technical infrastructure increased as new branches were opened and new and additional headcount in support of business products were launched.
The Canadian consumer growth also contributed to increased costs.
finance business was also restructured in a similar In Hong Kong, operating expenses increased by fashion to the US.
16 per cent, compared with growth of 32 per cent in Continuing investment and business expansion net operating income before loan impairment in Latin America resulted in an increase in costs of charges.
Staff costs increased by 23 per cent on wage 15 per cent, compared with growth in net operating inflation and the recruitment of additional staff to income before loan impairment charges of 20 per 157 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Operating expenses Share of profit in associates and joint ventures cent.
Staff costs rose, mainly on higher salaries and online savings product in the US, strong growth bonuses in the region and one-off costs incurred to in credit card acquisition across the Group, and improve operational efficiencies in Brazil.
These an innovative new online mortgage product were partially offset by a curtailment and settlement offered in Mexico.
gain from staff transferring from the banks defined The following points are also of note.
benefit healthcare scheme to a new defined contribution scheme in Mexico.
Increases in nonIn Europe, the cost growth of 9 per cent was staff costs included higher marketing expenditure, concentrated in Personal Financial Services and costs relating to growth in credit card operations, Global Banking and Markets.
In Personal Financial higher telecommunication costs and transactional Services, business expansion across the region drove taxes.
Four additional months of Banca Nazionale the expenditure.
In the UK, costs rose as the branch also increased total costs.
network refurbishment programme proceeded, additional staff were recruited to support longer Year ended 31 December 2006 compared opening hours in certain branches and IT costs with year ended 31 December 2005 increased.
In France and Turkey, costs rose from the recruitment of additional sales staff and higher Operating expenses of US$33.6 billion were marketing expenditure.
Costs in Global Banking and US$4.0 billion, or 14 per cent, higher than in 2005, Markets increased, reflecting higher performanceand 11 per cent higher on an underlying basis.
related staff costs and the full year effect of the The commentary that follows is on an investment in 2005 in the business, especially in underlying basis.
structured derivatives and Global Transaction Banking, where significant revenue growth was The main drivers of cost growth were as seen.
These cost increases were partly offset by a follows: reduction in Commercial Banking expenses various business expansion initiatives were following the sale of vehicle finance fleet undertaken during the year.
The retail banking management activities in the UK.
operation in the US was enhanced in the form of In Hong Kong, the increase in operating new branches and improved geographical expenses of 14 per cent was mainly due to higher coverage of Commercial Banking.
In the UK, staff and marketing costs.
Additional staff recruited major work was undertaken to refurbish the to support longer opening hours in the branch branch network, improve and increase the network and the expansion of Commercial number of self-service machines and extend Banking, and an increase in revenue-driven opening hours in certain branches.
Across the performance-related awards drove staff costs higher.
Rest of the Asia-Pacific region, the branch Marketing expenditure incurred on advertising and network expanded, the rollout of the consumer promotional activities rose in support of credit card finance business continued, and Commercial and investment fund products in Personal Financial Bankings operations were further developed.
In Services and the launch of Commercial Bankings Latin America, improvements were made to global campaign.
The full year effect of the HSBCs operations in Mexico through the enhancement in the second half of 2005 of Global continued expansion of the branch and ATM Banking and Markets business contributed further network: to the cost growth.
the higher costs incurred in Global Banking and The 27 per cent rise in operating expenses in the Markets reflected the first full year effect of Rest of Asia-Pacific region was primarily incurred investments made in 2005, together with in supporting retail business expansion.
Staff costs volume-driven growth in transactional banking rose from increased recruitment to support new and securities services activities and business initiatives and incentive payments grew in performance-related pay, which rose as response to improved revenues.
The cost efficiency ratio of rose as advertising and promotional activity aimed at Global Banking and Markets improved by 40 enlarging HSBCs market share in cards, mortgages basis points as net operating income before loan and other unsecured lending grew, and Commercial impairment charges grew faster than costs: and Banking marketing activity across several countries HSBCs expenditure on marketing continued in increased.
In Global Banking and Markets, cost order to increase brand awareness, grow market growth reflected higher revenue-driven performanceshare in key products and support the launch of related costs and increased expenditure in Global new products.
Notable successes included the 158 Transaction Banking necessitated by business performance-linked pay contributed further to the volumes.
In Latin America, operating expenses rose by In North America, costs rose by 13 per cent in 12 per cent.
Staff costs grew as additional staff were 2006.
In the US, the increase accompanied the recruited to support business expansion and pay rises expansion of both the core banking network by were agreed with the unions.
Marketing expenditure 25 branches and the geographical presence of was higher as a consequence of advertising Commercial Banking, and arose from incremental campaigns run by Personal Financial Services and costs incurred in support of revenue growth in the Commercial Banking.
The continued expansion of consumer finance business.
Marketing expenditure the branch network and ATM infrastructure in also rose, in line with increased levels of activity in Mexico, in conjunction with construction of the new the cards businesses in the US, continued promotion headquarters, also contributed to the overall cost of the online savings product and airport branding growth in the region.
Costs rose in Global Banking initiatives.
Cost growth in Canada followed higher and Markets in line with higher transactional revenues.
The first full year effect of the expansion volumes, increased headcount and union-agreed of various Global Banking and Markets businesses pay rises.
The compared with 2005, and 7 per cent on an commentary that follows is on an underlying basis.
The commentary that follows is on an underlying basis.
In Europe, increased profit resulted from a US$73 million adjustment to the embedded value of Improved contributions from The Saudi British HSBC Assurances, an associate in France, prior to Bank, Bank of Communications and Industrial Bank the acquisition of its remaining share capital, were supplemented by a first full year contribution following which it was accounted for as a subsidiary.
These strategic investments are of increasing significance to HSBCs operations Profit from associates and joint ventures in the in the Rest of Asia-Pacific region.
The profits were Rest of Asia-Pacific region increased by 51 per partly offset by a loss arising from an impairment cent, mainly due to increased contributions from charge on a private equity investment of an associate HSBCs strategic investments in mainland China.
Profit from Bank of Communications, Ping An Insurance and Industrial Bank improved In August 2005, HSBC made an additional significantly, driven largely by a thriving local investment to increase its stake in Ping An economy.
The associate reported record results for 2006, with steady HSBCs share of profit from Ping An Insurance growth in the core insurance business rose by 101 per cent to US$518 million as complemented by strong investment a result of robust growth, notably from life performance following buoyant stock markets.
insurance products and the realisation of synergistic gains across Ping An Insurances During 2006, Ping An Insurance groups other business offerings.
nationwide back-office operation in Shanghai became fully functional and the centralisation of Profit from the Bank of Communications rose the life insurance underwriting and claims by 64 per cent to US$445 million as a result of business was completed.
improved performance across the associates various product offerings.
Increased income HSBCs share of income from Bank of from credit and treasury products and significant Communications rose by 44 per cent, driven by growth in fee income contributed to the increase wider spreads and an improved product mix, in profits.
with increased corporate and consumer lending.
Fee income also rose as significant progress was HSBCs share of profits from The Saudi made in expanding its investment banking British Bank decreased by 22 per cent to operations.
This was largely driven by the effects of a significant correction to the local In 2006, effective risk management and cost stock market in the second half of 2006. control drove operating efficiency with an improvement in the cost efficiency ratio, despite a period of business expansion.
160 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Performance continued During the second half of 2006, HSBC and The company and The Saudi British Bank, in which Saudi British Bank jointly established HSBC HSBC has a 40 per cent shareholding, holds the Saudi Arabia Limited, the first full-service remaining 40 per cent.
independent investment bank in Saudi Arabia The share of profits from The Saudi British licensed under the local new Capital Market Bank grew by 21 per cent reflecting a strong law.
HSBC, through a wholly owned subsidiary, performance in all core businesses.
US$2,354 billion, an increase of US$494 billion or 27 per cent since 31 December 2006.
Over 75 per Trading assets, financial investments and cent of the increase came from Global Banking and derivatives Markets, with the largest contributions from trading assets and derivatives following the strategic decision Trading assets principally consist of debt and equity to expand the collateralised lending, equities and instruments acquired for the purpose of market structured derivatives businesses in Europe.
making or to benefit from short-term price movements.
Securities classified as held for trading Acquisitions added US$23 billion to total assets.
are carried in the balance sheet at fair value, with On an underlying basis, total assets grew by 21 per movements in fair value recognised in the income cent.
The commentary that follows is on an underlying Trading assets of US$446 billion at basis.
31 December 2007 were 32 per cent higher than at At 31 December 2007, HSBCs balance sheet 31 December 2006.
This increase was mainly due to was highly liquid.
The proportion of assets deployed the growth of the collateralised lending business in in loans and advances to customers declined to Europe.
Holdings in debt securities rose as a result of 42 per cent, while trading assets increased by higher trading activity, growth in the structured notes 32 per cent to US$446 billion, representing business and increased holdings of shorter maturity 19 per cent of total assets.
The increase in trading assets in the UK.
The increase in equity securities assets is discussed below.
resulted from an expansion in the equity swaps business in London, particularly with Asian products, Customer advances rose by 9 per cent, due to and the growth in trading activity and structured strong growth in corporate and commercial lending.
The largest contribution came from Europe with strong growth in the UK and France.
Financial investments include debt and equity instruments that are classified as available for sale or, 161 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued FUM Assets held under custody Economic profit Other financial information to a small extent, held to maturity.
The available for Year ended 31 December 2007 2006 sale investments essentially represent a core element US$bn US$bn of the Groups liquidity and may be disposed of Funds under management by either to manage that liquidity or in response to business investment opportunities arising from favourable HSBC Global Asset movements in economic indicators, such as interest Management 380 328 Private Banking 275 232 rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices.
On disposal the accumulated unrealised gain or loss is recognised through the Funds under management at 31 December 2007 were income statement and reported as Gains less losses US$844 billion, an increase of US$149 billion, or from financial investments.
21 per cent, compared with 31 December 2006.
Both Financial investments were 29 per cent higher HSBC Global Asset Management and Private than reported at 31 December 2006, excluding the Banking delivered good investment performance and effect of acquisitions, chiefly HSBC Assurances.
continued to attract new funds with net new money This was mainly due to the decision to consolidate of US$36 billion.
Cullinan Finance Ltd Cullinan and Asscher HSBC Global Asset Management funds reached Finance Ltd Asscher, two structured investment US$380 billion, a rise of 16 per cent compared with vehicles managed by HSBC.
This was attributable to US$12 billion of net of HSBCs operations in emerging markets also led new money, strong investment performance and to increased holdings of debt securities as surplus favourable foreign exchange movements.
Emerging funds were invested and more assets were needed to markets contributed significantly to overall growth, meet regulatory requirements.
Net unrealised gains in with funds reaching US$93 billion, placing HSBC the valuation of equities amounted to US$4.2 billion.
Global Asset Management as one of the worlds Derivatives are financial instruments that derive largest emerging market asset managers.
their value from the price of an underlying item.
Private Bankings funds increased by 19 per cent HSBC transacts derivatives for three primary to US$275 billion, driven by client acquisition, partly purposes: to create risk management solutions for due to greater brand awareness and an enhanced clients, for proprietary trading purposes, and to product range, strong investment performance and manage and hedge HSBCs own risks.
Derivative assets rose by 73 per cent, due to Client assets, which provide an indicator of increases in interest rate swap balances, primarily overall Private Banking volumes and include funds in the UK and France.
Credit derivative assets under management, grew by 26 per cent, reaching increased, particularly in the US in the first half of US$421 billion.
the year, followed by a significant slowdown in client trading in the second half of the year due to Other funds under management, of which the the deterioration in credit markets.
Foreign exchange main element is a corporate trust business in Asia, derivative balances increased, driven by heightened increased by 40 per cent to US$186 billion, driven volatility in major currencies, particularly the by increases in the property trust business.
Assets held in custody and under Funds under management administration 2007 2006 At 31 December 2007, assets held by HSBC as US$bn US$bn custodian amounted to US$6,094 billion, 33 per Funds under management cent higher than the US$4,572 billion held at At 1 January 695 561 31 December 2006.
Exchange and other................... 60 33 Complementing this was HSBCs assets under At 31 December 844 695 administration business.
At 31 December 2007, the value of assets held under administration by the Group amounted to US$1,422 billion, 24 per cent higher than the US$1,150 billion held at 162 31 December 2006.
At constant exchange rates, HSBC believes that its true cost of capital on a growth was 19 per cent.
consolidated basis remains 10 per cent.
HSBC plans to continue using this rate until the end of the current Economic profit five-year strategic plan in 2008 in order to ensure consistency and comparability.
HSBCs internal performance measures include economic profit, a calculation which compares the Economic profit increased by US$1.4 billion, or return on financial capital invested in HSBC by its 27 per cent compared with 2006.
This increase shareholders with the cost of that capital.
HSBC compares favourably with the decrease recorded in prices its cost of capital internally and the difference 2006.
Growth in Asia was partially offset by loan between that cost and profit attributable to ordinary impairment charges mainly in the US business.
This shareholders of the parent company, represents the led to a geographical realignment of profitability amount of economic profit generated.
Economic which had a positive effect on economic profit as, profit is used by management as a means of deciding generally, Asia has a lower tax rate than the US.
where to allocate resources so that they will be most Economic profit was also affected by significant fair productive.
value movements on HSBCs own debt as a result of widening credit spreads and related derivatives.
This In order to concentrate on external factors rather resulted in a higher return on average invested capital than measurement bases, HSBC emphasises the trend and in consequence economic spread, which in economic profit within business units rather than increased by 0.4 percentage points compared absolute amounts.
2 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after: adding back the average balance of goodwill impaired or amortised pre transition to IFRS or subsequent written-off, directly to reserves: deducting the average balance of HSBCs revaluation surplus relating to property held for own use.
This reserve was generated when determining the deemed carrying cost of such properties on transition to IFRS and will run down over time as the properties are sold: deducting average preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings, and: deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective cash flow hedges and available-for-sale securities.
3 Return on invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company.
163 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Other financial information Average balance sheet Balances and transactions with fellow Other financial information subsidiaries are reported gross in the principal Average balance sheet and net interest commercial banking and consumer finance entities income within Other interest-earning assets and Other interest-bearing liabilities as appropriate and the Average balances and related interest are shown for elimination entries are included within Other the domestic operations of HSBCs principal operations in those two categories.
commercial banks by geographic region.
Other operations comprise the operations of the principal Net interest margin numbers are calculated commercial banking and consumer finance entities by dividing net interest income as reported in the outside their domestic markets and all other banking income statement by the average interest-earning operations, including investment banking balances assets from which interest income is reported and transactions.
within the Net interest income line of the income statement.
Interest income and interest expense Average balances are based on daily averages arising from trading assets and liabilities and the for the principal areas of HSBCs banking activities funding thereof is included within Net trading with monthly or less frequent averages used income in the income statement.
170 Analysis of changes in net interest income The following table allocates changes in net interest income between volume and rate for 2007 compared with 2006, and for 2006 compared with 2005.
1 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
2 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
3 Brazilian operations comprise HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo and subsidiaries, plus HSBC Servios e Participaes Limitada.
4 This table analyses interest-bearing bank deposits only.
See page 180 for an analysis of all bank deposits.
5 This table analyses interest-bearing customer accounts only.
See page 181 for an analysis of all customer accounts.
6 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial liabilities designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement other than interest on own debt.
173 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Share capital and reserves Share capital and reserves on behalf of such holder in contravention of such requirement or restriction will not be counted.
Authorised share capital Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the The authorised share capital of HSBC Holdings at Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, HSBC 31 December 2007 was US$7,500,100,000 divided Holdings may, by ordinary resolution, declare into 15,000 million ordinary shares of US$0.50 each dividends to be paid to the holders of ordinary and 10 million non-cumulative preference shares of shares, however, no dividend shall exceed the US$0.01 each: 401,500 divided into 10 million amount recommended by the Board.
The Board may non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each and pay interim dividends as appears to the Board to be 301,500 non-voting deferred shares of 1 each: and justified by the profits of HSBC Holdings available 100,000 divided into 10 million non-cumulative for distribution.
All dividends shall be apportioned preference shares of 0.01 each.
and paid proportionately to the percentage of the The percentage of the total authorised share nominal amount paid up on the shares during any capital of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2007 portion or portions of the period in respect of which represented by the numbers of ordinary shares of the dividend is paid, but if any share is issued on US$0.50 each, non-cumulative preference shares terms providing that it shall rank for dividend as of 0.01 each, non-cumulative preference shares of from a particular date, it shall rank for dividend US$0.01 each, non-cumulative preference shares accordingly.
Subject to the Articles of Association of of 0.01 each and non-voting deferred shares of HSBC Holdings, the Board may, with the prior 1 each was approximately 99.9860, 0.0027, authority of an ordinary resolution of HSBC 0.0013, 0.0020 and 0.0081 per cent respectively.
Holdings and subject to such terms and conditions as the Board may determine, offer to any holders of Issued share capital ordinary shares the right to elect to receive ordinary shares of the same or a different currency, credited The issued share capital of HSBC Holdings at as fully paid, instead of cash in any currency in 31 December 2007 was US$5,915 million divided respect of the whole or some part, to be determined into 11,829,052,317 ordinary shares of US$0.50 by the Board of any dividend specified by the each: 1,450,000 non-cumulative preference shares of ordinary resolution.
At the 2007 Annual General US$0.01 each: and 301,500 non-voting deferred Meeting shareholders gave authority to the Directors shares of 1 each.
to offer a scrip dividend alternative until the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the The rights and obligations attaching to each class of Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, if HSBC share in the authorised share capital of HSBC Holdings is wound up, the assets available for Holdings are set out in the Articles of Association of distribution among the holders of ordinary shares HSBC Holdings.
Set out below is a summary of the will be distributed among such holders in proportion rights and obligations attaching to each class of to the number of ordinary shares held by them shares with respect to voting, dividends, capital and, respectively, such distribution to be adjusted to take in the case of the preference shares, redemption.
account of any amount remaining unpaid on a holders share.
On a winding up, the liquidator may, Ordinary shares with the sanction of a special resolution of HSBC Subject to the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles Holdings and any other sanction required by law, of Association of HSBC Holdings, in a general divide among the shareholders in specie the whole or meeting of HSBC Holdings, every holder of ordinary any part of the assets of HSBC Holdings and may, shares who is present in person or by proxy shall on for that purpose, value any assets and determine how a show of hands have one vote and every holder of the division shall be carried out as between the ordinary shares present in person or by proxy shall shareholders or different classes of shareholders.
on a poll have one vote for every share he or she holds.
Where any shareholder is, under the rules Preference shares governing the listing of securities on any stock The non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each, exchange on which all or any shares of HSBC the non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 Holdings are for the time being listed or traded, each the Dollar Preference Shares and the nonrequired to abstain from voting on any particular cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each carry the resolution or restricted to voting only for or only same rights and obligations under the Articles of against any particular resolution, any votes cast by or Association save in respect of the timing of and 174 payment of proceeds from the redemption of each class of its shares ranking lower in the right to class of share, to the extent issued, and certain rights dividends than the preference shares nor redeem nor and obligations that attach to each class of purchase in any manner any of its other shares preference share as determined by the Board prior to ranking equal with or lower than the preference allotment of the relevant preference shares.
The shares unless it has paid in full, or set aside an Dollar Preference Shares are the only class of the amount to provide for payment in full, the dividends preference shares which have been issued and on the preference shares for the then-current allotted to date.
Holders of the preference shares will only be The preference shares carry no rights to entitled to attend and vote at general meetings of participate in the profits or assets of HSBC Holdings HSBC Holdings if any dividend payable on the other than as set out in the Articles of Association, relevant preference shares in respect of such period subject to the Companies Act 1985, do not confer as the Board shall determine prior to allotment any right to participate in any offer or invitation by thereof which, in the case of the Dollar Preference way of rights or otherwise to subscribe for additional Shares in issue at 3 March 2008, is four consecutive shares in HSBC Holdings, do no not confer any right dividend payment dates is not paid in full or in such of conversion and do not confer any right to other circumstances, and upon and subject to such participate in any issue or bonus shares or shares terms, as the Board may determine prior to allotment issued by way of capitalisation of reserves.
of the relevant preference shares.
Whenever holders Subject to the relevant insolvency laws and the of the relevant preference shares are entitled to vote Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings, holders on a resolution at a general meeting, on a show of of the relevant preference shares have the right in a hands every such holder who is present in person or winding up of HSBC Holdings to receive out of the by proxy shall have one vote and on a poll every assets of HSBC Holdings available for distribution such holder who is present in person or by proxy to its shareholders, in priority to any payment to the shall have one vote per preference share held by him holders of the ordinary shares and any other class of or her or such number of votes per share as the shares of HSBC Holdings in issue other than i the Board shall determine prior to allotment of such other relevant preference shares and any other shares share.
expressed to rank pari passu therewith as regards Subject to the Articles of Association, holders of repayment of capital: and ii any shares which by the relevant preference shares shall have the right to their terms rank in priority to the relevant preference a non-cumulative preferential dividend at such rate, shares as regards repayment of capital, a sum equal on such dates and on such other terms and conditions to any unpaid dividend on the relevant preference as may be determined by the Board prior to shares which is payable as a dividend in accordance allotment thereof in priority to the payment of any with or pursuant to the Articles of Association and dividend to the holders of ordinary shares and any the amount paid up or credited as paid up on the other class of shares of HSBC Holdings in issue relevant preference shares together with such other than i the other preference shares in issue premium if any as may be determined by the and any other shares expressed to rank pari passu Board prior to allotment thereof.
therewith as regards income: and ii any shares HSBC Holdings may redeem the relevant which by their terms rank in priority to the relevant preference shares in accordance with the Articles of preference shares as regards income.
Dividends on Association and the terms on which the relevant the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at 3 March preference shares were issued and allotted.
In the 2008 are paid quarterly at the sole and absolute case of the Dollar Preference Shares in issue at discretion of the Board of Directors.
The Board of 3 March 2008, HSBC Holdings may redeem such Directors will not declare a dividend on the Dollar shares in whole at any time on or after 16 December Preference Shares if payment of the dividend would 2010, with the consent of the FSA.
cause HSBC Holdings not to meet the applicable capital adequacy requirements of the FSA or the Non-voting deferred shares profit of HSBC Holdings available for distribution as dividends is not sufficient to enable HSBC Holdings The non-voting deferred shares are held by a to pay in full both dividends on the relevant subsidiary undertaking of HSBC Holdings.
Holders preference shares and dividends on any other shares of the non-voting deferred shares are not entitled to that are scheduled to be paid on the same date and receive dividends on these shares.
In addition, on that have an equal right to dividends.
HSBC winding up or other return of capital, holders are Holdings may not declare or pay dividends on any entitled to receive the amount paid up on their shares 175 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Share capital and reserves Short-term borrowings after distribution to ordinary shareholders of new shares was US$18.7596, being the 10,000,000 in respect of each ordinary share held US dollar equivalent of 9.65. by them.
The holders of the non-voting deferred 2.
121,070,708 ordinary shares were issued at par shares are not entitled to receive notice of or to in May 2007 to shareholders who elected to attend either personally or by proxy any general receive new shares in lieu of the fourth interim meeting of HSBC Holdings or to vote either dividend for 2006.
The market value per share personally or by proxy on any resolution to be used to calculate shareholders entitlements to proposed thereat.
new shares was US$17.4801, being the US To be registered, a transfer of shares must be dollar equivalent of 8.898. in relation to a share which is fully paid up and on 3.
38,617,708 ordinary shares were issued at par in which the Company has no lien and to one class July 2007 to shareholders who elected to receive of shares denominated in the same currency.
The new shares in lieu of the first interim dividend transfer must be in favour of a single transferee or for 2007.
The market value per share used to no more than four joint transferees and it must be calculate shareholders entitlements to new duly stamped if required.
The transfer must be shares was US$18.4375, being the US dollar delivered to the registered office of the Company equivalent of 9.352. or to its Registrars accompanied by the certificate to which it relates or such other evidence that proves 4.
51,950,381 ordinary shares were issued at par in the title of the transferor.
October 2007 to shareholders who elected to receive new shares in lieu of the second interim If a shareholder or any person appearing to be dividend for 2007.
The market value per share interested in the Companys shares has been sent a used to calculate shareholders entitlements to notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 new shares was US$17.5483, being the which confers upon public companies the power to US dollar equivalent of 8.874. require information from any person whom the Company knows or has reasonable cause to believe All-Employee share plans to be interested in the shares and has failed in relation to any shares the default shares to supply 5.
In connection with the exercise of options under the information requested within the period set out in the HSBC Holdings savings-related share option the notice, then the member is not entitled to be plans: 16,135,919 ordinary shares were issued at present at or to vote the default shares at any general prices ranging from 5.3496 to 7.6736: meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by 1,180,575 ordinary shares were issued at prices being a shareholder.
If the default shares represent at ranging from HK$103.4401 to HK$108.4483: least 0.25 per cent in nominal value of the issued 595,868 ordinary shares were issued at prices shares of that class any dividend shall be withheld by ranging from US$13.329 to US$14.1621: and the Company, without interest and no election for 38,928 ordinary shares were issued at 11.0062. the scrip dividend alternative may be made.
No Options over 10,251,717 ordinary shares lapsed.
transfer of any shares held by the member will be 6.
2,682,894 ordinary shares were issued at registered, except in limited circumstances.
10.9675 per share and 257,193 ordinary shares The percentage of the total issued share capital were issued at 12.3385 per share in connection of HSBC Holdings at 31 December 2007 represented with a Plan dEpargne Entreprise for the benefit by the ordinary shares of US$0.50 each, nonof non-UK resident employees of HSBC France cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and its subsidiaries.
and non-voting deferred shares of 1 each was 7.
Options over 30,105,239 ordinary shares were approximately 99.9895, 0.0002, and 0.0102 per granted at nil consideration on 25 April 2007 to cent respectively.
nearly 72,000 HSBC employees resident in The following events occurred during the year nearly 70 countries and territories under the in relation to the share capital of HSBC Holdings: HSBC Holdings savings-related share option plans.
Scrip dividends Discretionary share incentive plans 1.
11,899,858 ordinary shares were issued at par in January 2007 to shareholders who elected to 8.
3,377,896 ordinary shares were issued at prices receive new shares in lieu of the third interim ranging from 5.016 to 7.46 per share in dividend for 2006.
The market value per share connection with the exercise of options under used to calculate shareholders entitlements to the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option 176 Scheme.
Options over 420,667 ordinary shares Authority to allot shares lapsed.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2007 9.
8,351,649 ordinary shares were issued at prices shareholders renewed the general authority for ranging from 6.91 to 8.712 per share in the Directors to allot new shares.
The general connection with the exercise of options under authority is to allot up to 2,317,320,000 ordinary the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan.
shares, 10,000,000 non-cumulative preference Options over 8,221,968 ordinary shares lapsed.
shares of 0.01 each, 8,550,000 non-cumulative preference shares of US$0.01 each and HSBC Finance 10,000,000 non-cumulative preference shares of 0.01 each.
685,005 ordinary shares were issued at prices have authority to allot up to a maximum of ranging from US$16.66 to US$19.19 per share 579,330,000 ordinary shares wholly for cash in connection with the vesting of Restricted to persons other than existing shareholders.
Stock Rights under HSBC Finance share plans that have been converted into rights over HSBC Other than as described in paragraphs 1 to 6 and Holdings ordinary shares.
8 to 10 above, the Directors did not allot any shares during 2007.
Authority to repurchase ordinary shares Short-term borrowings 11.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2007, shareholders renewed the authority for the HSBC includes short-term borrowings within Company to make market repurchases of customer accounts, deposits by banks and debt ordinary shares.
The authority is to make market securities in issue and does not show short-term repurchases of up to 1,158,660,000 ordinary borrowings separately on the balance sheet.
The Directors have not exercised this term borrowings are defined by the US Securities authority.
In accordance with the terms of a and Exchange Commission SEC as Federal funds waiver granted by the Hong Kong Stock purchased and securities sold under agreements to Exchange on 19 December 2005, HSBC repurchase, commercial paper and other short-term Holdings will comply with the applicable law borrowings.
HSBCs only significant short-term and regulation in the UK in relation to the borrowings are securities sold under agreements to holding of any shares in treasury and with the repurchase and certain debt securities in issue.
conditions of the waiver, in connection with any Additional information on these is provided in the shares it may hold in treasury.
Fixed charges consist of total interest expense, including or excluding interest on deposits, as appropriate, preference share dividends, as applicable, and the proportion of rental expense deemed representative of the interest factor.
The above table contains ratios based on UK GAAP, HSBCs previous primary GAAP, which is not comparable to financial information based upon IFRSs, as explained in HSBCs 2004 IFRSs Comparative Financial Information published on 5 July 2004.
The geographical analysis of average deposits The following tables analyse the average amount of is based on the location of the office in which the bank deposits, customer deposits and certificates of deposits are recorded and excludes balances with deposit CDs and other money market instruments HSBC companies.
The Other category includes which are included within Debt securities in issue securities sold under agreements to repurchase.
The majority of certificates of deposit and time deposits are in amounts of US$100,000 and over or the equivalent in other currencies.
182 HSBC retains the majority of the residual or Off-balance sheet arrangements and ownership risks related to the SPE or its assets special purpose entities in order to obtain benefits from its activities.
Audited In a number of cases, these SPEs are accounted This section contains disclosures about off-balance for off-balance sheet under IFRSs where HSBC does sheet arrangements and special purpose entities not have the majority of the risks and rewards of SPEs that have been included in HSBCs ownership of the SPE.
However in certain consolidated balance sheet.
circumstances, after careful consideration of the facts, HSBC consolidates an SPE where, although it Special purpose entities including on and does not obtain the majority of risks and rewards of off-balance sheet arrangements ownership, the qualitative features of HSBCs HSBC enters into certain transactions with involvement indicate that, in substance, the activities customers in the ordinary course of business which of the SPE are being conducted on behalf of HSBC.
involve the establishment of SPEs to facilitate HSBC reassesses the required consolidation customer transactions.
accounting tests whenever there is a change in the HSBC structures that utilise SPEs are authorised substance of a relationship between HSBC and an centrally upon establishment to ensure appropriate SPE, for example, when there is a change in HSBCs purpose and governance.
The activities of SPEs involvement or there is a change in the governing administered by HSBC are closely monitored by rules, contractual arrangements or capital structure senior management.
The use of SPEs is not a of the SPE.
The most significant categories of SPEs significant part of HSBCs activities and HSBC is are discussed in more detail below.
not reliant on the use of SPEs for any material part of its business operations or profitability.
HSBCs Structured investment vehicles involvements with SPE transactions are described Structured investment vehicles SIVs are SPEs below.
which are established to invest in diversified portfolios of interest-earning assets, generally HSBC-sponsored vehicles comprising asset-backed debt securities and other HSBC sponsors the formation of entities to debt securities issued by financial institutions or accomplish certain narrow and well-defined corporates.
SIVs are typically funded through the objectives, such as securitisations of financial assets issue of CP, medium-term notes or other senior debt or to effect a lease.
HSBC consolidates these SPEs collectively referred to as senior debt, repo when the substance of the relationship indicates that financing, and subordinated income or mezzanine HSBC controls the SPE.
In assessing control, all notes commonly referred to as capital notes.
relevant factors need to be considered.
Such factors The sponsor of the SIV would typically provide only may have qualitative and quantitative aspects.
For limited liquidity support to the senior debt investors example: through committed liquidity facilities.
In substance: SIVs are structured to provide investors with the opportunity to invest in a range of assets depending the activities of the SPE are being conducted on on their risk preference.
Senior debt issued by SIVs behalf of HSBC according to HSBCs specific is structured to be highly rated and the SIVs are business needs so that it obtains benefit from the managed within strict operating criteria.
This might be evidenced, for SIVs is primarily managed by rolling over debt at example, by HSBC providing a significant level maturity or, if that is not possible, by the sale of of support to the SPE: and assets to provide protection to senior debt holders.
HSBC has the decision-making powers to obtain SIVs are typically subject to market value and net the majority of the benefits of the activities of asset value triggers which underpin the external the SPE.
credit ratings of the senior debt.
The liquidity risk in SIVs is managed by controlling the maximum Quantitative factors hereinafter referred to as cumulative cash outflow occurring in defined time the majority of risks and rewards of ownership.
substance: HSBC sponsored the establishment of two SIVs, HSBC has rights to obtain the majority of the Cullinan and Asscher in August 2005 and May 2007, benefits of the SPE and therefore may be respectively, which were successful in obtaining exposed to risks incidental to the activities funding from investors, who subscribed for senior of the SPE: and 183 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Off balance sheet arrangements and SPEs debt and capital notes.
These SIVs were not US$25 million and cash of US$659 million.
In consolidated on inception because HSBC did not addition, in January 2008, HSBC purchased Cullinan have the majority of risks and rewards of ownership capital notes from existing holders with a par value and it was not anticipated that HSBC would provide of US$171 million fair value US$39 million, and significant funding to these SIVs.
HSBC is the then exchanged such Cullinan capital notes, together manager for both SIVs, and was committed from with cash of US$2,302 million, for Cullinan assets inception to provide limited support by way of with a par value of US$2,473 million and a market contractually committed liquidity lines on normal value of US$2,341 million.
In November 2007, HSBC announced its The maximum size of each SIV during 2007, as intention to provide investors in Cullinan and measured by the par value of the SIVs total assets, Asscher with the option to exchange their capital together with the maximum exposure HSBC had notes for notes issued by one or more new SPEs, under its committed liquidity facilities, was as with term funding and liquidity to be provided by follows: HSBC.
HSBC Based on a careful evaluation of all the facts Maximum committed and circumstances, HSBC concluded that this size of liquidity announcement had substantively changed the SIV facility relationship HSBC had with these SIVs such that US$bn US$bn HSBC was required to consolidate these SIVs from Cullinan 42.2 0.50 November 2007.
Asscher 8.7 0.25 After the announcement in November 2007, 50.9 0.75 two new SPEs, an asset-backed commercial paper conduit and a term funding vehicle, were established From mid-August 2007, liquidity in the in respect of Cullinan.
Each SPE has been set up so wholesale markets became severely disrupted, that its continuing operation is not as sensitive as principally as a result of valuation concerns over Cullinan to market value fluctuations in its securities linked to US sub-prime mortgage loans, underlying assets.
These SPEs will be funded either resulting in funding difficulties for many SPEs, by CP backed by a 100 per cent liquidity facility including SIVs.
At the outset, bank-sponsored SIVs provided by HSBC, or by term funding provided by were less affected and, initially, Cullinan and HSBC.
This reorganisation addresses the two main Asscher continued to fund themselves in the CP challenges for the SIV sector which could force market.
asset sales: the inability to fund in the CP markets, By the end of the third quarter of 2007, it and the sensitivity of the continuing operation of became clear that the disruption in the supply of CP SIVs to changes in the market value of their funding for the SIV market was not a temporary underlying assets.
situation and, as a consequence, by the end of The new SPEs have agreed to purchase September 2007, HSBC provided US$16.7 billion Cullinans assets, over a time period that is of funding to Cullinan and Asscher in the form anticipated to coincide with the maturity of of repos, CP purchases and the acquisition of Cullinans senior debt.
The purchase price was US$4.1 billion of assets at fair value from Cullinan.
based on the fair value of Cullinans assets as During the same period, the market value of at 21 January 2008. certain assets held by Cullinan and Asscher fell In January 2008, investors in the capital because the market liquidity position had weakened notes issued by Cullinan were given the option to and credit spreads had widened.
exchange their existing capital notes for the capital From October 2007, all the capital note holders notes in the new SPEs.
of Cullinan were given the option to switch their On 13 February 2008, the par value of the capital note holdings for a share of the assets of the capital notes outstanding in Cullinan amounted to SIV.
As part of this offer, HSBC switched its entire US$1.9 billion.
On this date, all the holders of the holding in Cullinan capital notes for Cullinan assets.
remaining capital notes in Cullinan elected to The par value and market value of the assets exchange their existing holding for capital notes in purchased amounted to US$709 million and the new SPEs.
The holders of such capital notes will US$684 million respectively.
The consideration paid bear the risks of any losses arising in the new SPEs comprised HSBCs capital note holding with an aggregate par value of US$50 million fair value 184 up to the par value of their holding in the capital These assets included US$2 billion 2006: notes.
US$2.7 billion of exposure to US sub-prime mortgages, all of which are rated AAA.
The holders of the capital notes in Asscher continue to bear the risk of any first losses in the Cullinan Total assets by balance sheet assets held by the SIV.
It is proposed to reorganise classification Asscher following the completion of the Cullinan 2007 exchange.
This included capital notes of 33.3 US$38.1 million, holdings of CP of US$4.7 billion and repos of US$8.5 billion previously recognised Cullinan Weighted-average maturity of assets on HSBCs balance sheet.
Asset class Structured finance Residential mortgage-backed securities............... 3.0 Money market funds Commercial mortgage-backed securities............. 1.3 Collateralised debt obligations 1.1 HSBC has established and manages a number of Student loan securities............. 0.4 money market funds which provide customers with Home equity lines of credit securities.................. 0.3 tailored investment opportunities.
These SPEs have Credit loan securities 0.1 narrow and well-defined objectives and typically Other asset-backed securities 0.1 HSBC does not have any holdings in the SPEs of Total structured finance assets 6.3 sufficient size to represent the majority of the risks Finance and rewards of ownership.
Commercial bank debt securities and deposits.... 1.0 Investment bank debt securities 0.1 In aggregate, HSBC had established money Finance company debt securities market funds which had total assets of Total bank and finance company assets............... 1.1 US$109 billion at 31 December 2007 2006: US$93 billion.
Total assets 7.4 These are the main sub-categories of money These assets included US$42 million of market funds: exposure to US sub-prime mortgages, all of which US$57 billion 2006: US$41 billion in are rated AAA.
Constant Net Asset Value CNAV funds, which invest in shorter-dated and highly-rated Asscher Total assets by balance sheet money market securities with the objective of classification providing investors with a highly liquid and 2007 secure investment: US$bn US$12 billion 2006: US$15 billion in French Derivative assets 0.1 domiciled dynamique dynamic funds and Loans and advances to banks 0.7 Financial investments............ 6.6 Irish enhanced funds, together Enhanced Variable Net Asset Value Enhanced VNAV 7.4 funds, which invest in longer-dated money market securities to provide investors with a Asscher Weighted-average maturity of assets higher return than traditional money market 2007 funds: and US$bn US$40 billion 2006: US$37 billion in various 0-6 months......... 0.8 other money market funds, Variable Net Asset 6-12 months....... 0.6 Greater than 12 months......... 6.0 Value VNAV funds including funds domiciled in Brazil, France, India, Mexico and Total assets........ 7.4 other countries.
The weighted average life of the portfolio at These money market funds invest in a diverse 31 December 2007 was 3.7 years.
portfolio of highly-rated debt instruments, including limited holdings in instruments issued by SIVs.
At Asscher Funding structure 31 December 2007, these funds exposure to SIVs was US$3.9 billion 2006: US$6.8 billion.
2007 Provided Total by HSBC CNAV funds US$bn US$bn CNAV funds price their assets on an amortised cost Mezzanine notes 0.3 basis, subject to the amortised book value of the Commercial paper 2.0 0.1 portfolio being within 50 basis points of its market Medium-term notes 3.5 1.5 Term repos executed 1.6 1.1 value.
This enables CNAV funds to create and liquidate shares in the fund at a constant price.
If the 7.4 2.7 amortised value of the portfolio were to vary by more than 50 basis points from its market value, the 186 CNAV fund would be required to price its assets at investors accept greater credit and duration risk in market value, and consequently would no longer be the expectation of higher returns.
able to create or liquidate shares at a constant price.
Money market activities are highly developed This is commonly known as breaking the buck.
in France due to the historical restriction on the HSBCs CNAV funds hold senior notes issued payment of interest on current accounts, and the by a number of SIVs and, due to current market search for enhanced yields has resulted in liquidity conditions and consequential actions of the sophisticated money market funds which are rating agencies, the market value of this SIV paper essentially used as an alternative to cash.
This has caused the CNAV funds to since July 2007, French dynamic money market record unrealised losses on their SIV investments.
funds have experienced unprecedented redemption While the majority of these SIVs are bankrequests caused by the markets lack of confidence sponsored, and are not judged to be impaired, there in funds containing exposure primarily to US are holdings in three independent SIVs which have sub-prime assets.
In August 2007, the decision by experienced greater difficulties: two of these, in two French institutions to suspend withdrawals from which HSBCs CNAV funds have invested certain asset-backed securities funds caused a US$0.3 billion, were placed in enforcement in general acceleration of redemption requests on early 2008: the process by which the winding down dynamic money market funds.
of the independent SIVs and repaying secured In the third quarter of 2007, HSBC acquired creditors begins.
underlying assets and shares in two of its dynamic The deterioration in the market value of money market funds of 1.2 billion US$1.8 billion holdings of SIV paper raised the possibility that and 0.6 billion US$0.9 billion respectively to fund certain CNAV funds would be forced to realise asset redemptions.
No additional shares were liquid assets to meet potential redemptions.
To help acquired in the fourth quarter.
HSBCs aggregate address this potential impact, on 24 December 2007, holding in these funds at 31 December 2007 was HSBC provided two letters of limited indemnity, 0.9 billion US$1.3 billion.
The total AUM capped at US$33 million and 4 million of these two funds at 31 December 2007 was US$8 million respectively, in relation to certain 2.1 billion US$3.1 billion.
These funds were not holdings of SIV assets of two of its CNAV funds consolidated by HSBC at 31 December 2007 with total assets under management AUM at because the acquisition of additional shares in these 31 December 2007 of US$27.1 billion.
These limited funds did not expose HSBC to the majority of risks indemnities did not result in HSBC consolidating and rewards of ownership.
However, post year end, these funds because HSBC was not exposed to the one of the funds has been consolidated by HSBC as majority of the risks and rewards of ownership and a result of continued redemptions by unit holders the investors of the funds continue to bear the first which caused HSBCs percentage holding in the loss.
Separately, in December 2007, HSBC acquired funds to increase to a level where HSBC would US$0.3 billion of SIV paper at fair value from these obtain the majority of risks and rewards of CNAV funds.
Since 31 December 2007, HSBC has A further Enhanced VNAV fund experienced provided two additional letters of limited indemnity high shareholder redemptions in the fourth quarter capped at US$33 million and 2 million of 2007 which depleted its stock of liquid assets, US$4 million respectively, in relation to certain reducing its ability to meet further redemption holdings of SIV assets of a further two CNAV funds payments.
During November 2007, HSBC made two with AUM at 31 December 2007 of US$8.7 billion.
purchases of shares in the fund for US$0.3 billion HSBC is not exposed to the majority of risks and and US$0.1 billion, respectively, to fund asset rewards of ownership of the funds.
This resulted in HSBC consolidating the fund because its resultant holding of 52 per cent HSBC has continued to create and liquidate represents the majority of risks and rewards shares in all its CNAV funds at a constant price.
Enhanced VNAV funds Enhanced VNAV funds price their assets on a fair value basis and consequently prices may change from one day to the next.
These funds pursue an enhanced investment strategy, as part of which 187 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Off balance sheet arrangements and SPEs Total assets of HSBCs money market funds Total assets of HSBCs non-money market funds which are off-balance sheet 2007 2006 US$bn US$bn 2007 2006 US$bn US$bn CNAV funds 56.8 40.9 Enhanced VNAV funds................. 11.9 15.2 Specialist funds 131.0 122.9 VNAV funds 40.2 36.9 Local Investment Management funds........ 105.7 88.0 108.9 93.0 Multi-manager. 30.4 22.3 267.1 233.2 Total assets of HSBCs money market funds, which are off-balance sheet HSBCs financial investments in off-balance 2007 2006 sheet non-money market funds at 31 December US$bn US$bn 2007 amounted to US$2.7 billion 2006: CNAV funds 56.8 40.9 US$2.0 billion.
These assets have been classified Enhanced VNAV funds................. 6.2 13.1 as available-for-sale securities and measured at VNAV funds 40.2 36.9 fair value.
103.2 90.9 Total assets of HSBCs non-money market funds, HSBCs financial investments in off-balance which are on-balance sheet sheet money market funds at 31 December 2007 2006 2007 amounted to US$2.9 billion 2006: US$bn US$bn US$0.7 billion.
These assets have been classified Specialist funds 1.0 0.4 as available-for-sale securities and measured at fair Local Investment Management value.
Total assets of HSBCs non-money market funds These assets have been measured at fair value: which are on-balance sheet, by balance sheet US$0.7 billion 2006: nil were classified as trading classification assets, and US$5 billion 2006: US$2.1 billion were 2007 2006 designated at fair value.
US$bn US$bn Cash 0.4 0.2 Non-money market investment funds Trading assets 0.5 0.2 Financial instruments HSBC has also established a large number of nondesignated at fair value.............. 3.0 1.8 money market funds to enable customers to invest in Financial investments.................... 0.2 0.1 a range of assets, typically equities and debt 4.1 2.3 securities.
At the launch of a fund HSBC, as fund manager, typically provides a limited amount of Conduits initial capital known as seed capital to enable the fund to start purchasing assets.
These holdings are HSBC sponsors and manages two types of conduits normally redeemed over time.
The majority of these which issue CP: multi-seller conduits and securities funds are off-balance sheet because in view of investment conduits.
HSBC consolidated these HSBCs limited economic interest, HSBC does not conduits from inception because it is exposed to the have the majority of the risks and rewards of majority of risks and rewards of ownership.
Multi-seller conduits have been established for the purpose of providing alternative sources of Total assets of HSBCs non-money market funds financing to HSBCs clients, for example, in respect 2007 2006 of discrete pools of vehicle finance loan receivables.
US$bn US$bn The multi-seller conduits purchase or fund Assets under management interests in diversified pools of third party assets, Specialist funds 132.0 123.3 Local Investment Management which are financed by the issuance of CP.
CP issued by the multi-seller 188 conduits carries highly liquid short-term ratings, and Solitaire Composition of asset portfolio benefits from liquidity facilities typically provided 2007 2006 by HSBC.
HSBC also provides secondary credit US$bn US$bn enhancements under the terms specified in the Asset class Structured finance relevant programme documentation.
HSBCs multiResidential mortgage-backed seller conduits are Regency Assets Limited securities 8.7 9.4 Regency, Bryant Park Funding LLC Bryant Commercial mortgage-backed Park, Abington Square Funding LLC Abington securities 3.7 3.1 Square, and Performance Trust.
Collateralised debt obligations...... 3.1 2.5 Student loans securities.................. 3.5 3.0 Due to lack of investor interest from the middle Home equity lines of credit of 2007 in extendable CP, including that issued by securities 0.6 0.8 Vehicle finance loans securities..... 0.1 0.2 Abington Square, HSBC provided finance to the Credit loans securities 0.3 0.3 conduit by purchasing the majority of its extendable Other asset-back securities............ 1.0 0.9 CP from investors.
In February 2008, the remaining Total structured finance assets....... 21.0 20.2 assets within the conduit were refinanced and the CP repaid.
The other multi-seller conduits are supported Finance Commercial bank debt by liquidity facilities typically provided by HSBC.
securities and deposits............... 0.6 0.2 While these facilities do not provide for liquidity Total bank and finance payments against defaulted assets they will in all company assets 0.6 0.2 cases provide for repayment of 100 per cent of CP Total assets........... 21.6 20.4 that is covered by non-defaulted receivables.
Performance Trust was originally consolidated These assets include US$1.1 billion 2006: by HSBC, and later deconsolidated because HSBC US$1.8 billion of exposure to US sub-prime retired the programme wide credit enhancement and mortgages, all of which are rated AAA.
the first loss note was sold to a third party during 2006.
However, due to lack of liquidity in the Solitaire Total assets by balance sheet market, Performance Trust experienced funding classification difficulties in the fourth quarter of 2007 and HSBC 2007 2006 purchased Performance Trusts CP as it became US$bn US$bn due.
This resulted in HSBC consolidating the fund Financial instruments because its resultant holding of 83 per cent designated at fair value.............. 0.1 0.1 represents the majority of risks and rewards Derivative assets 0.1 of ownership.
Loans and advances to banks........ 0.2 Financial investments.................... 20.6 20.1 Securities investment conduits purchase Other assets 0.6 0.2 highly rated asset-backed securities and facilitate 21.6 20.4 tailored investment opportunities for HSBCs investor clients.
HSBCs securities investment Solitaire Funding structure conduit is Solitaire Funding Limited Solitaire.
Provided An analysis of the assets held by Solitaire at Total by HSBC 31 December 2007 and 2006 is set out below.
189 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Financial Review continued Other financial information Off balance sheet arrangements and SPEs Total assets of HSBCs conduits by balance sheet Total assets of HSBCs securitisations, which are classification, which are on-balance sheet off-balance sheet 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Financial instruments HSBC originated assets.................. 0.5 0.5 designated at fair value.............. 0.1 0.1 Non-HSBC originated assets Derivative assets 0.1 term securitisation Loans and advances to banks........ 0.2 programmes..... 17.3 17.3 Loans and advances to customers....... 14.9 9.6 17.8 17.8 Financial investments.................... 21.1 24.6 Other assets........ 1.0 0.7 HSBCs financial investments in off-balance 37.4 35.0 sheet securitisations at 31 December 2007 amounted to US$0.7 billion 2006: US$0.7 billion.
These Securitisations assets include assets that have been securitised by HSBC under arrangements in which HSBC retains a HSBC uses SPEs to securitise customer loans and continuing involvement in such assets which are advances it has originated mainly in order to classified as available-for-sale securities and diversify its sources of funding, and for capital measured at fair value.
Further details are provided efficiency.
In such cases, the loans and advances are in Note 20 on the Financial Statements.
transferred by HSBC to the SPEs for cash, and the SPEs issue debt securities to investors.
Credit Other enhancements are used to obtain investment grade ratings on the senior debt issued by the SPEs.
HSBC also establishes SPEs in the normal course of business for a number of purposes, for example, Except for one securitisation, with total assets structured credit transactions for customers to of US$0.5 billion 2006: US$0.5 billion, where the provide finance to public and private sector SPE has not been consolidated because HSBC does infrastructure projects, and for asset and structured not have the majority of risks and rewards of finance ASF transactions.
ownership, these SPEs are consolidated by HSBC.
HSBC also established term securitisation Structured credit transactions programmes in the US and Germany where third party loans are securitised.
The majority of these HSBC provides structured credit transactions to third vehicles are not consolidated by HSBC as it is not party professional and institutional investors who exposed to majority of risks and rewards of wish to obtain exposure, sometimes on a leveraged ownership in the SPEs.
basis, to a reference portfolio of debt instruments.
The investors obtain the risks and rewards of the HSBC also uses SPEs for capital management relevant reference portfolios by purchasing notes purposes in respect of its originated customer loans issued by the SPEs.
The SPEs enter into contracts and advances, where only the credit risk associated with HSBC, generally in the form of derivatives, in with the customer loans and advances is transferred order to pass the risks and rewards of the reference by HSBC to the SPE using credit derivatives.
These portfolios to the SPEs.
HSBCs risk in relation to the securitisations are commonly known as synthetic derivative contracts with the SPEs is managed within securitisations.
These SPEs are consolidated where HSBCs trading market risk framework see Market HSBC is exposed to the majority of risks and Risk Management on page 248. rewards of ownership.
The transactions are facilitated through SPEs in Total assets of HSBCs securitisations, by balance order that the notes issued to the investors can be sheet classification, which are on-balance sheet rated.
The SPEs are not consolidated by HSBC because the investors bear substantially all the risks 2007 2006 and rewards of ownership through the notes.
The US$bn US$bn exception would be in circumstances where HSBC Trading assets 3.6 0.3 itself holds a majority of the notes in particular Loans and advances to customers... 70.5 68.7 SPEs.
These amounts include 190 US$0.1 billion 2006: US$0.7 billion in SPEs that Other exposures to third party SIVs, conduits and were consolidated by HSBC.
securitisations where a liquidity facility has been provided Other uses of SPEs 2007 2006 US$bn US$bn HSBC participates in Public-Private Partnerships to provide financial support for infrastructure Derivative assets 0.2 0.1 projects initiated by government authorities.
The funding structure is commonly achieved through the Other off-balance sheet arrangements and use of SPEs.
HSBC consolidates these SPEs where commitments it is exposed to the majority of risks and rewards of Financial guarantees, letters of credit and the vehicles.
similar undertakings HSBCs ASF business specialises in leasing and Note 41 on the Financial Statements describes arranging finance for aircraft and other physical various types of guarantees and discloses the assets, which it is customary to ring-fence through maximum potential future payments under such the use of SPEs, and in structured loans and deposits arrangements.
Credit risk associated with all forms where SPEs introduce cost efficiencies.
HSBC of guarantees is assessed in the same manner as consolidates these SPEs where the substance of the for on-balance sheet credit advances and, where relationship indicates that HSBC controls the SPE.
necessary, provisions for assessed impairment are HSBCs risks and rewards of ownership in included in Other provisions.
these SPEs are in respect of its on-balance sheet assets and liabilities.
Commitments to lend Undrawn credit lines are disclosed in Note 41 on the Third party sponsored SPEs Financial Statements.
The majority by value of HSBCs exposure to third party sponsored SIVs, undrawn credit lines arise from open to buy lines conduits and securitisations have arisen through on personal credit cards, advised overdraft limits and normal banking arrangements on standard market other pre-approved loan products, and mortgage terms.
HSBC did not provide any credit offers awaiting customer acceptance.
HSBC enhancement to third party SIVs, conduits and generally has the right to change or terminate any securitisations.
conditions of a personal customers overdraft, credit card or other credit line upon notification to the HSBCs commitments under liquidity facilities to customer.
In respect of corporate commitments third party SIVs, conduits and securitisations to lend, in most cases HSBCs position will be protected through restrictions on access to funding Commitin the event of material adverse change.
ments Drawn US$bn US$bn 2007 Leveraged finance transactions Third party SIVs 0.3 Third party conduits 5.3 0.4 Loan commitments in respect of leveraged finance Third party securitisations............. 0.5 transactions are accounted for as derivatives where it is HSBCs intention to sell the loan after origination.
6.1 0.4 2006 As at 31 December 2007, HSBCs commitments in Third party SIVs 0.2 respect of leveraged finance transactions were Third party conduits 5.4 US$8.9 billion, of which US$6.0 billion were funded Third party securitisations............. 0.5 and US$2.9 billion were un-funded.
During 2007, 6.1 losses of US$195 million were recognised in trading income relating to transactions priced prior to the dislocation in the market.
Transactions priced subsequent to the widening of credit spreads have not resulted in any material net write-downs.
191 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk Regulation and supervision Page Regulation and supervision 1 Unaudited Regulation and supervision 192 1 Risk management............... 197 With listings of its ordinary shares in London, Hong Credit risk..... 198 Kong, New York, Paris and Bermuda, HSBC 2 Holdings complies with the relevant requirements Credit risk management. 198 3 for listing and trading on each of these exchanges.
In Credit exposure 203 the UK, these are the Listing Rules of the Financial 1 Areas of special interest 216 Services Authority FSA : in Hong Kong, The 3 Credit quality.... 223 Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on The 3 Impairment allowances and charges...... 229 Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited HKSE : 2 HSBC Holdings 240 in the US, where the shares are traded in the form of 1 ADSs, HSBC Holdings shares are registered with Risk elements in the loan portfolio........ 241 the US Securities and Exchange Commission Liquidity and funding management............ 243 SEC.
As a consequence of its US listing, HSBC 2 Policies and procedures 243 Holdings is also subject to the reporting and other 2 Primary sources of funding................... 243 requirements of the US Securities Act of 1933, as 2 HSBC Holdings............ 247 amended, the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as Market risk management... 248 amended, and the New York Stock Exchanges 3 NYSE Listed Company Manual, in each case as Value at risk................. 249 2 applied to foreign private issuers.
In France and Trading portfolios 251 Bermuda, HSBC Holdings is subject to the listing 2 Non-trading portfolios 252 rules of Euronext, Paris and the Bermuda Stock 1 Sensitivity of net interest income........... 254 Exchange respectively, applicable to companies with 1 Structural foreign exchange exposures.
3 HSBC Holdings 256 A statement of HSBCs compliance with the 2 Areas of special interest 257 code provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate 1 Residual value risk management............... 260 Governance issued by the Financial Reporting 1 Operational risk management................... 260 Council and with the Code on Corporate Governance 1 Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Legal risk.......... 261 1 Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Global security and fraud 262 Hong Kong Limited is set out in the Report of the 1 Pension risk.......... 262 Directors: Governance on page 289.
1 Reputational risk management.................. 263 1 HSBCs operations throughout the world are Sustainability risk management................ 263 regulated and supervised by approximately Risk management of insurance 510 different central banks and regulatory authorities 2 operations 264 in those jurisdictions in which HSBC has offices, 2 Life insurance business 264 branches or subsidiaries.
These authorities impose a 2 Non-life insurance business.................... 265 variety of requirements and controls designed to 2 Insurance risk 265 improve financial stability and the transparency of 2 financial markets and their contribution to economic Financial risks 271 2 growth.
These regulations and controls cover, inter Market risk 272 alia, capital adequacy, depositor protection, market 2 Credit risk.. 275 liquidity, governance standards, customer protection 2 Liquidity risk 278 for example, fair lending practices, product design, Present value of in-force long-term and marketing and documentation standards, and 2 insurance business 280 social responsibility obligations for example, antiCapital management and allocation............ 282 money laundering and anti-terrorist financing 2 measures.
In addition, a number of countries in Capital management 282 3 which HSBC operates impose rules that affect, or Capital measurement and allocation..... 282 place limitations on, foreign or foreign-owned or Risk-weighted assets by principal controlled banks and financial institutions.
The rules 1 subsidiary 286 include restrictions on the opening of local offices, branches or subsidiaries and the types of banking 1 Unaudited.
and non-banking activities that may be conducted by 2 Audited.
those local offices, branches or subsidiaries: 192 restrictions on the acquisition of local banks or 284.
The FSAs approach to capital requirements for regulations requiring a specified percentage of local UK insurers is to require minimum capital to be ownership: and restrictions on investment and other calculated on two bases.
First, firms must calculate financial flows entering or leaving the country.
The their liabilities on a prudent basis and add a statutory supervisory and regulatory regimes of the countries solvency margin Pillar 1.
Secondly, firms must where HSBC operates will determine to some degree calculate their liabilities on a realistic basis then add HSBCs ability to expand into new markets, the to this their own calculation of risk-based capital.
services and products that HSBC will be able to The sum of realistic reserves and risk-based capital offer in those markets and how HSBC structures Pillar 2 is agreed with the FSA.
required to maintain capital equal to the higher of Pillars 1 and 2.
The FSA has the right to object, on The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated prudential grounds, to persons who hold, or intend to basis.
In addition, each operating bank, finance hold, 10 per cent or more of the voting power of a company or insurance operation within HSBC is financial institution.
The primary regulatory authorities are those in the UK, Hong The regulatory framework of the UK financial Kong and the US, the Groups principal areas of services system has traditionally been based on operation.
co-operation between the FSA and authorised institutions.
The FSA monitors authorised In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Banking institutions through ongoing supervision and the Supervision introduced a new capital adequacy review of routine and ad hoc reports relating to framework to replace the 1988 Basel Capital Accord financial and prudential matters.
The FSA may in the form of a final Accord commonly known as periodically obtain independent reports, usually from Basel II.
Details of the EUs implementation of the auditors of the authorised institution, as to the Basel II and how this will affect HSBC are set out adequacy of internal control procedures and systems on page 284. as well as procedures and systems governing records and accounting.
The FSA meets regularly with UK regulation and supervision HSBCs senior executives to discuss HSBCs UK banking and financial services institutions are adherence to the FSAs prudential guidelines.
They subject to multiple regulations.
The primary UK also regularly discuss fundamental matters relating statute is the Financial Services and Markets Act to HSBCs business in the UK and internationally, 2000 FSMA.
Additionally, data privacy is including areas such as strategic and operating plans, regulated by the Data Protection Act 1998.
Other risk control, loan portfolio composition and UK financial services legislation is derived from EU organisational changes, including succession directives relating to banking, securities, insurance, planning.
investment and sales of personal financial services.
Consumers of UK financial services institutions The FSA is responsible for authorising and are covered by the Financial Services Compensation supervising UK financial services institutions and Scheme FSCS, which is the UKs statutory fund regulates all HSBCs businesses in the UK which of last resort.
It deals with claims against authorised require authorisation under the FSMA.
These institutions that are unable, or likely to be unable, to include deposit taking, retail banking, life and pay claims against them, for example if an institution general insurance, pensions, investments, mortgages, has stopped trading or is in insolvency.
FSCS custody and branch share-dealing businesses, and protects deposits, investments, insurance and treasury and capital markets activity.
HSBC Bank is mortgage advice and arranging, and is funded by HSBCs principal authorised institution in the UK.
levies on institutions authorised by the FSA.
The maximum levels of compensation are available on FSA rules establish the minimum criteria for www.
authorisation for banks and financial services businesses in the UK.
They also set out reporting Hong Kong regulation and supervision and, as applicable, consent requirements with regard to large individual exposures and large Banking in Hong Kong is subject to the provisions exposures to related borrowers.
In its capacity as of the Banking Ordinance, and to the powers, supervisor of HSBC on a consolidated basis, the functions and duties ascribed by the Banking FSA receives information on the capital adequacy of, Ordinance to the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and sets requirements for, HSBC as a whole.
The principal function of the HKMA details on capital measurement are included in is to promote the general stability and effective Capital management and allocation on pages 282 to working of the banking system in Hong Kong.
The 193 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Regulation and supervision HKMA is responsible for supervising compliance banks capital base to its risk-weighted exposure of with the provisions of the Banking Ordinance.
For banks with subsidiaries, the Banking Ordinance gives power to the Chief HKMA is empowered to require that the ratio be Executive of Hong Kong to give directions to the calculated on a solo and consolidated basis.
The HKMA and the Financial Secretary with respect to HKMA is empowered to increase the minimum the exercise of their respective functions under the capital adequacy ratio to up to 16 per cent, after Banking Ordinance.
The HKMA has responsibility for authorising Hong Kong depositors are covered by the banks, and has discretion to attach conditions to its Deposit Protection Scheme, which covers deposits authorisation.
The HKMA requires that banks or kept with licensed banks in Hong Kong.
All such their holding companies file regular prudential banks are scheme members unless specifically returns, and holds regular discussions with the exempted, and are required to contribute to the management of the banks to review their operations.
In the event of the insolvency The HKMA may also conduct on-site examinations of a scheme member, each depositor is entitled to of banks and, in the case of banks incorporated in receive up to HK$100,000.
Only traditional Hong Hong Kong, of any local and overseas branches and Kong dollar or foreign currency deposits in Hong subsidiaries.
The HKMA requires all authorised Kong are covered by the scheme and other deposit institutions to have adequate systems of internal products like structured deposits, secured deposits, control and requires the institutions external bearer instruments and offshore deposits are not auditors, upon request, to report on those systems protected.
and other matters such as the accuracy of The marketing of, dealing in and provision of information provided to the HKMA.
In addition, the advice and asset management services in relation to HKMA may from time to time conduct tripartite securities in Hong Kong are subject to the provisions discussions with banks and their external auditors.
of the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong The HKMA, which may deny the acquisition of Kong Securities and Futures Ordinance.
Entities voting power of over 10 per cent in a bank, and may engaging in activities regulated by the Securities and attach conditions to its approval thereof, can Futures Ordinance are required to be licensed.
The effectively control changes in the ownership and HKMA is the primary regulator for banks involved control of Hong Kong-incorporated financial in the securities business, while the Securities and institutions.
In addition, the HKMA has the power to Futures Commission is the regulator for non-banking divest controlling interests in a bank from persons if entities.
they are no longer deemed to be fit and proper, if In Hong Kong, insurance business is regulated they may otherwise threaten the interests of under the Insurance Companies Ordinance and by depositors or potential depositors, or if they have the Insurance Authority of Hong Kong.
The IAHK contravened any conditions specified by the HKMA.
is responsible for the licensing of insurers and The HKMA may revoke authorisation in the event of insurance brokers, although insurance business can an institutions non-compliance with the provisions also be licensed by the Confederation of Insurance of the Banking Ordinance.
These provisions require, Brokers CIB.
Separately, insurance agents are among other things, the furnishing of accurate licensed by the Hong Kong Federation of Insurers reports.
Both the HKFI and the CIB have enacted The Banking Ordinance requires that banks Codes of Conduct for insurance agents and brokers submit to the HKMA certain returns and other respectively and can impose sanctions for information and establishes certain minimum misbehaviour or breach.
standards and ratios relating to capital adequacy HSBC Insurance Asia-Pacific Holdings see below, liquidity, capitalisation, limitations on Limited INAH is licensed by the IA as an insurer.
shareholdings, exposure to any one customer, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, unsecured advances to persons affiliated with the which is authorised by the HKFI, acts as an agent for bank and holdings of interests in land, with which INAH, and HSBC Insurance Brokers Asia-Pacific banks must comply.
Limited acts as insurance brokers licensed by the The HKMA implemented Basel II with effect CIB.
from 1 January 2007 for all Authorised Institutions incorporated in Hong Kong.
As under Basel I, each US regulation and supervision Authorised Institution is required to maintain a HSBC is subject to extensive federal and state capital adequacy ratio calculated as the ratio of the supervision and regulation in the US.
Banking laws 194 and regulations of the Federal Reserve Board, the to enter into an agreement with the Federal Reserve Office of the Comptroller of the Currency OCC Board to correct any failure to comply with the and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation requirements to maintain FHC status.
Until such FDIC govern many aspects of HSBCs US deficiencies are corrected, the Federal Reserve business.
Board may impose limitations on the US activities of an FHC and depository institutions under its control.
HSBC and its US operations are subject to If such deficiencies are not corrected, the Federal supervision, regulation and examination by the Reserve Board may require an FHC to divest its Federal Reserve Board because HSBC is a bank control of any subsidiary depository institution or to holding company under the US Bank Holding desist from certain financial activities in the US.
HSBC and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. HNAH, formed to HSBC and HNAH are generally prohibited hold HSBCs US and Canadian operations, are bank under the BHCA from acquiring, directly or holding companies by virtue of their ownership and indirectly, ownership or control of more than 5 per control of HSBC Bank USA, N. A. HSBC Bank cent of any class of voting shares of, or substantially USA, HSBC National Bank USA HSBC Bank all the assets of, or exercising control over, any US Maryland, and HSBC Trust Company Delaware, bank, bank holding company or many other types N. A. HSBC Bank Delaware.
These three banks of depository institutions and or their holding are nationally chartered FDIC-insured, full-service companies without the prior approval of the Federal commercial banks and members of the Federal Reserve Board and potentially other US banking Reserve System.
HSBC also owns HSBC Bank regulatory agencies.
Nevada, N. A. HSBC Bank Nevada, a nationally The Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999 chartered bank limited to credit card activities which GLBA and the regulations issued thereunder is also a member of the Federal Reserve System.
contained a number of other provisions that affect These four banks are subject to regulation, HSBCs operations and the operations of all supervision and examination by the OCC and, as financial institutions.
One such provision contained their deposits are insured by the FDIC, they are detailed requirements relating to the financial subject to relevant FDIC regulation.
Both HSBC and privacy of consumers.
In addition, the so-called HNAH are registered as financial holding companies push-out provisions of GLBA removed the blanket FHCs under the BHCA, enabling them to offer a exemption from registration for securities activities broad range of financial products and services conducted in banks including HSBC Bank USA through their subsidiaries.
HSBCs and HNAHs under the Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
New ability to engage in expanded financial activities as rules have been published to implement these FHCs depends upon HSBC and HNAH continuing changes and, when effective, will allow banks to to meet certain criteria set forth in the BHCA, continue to avoid registration as a broker or dealer including requirements that their US depository only if they conduct securities activities that fall institution subsidiaries, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC within a set of defined exceptions.
A narrowed Bank Maryland, HSBC Bank Nevada and HSBC dealer definition took effect in September 2003, Bank Delaware, be well capitalised and well and a narrowed broker definition will take effect managed, and that such institutions have achieved at for each bank on the first day of its fiscal year least a satisfactory record in meeting community following 30 September 2008.
Pursuant to the new credit needs during their most recent examinations regulations, it is likely that certain securities pursuant to the Community Reinvestment Act.
These activities currently conducted by HSBC Bank USA requirements also apply to Wells Fargo HSBC Trade will need to be restructured or transferred to one or Bank, N. A. in which HSBC and HNAH have a more US-registered broker-dealer affiliates effective 20 per cent voting interest in equity capital and a from 1 January 2009.
Each of these depository institutions achieved at least the required The US is party to the 1988 Basel I Capital rating during their most recent examinations.
At Accord, and US banking regulatory authorities have 31 December 2007, HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank adopted capital requirements for US banks and bank Maryland, HSBC Bank Nevada, HSBC Bank holding companies that are generally consistent with Delaware and Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. the Accord.
were each well capitalised and well managed under The authorities have now published, on Federal Reserve Board regulations.
7 December 2007, their final Basel II rules for credit In general, under the BHCA, an FHC would be and operational risk.
These require mandated required, upon notice by the Federal Reserve Board, banking groups, which include HNAH, to have fully 195 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk Regulation and supervision Risk management implemented Basel II by no later than 36 months correspondent and private banking accounts.
Certain after 1 April 2008, including the completion of a full other specific requirements of the Patriot Act were 12-month parallel run.
HSBC is analysing the rules new compliance obligations.
The passage of the to ensure that systems and processes, already largely Patriot Act and other recent events have resulted in developed and implemented, are aligned with the heightened scrutiny of the Bank Secrecy Act and final requirements.
anti-money laundering compliance by federal and state bank examiners.
In addition, US banking authorities have adopted leverage capital requirements that The HSBC Group takes its obligations to generally require US banks and bank holding prevent money laundering and terrorist financing companies to maintain a minimum amount of capital very seriously.
HSBC has policies, procedures and in relation to their balance sheet assets measured on training intended to ensure that its employees know a non-risk-weighted basis.
and understand HSBCs criteria for when a client relationship or business should be evaluated as The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation higher risk.
As part of its continuing evaluation of Improvement Act of 1991 provides for extensive risk, the HSBC Group monitors its activities in regulation of insured depository institutions such as countries and entities subject to US economic HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank Maryland, HSBC sanctions programmes administered by the Office of Bank Delaware, HSBC Bank Nevada and Wells Foreign Assets Control.
HSBCs business activities Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A., including requiring include correspondent banking services to banks federal banking regulators to take prompt corrective located in some of these countries and private action with respect to FDIC-insured banks that do banking services for nationals of, and clients not meet minimum capital requirements.
domiciled in, some of the countries.
The Group HSBC Bank USA, HSBC Bank Maryland, has a small representative office in Tehran, Iran.
HSBC Bank Delaware, HSBC Bank Nevada and The US State Department has designated certain Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank, N. A. like other countries Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan and FDIC-insured banks, may be required to pay Syria as state sponsors of terrorism, and US law assessments to the FDIC for deposit insurance under generally prohibits US persons from doing business the FDICs Bank Insurance Fund.
Under the FDICs with such countries.
HSBC is aware of initiatives by risk-based system for setting deposit insurance governmental entities and institutions in the US to assessments, an institutions assessments vary adopt rules, regulations or policies prohibiting according to the level of capital an institution holds, transactions with or investments in entities doing its deposit levels and other factors.
The HSBC Group does The USA Patriot Act Patriot Act imposes not believe its business activities with counterparties significant record keeping and customer identity in, or directly relating to, such countries are material requirements, expands the US federal governments to its business, and such activities represented a very powers to freeze or confiscate assets and increases small part of total assets at 31 December 2007 and the available penalties that may be assessed against total revenues for the year ended 31 December 2007. financial institutions for failure to comply with If HSBC were to fail to maintain and implement obligations imposed on such institutions to detect, adequate programmes to combat money laundering prevent and report money laundering and terrorist and terrorist financing and to comply with economic financing.
Pursuant to the Patriot Act, final sanctions, or was found to be in breach of relevant regulations are in effect which impose anti-money laws and regulations, including by failing to observe laundering compliance obligations on financial economic sanctions, serious legal and reputational institutions a term which, for this purpose, includes consequences for the Group could arise.
insured US depository institutions, US branches and agencies of foreign banks, US broker-dealers and HSBCs US insurance agency and underwriting numerous other entities.
Many of the anti-money operations are subject to regulatory supervision laundering compliance requirements imposed by the under the laws of the states in which they operate.
Patriot Act and these implementing regulations are Insurance laws and regulations vary from state to generally consistent with the anti-money laundering state but generally require forms and rates to be filed compliance obligations existing for banks prior to with, and approved by, the state insurance the Patriot Act.
These include requirements to departments, and cover licensing of insurance adopt and implement an anti-money laundering companies: corporate governance: premiums and programme, report suspicious transactions and loss rates: dividend restrictions: types of insurance implement due diligence procedures for certain that may be sold: underwriting processes: 196 permissible investments: reserve requirements: and Intermediary Withholding Agreement with the insurance advertising and marketing practices.
Various HSBC operations HSBC US insurance subsidiary undergoes periodic outside the US are qualified intermediaries.
market conduct and financial examinations by the relevant state insurance departments, and HSBCs Risk management insurance agencies and agents are subject to state Unaudited licensing and registration requirements.
Introduction Additionally, with respect to credit insurance, because it is sold in connection with a loan, state All HSBCs activities involve the measurement, loan laws often contain requirements related to evaluation, acceptance and management of some offering, cancelling and refunding credit insurance.
degree of risk, or combination of risks.
The most Although insurance is not generally regulated by the important risk categories that the Group is exposed federal government, certain federal regulations to are credit risk including cross-border country related to lending disclosures apply to the sale and risk, insurance risk, liquidity risk, market risk cancellation of credit insurance.
including foreign exchange, interest rate and equity price risks, operational risks in various forms, HSBCs US consumer finance operations are pension risk, residual value risk, reputational risk subject to extensive state-by-state regulation in the and sustainability environmental and social risks.
US, and to laws relating to consumer protection both in general, and in respect of sub-prime lending The management of these various risk operations, which have been subject to enhanced categories is discussed below.
Given the distinct regulatory scrutiny : discrimination in extending characteristics of the insurance business, the credit: use of credit reports: privacy matters: management of its credit, liquidity and market risks disclosure of credit terms: and correction of billing is described alongside insurance risk in the section errors.
They also are subject to regulations and Risk management of insurance operations.
legislation that limit operations in certain The risk management framework established by jurisdictions.
For example, limitations may be placed the Group seeks to foster the continuous monitoring on the amount of interest or fees that a loan may of the risk environment and an integrated evaluation bear, the amount that may be borrowed, the types of of risks and their interdependencies.
actions that may be taken to collect or foreclose upon delinquent loans or the information about a Risk governance and ownership customer that may be shared.
HSBCs US consumer finance branch lending offices are generally licensed A well-established risk governance and ownership in those jurisdictions in which they operate.
Such structure ensures oversight of, and accountability for, licences have limited terms but are renewable, and the effective management of risk at Group, regional, are revocable for cause.
Failure to comply with customer group and operating entity levels.
applicable laws and regulations may limit the ability The Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings of these licensed lenders to collect or enforce loan approves plans and performance targets for the Group agreements made with consumers and may cause the and its principal subsidiaries, the appointment of consumer finance lending subsidiary and or its senior officers, the delegation of authorities for credit control person to be liable for damages and and other risks and the establishment of effective penalties.
Under authority delegated by the HSBCs US credit insurance operations are Board of Directors, Group Management Board subject to regulatory supervision under the laws of GMB formulates high-level Group risk the states in which they operate.
from state to state but generally cover licensing of A separately convened Risk Management insurance companies: premiums and loss rates: Meeting RMM of GMB has the responsibility for dividend restrictions: types of insurance that may be exercising and delegating risk approval authorities, sold: permissible investments: policy reserve setting risk appetite and approving definitive risk requirements: and insurance marketing practices.
It monitors all categories of Certain US source payments to foreign persons risk, receives reports, determines action to be taken may be subject to US withholding tax unless the and reviews the efficacy of HSBCs risk management foreign person is a qualified intermediary.
qualified intermediary is a financial intermediary GMB and RMM are supported by a dedicated which is qualified under the US Internal Revenue Group Risk function headed by the Group Chief Risk Code of 1986 and has completed the Qualified 197 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk Credit risk Credit risk management Officer GCRO, who is a member of both GMB HSBC has standards, policies and procedures and RMM and reports to the Group Finance Director dedicated to monitoring and managing risk from within an integrated Finance and Risk function.
Similar structures involving the creation of local Chief Within Head Office, the Group Risk function Risk Officers are being extended to all major Group provides high-level centralised oversight and subsidiaries and customer groups during 2008.
The management of credit risk for HSBC worldwide.
Its Group Finance Director represents Finance and Risk responsibilities include: on the HSBC Holdings Board.
Compliance, Primary responsibility for managing risk at subject to approved dispensations, is mandatory operating entity level lies with the respective boards for all HSBCs operating companies, which and Chief Executive Officers, as custodians of the must formulate and record in local instruction relevant balance sheets.
In turn, Group Risk has manuals their detailed credit policies and functional responsibility for the principal financial risk procedures, consistent with Group policy.
types, namely: retail and wholesale credit, market, operational and security fraud risks.
Within this Guiding HSBCs operating companies on the structure, it establishes Group policy, exercises Groups appetite for, and attitude to, credit risk Group-wide oversight and provides reporting and exposure to specified market sectors, activities analysis of portfolio composition on a global and a and banking products.
Group Risk controls regional basis to senior management.
Group Risk exposures to certain higher-risk sectors and co-ordinates the further development of the risk closely monitors exposure to others, including: appetite, economic capital and stress-testing real estate, the automotive sector, certain nonframeworks.
In addition, the GCRO is a member of bank financial institutions, structured products the Group Portfolio Oversight Committee, chaired by and leveraged finance transactions.
When the Group Treasurer, which governs the Groups necessary, restrictions are imposed on new portfolio management activities for the wholesale business or exposures, which may be capped at business sector.
Group and or entity level.
HSBCs risk management policies, encapsulated Undertaking independent review and objective in the Group Standards Manual and cascaded in a assessment of risk.
Group Risk assesses all hierarchy of policy manuals throughout the Group, are commercial non-bank credit facilities and designed to support the formulation of risk appetite, exposures including those embedded in guide employees and establish procedures for derivatives that are originated or renewed by monitoring and controlling risks, with timely and HSBCs operating companies over designated reliable reporting to management.
HSBC regularly limits, prior to the facilities being committed to reviews and updates its risk management policies and customers or transactions being undertaken.
systems to reflect changes in markets, products and Operating companies may not confirm credit emerging best practice.
It is the responsibility of all Group officers to Monitoring the performance and management of identify, assess and manage risk within the scope of retail portfolios across the Group.
Group Risk their assigned responsibilities.
Personal tracks emerging trends, overseeing the effective accountability, reinforced by the Groups governance management of any adverse characteristics.
structure and instilled by training, helps to foster Controlling centrally exposures to sovereign throughout the Group a disciplined and constructive entities, banks and other financial institutions.
culture of risk management and control.
HSBCs credit and settlement risk limits to counterparties in these sectors are approved and Credit risk managed by Group Risk to optimise the use of credit availability and avoid excessive risk Credit risk management Audited concentration.
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer Establishing and managing exposures to debt or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a securities by establishing controls in respect of contract.
It arises principally from direct lending, securities held for trading purposes and setting trade finance and leasing business, but also from issuer limits for securities not held for trading.
certain off-balance sheet products such as guarantees Establishing and maintaining HSBCs policy on and credit derivatives, and from the Groups large credit exposures, ensuring that holdings of assets in the form of debt securities.
198 concentrations of exposure by counterparty, portfolio and analytical model performance sector or geography do not become excessive in data: and relation to the Groups capital base and remain stress-testing results and recommendations.
within internal and regulatory limits.
The approach is designed to be more conservative Managing and directing credit risk management than internationally accepted regulatory systems initiatives.
Group Risk also monitors HSBCs centralised database covering substantially all intra-Group exposures to ensure they are the Groups direct lending exposures, to deliver maintained within regulatory limits.
Plans an increasingly granular level of management are well developed to adopt the FSAs new reporting.
An electronic credit application Integrated Groups regime in accordance with process for banks is operational throughout the the agreed transition timetable.
Group and a similar corporate credit application system covers almost all Group corporate Controlling cross-border exposures, through the business by value.
imposition of country limits with sub-limits by maturity and type of business.
Country limits Providing advice and guidance to HSBCs are determined by taking into account economic operating companies, to promote best practice and political factors, and applying local business throughout the Group on credit-related matters knowledge.
Transactions with countries deemed such as sustainability risk, new products and to be higher risk are considered on a case by training.
Acting on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the Maintaining and developing HSBCs risk rating primary interface, for credit-related issues, with framework and systems, to classify exposures external parties including the Bank of England, meaningfully and enable focused management the FSA, rating agencies, corporate analysts, of the risks involved.
The GCRO chairs the trade associations and counterparts in the Credit Risk Analytics Oversight Committee, worlds major banks and non-bank financial which reports to the RMM and oversees risk institutions.
rating model governance for both wholesale and Each HSBC operating company is required to retail business.
Rating methodologies are based implement credit policies, procedures and lending upon a wide range of analytics and market dataguidelines that conform to Group standards, with based tools, which are core inputs to the credit approval authorities delegated from the Board assessment of customer risk.
For larger of Directors of HSBC Holdings to the relevant Chief facilities, while full use is made of automated Executive Officer.
In each major subsidiary, a Chief risk rating processes, the ultimate responsibility Risk Officer or Chief Credit Officer reports to the for setting risk ratings rests with the final local Chief Executive Officer or Chief Operating approving executive.
Details of HSBCs Officer on credit-related issues, maintaining a strong approach under Basel II to capital management functional reporting line to the GCRO.
and allocation in relation to risk may be found on page 284.
Each operating company is responsible for the quality and performance of its credit portfolios and Reporting on aspects of the HSBC credit risk for monitoring and controlling all credit risks in its portfolio to the RMM, the Group Audit portfolios, including those subject to central Committee and the Board of Directors of HSBC approval by Group Risk.
This includes managing its Holdings by way of a variety of regular and own risk concentrations by market sector, geography ad hoc reports covering: and product.
Local systems are in place throughout risk concentrations: the Group to enable operating companies to control and monitor exposures by customer and retail retail portfolio performance at Group entity, product segments.
regional and overall Group levels: Special attention is paid to problem exposures, specific higher-risk portfolio segments: which are subject to more frequent and intensive individual large impaired accounts, and review and reporting, in order to accelerate remedial impairment allowances charges for all action.
Where appropriate, HSBCs local operating customer segments: companies maintain or establish specialist units to provide customers with support in order to help them country limits, cross-border exposures and avoid default wherever possible.
related impairment allowances: 199 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk Credit risk Credit risk management Periodic risk-based audits of operating in the financial sector, charges over financial companies credit processes and portfolios are instruments such as debt securities and equities undertaken by HSBCs Internal Audit function.
in support of trading facilities.
Audits include consideration of the adequacy and In addition, credit derivatives, including credit clarity of credit policy procedure manuals: an default swaps and structured credit notes, as well as in-depth analysis of a representative sample of securitisation structures, are used to manage credit accounts: an overview of homogeneous portfolios risk in the Groups loan portfolio.
of similar assets to assess the quality of the loan book and other exposures: consideration of any HSBC does not disclose the fair value of oversight or review work performed by credit risk collateral held as security or other credit management functions and the adequacy of enhancements on loans and advances past due but impairment calculations: a review of analytical not impaired, or on individually assessed impaired model governance and implementation: a review of loans and advances, as it is not practicable to do so.
management objectives and a check that Group and local standards and policies are adhered to in the Other financial assets approval and management of credit facilities.
Collateral held as security for financial assets other Individually significant accounts are reviewed than loans and advances is determined by the nature on a sample basis to ensure that risk ratings are of the instrument.
Debt securities, treasury and other appropriate, that credit and collection procedures eligible bills are generally unsecured, with the have been properly followed and that, when an exception of asset-backed securities and similar account or portfolio evidences deterioration, instruments, which are secured by pools of financial impairment allowances are raised in accordance with assets.
Internal Audit The ISDA Master Agreement is HSBCs discusses with management risk ratings it considers preferred agreement for documenting derivatives to be inappropriate: after discussion, its final activity.
It provides the contractual framework recommendations for revised ratings must then within which dealing activity across a full range of be adopted.
over-the-counter products is conducted, and contractually binds both parties to apply close-out Collateral and other credit enhancements netting across all outstanding transactions covered Audited by an agreement if either party defaults or other Loans and advances pre-agreed termination events occur.
It is common, and HSBCs preferred, practice for the parties to It is HSBCs policy, when lending, to do so within execute a Credit Support Annex CSA in the customers capacity to repay, rather than rely conjunction with the ISDA Master Agreement.
Depending on the Under a CSA, collateral is passed between the customers standing and the type of product, parties to mitigate the market-contingent facilities may be unsecured.
Nevertheless, collateral counterparty risk inherent in the outstanding can be an important mitigant of credit risk.
Operating companies are required to implement Settlement risk arises in any situation where a appropriate guidelines on the acceptability of payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the specific classes of collateral or credit risk mitigation, expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, and determine suitable valuation parameters.
Daily settlement limits are parameters, structures and legal covenants are established for each counterparty to cover the required to be subject to regular review to ensure aggregate of all settlement risk arising from HSBCs that they are supported by empirical evidence and transactions with them, on any single day.
Settlement continue to fulfil their intended purpose.
The risk on many transactions, particularly those principal collateral types are as follows: involving securities and equities, is substantially in the personal sector, mortgages over mitigated through being effected via assured residential properties: payment systems, or on a  basis.
in the commercial and industrial sector, charges over business assets such as premises, stock and debtors: in the commercial real estate sector, charges over the properties being financed: and 200 Credit quality of loans and advances comparing performance and delinquency statistics Audited with historical trends and assessing the impact of current economic conditions.
HSBCs credit risk rating systems and processes differentiate exposures in order to highlight those Individually assessed impairment allowances with greater risk factors and higher potential severity of loss.
For individually significant accounts, risk These are determined by evaluating exposure to loss, ratings are reviewed regularly and amendments, case by case, on all individually significant accounts where necessary, are implemented promptly.
Within and all other accounts that do not qualify for the the Groups retail portfolios, risk is assessed and collective assessment approach outlined below.
managed using a wide range of risk and pricing Loans are treated as impaired as soon as there is models.
objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The criteria used by HSBC to determine For many years, HSBC has deployed a seventhat there is such objective evidence include, grade rating system based on a composite inter alia: assessment of the likelihood and extent of delinquency and risk mitigation for details, known cash flow difficulties experienced by the see page 224. borrower: This legacy risk rating scale is being superseded past due contractual payments of either principal by a more sophisticated and granular methodology, or interest: based on probability of default and loss estimates, breach of loan covenants or conditions: compliant with an internal ratings-based IRB approach required to support the Basel II framework the probability that the borrower will enter for calculating the Groups minimum capital bankruptcy or other financial realisation: and requirement.
The integration of this framework into a significant downgrading in credit rating by an reporting structures will enable Board and regulatory external credit rating agency.
reporting on the new basis in accordance with the Groups IRB obligations.
The new framework is In determining the level of allowances on such well embedded in the Groups principal operating accounts, the following factors are typically entities.
considered: HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: Impairment assessment Audited the viability of the customers business model and their capacity to trade successfully out of When impairment losses occur, HSBC reduces the financial difficulties, generating sufficient cash carrying amount of loans and advances and held-toflow to service debt obligations: maturity financial investments through the use of an allowance account.
When impairment of availablethe ability of the borrower to obtain, and make for-sale financial assets occurs, the carrying amount payments in, the currency of the loan if not of the asset is reduced directly.
denominated in local currency: Two types of impairment allowance are in place: the amount and timing of expected receipts and individually assessed and collectively assessed, as recoveries: discussed below.
the extent of other creditors commitments Impairment allowances may be assessed and ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and created either for individually significant accounts the likelihood of other creditors continuing to or, on a collective basis, for groups of individually support the company: significant accounts for which no evidence of the complexity of determining the aggregate impairment has been individually identified or for amount and ranking of all creditor claims and high-volume groups of homogeneous loans that are the extent to which legal and insurance not considered individually significant.
uncertainties are evident: It is HSBCs policy that each operating the value of security and likelihood of company creates allowances for impaired loans successfully realising it: promptly and on a consistent basis.
the existence of other credit mitigants and the Management regularly evaluates the adequacy ability of the providers of such credit mitigants of the established allowances for impaired loans by to deliver as contractually committed: and conducting a detailed review of the loan portfolio, 201 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit risk management Exposure when available, the secondary market price of The period between a loss occurring and its the debt.
identification is estimated by local management for each identified portfolio.
In general, the periods used The level of impairment allowances on vary between four and twelve months although, in individually significant accounts that are above exceptional cases, longer periods are warranted.
defined materiality thresholds is reviewed at least semi-annually, and more regularly when The basis on which impairment allowances for circumstances require.
This normally encompasses incurred but not yet identified losses is established in re-assessment of the enforceability of any collateral each reporting entity is documented and reviewed by held and of actual and anticipated receipts.
For senior Finance and Credit Risk management to significant commercial and corporate debts, ensure conformity with Group policy.
specialised loan work-out teams with experience in insolvency and specific market sectors are used to Homogeneous groups of loans manage the lending and assess likely losses.
Two methodologies are used to calculate impairment Individually assessed impairment allowances allowances where large numbers of relatively loware only released when there is reasonable and value assets are managed using a portfolio approach, objective evidence of a reduction in the established typically: loss estimate.
low-value, homogeneous small business accounts in certain countries or territories: Collectively assessed impairment allowances residential mortgages that have not been Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two individually assessed: circumstances: credit cards and other unsecured consumer to cover losses that have been incurred but have lending products: and not yet been identified on loans subject to individual assessment: and motor vehicle financing.
for homogeneous groups of loans that are not When appropriate empirical information is considered individually significant.
available, the Group uses roll rate methodology.
This employs a statistical analysis of historical trends of Incurred but not yet identified impairment default and the amount of consequential loss, based on the delinquency of accounts within a portfolio of Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of homogeneous accounts.
Other historical data and impairment has been specifically identified on an current economic conditions are also evaluated when individual basis are grouped together according to calculating the appropriate level of impairment their credit risk characteristics.
A collective allowance required to cover inherent loss.
In certain impairment allowance is calculated to reflect highly developed markets, models also take into impairment losses incurred at the balance sheet date account behavioural and account management trends which will only be individually identified in the revealed in, for example, bankruptcy and future.
The collective impairment allowance is When the portfolio size is small, or when determined having taken into account: information is insufficient or not reliable enough to historical loss experience in portfolios of similar adopt a roll rate methodology, a formulaic approach credit risk characteristics for example, by is used that allocates progressively higher percentage industry sector, risk rating or product segment : loss rates the longer a customers loan is overdue.
Loss rates reflect the discounted expected future the estimated period between impairment cash flows for a portfolio.
occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an Generally, historical experience is the most appropriate allowance against the individual objective and relevant information from which to loan: and begin to assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In circumstances where historical loss experience managements experienced judgement as to provides less relevant information about the inherent whether current economic and credit conditions loss in a given portfolio at the balance sheet date are such that the actual level of inherent losses is for example, where there have been changes in likely to be greater or less than that suggested by economic conditions or regulations management historical experience.
considers the more recent trends in the portfolio risk 202 factors which may not be adequately reflected in its countrys financing requirements.
Political factors statistical models and, subject to guidance from taken into account include the stability of the country Group Finance and Group Risk, adjusts impairment and its government, threats to security, and the allowances accordingly.
quality and independence of the legal system.
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of Impairment allowances are assessed in respect future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against of all qualifying exposures within these countries actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
unless these exposures and the inherent risks are: performing, trade-related and of less than one Write-off of loans and advances years maturity: Loans are normally written off, either partially or in mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, full, when there is no realistic prospect of further other than in exceptional cases, held outside the recovery.
Where loans are secured, this is generally country concerned: after receipt of any proceeds from the realisation of security.
in the form of securities held for trading purposes for which a liquid and active market In the case of residential mortgages and second exists, and which are measured at fair value lien loans in HSBC Finance, loan carrying amounts daily: in excess of net realisable value are written off at or before the time foreclosure is completed or when performing facilities with principal excluding settlement is reached with the borrower.
If security of US$1 million or below: or foreclosure is not pursued, and there is no reasonable performing facilities with maturity dates shorter expectation of recovery, the loan is normally written than three months.
off no later than the end of the month in which the loan becomes 240 days contractually past due.
Credit exposure Unsecured personal facilities, including credit Maximum exposure to credit risk cards, are generally written off at between 150 and Audited 210 days past due, the standard period being the end HSBCs exposure to credit risk is spread over of the month in which the account becomes 180 days several asset classes, including trading assets, loans contractually delinquent.
This period may be to customers, loans to banks and financial extended, generally to 300 days past due but in no investments.
Recently, loss experience has mainly event exceeding 360 days past due, in the case of a affected personal lending portfolios.
Thus, in 2007, small proportion of HSBC Finances cards business 94 per cent of loan impairment charges arose in and unsecured personal facilities other than credit Personal Financial Services, broadly in line with cards.
Cases of write-off periods exceeding 360 days The deterioration of credit conditions in the past due are few but arise, for example, in a few US mortgage market was the most significant factor countries where local regulation or legislation affecting HSBCs exposure to credit risk during constrain earlier write-off, or where the realisation of 2007.
A full discussion of this issue can be found collateral for secured real estate lending takes place in the commentary on Areas of Special Interest on at this time.
In the event of bankruptcy or analogous The following table presents the maximum proceedings, write-off can occur earlier than at the exposure to credit risk of balance sheet and offperiods stated above.
Collections procedures may balance sheet financial instruments, before taking continue after write-off.
account of any collateral held or other credit enhancements unless such credit enhancements meet Cross-border exposures offsetting requirements as set out in Note 2m on the Management assesses the vulnerability of countries Financial Statements.
For financial assets recognised to foreign currency payment restrictions when on the balance sheet, the exposure to credit risk considering impairment allowances on cross-border equals their carrying amount.
This assessment includes an analysis of guarantees granted, the maximum exposure to credit the economic and political factors existing at the risk is the maximum amount that HSBC would have time.
Economic factors include the level of external to pay if the guarantees were called upon.
For loan indebtedness, the debt service burden and access to commitments and other credit-related commitments external sources of funds to meet the debtor that are irrevocable over the life of the respective 203 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Exposure facilities, the maximum exposure to credit risk Note 18 on the Financial Statements gives more is the full amount of the committed facilities.
information on credit risk exposure to derivatives counterparties.
In addition to those amounts, there is a further maximum possible exposure to credit risk of US$317,834 million 2006: US$464,984 million, reflecting the full take-up of such irrevocable loan commitments.
The take-up of such offers is generally at modest levels.
Concentration of exposure of HSBCs loan portfolio and 23 per cent of the Audited growth in loans in 2007.
Concentrations of credit risk exist when a number of Including the financial sector and settlement counterparties are engaged in similar activities, or accounts, personal lending represented operate in the same geographical areas or industry US$501 billion, or 50 per cent, of total loans sectors and have comparable economic and advances to customers at 31 December 2007. characteristics, so that their ability to meet Within this total, residential mortgages were contractual obligations is uniformly affected by US$269 billion and, at 27 per cent of total advances changes in economic, political or other conditions.
to customers, comprised the Groups largest single sectoral concentration.
Loans and advances Unaudited Corporate, commercial and financial lending, including settlement accounts, amounted to 50 per Loans and advances were well diversified across cent of gross lending to customers at 31 December industry sectors and jurisdictions.
The largest industry concentrations were in At constant exchange rates, gross loans and non-bank financial institutions and commercial real advances to customers excluding the financial estate lending at 10 per cent and 7 per cent, sector and settlement accounts grew by respectively, of total gross lending to customers.
US$55 billion or 7 per cent during 2007.
On the Lending to non-bank financial institutions same basis, personal lending comprised 56 per cent 204 principally comprises secured lending on trading The insurance businesses held diversified accounts, primarily repo facilities.
portfolios of debt and equity securities designated at fair value 2007: US$34 billion: 2006: Commercial, industrial and international US$18 billion and debt securities classified as trade lending grew strongly in 2007, rising by a financial investments 2007: US$23 billion: 2006: percentage point to 20 per cent of total gross loans US$10 billion.
The increase was due to the and advances to customers.
Within this category, the acquisition of HSBCs partners share in HSBC largest concentration of lending was to the service Assurances.
sector, which amounted to 6 per cent of total gross lending to customers.
A more detailed analysis of securities held by the insurance businesses is set out on page 276.
Advances to banks primarily represent amounts owing on trading account and HSBCs placing of its Securities held for trading own liquidity on short-term deposit.
Such lending Unaudited was widely distributed across major institutions, Total securities held for trading within trading assets with no single exposure exceeding 5 per cent of total were US$247 billion at 31 December 2007 2006: advances to banks.
The largest concentration of these assets was government and government agency Financial investments securities, which amounted to US$115 billion, or Unaudited 46 per cent of overall trading securities 2006: At US$270 billion, total financial investments, US$94 billion, 46 per cent.
This included excluding equity securities, were 38 per cent higher US$16 billion 2006: US$22 billion of treasury and at 31 December 2007 than at the end of 2006.
Corporate debt and other securities, at US$240 billion, represented the largest securities were US$60 billion or 24 per cent of concentration of financial investments at 89 per cent overall trading securities, 9 percentage points lower of the total, compared with US$171 billion 87 per than 2006s level of 33 per cent at US$67 billion.
HSBCs holdings of Included within total securities held for trading were corporate debt, asset-backed securities and other US$70 billion 2006: US$36 billion of debt securities were spread across a wide range of issuers securities issued by banks and other financial and geographical regions, with 50 per cent invested institutions.
in securities issued by banks and other financial institutions.
The principal movement in financial A more detailed analysis of securities held for investments in 2007 represented the consolidation of trading is set out in Note 16 on the Financial HSBC-sponsored SIVs together with certain debt Statements and an analysis by Rating Agency securities purchased from the Groups money market designation is provided on page 215. funds as noted on page 186 Financial assets net exposure to credit risk Investments in governments and government Audited agencies of US$92 billion were 33 per cent of In respect of certain financial assets, HSBC has overall financial investments, 5 percentage points legally enforceable rights to offset them with lower than in 2006.
US$30 billion of these financial liabilities.
In normal circumstances, investments comprised treasury and other eligible however, there would be no intention of settling net, bills.
or of realising the financial assets and settling the A more detailed analysis of financial financial liabilities simultaneously.
Consequently, investments is set out in Note 19 on the Financial the financial assets are not offset against the Statements and an analysis by Rating Agency respective financial liabilities for financial reporting designation is provided on page 215. purposes.
2 Other personal loans and advances include second lien mortgages and other property-related lending.
3 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
206 Year ended 31 December 2007 compared The write-off of impaired loans also contributed with year ended 31 December 2006 to the decline in residential mortgage balances.
Unaudited Balances elsewhere in the consumer lending business increased by 9 per cent.
In the fourth The following commentary analyses, on a constant quarter of 2007, management took a further series currency basis, the changes in lending noted in of actions to limit originations in the branch-based the table above compared with the position at consumer lending business in respect of mortgage 31 December 2006.
Loans and advances to personal, lending, which resulted in fewer new loans in the corporate and commercial customers rose by 7 per quarter and will markedly limit growth in this area cent, and total gross loans and advances grew by for the foreseeable future.
In Canada, mortgage 12 per cent.
There was a marked change in the balances rose by 7 per cent, driven by the buoyant distribution of net new lending in 2007 with personal Canadian residential property market and continued lending growing significantly slower than corporate expansion of the branch network.
and commercial lending, primarily as a consequence of curtailing loan growth in US consumer finance.
Mortgage lending balances rose by 10 per cent in Rest of Asia-Pacific, with increases in the Middle Total lending to personal customers remained East and Singapore partly offset by the sale of the predominantly in North America 2007: New Zealand mortgage loan portfolio in July 2007.
US$231 billion: 2006: US$232 billion, the UK 2007: US$128 billion: 2006: US$131 billion In Latin America, balances increased by 18 per and Hong Kong 2007: US$43 billion: 2006: cent, driven by rises of 23 per cent and 31 per cent in US$39 billion.
These three regions comprised Mexico and Brazil, respectively.
80 per cent of total personal lending, a decline of Other personal lending increased by 7 per 3 percentage points since 31 December 2006. cent to US$232 billion at 31 December 2007, Residential mortgages fell marginally to representing 23 per cent of total loans and advances US$269 billion at 31 December 2007, 27 per cent to customers, including the financial sector and 2006: 30 per cent of total loans and advances to settlement accounts 2006: 24 per cent.
customers including the finance sector and In Europe, other personal lending rose by 4 per settlement accounts.
A reduction in the US cent to US$73 billion.
Strong growth in lending to mortgage loan portfolio was partly offset by Private Banking clients in Switzerland, rising by increases in Europe, Hong Kong, Rest of Asia- 50 per cent, a 42 per cent rise in Turkey and a 7 per Pacific and Latin America.
cent rise in France were partly offset by a 7 per cent In Europe, residential mortgage balances rose by decline in the UK as HSBC curtailed growth through 1 per cent to US$96 billion.
In France, mortgage tightened underwriting criteria.
Also in the UK, lending grew by 11 per cent to US$6 billion, despite HSBC disposed of part of its non-core credit card increasing competition, due to strong customer portfolio, principally the Marbles brand, at the end demand.
In Turkey, strong growth of 13 per cent was of 2007. driven by the expansion of the branch network.
In Hong Kong, other personal lending rose by Mortgage lending in the UK was flat, with risk 29 per cent to US$13 billion as HSBC launched a appetite restricted as margins on mortgage lending series of credit card campaigns that consolidated the fell.
There was also a shift in the portfolio towards Groups position as market leader.
In Hong Kong, residential mortgage balances In Rest of Asia-Pacific, other personal lending rose by 3 per cent as a result of a buoyant economy.
increased by 19 per cent as branch expansion and In North America, residential mortgage balances enhanced marketing activity led to higher loan decreased by 6 per cent.
In the US, the level of balances.
Credit cards in circulation rose, with the mortgage lending stood at US$99 billion, a decline Middle East and India, in particular, producing of 8 per cent since 31 December 2006.
the mortgage services business fell by 27 per cent as In North America, other personal lending the strategy to run down the book of business balances rose by 2 per cent.
In the US, asset levels originated through correspondents was put into remained broadly unchanged despite a significant effect.
The rundown was carried out through decline in second lien mortgage balances.
Unsecured repayments in the normal course of business, as well personal lending in HSBC Finance fell, offset by a as the sale of loans to third party investors and the rise at HSBCs US retail bank and strong growth in cessation of all remaining origination following the card balances from the momentum created by closure of the wholesale activities of Decision One.
207 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Exposure marketing initiatives in late 2006.
In Canada, other balances increased by 24 per cent.
In the US, loan personal lending balances rose by 23 per cent, with growth in Commercial Banking resulted primarily strong growth in both the consumer finance and from strong activity in middle market lending, retail bank lending portfolios.
despite a slowdown in commercial real estate activity.
2007 saw an extension of middle market In Latin America, other personal lending activities in Chicago, Washington DC and the West balances rose by 34 per cent to US$17 billion, due to Coast as HSBC continued its branch expansion growth in credit cards and payroll loans.
Global Banking and Markets funded where marketing campaigns added customers and a number of facilities in connection with its portfolio management programmes were put in place participation on leveraged and acquisition finance to improve customer retention and card usage, the syndicates, which added to loan balance growth in strong growth in credit card balances drove a 41 per the US.
In Canada, lending balances rose against the cent rise in lending.
In Brazil, other personal lending backdrop of strong economic growth, particularly in balances increased by 28 per cent.
Loans and advances to corporate and Corporate and commercial lending in Latin commercial customers increased by 12 per cent to America rose by 6 per cent as HSBC expanded its US$401 billion 2006: US$358 billion, with strong network of International Banking Centres and growth in most regions.
launched new initiatives to gain customers in the In Europe, corporate and commercial advances small and micro-business segments.
In Mexico, rose by 10 per cent.
In the UK, asset balances rose volumes grew in commercial real estate lending, by 8 per cent as investment in direct sales channels trade and factoring.
The loan portfolio in Brazil grew and the recruitment of sales staff led to increased strongly, led by increases in volumes in the giro facil customer numbers.
In France, lending balances product, guaranteed account, rural loans and working increased by 12 per cent as HSBC continued to capital financing.
Loans and advances to the financial sector In Hong Kong, HSBC achieved growth in rose by 53 per cent to US$99 billion.
The increase corporate commercial lending of 3 per cent, due to was primarily due to Europe, up 45 per cent, in line increased demand for loans from manufacturers with with the strategy to expand the capital-efficient operations in mainland China, and for other intraclient-driven reverse repo business.
America, lending to the financial sector rose by 65 per cent, due to substantial growth in balances In Rest of Asia-Pacific, the corporate and with securities brokers and other financial commercial loan book increased by 29 per cent as institutions, as excess liquidity was invested in expanded operations helped to gain new business.
reverse repos rather than Fed funds.
Strong growth was recorded in many countries, including South Korea 42 per cent, India 34 per Loans and advances to banks increased by cent and mainland China 83 per cent.
HSBC set 23 per cent to US$237 billion.
Lending to banks in up new International Banking Centres, increased its Hong Kong rose by 27 per cent and in Rest of Asiabranch network and launched enhanced online Pacific by 39 per cent, due to growth in customer banking services throughout the region.
In the deposits across the region and increase in money Middle East, new relationship managers were hired market placements.
In Europe, lending to banks rose in the UAE, and HSBC entered the small business by 28 per cent, due to project and money market segment in Bahrain, Qatar and Jordan.
In mainland loans in the UK and reverse repo lending in France.
China, local incorporation helped increase lending as The following tables analyse loans by industry the branch network expanded.
HSBC was the first sector and by the location of the principal operations international bank to set up a rural branch, targeting of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the businesses in the agricultural sector.
In India, the operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking addition of new staff in the branch network helped Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East lift lending balances.
and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending In North America, corporate and commercial branch.
2 Other commercial loans and advances include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$82,854 million.
2,934 148 590 3,825 1,025 8,522 Impairment allowances on impaired loans as a percentage 4 of impaired loans.................... 50.2% 32.6% 49.8% 79.3% 69.4% 61.8% 1 Includes Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$4,078 million.
3 Includes credit card lending of US$74,518 million.
4 Disclosures previously made in respect of 2006 have been amended to comply with 2007s presentation by excluding collective impairment allowances on loans and advances not classified as impaired.
2,515 185 566 3,073 872 7,211 Impairment allowances on impaired loans as a percentage 4 of impaired loans.................... 49.6% 36.6% 60.5% 82.8% 71.1% 63.0% 1 Includes Hong Kong Government Home Ownership Scheme loans of US$4,680 million.
3 Includes credit card lending of US$66,020 million.
4 Disclosures previously made in respect of 2005 have been amended to comply with 2007s presentation by excluding collective impairment allowances on loans and advances not classified as impaired.
3 Includes credit card lending of US$56,222 million.
5 Included in North America are non-performing loans of US$3,020 million and specific provisions of US$3,443 million in HSBC Finance: excluding HSBC Finance, specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non-performing loans was 54.6 per cent.
2 Figures presented in this table were prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
3 Other commercial loans include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
4 Includes credit card lending of US$48,634 million.
6 Included in North America are non-performing loans of US$4,335 million and specific provisions of US$4,448 million in HSBC Finance: excluding HSBC Finance, specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non-performing loans was 69.2 per cent.
Debt securities with short-term designation ratings are reported against the long-term rating of Audited the issuer of the short-term debt securities.
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same The following table presents an analysis by rating debt securities, the securities are reported against the agency designation of debt and similar securities, lower rating.
215 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Areas of special interest Areas of special interest The commentary that follows is on a constant currency basis.
Personal lending Unaudited At 31 December 2007, total personal lending was US$501 billion, a rise of 3 per cent from HSBC provides a broad range of secured and 31 December 2006. unsecured personal lending products to meet customer needs.
Given the diverse nature of the In 2007, loan impairment charges were markets in which HSBC operates, the range is not primarily in personal lending, representing 94 per standardised in all countries but, along with the cent of the total charge.
The three largest distribution channels used, is tailored to meet the components were Personal Financial Services in demands of individual markets, while using North America 69 per cent, the UK 11 per cent common global IT platforms wherever possible.
and Latin America 9 per cent.
Personal lending includes advances to HSBC recorded strong growth in Latin customers for asset purchase, including residential America, with gross loans and advances to property and motor vehicles, where such lending is personal customers rising by 31 per cent to typically secured on the assets to be acquired.
Residential mortgage lending in HSBC also offers loans secured on existing assets, the region increased by 18 per cent, while other such as first and second liens on residential personal lending rose by 34 per cent.
property: unsecured lending products such as In Mexico, HSBCs other personal lending overdrafts, credit cards and payroll loans: and debt balances grew by 41 per cent in 2007 to consolidation loans which may be secured or US$5 billion, predominantly from growth in credit unsecured.
In the same period, loan impairment Various underwriting controls are applied charges rose by US$574 million or 351 per cent, before the loan is issued, and loss in the event of driven by strong growth in loan balances, a delinquency is managed through collection and deterioration in credit quality and portfolio customer management procedures.
occurrence and degree of delinquency varies The credit quality of the US personal lending according to the type of loan and the customer portfolio is discussed more fully below.
Delinquency levels tend to increase in the credit conditions were relatively benign, with loan course of normal portfolio ageing.
As a result, loan impairment charges unchanged from 2006. impairment charges usually relate to lending originated in earlier accounting periods.
216 US personal lending before resetting to a higher rate once the introductory Unaudited period is over.
These include ARMs, loans in which the interest rate is periodically changed based on an Total US personal lending fell by 4 per cent to index.
Residential mortgage balances were US$99 billion, a decline of HSBC has not offered, and does not anticipate 8 per cent, due to the continued run-down of the offering, ARMs with alternative payment options or correspondent portfolio in mortgage services, the other negative amortisation products.
closure of the Decision One wholesale channel and Affordability mortgages are primarily offered in tightened underwriting criteria in the branch-based the US and the UK.
Under the HFC and Beneficial consumer lending business, which curtailed growth.
brands, HSBC Finance offers a range of products Card balances rose by 8 per cent to and delivery channels designed for the needs of US$50 billion, but underlying growth slowed in the customers with non-standard or less favourable latter part of the year following the decision to credit profiles.
In the US, such mortgages reduce marketing and promotional activity in line experienced heightened levels of delinquency in late with reduced risk appetite, as the US economy 2006 and 2007.
As a result, HSBC Finance took a weakened.
Motor vehicle finance loans rose by series of steps designed to curtail mortgage lending: 1 per cent to US$13 billion, driven by strong growth the mortgage services business ceased acquiring new in the direct-to-consumer channel, partly offset by a mortgages: the consumer lending business halted its flat performance from participating dealerships in small volume of ARM loan originations, tightened the difficult economic environment.
underwriting criteria and loan-to-income requirements, and reduced loan-to-value ratios Other personal lending fell by 9 per cent for first and second lien loans.
These measures to US$38 million due to tightening of underwriting reduced HSBC Finances mortgage balances to criteria and a reduction in direct mail campaigns.
US$91 billion at 31 December 2007 2006: US$99 billion as set out in the table below.
Mortgage lending products Unaudited In the UK, affordability mortgages stood at US$35 billion at 31 December 2007, compared with The Group offers a wide range of mortgage products US$33 billion at 31 December 2006.
Overall credit designed to meet customer needs.
This includes quality improved following measures taken in the capital or principal repayment mortgages subject to recent past to tighten underwriting standards and fixed or variable interest rates, and products improve the credit quality of new business.
designed to meet demand for housing loans with Delinquency rates on mortgages in the UK offered more flexible payment structures.
HSBC underwrites through HSBC Finance remained stable throughout first lien residential mortgages and loans secured by 2007, with delinquency rates for loans offered in second lien mortgages: the latter are reported within 2006 and 2007 lower than in the preceding two Other personal lending in the market sector years.
The bulk of the mortgage lending products sold in the US consumer lending In the rest of the UK business, loan impairment branch network are for refinancing and debt charges in the second half of 2007 were lower than consolidation, rather than for house purchase.
in the first half of the year, as overall credit quality improved following recent measures to tighten Interest-only mortgages are those where underwriting standards and improve the credit customers make regular payments of interest during quality of new business.
Although losses from the life of the loan and repay the principal from the mortgage lending remained low, maximum sale of their home or alternative sources of funds loan-to-value ratios were reduced during the year such as an endowment or other investment policy.
to mitigate the effects of a possible housing market Introductory interest-only mortgages are where the downturn.
interest-only element is for a fixed term at the start of the loan, after which principal repayments The following table shows the levels of commence.
2 Total mortgage lending includes residential mortgages and second lien mortgage lending reported within Other personal lending.
4 Some mortgage lending products are included in more than one, or none, of the types of mortgage specified in this table.
5 Negative equity arises when the value of the loan exceeds the value of available equity, and is generally based on values at origination date.
6 Loan to value ratios are generally based on values at origination date.
HSBC Finance mortgage lending compared with the end of 2006.
In the consumer Unaudited lending business, adjustable-rate loans fell by 16 per cent to US$3 billion following the decision to HSBC Finance held approximately US$91 billion of cease the sale of these products in August 2007. residential mortgage loans and advances to personal customers at 31 December 2007, 18 per cent of the Second lien loans extended through the Groups gross loans and advances to personal mortgage services business decreased by 33 per customers.
cent to US$7 billion, while the consumer lending business recorded a 6 per cent increase to At 31 December 2007, the balance outstanding US$7 billion.
of introductory interest-only loans in the US mortgage services business was US$4 billion, The balance of HSBC Finances stated-income compared with US$6 billion in 2006, a decline of mortgages was approximately US$8.3 billion at the 36 per cent.
No such loans were advanced in the end of 2007 2006: US$11.8 billion, all of which consumer lending business.
were held by mortgage services.
The consumer lending business did not originate any stated-income The outstanding balance of ARMs in the US mortgages in either period.
mortgage services business at 31 December 2007 was US$16 billion, a decrease of 41 per cent, 218 1 HSBC Finance mortgage lending Unaudited 2 Year ended 31 December 2007 Year ended 31 December 2006 Year ended 31 December 2005 Other Other Other Mortgage Consumer mortgage Mortgage Consumer mortgage Mortgage Consumer mortgage 3 3 3 services lending lending services lending lending services lending lending US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Fixed-rate............... 20,146 47,254 2,597 22,358 42,378 2,210 20,088 36,187 1,642 Adjustable-rate and introductory rate.
2 Restated to show HSBC Finance management basis, consistent with the current year.
3 Includes balances in the UK and Canada.
US personal lending credit quality Unaudited In 2007, a cycle of declining house prices, reduced options for customers.
This created particular availability of mortgage finance and growing problems for borrowers with affordability mortgages customer delinquency and default caused a who faced a considerable increase in their monthly deterioration in credit quality of increasing intensity.
repayments at the end of their discounted introductory periods.
Housing markets in a large part of the US have been affected by a broad-based slowdown in the rate Within HSBCs portfolio, the rise in of appreciation in property values, with actual delinquencies, first reported in 2006 in the sub-prime declines in many markets, including California, second lien mortgages within the mortgage services Florida and Arizona, where earlier price increases business, spread initially to other parts of mortgage had been significant.
The S&P Case-Shiller 10-City services, then to the branch-based consumer lending Composite Index showed a record decline in house business and, in the closing months of the year, to prices of 8.4 per cent in the year to November 2007. the credit card business as the US economy weakened and credit availability contracted.
There was a high degree of correlation between the increase in delinquency throughout 2007 and Loans originated in 2005, 2006 and early 2007 declining house prices.
Two months or more experienced worse credit performance than earlier delinquencies rose most rapidly in those states vintages.
The highest delinquency rates were in which, prior to 2007, demonstrated superior credit second lien loans whose borrowers also had first lien performance, the greatest rate of appreciation and the loans that were ARMs.
In addition, a significant number of second lien The rising level of delinquencies led investors to customers had underlying ARMs that faced repricing question the reliability of credit ratings, not only for in the near term.
As the interest rate adjustments residential mortgage-backed securities but for a wide occurred in an environment of lower house prices range of structured credit products.
Investors became and tightening credit, the probability of default was increasingly unwilling to purchase securitised credit, greater than generally experienced prior to 2007. leading to a sharp contraction in flows of credit Second lien loans have a heightened risk through the affected channels.
The exit of a number profile, for the reasons noted above.
complete the purchase of the property.
Starting in the fourth quarter of 2006, lien mortgages, the proportion of customers two delinquencies began to rise in loans of 2005 and months or more behind on contractual payments later vintages, to levels above what had been rose from 3.97 per cent at 31 December 2006 to previously experienced.
This trend was also seen in 9.02 per cent at the end of 2007.
Loss on default of the rest of the industry.
It is clear that, for some second lien loans approaches 100 per cent of the time, equity withdrawal has been the principal amount owed as any collateral in the property is source of credit available to sub-prime borrowers applied initially to the first lien loan.
dealing with unforeseen financial needs.
Declining house prices and an industry-wide tightening of Stated-income mortgages are also of above underwriting criteria have significantly reduced the average risk as these were underwritten on the basis ability of consumers to refinance.
Starting from the of borrowers representations of annual income, not third quarter, these factors had a marked effect on verified by receipt of supporting documentation.
Two months or HSBC Finance mortgage services, two months or more delinquencies rose from 2.22 per cent at more delinquency rates on stated-income loans rose 31 December 2006 to 4.18 per cent of loans and from 6.36 per cent at 31 December 2006 to advances at the end of 2007.
Delinquent balances 19.01 per cent at 31 December 2007.
In part, the doubled to US$2.1 billion.
In this environment, percentage rise is due to a decline in loan balances HSBC took steps to tighten underwriting standards, as the mortgage loan portfolio is run off.
including decreasing the loan to value ratio for In mortgage services, the deterioration in credit residential mortgages and ceasing to underwrite performance first reported in 2006 continued.
To match the consequent the second half of 2007, credit quality became reduction in demand and risk appetite, the network progressively worse due to the market conditions was reduced from nearly 1,400 branches to some discussed above.
Two months or more 1,000. delinquencies increased from US$2.3 billion, HSBC also sold parts of the loan portfolio 4.64 per cent of loans and advances at the end when opportunities arose at suitable valuations.
In of 2006, to US$4.1 billion, 11.24 per cent at the first half of 2007, a total of US$2.7 billion of 31 December 2007.
The increase in the mortgage services loans that did not include any delinquency rate was partly due to the reduction loans 30 days or more delinquent were sold.
in the size of the portfolio.
Credit card delinquencies of two months or In response, HSBC took several management more rose from 4.48 per cent at the end of 2006 to actions to reposition the US consumer business.
5.68 per cent of receivables at 31 December 2007.
In March 2007, it took the decision to cease In part, this was due to a change in product mix, as purchasing mortgages from third party originations in the sub-prime and near-prime parts correspondents.
In September 2007, the Group of the portfolio grew at faster rates than the overall closed its wholesale business, Decision One, portfolio.
There was also an increase in bankruptcy ending new originations for the mortgage rates as levels moved closer to historical norms services business.
following the exceptionally low level of filings The branch-based consumer lending business seen during 2006.
Additionally, in the fourth experienced relatively stable performance in its quarter of 2007, delinquencies began to rise in all portfolio throughout 2006 and into the first half of vintages, particularly in the markets experiencing 220 the greatest home value depreciation, driven by As a result, in 2007 HSBC has modified more rising unemployment rates in these markets and a than 8,500 loans with an aggregate balance of more weakening US economy.
In vehicle finance, two months or more In 2007, approximately US$4.5 billion of delinquencies moved from 3.16 per cent at the end ARM loans reached their first interest rate reset.
The In 2008, approximately US$6.5 billion of ARMs increased delinquency in the vehicle finance will reach their first interest rate reset, of which portfolio was not as severe as has been experienced US$2.8 billion relates to HSBC Bank USA and elsewhere in the industry.
In 2007, the vehicle US$3.7 billion to HSBC Finance.
Within the latter, finance business tightened underwriting criteria in US$2.7 billion is in mortgage services, the both the dealer and direct-to-consumer channels, to remainder in consumer lending.
ARMs in HSBC convert the mix of new loans to a higher credit Bank USA are largely prime balances.
rates are expected to continue to rise in 2008, as the limiting of originations means that the portfolio HSBC has been proactive in reaching out to will mostly be running off.
A deterioration in customers to provide financial counselling and economic conditions and the housing market would assist them in restructuring their debts to avoid also increase delinquencies.
As a consequence, HSBC restructured and modified loans that it believed could be Loan delinquency in the US serviced, in line with local policies.
In particular, Unaudited customers with ARM loans approaching the first The following tables provide a detailed analysis of reset were contacted in order to assess their ability loan delinquency in the US.
to make the higher payments and, where appropriate, to refinance or modify their loans.
Mortgage services balances for the second half of 2006 and the first half of 2007 have been restated due to a reclassification of assets between foreclosed and second lien.
2 In December 2006, the vehicle finance business changed its write-off policy to provide that the principal balance of vehicle loans in excess of the estimated net realisable value will be written off 30 days previously 90 days after the financed vehicle has been repossessed if it remains unsold, unless it becomes 150 days contractually delinquent, at which time such excess will be written off.
This resulted in a one-time acceleration of write-offs totalling US$24 million in December 2006.
In connection with this policy change, the vehicle finance business also changed its methodology for reporting two months and over contractual delinquency to include loan balances associated with repossessed vehicles which have not yet been written down to net realisable value.
This resulted in an increase of 42 basis points to the vehicle finance delinquency ratio and an increase of 3 basis points to the total consumer delinquency ratio.
3 Expressed as a percentage of loans and advances in Personal Financial Services in the US.
4.18 3.21 2.34 2.21 2.22 1.93 1.86 2.00 1 Consumer lending balances for the first three quarters of 2006 have been restated due to a reclassification of balances between first lien and second lien.
2 Expressed as a percentage of loans and advances in Personal Financial Services in the US.
Country distribution of outstandings and HSBCs total assets.
The classification is based on cross-border exposures the country of residence of the borrower but also Unaudited recognises the transfer of country risk in respect of third party guarantees, eligible collateral held and HSBC controls the risk associated with cross-border residence of the head office when the borrower is a lending, essentially that foreign currency will not be branch.
In accordance with the Bank of England made available to local residents to make payments, Country Exposure Report Form CE guidelines, through a centralised structure of internal country outstandings comprise loans and advances limits which are determined by taking into account excluding settlement accounts, amounts receivable relevant economic and political factors.
Exposures to under finance leases, acceptances, commercial bills, individual countries and cross-border exposure in CDs and debt and equity securities net of short aggregate are kept under continual review.
positions, and exclude accrued interest and The following table summarises the aggregate intra-HSBC exposures.
of between 0.75 per cent and 1.0 per cent of total Loans and advances that were neither past due assets.
The aggregate in-country foreign currency nor impaired decreased marginally to 94.4 per cent and cross-border outstandings were: Hong Kong, 2006: 94.9 per cent of total loans and advances.
US$19.7 billion: Belgium, US$19.3 billion and Among these, however, those classified as grades Ireland, US$19.3 billion.
1-3 satisfactory risk increased to 96.0 per cent At 31 December 2006, HSBC had in-country 2006: 92.9 per cent.
foreign currency and cross-border outstandings to The further deterioration in quality in, counterparties in Australia and Hong Kong of principally, US personal lending was reflected in an between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total assets.
increase in the proportion of loans and advances The aggregate in-country foreign currency and crossto customers which were past due, though not border outstandings were: Australia, US$17.5 billion: impaired, to 5.1 per cent 2006: 4.6 per cent, Hong Kong, US$15.5 billion.
The great majority of such At 31 December 2005, HSBC had in-country loans were in the band of past due up to 90 days.
foreign currency and cross-border outstandings to The credit quality of loans and advances to counterparties in Hong Kong, Australia and Canada banks remained broadly stable, showing overall a of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total marginal improvement on its already favourable assets.
The aggregate in-country foreign currency condition as at year-end 2006, and with a partial shift and cross-border outstandings were: Hong Kong, in the quality profile of neither past due nor impaired US$14.6 billion: Australia, US$12.5 billion: Canada, accounts being partly offset by a reduction in those US$11.7 billion.
Credit quality Details of impaired loans and advances to customers, which increased from 1.56 per cent to The following tables reflect, with the principal 1.83 per cent of total loans and advances to exception of developments in US personal portfolios customers, are commented on further below.
223 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit quality Loans and advances Loans and advances Distribution of loans and advances by credit quality Audited At 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2006 Loans and Loans and Loans and Loans and advances to advances to advances to advances to 1 customers banks customers banks US$m US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances: neither past due nor impaired 931,872 237,339 827,495 185,125 past due but not impaired...... 50,577 22 40,431 72 impaired. 18,304 12 13,785 15 1,000,753 237,373 881,711 185,212 1 The amounts reported in 2006 as past due but not impaired have been amended to include certain loans previously classified as neither past due nor impaired.
The reclassification reflects the fact that, while these loans are in early-stage arrears, a proportion arise from events unrelated to poor credit quality, and historical experience suggests that only a small percentage of such loans progresses through stages of delinquency to default.
This reclassification has no effect on total impaired loans or impairment allowances.
Distribution of loans and advances neither past due nor impaired Audited The credit quality of the portfolio of loans and credit risk grading system, on which the following advances that were neither past due nor impaired can information is based: be assessed by reference to the Groups legacy At 31 December 2007 At 31 December 2006 Loans and Loans and Loans and Loans and advances to advances to advances to advances to 1 1 customers banks customers banks US$m US$m US$m US$m Grades: 1 to 3 satisfactory risk 886,432 236,314 769,392 184,059 4 watch list and special mention 39,229 504 51,899 1,040 5 sub-standard but not impaired. 6,211 521 6,204 26 931,872 237,339 827,495 185,125 1 The majority of the loans and advances to customers that are operating within revised terms following restructuring, for details of which see Renegotiated loans below, are included in this table.
Grades 1 and 2 include corporate facilities Grades 6 or 7 represent impaired exposures.
demonstrating financial condition, risk factors and Loans and advances which are individually capacity to repay that are good to excellent, assessed for impairment are identified on an residential mortgages with low to moderate loan individual basis and classified as grades 6 or 7 when to value ratios and other retail accounts which are they are impaired.
It is not practicable to individually maintained within generally applicable product identify impaired loans and advances within parameters.
portfolios of homogeneous loans which are assessed Grade 3 represents satisfactory risk, and on a collective basis for impairment.
In practice, includes corporate facilities that require closer such loans and advances are not individually monitoring, mortgages with higher loan to value identified as impaired until the time each impaired ratios, credit card exposures and other retail loan is written off.
It is therefore necessary to exposures which operate outside generally estimate the carrying value of impaired loans and applicable product parameters without being advances within these portfolios.
The approach adopted by HSBC to estimate the Grades 4 and 5 include facilities that require carrying value of impaired loans and advances varying degrees of special attention and all retail within portfolios of homogeneous loans that are exposures that are progressively between 30 and collectively assessed for impairment, is to classify 90 days past due 60 days for US motor loans.
these loans and advances as impaired when the 224 balances are 90 days or more past due, except for US Loans and advances which were past due but not motor loans which are classified as impaired when impaired Audited 60 days or more past due.
These loans and advances are classified as grades 6 and 7.
All other Examples of exposures designated past due but not collectively assessed loans and advances, including considered impaired include loans that have missed those which are less than 90 days past due less than the most recent payment date but on which there is 60 days for US motor loans, are classified as not no evidence of impairment: loans fully secured by impaired and reported within grades 1 to 5. cash collateral: residential mortgages in arrears more Collective impairment allowances are recognised in than 90 days, but where the value of collateral is relation to losses that are likely to have been sufficient to repay both the principal debt and all incurred at the balance sheet date on which they are potential interest for at least one year: and short-term collectively assessed for impairment and classified trade facilities past due more than 90 days for loans in grades 1 to 5, representing a small technical reasons such as delays in documentation, percentage of the total loans and advances in but where there is no concern over the these grades.
This ageing analysis includes past due loans and have been assessed, though at their early stage of advances on which collective impairment allowances arrears there is no identifiable impairment as such.
Impaired loans and advances Audited At 31 December 2007 2006 US$m US$m Total impaired loans and advances to: banks 12 15 customers 18,304 13,785 18,316 13,800 Customer loans and advances and impairment allowances by geographical region Audited The table below presents an analysis of the assessed or collectively assessed, and an analysis of impairment allowances recognised for impaired collective impairment allowances on loans and loans and advances that are either individually advances classified as not impaired.
2 Impaired loans and advances are grades 6 and 7 by reference to the Groups legacy credit rating system.
3 Collectively assessed loans and advances not impaired are grades 1 to 5 by reference to the Groups legacy credit rating system.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared line with 31 December 2006. with year ended 31 December 2006 The commentary that follows compares Unaudited balances at 31 December 2007 with those at Total impaired loans to customers were 31 December 2006, at constant exchange rates.
US$18.3 billion at 31 December 2007, an increase of In Europe, impaired loans at US$6.3 billion 33 per cent since the end of 2006 28 per cent at were 2 per cent higher than at the end of 2006. constant currency.
Impaired loans were 2 per cent Higher impaired loans in France and Turkey were of gross customer loans and advances, broadly in 226 partly offset by a decline in the UK, where changes bulk of the change.
HSBC Finance experienced a in underwriting practices resulted in a fall in deterioration in credit quality in most of its lending personal unsecured lending in 2007. book, in particular for first and second lien mortgages originated in 2005 and 2006.
In the final In Hong Kong, impaired loans declined by quarter of the year, in line with the market, 4 per cent to US$433 million.
Credit conditions were delinquencies rose in the credit card portfolio, with a very favourable, reflecting the strong local economy smaller rise in vehicle finance loans.
A full and buoyant equity and property markets.
discussion of these developments and their effect on In Rest of Asia-Pacific, the decline in impaired credit quality is provided in the Areas of special loans of 11 per cent to US$1.1 billion was mainly interest commentary on page 216.
In Canada, driven by lower impaired loans in Taiwan following although impaired loans rose from a low base, credit the non-recurrence of the effect of regulatory conditions remained strong.
changes which, in 2006, led to a significant increase In Latin America, impaired loans increased by in impaired loans.
This was partly offset by a rise in 30 per cent to US$2.1 billion, primarily due to a rise impaired loans in India due to strong growth in of 76 per cent in impaired loans in Mexico.
due to portfolio growth, seasoning and higher In North America, HSBC recorded a delinquency rates on credit cards.
Revenues from 73 per cent increase in impaired loans to this growth in credit card lending more than covered US$8.4 billion at 31 December 2007.
The consumer the rise in impairment charges.
finance business in the US was responsible for the Individually impaired loans and advances to customers Audited Gross impaired % of total Rest of loans and gross Hong AsiaNorth Latin advances to impaired 1 Europe Kong Pacific America America customers loans US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % At 31 December 2007 Individually impaired loans and advances to customers: personal 1,073 178 225 68 4 1,548 23.9 commercial and corporate... 3,485 200 453 353 438 4,929 76.1 4,558 378 678 421 442 6,477 100.0 At 31 December 2006 Individually impaired loans and advances to customers: personal 975 231 118 173 1 1,498 25.7 commercial and corporate... 3,056 176 531 248 324 4,335 74.3 4,031 407 649 421 325 5,833 100.0 1 Gross impaired loans by industry sector as a percentage of total gross impaired loans.
Interest forgone on impaired loans opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure or Audited repossession.
Such activities include extended payment arrangements, approved external debt Interest income that would have been recognised management plans, deferring foreclosure, under the original terms of impaired and restructured modification, loan rewrites and or deferral of loans amounted to approximately US$141 million payments pending a change in circumstances.
Interest income from such loans of Following restructuring, an overdue consumer approximately US$374 million was recorded account is normally reset from delinquent to current in 2007. status.
Restructuring policies and practices are based on indicators or criteria which, in the judgement of Renegotiated loans local management, indicate that repayment will Audited probably continue.
These policies are required to be Restructuring activity is designed to manage kept under continual review and their application customer relationships, maximise collection varies according to the nature of the market, the 227 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Credit quality Impairment allowances and charges product, and the availability of empirically based US$1.4 billion.
Since the inception of this data.
Criteria vary between products, but typically programme, HSBC Finance has made more than include: receipt of one or more qualifying payments 41,000 outbound contacts and modified more than within a certain period, a minimum lapse of time 10,300 loans with an aggregate balance of from origination before restructuring may occur, and US$1.6 billion.
These loans are not included in the restrictions on the number and or frequency of figures quoted above, because HSBC Finance has successive restructurings.
When empirical evidence not reset delinquency on them as they were not indicates an increased propensity to default on contractually delinquent at the time of the restructured accounts, the use of roll rate modification.
However, loans which have been methodology ensures this factor is taken into account restructured in the past for other reasons are included when calculating impairment allowances.
HSBC Finance also continues to manage a Foreclosure Avoidance Programme for Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be delinquent consumer lending customers designed to past due or impaired totalled US$28 billion at provide relief to qualifying home owners by either 31 December 2007 2006: US$21 billion.
HSBC Finance Restructuring is most commonly applied to also supports a variety of national and local efforts consumer finance portfolios.
The largest in home ownership preservation and foreclosure concentration was in the US and amounted to avoidance.
US$24 billion 2006: US$17 billion or 86 per cent 2006: 81 per cent of the Groups total renegotiated Collateral and other credit enhancements loans.
The increase was due to a significant obtained deterioration in credit quality in the US.
Most Audited restructurings in the US related to loans secured HSBC obtained assets by taking possession of on real estate.
collateral held as security, or calling upon other credit enhancements, as follows: US loan modifications Unaudited Audited In October 2006, as part of its efforts to mitigate risk Carrying amount in the affected components of the mortgage services obtained in: 2007 2006 portfolio in the US, HSBC Finance established a US$m US$m new programme specifically designed to meet the Nature of assets needs of selected customers with ARMs.
HSBC Residential property................. 2,509 1,716 Finance is proactively calling and writing to Commercial and industrial customers who have ARM loans nearing their first property 18 6 Other........ 373 215 reset that HSBC Finance expects will be the most affected by a rate adjustment.
By a variety of means, 2,900 1,937 HSBC Finance assesses the customers ability to make the adjusted payment and, as appropriate and Repossessed properties are made available for in accordance with defined policies, HSBC Finance sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used to modifies the loans, allowing time for the customer to reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
Where seek alternative financing or improve their individual excess funds are available after the debt has been situation.
These loan modifications primarily provide repaid, they are available either for other secured for temporary interest rate relief for 12 months by lenders with lower priority or are returned to the either maintaining the current interest rate for the customer.
HSBC does not generally occupy entire 12-month period or resetting the interest rate repossessed properties for its business use.
The for the 12-month period to a rate lower than that majority of repossessed properties arose in the US in originally required at the reset date.
At the end of the HSBC Finance, which experienced higher levels of 12-month period, the interest rate on the loan will foreclosure and higher losses on sale due to reset in accordance with the original loan terms, declining house prices.
The average time taken to unless the borrower qualifies for, and is granted, a sell a foreclosed property in the US during 2007 was further modification.
In 2007, HSBC Finance made 184 days and the average loss on sale was 11 per more than 33,000 outbound contacts and modified cent.
A quarterly breakdown is provided below: more than 8,500 loans with an aggregate balance of 228 Unaudited Quarter ended 31 30 30 31 December September June March 2007 2007 2007 2007 2007 Number of foreclosed properties at end of period................ 9,627 9,627 8,809 9,115 9,161 Number of properties added to foreclosed inventory in the year quarter 18,755 4,957 4,814 4,540 4,444 1 Average loss on sale of foreclosed properties 11% 14% 9% 8% 10% Average time to sell foreclosed properties days................. 184 183 186 185 183 1 The average loss on sale of foreclosed properties is calculated as cash proceeds after deducting selling costs and commissions, minus the book value of the property when it was moved to Real estate owned, divided by the book value of the property when it was moved to Real estate owned.
2 Collectively assessed impairment allowances 2004 and 2003: general provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the provision.
Consequently, the general provisions booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
3 See table below Net charge to the profit and loss account for bad and doubtful debts by geographical region.
4 Other movements include amounts of US$129 million in Europe and US$4,524 million in North America transferred in on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation, and of US$116 million in Latin America transferred in on the acquisition of Lloyds TSB Groups Brazilian businesses and assets.
Year ended 31 December 2007 compared operations in the first half of the year.
Excluding with year ended 31 December 2006 this, loan impairment charges were marginally lower Unaudited than in 2006.
Loan impairment charges rose by 63 per cent to Releases and recoveries in Europe were broadly US$17.2 billion from US$10.5 billion in 2006.
The in line with 2006. commentary that follows is on a constant currency In Hong Kong, new loan impairment charges of basis: US$287 million were recorded, an increase of 19 per New allowances for loan impairment charges cent, due to the growth in credit card balances and rose by 52 per cent, compared with 2006.
Releases new corporate loan charges.
and recoveries of allowances increased by 1 per cent Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong to US$1.6 billion.
decreased to US$75 million, primarily in the In Europe, new loan impairment charges were corporate sector.
This reflected the low level of US$3.5 billion, a rise of 8 per cent compared with allowances added in recent years.
This partly reflected growth in commercial In Rest of Asia-Pacific, new loan impairment lending, where charges remained low compared with charges rose by 10 per cent to US$834 million, with historical amounts but rose from the exceptionally higher loan impairment charges arising in the low levels experienced in 2005 and 2006.
Increased commercial loan books in Thailand and Malaysia.
charges also reflected growth in credit card lending This was offset by a decline in loan impairment in Turkey.
In the UK, refinements to the charges for personal lending, particularly in Taiwan methodology used to calculate roll rate percentages and Indonesia, where charges returned to more resulted in a higher charge in the consumer finance 237 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Loan impairment charge 2007 2006 regular levels after an upsurge in 2006 due to marginally, due to growth in store loans and credit regulatory changes which affected collection activity cards.
Releases and recoveries in Latin America With corporate and commercial loan impairment increased to US$272 million.
In Brazil, credit charges low in recent years, releases and recoveries models were changed during 2007 to align with decreased by 6 per cent to US$220 million.
credit behaviour in underlying portfolios.
New loan impairment charges in North America Year ended 31 December 2006 compared rose by 76 per cent to US$12.2 billion, driven by the with year ended 31 December 2005 continued deterioration in credit quality in the US Unaudited consumer finance loan portfolio.
Loan impairment charges increased by US credit quality deteriorated as mortgage US$2.7 billion, or 34 per cent, compared with 2005. delinquencies rose, house prices declined, Acquisitions accounted for US$309 million of the refinancing credit became less available in the rise, mainly Metris in the US.
On an underlying market and the macroeconomic outlook worsened.
basis, the increase was 30 per cent.
Personal The reasons behind the deterioration in US credit Financial Services continued to dominate loan quality, the effects on the US personal lending impairments, representing 94 per cent of the Groups portfolio and actions taken as a result are discussed charge.
On a constant currency basis, the key trends in more detail on pages 217. were as follows.
Other factors affecting the rise in US loan New allowances for loan impairment charges of impairment charges included normal seasoning of US$12.0 billion increased by 27 per cent compared the portfolio, a higher proportion of unsecured with 2005.
Releases and recoveries of allowances personal lending and a return to historical norms were broadly in line with 2005. from the unusually low levels of bankruptcy filings In Europe, new loan impairment charges rose experienced in 2006, following changes enacted to by 9 per cent compared with 2005 to US$3.0 billion.
A challenging credit environment in UK unsecured Delinquency rates rose across all parts of the lending, which began to deteriorate in the middle of HSBC Finance personal lending portfolio, with 2005, was the primary cause of the increase, mortgage services and consumer lending although this was partly mitigated by continued experiencing significant rises in delinquency which benign corporate and commercial impairment flowed through subsequent stages through to experience.
Personal bankruptcies and the use of foreclosure.
As the housing downturn began to have IVAs have been on a rising trend since the more effect on the broader economy, delinquency introduction of legislation in 2004 that eased filing rates in credit cards and vehicle finance rose in the requirements, and this was further exacerbated by final quarter of 2007.
A change in product mix in the the recent active marketing of bankruptcy and IVA cards portfolio towards higher yielding products also relief through the media by debt advisors.
contributed to higher impairment charges as this Additionally, a rise in unemployment, which began segment of the portfolio seasoned.
in the middle of 2005, and modest rises in interest rates added to the strain on some personal customers.
Releases and recoveries in North America In response, HSBC tightened underwriting controls decreased to US$116 million.
In the US consumer in the second half of 2005, reduced its market share finance business, collection staff increased in all of unsecured personal lending and changed the lending portfolios as part of the response to the product mix of new business towards lower-risk deteriorating credit environment.
In 2006, there were early signs of In Latin America, new loan impairment improvement in more recent unsecured lending.
New charges rose by 63 per cent to US$2.0 billion.
The loan impairment charges also rose in Turkey, by most significant increase was registered in Mexico, 30 per cent, mainly due to growth in unsecured reflecting strong growth in balances, normal credit card and personal lending as overall credit portfolio seasoning and a rise in delinquency rates quality remained stable.
In France, new charges fell, in credit cards.
Charges for commercial lending in reflecting a stable credit environment and the Mexico fell as increased delinquency rates in the reduction in charges following the sale of a small and medium-sized business portfolios were consumer finance business in the second half of offset by impairment allowance releases.
Products 2005. with high credit losses were discontinued or restructured.
Loan impairment charges in Brazil rose 238 Releases and recoveries in Europe of deterioration, mainly in second lien, some portions US$860 million were 17 per cent higher than in of first lien and adjustable-rate mortgages acquired 2005.
Increases in the UK were partially offset by a from third party correspondents through HSBCs decline in France.
In the UK, increased resources mortgage services business, were the primary cause deployed on collection activities, combined with a of the rise in new charges.
As the housing market in rise in sales of delinquent debt, were reflected in the US slowed through 2006 and interest rates rose, significantly higher recoveries.
The non-recurrence delinquency trends on both second lien and portions of several significant recoveries in 2005 led to a of first lien mortgages originated in 2005 and 2006 large fall in France.
were higher than for loans made in previous years.
In addition, the extra payment obligations arising from In Hong Kong, new loan impairment charges the repricing of adjustable-rate mortgages to higher declined by 22 per cent to US$243 million, rates added to the assessed impairment of the reflecting the non-recurrence of an individual charge correspondent portfolio, in particular in respect of in 2005 for a large commercial customer.
This was second lien mortgages ranking behind adjustablepartly offset by a rise in credit card impairments as a rate first lien mortgages.
result of a rise in balances.
Overall, credit quality remained stable as strong economic growth and low As interest rate adjustments will be occurring in levels of unemployment continued.
an environment of lower home value appreciation and tightening credit, it is estimated that the Releases and recoveries fell by 49 per cent to probability of default on adjustable-rate first US$86 million, again mainly as a result of fewer mortgages subject to repricing, and on any second individual impairment releases in the corporate and lien mortgage loans that are subordinate to an commercial sector and the non-recurrence of adjustable-rate first lien, will be greater than has mortgage lending recoveries in 2005, following been experienced in the past.
As a result, loan improvement in the property market since 2004. impairment charges relating to the mortgage services In Rest of Asia-Pacific, there was an 88 per portfolio have increased significantly.
cent rise in new impairment allowances to In the second half of 2006, HSBC took action to US$737 million.
This was an improvement on the tighten credit criteria in the mortgage services situation in the first half of 2006, when new operation as detailed on page 217.
As a consequence, impairment charges were 111 per cent higher than in balances in mortgage services declined compared the first half of 2005.
The year-on-year increase was with 30 June 2006. largely due to Taiwan and, to a lesser extent, Indonesia.
During the first half of 2006, new Notwithstanding the credit weakness witnessed government regulations placing restrictions on in the mortgage services business, credit delinquency collection activity, combined with the popularity of in the majority of the other portfolios, including renegotiation schemes offering the opportunity to mortgage balances originated through the branchwaive interest and postpone principal payments, led based consumer lending business, rose modestly, to a sharp rise in credit card defaults, for which a driven by portfolio ageing and an increased full-year charge of US$200 million was recorded.
In proportion of credit card loans following the Metris the second half of 2006, this problem had begun to acquisition.
Partially offsetting factors included the moderate and new impairment charges were 31 per effects of a decline in bankruptcy filings, especially cent lower than in the first half.
In Indonesia, in the first half of 2006 following the spike in the increased loan impairment charges in the personal fourth quarter of 2005, low unemployment and the sector reflected legislation which introduced higher non-recurrence of charges relating to hurricane minimum payment rules and a reduction in fuel Katrina.
There were further rises in the Middle HSBC in the US closely monitors the twoEast, largely due to loan growth.
Elsewhere in the month-and-over contractual delinquency ratio being region, credit quality was stable.
the ratio of two or more months delinquent accounts Releases and recoveries in the region fell by to gross loans and advances, as management views 11 per cent to US$225 million.
The fall was mainly this as an important indicator of future write-offs.
in Malaysia and was partly offset by a rise in Details are disclosed below.
The rise in the total ratio commercial releases and recoveries in the Middle was chiefly as a result of the mortgage services East.
In North America, new loan impairment The increase in the US was partly offset by a charges rose by 36 per cent.
Excluding Metris, small decline in new loan impairment charges in new charges increased by 30 per cent.
Credit 239 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Credit risk Loan impairment charge Risk elements Canada, as the strong economy continued to commercial lending in Mexico resulted in higher underpin good credit quality.
In Brazil, new charges rose by 11 per cent, a significant reduction from the 52 per cent rise Releases and recoveries in North America reported in 2005, as credit quality improved decreased by 23 per cent to US$146 million due to following enhancements made to underwriting the non-recurrence of recoveries in the US.
In Latin America, new impairment charges Latin American releases and recoveries went up rose by 24 per cent to US$1.1 billion in 2006.
This by 7 per cent, largely in Mexico as a result of more increase was chiefly attributable to Mexico and, to a stable political and economic conditions.
incurred by some Group businesses in the normal conduct of their business.
No collateral or other credit enhancements were held by HSBC Holdings in respect of its transactions with subsidiary undertakings.
240 HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit subsidiaries, principally located in Europe and North risk at 31 December 2007 is shown below.
All of the derivative transactions are with HSBC Troubled debt restructurings increased by 54 per undertakings which are banking counterparties cent in 2007, reflecting measures taken to mitigate 2006: 100 per cent.
risk in the US consumer finance business in response to the deterioration in mortgage loans.
The credit quality of loans and advances to HSBC undertakings is assessed as satisfactory risk, Unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more with 100 per cent of the exposure being neither past due nor impaired 2006: 100 per cent.
Unimpaired loans contractually past due 90 days or more increased by 11 per cent.
The rise was largely The long-term debt rating of issuers of financial attributable to the US consumer finance business, investments is within the Standard & Poors ratings where credit quality deteriorated throughout the range of AA to AA 2006: AA to AA.
The rise in overdue balances on credit cards in Mexico also contributed.
Risk elements in the loan portfolio This section all unaudited Impaired loans The disclosure of credit risk elements under the In accordance with IFRSs, HSBC recognises interest following headings reflects US accounting practice and classifications for publicly traded bank holding income on assets after they have been written down companies: as a result of an impairment loss.
In the following tables, HSBC represents information on its impaired loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis: loans and advances which are designated in accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or accordance with the policy described above.
more as to interest or principal: and Potential problem loans troubled debt restructurings not included in the above.
Credit risk elements also cover potential problem loans.
These are loans where information on Troubled debt restructurings possible credit problems among borrowers causes management to seriously doubt their ability to The SEC requires separate disclosure of any loans comply with the loan repayment terms.
There are no whose terms have been modified because of potential problem loans other than those identified in problems with the borrower to grant concessions the table of risk elements set out below, and as other than are warranted by market conditions.
These discussed in Areas of special interest above, are classified as troubled debt restructurings and including ARMs and stated-income products.
are distinct from the normal restructure activities in personal loan portfolios described in Renegotiated Risk elements loans on page 227.
Disclosure of troubled debt restructurings may be discontinued after the first The following table provides an analysis of risk year if the debt performs in accordance with the new elements in the loan portfolios at 31 December for terms.
242 Liquidity and funding management The Groups liquidity and funding management Audited process includes: projecting cash flows by major currency under Liquidity risk is the risk that HSBC does not have various stress scenarios and considering the sufficient financial resources to meet its obligations level of liquid assets necessary in relation as they fall due, or will have to do so at an excessive thereto: cost.
This risk arises from mismatches in the timing of cash flows.
Funding risk a form of liquidity risk monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against arises when the necessary liquidity to fund illiquid internal and regulatory requirements: asset positions cannot be obtained at the expected maintaining a diverse range of funding sources terms and when required.
with adequate back-up facilities: The objective of HSBCs liquidity and funding managing the concentration and profile of debt management is to ensure that all foreseeable funding maturities: commitments, including deposit withdrawals, can be met when due, and that access to the wholesale managing contingent liquidity commitment markets is co-ordinated and cost-effective.
It is exposures within pre-determined caps: HSBCs objective to maintain a diversified and maintaining debt financing plans: stable funding base comprising core retail and corporate customer deposits and institutional monitoring depositor concentration in order to balances.
This is augmented by wholesale funding avoid undue reliance on large individual and maintaining portfolios of highly liquid assets depositors and ensuring a satisfactory overall which are diversified by currency and maturity, with funding mix: and the objective of enabling HSBC to respond quickly maintaining liquidity and funding contingency and smoothly to unforeseen liquidity requirements.
These plans identify early indicators of HSBC requires its operating entities to maintain stress conditions and describe actions to be a strong liquidity position and to manage the taken in the event of difficulties arising from liquidity profile of their assets, liabilities and systemic or other crises, while minimising commitments with the objective of ensuring that adverse long-term implications for the business.
cash flows are appropriately balanced and all obligations can be met when due.
Primary sources of funding Audited Policies and procedures Current accounts and savings deposits payable on Audited demand or at short notice form a significant part of The management of liquidity and funding is HSBCs funding.
HSBC places considerable primarily carried out locally in the operating entities importance on maintaining the stability of these of HSBC in accordance with practices and limits set deposits.
by the Group Management Board.
These limits vary The stability of deposits, which are a primary by entity to take account of the depth and liquidity of source of funding, depends upon preserving the market in which the entity operates.
It is HSBCs depositor confidence in HSBCs capital strength and general policy that each banking entity should be liquidity, and on competitive and transparent self-sufficient with regards to funding its own deposit-pricing strategies.
Exceptions are permitted to facilitate the efficient funding of certain short-term treasury HSBC also accesses professional markets in requirements and start-up operations or branches order to provide funding for non-banking which do not have access to local deposit markets, subsidiaries that do not accept deposits, to maintain a all of which are funded under clearly defined internal presence in local money markets and to optimise the and regulatory guidelines and limits from HSBCs funding of asset maturities not naturally matched by largest banking operations.
These internal and core deposit funding.
In aggregate, HSBCs banking regulatory limits and guidelines serve to place entities are liquidity providers to the inter-bank formal limitations on the transfer of resources market, placing significantly more funds with other between HSBC entities and are necessary to reflect banks than they themselves borrow.
the broad range of currencies, markets and time The main operating subsidiary that does not zones within which HSBC operates.
accept deposits is HSBC Finance, which funds itself principally by taking term funding in the professional markets and by securitising assets.
243 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Liquidity and funding Primary sources of funding At 31 December 2007, US$142 billion 2006: range of products, maturities and currencies to avoid US$150 billion of HSBC Finances liabilities undue reliance on any particular funding source.
Furthermore, loan commitments are achieve this goal, limits are placed on Group generally not recognised on the balance sheet.
banking entities which restrict their ability to grow Trading liabilities and trading derivatives have been loans to customers without corresponding growth in included in the On demand time bucket, and not core current accounts and savings accounts.
This by contractual maturity, because trading liabilities measure is referred to as the advances to deposits are typically held for short periods of time.
undiscounted cash flows on hedging derivative Advances to deposits ratio limits are set by the liabilities are classified according to their RMM and monitored by Group Finance.
compares loans and advances to customers as a Cash flows payable in respect of customer percentage of core customer current and savings accounts are primarily contractually repayable on accounts together with term funding with a demand or at short notice.
However, in practice, remaining term to maturity in excess of one year.
short-term deposit balances remain stable as inflows Loans to customers which are part of reverse and outflows broadly match.
repurchase arrangements, and where the Group 244 receives securities which are deemed to be liquid, 2007 2006: 73 per cent.
The table demonstrates are excluded from the advances to deposits ratio.
that loans to customers in the Groups principal Current accounts and savings accounts from banking entities are broadly financed by reliable and customers deemed to be professional are excluded.
The definition of a professional customer takes HSBC would meet any unexpected net cash account of the size of the customers total deposit outflows by selling securities and accessing balances by applying a tiering classification.
additional funding sources such as interbank or Generally, any customer with total funds deposited collateralised lending markets.
In addition to the in excess of US$2 million is regarded as advances to deposits ratio, the Group uses a range of professional.
Due to the distinction between core and other measures for managing liquidity risk.
These professional depositors, the Groups measure of other measures include the ratio of net liquid assets advances to deposits will be more restrictive than to customer liabilities and projected cash flow that which could be inferred from the published scenario analyses.
Ratio of net liquid assets to customer The advances to deposits ratios of the Groups liabilities principal banking entities Audited Audited Net liquid assets are liquid assets less all funds Year ended 31 December maturing in the next 30 days from wholesale market 2007 2006 sources and from customers who are deemed to be % % HSBC Bank professional.
The Group defines liquid assets for the UK operations purposes of the liquidity ratio as cash balances, Year-end 97.5 100.7 short-term interbank deposits and highly rated debt Maximum 101.7 104.3 securities available for immediate sale and for which Minimum. 92.6 98.1 a deep and liquid market exists.
As noted above, the Average 97.1 102.0 definition of a professional customer takes account The Hongkong and Shanghai of the size of the customers total deposits.
Banking Corporation Year-end 76.7 72.4 Contingent liquidity risk associated with committed Maximum 82.2 77.8 loan facilities is not reflected in the ratios.
As HSBC Finance does not accept customer Average 112.7 121.4 deposits, it is not appropriate to manage their Total of Groups other liquidity using the standard liquidity ratios.
The principal banking entities liquidity and funding risk framework of HSBC Year-end 88.4 87.5 Finance is discussed below.
For additional information, the US dollar equivalents of net liquid The three major Group banking entities shown assets are also provided.
Compliance with entity level limits is and, as such, includes businesses spread across a monitored centrally by Group Finance and reported range of locations, in many of which the Group may regularly to the RMM.
require a higher ratio of net liquid assets to customer liabilities to reflect local market conditions.
HSBC Finance As HSBC Finance does not accept customer Projected cash flow scenario analysis deposits, it takes funding from the professional Audited markets.
HSBC Finance uses a range of measures to The Group uses a number of standard projected cash monitor funding risk, including projected cash flow flow scenarios which are designed to model both scenario analysis and placing caps on the amount of Group-specific and market-wide liquidity crises.
unsecured term funding that can mature in any The scenarios vary the rate and timing of deposit rolling three-month and rolling 12-month periods.
withdrawals and drawdowns on committed lending HSBC Finance also maintains access to committed facilities, and restrict access to interbank funding, sources of secured funding and has in place term debt markets and the ability to generate funds committed backstop lines for short-term refinancing from asset portfolios.
The scenarios are modelled by CP programmes.
At 31 December 2007, the all Group banking entities and by HSBC Finance.
maximum amounts of unsecured term funding The assumptions for each scenario are regularly maturing in any rolling three-month and rolling reviewed for appropriateness.
In addition to the 12-month periods were US$6.2 billion and Groups standard projected cash flow scenarios, US$17.7 billion, respectively 2006: US$6.1 billion individual entities are required to design their own and US$16.0 billion.
At 31 December 2007, HSBC scenarios tailored to reflect specific local market Finance also had in place unused committed sources conditions, products and funding bases.
of secured funding, for which eligible assets were held, of US$6.2 billion 2006: US$9.0 billion and Limits for cumulative net cash flows under committed backstop lines from non-Group entities in stress scenarios are set for each banking entity and support of CP programmes totalling US$9.3 billion for HSBC Finance.
Both ratio and cash flow limits reflect the local market place, the diversity of funding sources 246 The deterioration of the US sub-prime credit facilities include committed backstop lines to market has reduced the willingness of financial conduit vehicles sponsored by the Group.
The institutions to provide committed financing to liquidity risk consequences of drawdowns on these entities with exposures to the US sub-prime market, committed loan facilities provided by Group entities such as HSBC Finance.
HSBC Finance continues to are reflected in projected cash flow scenario have access to term funding markets, although the analyses, in which the level of drawdown is varied price of this funding has increased to reflect the under different stress scenarios.
The Group also sets downturn in credit markets.
Funding plans are in total notional limits by Group entity for nonplace to enable HSBC Finance to deal with cancellable contingent funding commitments.
The continued stress in the credit markets.
limits are set by the RMM after due consideration of the entitys ability to fund the commitments.
The Contingent liquidity risk limits are split according to the borrower, the Audited liquidity of the underlying assets and the size of the committed line.
In the normal course of its business, the Group provides committed facilities to customers: these The Groups contractual exposures as at 31 December monitored under the contingent liquidity risk limit structure Audited The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking HSBC Bank HSBC Bank USA HSBC Bank Canada Corporation 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 2007 2006 US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn US$bn Conduits 1 Client-originated assets total lines 9.0 6.0 9.7 9.0 largest individual lines 1.6 1.5 0.9 1.0 2 HSBC-managed assets 25.7 25.8 Other conduits 2.6 3.3 2.5 2.2 Single-issuer liquidity facilities 3 five largest 10.0 10.9 5.9 4.2 1.3 1.3 4 largest market sector 11.7 9.5 4.2 5.2 2.3 2.8 1 These vehicles provide funding to Group customers by issuing debt secured by a diversified pool of customer-originated assets.
2 These vehicles issue debt secured by highly rated asset-backed securities which are managed by HSBC.
All of the exposures shown in the table under this category related to Solitaire.
3 These figures represent the five largest committed liquidity facilities provided to customers other than those facilities to conduits.
4 These figures represent the total of all committed liquidity facilities provided to the largest market sector.
The Group recognises that, in times of market provided by HSBC.
For further information on these stress, it may choose to provide non-contractual SIVs, see Off-balance sheet arrangements and liquidity support to certain HSBC-sponsored special purpose entities on page 183. vehicles or HSBC-promoted products.
Such potential support would not be included in the Groups HSBC Holdings Audited liquidity risk measures until such time as the support becomes legally binding, and would only be HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are interest provided after careful consideration of the potential and capital receipts from its subsidiaries, which it funding requirement and the impact on the entitys deploys in short-term bank deposits or liquidity overall levels of liquidity.
HSBC Holdings primary uses of cash are investments in subsidiaries, interest payments to debt In the second half of 2007, HSBC provided holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
On additional funding to two SIVs sponsored by the an ongoing basis, HSBC Holdings replenishes its Group Cullinan and Asscher in the form of repos, liquid resources through the receipt of interest on, CP purchases and the acquisition of assets at fair and repayment of, intra-group loans, from dividends value from Cullinan.
In November 2007, HSBC paid by subsidiaries and from interest earned on its announced its intention to provide investors in own liquid funds.
The ability of its subsidiaries to Cullinan and Asscher with the option to exchange pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings their capital notes for notes issued by one or more depends, among other things, on their respective new SPEs, with term funding and liquidity to be 247 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Liquidity and funding Primary sources of funding Market risk management VAR regulatory capital requirements, statutory reserves, commitments and guarantees given.
Such and financial and operating performance.
commitments are only provided after due consideration of HSBC Holdings ability to finance HSBC actively manages the cash flows from its these commitments and the likelihood of the need subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at arising.
Together with its accumulated liquid assets, the holding company level, and expects to continue HSBC Holdings believes that planned dividends doing so in the future.
The wide range of HSBCs and interest from subsidiaries will enable it to activities means that HSBC Holdings is not meet anticipated cash obligations.
Also, in usual dependent on a single source of profits to fund circumstances, HSBC Holdings has full access its dividends.
HSBC Holdings is also subject to to capital markets on normal terms.
Short-term assets of US$8.1 billion profile consistent with the Groups status as one of 2006: US$7.6 billion consisted mainly of cash at the worlds largest banking and financial services bank of US$360 million 2006: US$729 million organisations.
and loans and advances to HSBC undertakings of US$7.4 billion 2006: US$6.9 billion.
Derivatives Market risk is the risk that movements in market have been included in the On demand time bucket, risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and and not by contractual maturity.
The undiscounted commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and cash flows on hedging derivative liabilities are equity prices will reduce HSBCs income or the classified according to their contractual maturity.
HSBC separates exposures to market risk into trading and non-trading portfolios.
Trading portfolios include those positions arising from market-making, proprietary position-taking and other marked-tomarket positions so designated.
248 2 The VAR for the fixed-rate securities issued by HSBC Non-trading portfolios include positions that Holdings is not included within the Group VAR.
This is arise from the interest rate management of HSBCs disclosed separately on page 252. retail and commercial banking assets and liabilities, 3 Credit spread VAR is reported for the credit derivatives transacted by Global Banking.
This is disclosed on financial investments designated as available for sale page 251. and held to maturity, and exposures arising from HSBCs insurance operations.
Value at risk Audited Market risk arising in HSBCs insurance businesses is discussed in Risk management of VAR is a technique that estimates the potential losses insurance operations on pages 272 to 275. that could occur on risk positions as a result of movements in market rates and prices over a The management of market risk is principally specified time horizon and to a given level of undertaken in Global Markets using risk limits confidence.
approved by the Group Management Board.
Limits are set for portfolios, products and risk types, with The VAR models used by HSBC are market liquidity being a principal factor in predominantly based on historical simulation.
These determining the level of limits set.
Traded Credit and models derive plausible future scenarios from past Market Risk, an independent unit within the Group series of recorded market rates and prices, taking Management Office, develops the Groups market account of inter-relationships between different risk management policies and measurement markets and rates such as interest rates and foreign techniques.
Each major operating entity has an exchange rates.
The models also incorporate the independent market risk management and control effect of option features on the underlying function which is responsible for measuring market exposures.
risk exposures in accordance with the policies The historical simulation models used by HSBC defined by Traded Credit and Market Risk, and incorporate the following features: monitoring and reporting these exposures against the prescribed limits on a daily basis.
potential market movements are calculated with reference to data from the past two years: Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks which arise on each product in its historical market rates and prices are calculated business and to transfer these risks to either its local with reference to foreign exchange rates and Global Markets unit for management, or to separate commodity prices, interest rates, equity prices books managed under the supervision of the local and the associated volatilities: Asset and Liability Management Committee VAR is calculated to a 99 per cent confidence ALCO.
The aim is to ensure that all market risks level: and are consolidated within operations which have the necessary skills, tools, management and governance VAR is calculated for a one-day holding period.
to manage such risks professionally.
In certain cases HSBC routinely validates the accuracy of its where the market risks cannot be adequately VAR models by backtesting the actual daily profit captured by the transfer process, simulation and loss results, adjusted to remove non-modelled modelling is used to identify the impact of varying items such as fees and commissions, against the scenarios on valuations and net interest income.
Statistically, HSBC HSBC uses a range of tools to monitor and limit would expect to see losses in excess of VAR only market risk exposures.
These include value at risk 1 per cent of the time over a one-year period.
The VAR, sensitivity analysis and stress testing.
The actual number of excesses over this period can following table provides an overview of the therefore be used to gauge how well the models are reporting of risks within this section: performing.
Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should Portfolio Trading Non-trading always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
Risk type For example: 1 Foreign exchange............... VAR VAR 2 Interest rate VAR VAR the use of historical data as a proxy for Commodity VAR N A estimating future events may not encompass all Equity......... VAR Sensitivity potential events, particularly those which are 3 Credit spread
Sensitivity Sensitivity extreme in nature: 1 The structural foreign exchange risk is not included within the use of a one-day holding period assumes that VAR.
This is discussed on page 256. all positions can be liquidated or hedged in one 249 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk VAR Trading portfolios day.
This may not fully reflect the market risk The histograms below illustrate the frequency of arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a daily revenue arising from Global Markets trading, one-day holding period may be insufficient to balance sheet management and other trading liquidate or hedge all positions fully: activities.
the use of a 99 per cent confidence level, by The average daily revenue earned therefrom in definition, does not take into account losses that 2007 was US$18.7 million, compared with might occur beyond this level of confidence: US$21.3 million in 2006.
The standard deviation of these daily revenues was US$25.3 million, compared VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures with US$11.4 million in 2006.
The standard outstanding at the close of business and deviation measures the variation of daily revenues therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day about the mean value of those revenues.
An analysis exposures: and of the frequency distribution of daily revenue shows VAR is unlikely to reflect loss potential on that there were 35 days with negative revenue during exposures that only arise under significant 2007, compared with two days in 2006. market moves.
Daily distribution of Global Markets trading, HSBC recognises these limitations by balance sheet management and other trading augmenting its VAR limits with other position and revenues sensitivity limit structures.
HSBC also applies a wide Unaudited range of stress testing, both on individual portfolios Year ended 31 December 2007 and on the Groups consolidated positions.
Year ended 31 December 2006 Number of days Total VAR at 31 December 2007 increased, compared with 31 December 2006.
The major cause of this was an increase in volatility in market rates during the latter half of 2007.
The daily VAR, both trading and non-trading, for the Group was as follows: Daily VAR trading and non-trading US$m Unaudited 140 Revenues US$m 120 Profit and loss frequency 100 The effect of any month-end adjustments, not attributable to a 80 specific daily market move, is spread evenly over the days in 60 the month in question.
40 20 For a description of HSBCs fair value and price 0 33 on the Financial verification controls, see Note Dec-05 Jun-06 Dec-06 Jun-07 Dec-07 Statements.
The major contributor to the trading and nontrading VAR for the Group was Global Markets.
250 Trading portfolios controlled using a complementary set of techniques.
Audited These include VAR and, for interest rate risk, present value of a basis point movement in interest rates, HSBCs control of market risk is based on a policy together with stress and sensitivity testing and of restricting individual operations to trading within concentration limits.
These techniques quantify the a list of permissible instruments authorised for each impact on capital of defined market movements.
site by Traded Credit and Market Risk, of enforcing rigorous new product approval procedures, and of Market making and proprietary position taking restricting trading in the more complex derivative is undertaken within Global Markets.
The VAR for products only to offices with appropriate levels of such trading activity at 31 December 2007 was product expertise and robust control systems.
The credit spread where VAR is calculated.
positions within the trading portfolios were no higher on 31 December 2007, compared with The Group is introducing credit spread as a 31 December 2006. separate risk type within the VAR models and, at 31 December 2007, credit spread VAR was Credit spread risk also arises on credit derivative calculated for the London trading and New York transactions entered into by Global Banking.
At that date, the total purpose of these transactions is to manage the risk VAR for the trading activities, including credit concentrations within the corporate loan portfolio spread VAR for the above portfolios, was and so enhance capital efficiency.
market of these transactions is taken through the profit and loss account.
The effect of movements in credit spreads on the Groups trading portfolio became more significant At 31 December 2007, the credit spread VAR in 2007 as volatility in these spreads increased in on the credit derivatives transactions entered into the latter half of 2007.
The sensitivity of trading by Global Banking was US$19.7 million 2006: income to the effect of movements in credit spreads US$8.2 million.
The VAR shows the effect on on the total trading activities of the Group was trading income from a one-day movement in credit US$95.9 million at 31 December 2007 2006: spreads over a two-year period, calculated to a US$27.2 million.
This sensitivity was calculated 99 per cent confidence level.
using simplified assumptions based on one-day HSBC augments its VAR measures with a series movements in average market credit spreads over a of stress scenarios to determine the potential loss two-year period at a confidence level of 99 per cent.
arising from market moves that are outside the The increase in the sensitivity at 31 December 99 per cent confidence level measured by VAR.
251 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Trading portfolios Non-trading portfolios The stress scenarios cover a range of potential The transfer of market risk to books managed by market events, such as the hypothetical breaking of a Global Markets or supervised by ALCO is usually currency peg or the historical observation of market achieved by a series of internal deals between the moves during previous periods of stress which business units and these books.
When the would not be captured within VAR.
The scenarios behavioural characteristics of a product differ from provide senior management with an assessment of its contractual characteristics, the behavioural the financial impact such events would have on the characteristics are assessed to determine the true profit and loss of HSBC.
The daily losses underlying interest rate risk.
Local ALCOs are experienced during 2007 were within the stress loss required to regularly monitor all such behavioural scenarios reported to senior management.
assumptions and interest rate risk positions to ensure they comply with interest rate risk limits established Certain transactions are structured such that the by the Group Management Board.
risk to HSBC is negligible under a wide range of market conditions or events, but in which there In certain cases, the non-linear characteristics of exists a remote probability that a significant gap products cannot be adequately captured by the risk event could lead to loss.
A gap event could be seen transfer process.
For example, both the flow from as a change in market price from one level to another customer deposit accounts to alternative investment with no trading opportunity in between, and where products and the precise prepayment speeds of the price change breaches the threshold beyond mortgages will vary at different interest rate levels, which the risk profile changes from having no open and where expectations about future moves in risk to having full exposure to the underlying interest rates change.
Such movements may occur, for example, simulation modelling is used to identify the impact when there are adverse news announcements and the of varying scenarios on valuations and net interest market for a specific investment becomes illiquid, income.
Once market risk has been consolidated in Given the characteristics of these transactions, Global Markets or ALCO-managed books, the net they will make little or no contribution to VAR or to exposure is typically managed through the use of traditional market risk sensitivity measures.
HSBC interest rate swaps within agreed limits.
The VAR for captures the risks for such transactions within the these portfolios is included within the Group VAR stress testing scenarios.
Gap risk arising is monitored see Value at risk above.
on an ongoing basis, and HSBC incurred no gap losses on such transactions in 2007.
Fixed-rate securities Audited Non-trading portfolios Market risk also arises on fixed-rate securities issued Audited by HSBC Holdings.
These securities are managed as The principal objective of market risk management capital instruments and include non-cumulative of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest preference shares, non-cumulative perpetual income.
preferred securities and fixed-rate subordinated debt.
The interest rate VAR for these capital instruments, Market risk in non-trading portfolios arises which is not included within Group VAR, was as principally from mismatches between the future follows: yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is complicated by having to make assumptions on embedded optionality within certain product areas such as the incidence of mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural assumptions regarding the economic duration of liabilities which are contractually repayable on demand such as current accounts.
The prospective change in future net interest income from non-trading portfolios will be reflected in the current realisable value of these positions, should they be sold or closed prior to maturity.
In order to manage this risk optimally, market risk in non-trading portfolios is transferred to Global Markets or to separate books managed under the supervision of the local ALCO.
252 Capital instruments VAR valuation of the investments within the portfolio and Audited Group Finance is responsible for reviewing the VAR carrying value of the investments.
A 10 per cent reduction in the value of 2006 73.7 the available-for-sale equities at 31 December 2007 1 Restated to reflect securities issued by HSBC Holdings only.
would have reduced equity by US$1.3 billion 2006: All other issued fixed-rate securities are included within the US$0.8 billion.
Defined benefit pension scheme At 31 December 2007, the sensitivity of equity Audited to the effect of movements in credit spreads on the Groups available-for-sale debt securities was Market risk also arises within HSBCs defined US$209.8 million 2006: US$68.2 million.
The benefit pension schemes to the extent that the sensitivity was calculated on the same basis as obligations of the schemes are not fully matched by applied to the trading portfolio.
Including the gross assets with determinable cash flows.
Pension scheme exposure for the SIVs consolidated within HSBCs obligations are subject to change due to fluctuations balance sheet at 31 December 2007, the sensitivity in long-term interest rates as well as factors such as increased to US$282.1 million.
This sensitivity is changes in inflation, salary increases and scheme struck, however, before taking account of any losses members living longer.
The pension scheme assets which would be absorbed by the income note will include equities and debt securities, the cash holders.
At 31 December 2007, the income note flows of which will change as equity prices and holders would have absorbed the first US$2.6 billion interest rates vary.
The risks are that market of any losses incurred by the SIVs prior to HSBC movements in equity prices and interest rates could incurring any equity losses.
result in assets which are insufficient over time to cover the level of projected obligations.
In addition, The increase in this sensitivity at 31 December increases in inflation and members living longer 2007, compared with 31 December 2006, was due could increase the pension scheme obligations.
to the effect of higher volatility in credit spreads Management, together with the trustees who act on observed in the latter half of 2007.
Excluding the behalf of the pension scheme beneficiaries, assess SIVs, the credit spread positions within the the level of this risk using reports prepared by available-for-sale portfolio were lower on independent external actuaries and take action, 31 December 2007, compared with 31 December where appropriate, in terms of setting investment 2006. strategy and agreeing contribution levels.
For example, in order to mitigate the risk of adverse Equity securities classified as available movements in investments, interest rates and for sale inflation, the Trustee of the HSBC Bank UK Audited Pension Scheme has continued to implement a Market risk arises on equity securities held as programme of initiatives proposed by HSBC, available for sale.
The fair value of these securities including reducing the equity content of the at 31 December 2007 was US$12.6 billion 2006: investment strategy and increasing the US$8.3 billion and included private equity holdings diversification of the investments, and entering into of US$3.2 billion 2006: US$0.9 billion.
long-term interest rate and inflation swaps.
Investments in private equity are primarily made The present value of HSBCs defined benefit through managed funds that are subject to limits pension plans liabilities was US$32.4 billion at on the amount of investment.
Potential new 31 December 2007, compared with US$32.2 billion commitments are subject to risk appraisal to ensure at 31 December 2006.
Assets of the defined benefit that industry and geographical concentrations remain within acceptable levels for the portfolio as a whole.
Regular reviews are performed to substantiate the 253 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Non-trading portfolios Sensitivity of NII schemes at 31 December 2007 comprised equity current net revenue stream.
investments, 26 per cent 2006: 30 per cent : debt For simulation modelling, businesses use a securities, 62 per cent 2006: 56 per cent : and other combination of scenarios relevant to local businesses including property, 12 per cent 2006: 14 per cent and local markets and standard scenarios which are see Note 8 on the Financial Statements.
The standard scenarios Increased corporate bond yields in the UK over are consolidated to illustrate the combined pro forma the period have resulted in an increase of 40 basis effect on HSBCs consolidated portfolio valuations points in the real discount rate net of the increase in and net interest income.
expected inflation used to value the net present The table below sets out the effect on future net value of the benefits payable of the HSBC Bank interest income of an incremental 25 basis points UK Pension Scheme, the Groups largest plan.
In parallel fall or rise in all yield curves worldwide at addition, the plan assets of the scheme have the beginning of each quarter during the 12 months increased due to a special contribution to the scheme from 1 January 2008.
Assuming no management of US$0.6 billion.
Primarily as a result of these actions, a series of such rises would decrease factors, the deficit on HSBCs defined benefit plans planned net interest income for 2008 by has decreased to US$2 billion from US$4.6 billion.
US$503 million 2007: US$578 million, while a series of such falls would increase planned Sensitivity of net interest income net interest income by US$525 million Unaudited 2007: US$511 million.
These figures incorporate A principal part of HSBCs management of market the effect of any option features in the underlying risk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the exposures.
sensitivity of projected net interest income under Instead of assuming that all interest rates move varying interest rate scenarios simulation together, HSBC groups its interest rate exposures modelling.
HSBC aims, through its management of into currency blocs whose rates are considered likely market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the to move together.
The sensitivity of projected net effect of prospective interest rate movements which interest income, on this basis, is as follows: could reduce future net interest income, while balancing the cost of such hedging activities on the Sensitivity of projected net interest income Unaudited Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2008 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 275 96 9 77 140 270 503 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 272 95 11 65 142 260 525 Change in 2007 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 342 53 32 18 163 112 578 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter 249 53 52 14 164 113 511 The interest rate sensitivities set out in the however, does not incorporate actions that would be table above are illustrative only and are based on taken by Global Markets or in the business units to simplified scenarios.
The figures represent the effect mitigate the impact of this interest rate risk.
In of the pro-forma movements in net interest income reality, Global Markets seeks proactively to change based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and Groups current interest rate risk profile.
This effect, optimise net revenues.
The projections above also 254 assume that interest rates of all maturities move by The main drivers of change in the sensitivity of the same amount and, therefore, do not reflect the the Groups net interest income to the changes in potential impact on net interest income of some rates interest rates tabulated above were: changing while others remain unchanged.
The There has been an overall increase in benefit projections take account of the anticipated net from rising rates and an increase in exposure to interest income impact of rate change differences falling rates due to general growth in core between interbank interest rates and interest rates deposits.
linked to other bases such as Central Bank rates or product rates over which the entity has discretion in The average life of certain US mortgage assets terms of the timing and extent of rate changes.
The has increased due to a reduction in the predicted projections make other simplifying assumptions too, rate of refinancing, increasing the benefit from including that all positions run to maturity.
HSBCs exposure to the effect of movements in Global Markets increased euro-denominated interest rates on its net interest income arise in three net trading asset positions leading to increased main areas: core deposit franchises, HSBC Finance sensitivity in this currency to both rising and and Global Markets.
The funding of net trading assets is generally sourced from floating rate retail Core deposit franchises: these are exposed to deposits and recorded in Net interest income changes in the cost of deposits raised and whereas the income from such assets is recorded spreads on wholesale funds.
In a low interest in Net trading income.
Additionally, balance rate environment, the net interest income benefit sheet management increased its exposure to of core deposits increases as interest rates rise euro-denominated assets in non-trading and decreases as interest rates fall.
This risk is portfolios, adding to the increased sensitivity.
asymmetrical in a very low interest rate environment, however, as there is limited room It can be seen from the above that projecting the to lower deposit pricing in the event of interest movement in net interest income from prospective rate reductions.
changes in interest rates is a complex interaction of structural and managed exposures.
HSBC Finance reduces the sensitivity of the core deposit franchises to interest rate HSBC monitors the sensitivity of reported reductions.
This arises from the fact that HSBC reserves to interest rate movements on a monthly Finance has a substantial fixed rate, real estate basis by assessing the expected reduction in secured, lending portfolio which is primarily valuation of available-for-sale portfolios and cash funded with interest rate sensitive short-term flow hedges due to parallel movements of plus or liabilities.
minus 100 basis points in all yield curves.
The table below describes the sensitivity of HSBCs reported Residual interest rate risk is managed within reserves to these movements at the end of 2007 and Global Markets, under the Groups policy of 2006 and the maximum and minimum month-end transferring interest rate risk to Global Markets figures during these years: to be managed within defined limits and with flexibility as to the instruments used.
Sensitivity of reported reserves to interest rate movements Unaudited Maximum Minimum impact impact US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2007 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,737 1,738 1,519 As a percentage of total shareholders equity........ 1.4% 1.4% 1.2% 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,977 2,048 1,430 As a percentage of total shareholders equity........ 1.5% 1.6% 1.1% At 31 December 2006 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,558 2,015 1,358 As a percentage of total shareholders equity........ 1.4% 1.9% 1.3% 100 basis point parallel move in all yield curves 1,456 1,944 1,270 As a percentage of total shareholders equity........ 1.3% 1.8% 1.2% 255 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Structural foreign exchange exposures HSBC Holdings Areas of special interest The sensitivities are illustrative only and are Selective hedges were in place during 2006 based on simplified scenarios.
Hedging is undertaken using forward interest rate risk exposures arising in available-forforeign exchange contracts which are accounted for sale portfolios and from cash flow hedges which under IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a are marked-to-market through reserves.
These foreign operation, or by financing with borrowings particular exposures form only a part of the in the same currencies as the functional currencies Groups overall interest rate exposures.
There was no ineffectiveness arising from accounting treatment under IFRSs of the Groups these hedges in the year ended 31 December 2007. remaining interest rate exposures, while There was no material effect from exchange economically largely offsetting the exposures differences on HSBCs capital ratios during the shown in the above table, does not require year.
revaluation movements to go to reserves.
HSBC Holdings Structural foreign exchange exposures Audited Unaudited As a financial services holding company, HSBC Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its investments in subsidiaries, branches or associated activities predominantly involve maintaining undertakings, the functional currencies of which sufficient capital resources to support the Groups are currencies other than the US dollar.
diverse activities: allocating these capital resources Exchange differences on structural exposures across the Groups businesses: earning dividend are recorded in the consolidated statement of and interest income on its investments in the recognised income and expense.
The main Groups businesses: providing dividend payments operating or functional currencies in which to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest HSBCs business is transacted are the US dollar, payments to providers of debt capital: and the Hong Kong dollar, pound sterling, the euro, the maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources.
Mexican peso, the Brazilian real and the Chinese It does not take proprietary trading positions.
As the US dollar and currencies linked to The main market risks to which HSBC it form the dominant currency bloc in which Holdings is exposed are interest rate risk and HSBCs operations transact business, HSBC foreign currency risk.
Exposure to these risks arises Holdings prepares its consolidated financial from short-term cash balances, funding positions statements in US dollars.
HSBCs consolidated held, loans to subsidiaries, investments in longbalance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange term financial assets and financial liabilities differences between the US dollar and all the nonincluding debt capital issued.
The objective of US dollar functional currencies of underlying HSBC Holdings market risk management strategy subsidiaries.
is to reduce exposure to these risks and minimise HSBC hedges structural foreign exchange volatility in reported income, cash flows and exposures only in limited circumstances.
Market risk for HSBC structural foreign exchange exposures are managed Holdings is monitored by its Structural Positions with the primary objective of ensuring, where Review Group.
practical, that HSBCs consolidated capital ratios Certain loans to subsidiaries of a capital nature and the capital ratios of individual banking that are not denominated in the functional currency subsidiaries are protected from the effect of of either the provider or the recipient are accounted changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved for as financial assets.
Changes in the carrying by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio amount of these assets due to exchange differences of structural exposures in a given currency to riskare taken directly to the income statement.
These weighted assets denominated in that currency is loans, and the associated foreign exchange broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary exposures, are eliminated on a Group consolidated in question.
256 Total VAR arising within HSBC Holdings in net interest income to future changes in yield 2007 and 2006 was as follows: curves.
The table below sets out the effect on HSBC Value at risk HSBC Holdings Holdings future net interest income of an Audited incremental 25 basis point parallel fall or rise in all Foreign Interest exchange rates Total yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each US$m US$m US$m quarter during the 12 months from 1 January 2008.
These figures 2006 23.2 30.7 34.8 incorporate the impact of any option features in Maximum the underlying exposures.
2007 49.1 97.7 105.0 2006 32.0 61.4 66.4 Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, HSBC groups its interest rate exposures The increase in total VAR during 2007 was into currency blocs whose interest rates are mainly due to the increase in volatility of interest considered likely to move together.
The sensitivity rates and new debt capital issues made in the year.
of projected net interest income, on this basis, is described as follows: Unaudited A principal tool in the management of market risk is the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings Sensitivity of HSBC Holdings net interest income to interest rate movements Unaudited US dollar Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2008 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter.. 51 16 12 23 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter.. 51 16 12 23 Change in 2007 projected net interest income arising from a shift in yield curves of: 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter.. 7 6 9 8 25 basis points at the beginning of each quarter.. 7 6 9 8 HSBC Holdings principal exposure to changes The projected increase in HSBC Holdings in its net interest income from movements in interest sensitivity to moves in interest rates is mainly due to rates arises on short-term cash balances, floating rate new interest-bearing capital issues, the funds from loans advanced to subsidiaries and fixed rate debt which have been largely invested in non-interest capital securities in issue which have been swapped bearing equity investments in subsidiaries.
Areas of special interest market risk The interest rate sensitivities tabulated above Audited are illustrative only and are based on simplified In the second half of 2007, credit risk concerns scenarios.
The figures represent the effect of emanating from the US sub-prime mortgage market pro forma movements in net interest income based led to a deterioration in the fair value of assets on the projected yield curve scenarios and HSBC supported by sub-prime mortgages.
However, there Holdings current interest rate risk profile.
They do was a consequential impact beyond sub-prime not take into account the effect of actions that could related assets and, to a lesser degree, fair value be taken to mitigate this interest rate risk, however.
257 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Market risk Areas of special interest deterioration occurred in US mortgage-related portfolios including the HSBC consolidated financial instruments generally, with financial SIVs and conduits.
instruments issued by non-US government Unrealised and realised gains and losses arising sponsored entities more significantly affected from securitisation and secondary market trading than sponsored financial instruments.
activity are recognised in the income statement, The following table shows the net market risk while changes in fair value of the investment arising from HSBCs exposure to US mortgage portfolio and the SIV and conduit portfolios are loans held at fair value through profit or loss, and recognised in equity.
US MBSs are primarily US mortgage-backed securities MBSs including measured at fair value: a small proportion of high those represented by collateralised debt obligations grade securities are classified as held-to-maturity and CDOs.
HSBCs exposures arise from the measured at amortised cost.
There are no significant following activities: differences between fair value and carrying amount for these US MBSs measured at amortised cost.
2 Recognised during the year in the income statement.
3 Fair value gains and losses recognised during the year in equity.
4 HSBC has primarily utilised loan counterparty credit scores as the basis for determining whether an asset is classified as sub-prime.
5 Mortgage-backed securities MBSs and collateralised debt obligations CDOs.
In addition to the exposure detailed above, During the second half of 2007, the market value of HSBC also holds long positions in MBSs with the securities declined, with offsetting increases in a carrying value of US$1,633 million 2006: the mark-to-market value of the CDS transactions, US$963 million and MBS CDOs with a carrying thereby increasing OTC counterparty credit risk to value of US$349 million 2006: US$608 million the monoline insurers.
The table below sets out the where the exposure has been matched by specific mark-to-market value of the derivative contracts at credit derivatives with monolines and other financial 31 December 2007, and hence the amount at risk, institutions.
The counterparty credit risk arising based on 31 December 2007 security prices, if the from the derivative transactions undertaken with CDS protection purchased were to be wholly monolines is included in the monoline exposure ineffective because, for example, the monoline analysis detailed on page 260. insurer was unable to meet its obligations.
In order to assess that risk, protection purchased is sub-divided HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions between those monoline insurers that had external entered into directly with monoline insurers investment grade ratings at 25 February 2008, and Audited those that did not.
The Credit Risk Adjustment column indicates the valuation adjustment taken HSBCs principal exposure to monoline insurers is against the mark-to-market exposures, and reflects through a number of OTC derivative transactions, the deterioration in creditworthiness of the monoline primarily credit default swaps CDSs.
These adjustments have been entered into CDSs to purchase credit protection charged to the income statement.
against securities held within the trading portfolio.
259 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Residual value risk management Operational risk management Legal risk HSBCs exposure to derivative transactions entered into directly with monoline insurers Audited Net exposure Net exposure before credit Credit risk after credit 1 2 risk adjustment adjustment risk adjustment US$m US$m US$m At 31 December 2007 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties: Monoline investment grade 1,342 133 1,209 Monoline below investment grade 214 214 1,556 347 1,209 At 31 December 2006 Derivative transactions with monoline counterparties: Monoline investment grade 9 9 1 Net exposure after legal netting and any other relevant credit mitigation prior to deduction of credit risk adjustment.
2 Fair value adjustment recorded against over-the-counter derivative counterparty exposures to reflect the credit worthiness of the counterparty.
HSBCs exposure to debt securities which benefit leases.
The business regularly monitors residual from guarantees provided by monoline insurers value exposure by reviewing the recoverability of Audited the residual value projected at lease inception.
This entails considering the potential of re-letting of Within both the trading and available-for-sale operating lease assets and their projected disposal portfolios, HSBC holds bonds that are wrapped proceeds at the end of their lease terms.
Provision is with a credit enhancement from a monoline insurer.
made to the extent that the carrying values of leased Any deterioration in the credit profile of the assets are impaired through residual values not being monoline insurer is reflected in market prices and fully recoverable.
therefore in the carrying value of these securities in HSBCs balance sheet at 31 December 2007.
For The net book value of equipment leased to wrapped bonds held in the trading portfolio, the customers on operating leases by the Group includes mark-to-market loss has been reflected through the projected residual values at the end of current lease income statement.
For wrapped bonds held in the terms, to be recovered through re-letting or disposal available-for-sale portfolio, the mark-to-market in the following periods: deterioration is reflected in equity unless the Residual values impairment is regarded as permanent, in which case Unaudited it is reflected in the income statement.
There was no 2007 2006 permanent impairment recognised in respect of these US$m US$m assets at 31 December 2007.
Within 1 year 155 200 Between 1-2 years.............. 243 414 Between 2-5 years.............. 713 379 HSBCs exposure to direct lending and More than 5 years.............. 1,892 1,996 irrevocable commitments to lend to monoline insurers Total exposure.................... 3,003 2,989 Audited Operational risk management HSBC has extended liquidity facilities totalling US$158 million to monoline insurers, none of which Unaudited was drawn at 31 December 2007 31 December Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from fraud, 2006: US$145 million, none of which was drawn.
unauthorised activities, error, omission, inefficiency, systems failure or external events.
It is inherent in Residual value risk management every business organisation and covers a wide Unaudited spectrum of issues.
A significant part of a lessors return from operating HSBC manages this risk through a controlsleases is dependent upon its management of residual based environment in which processes are value risk.
This arises from operating lease documented, authorisation is independent and transactions to the extent that the values recovered transactions are reconciled and monitored.
In each from disposing of leased assets or re-letting them at of HSBCs subsidiaries, local management is the end of the lease terms the residual values responsible for the review and supervision of the differ from those projected at the inception of the operation of these controls.
The control environment 260 in each subsidiary is subject to an independent HSBC maintains and tests contingency facilities programme of periodic reviews undertaken by to support operations in the event of disasters.
This is supported by the monitoring Additional reviews and tests are conducted in the of external operational risk events, which ensures event that any HSBC office is affected by a business that HSBC stays in line with industry best practice disruption event to incorporate lessons learned in the and takes account of lessons learned from publicised operational recovery from those circumstances.
As operational failures within the financial services part of HSBCs contingency planning, all country industry.
managers have prepared plans for the operation of their businesses with reduced staffing levels, should HSBC has codified its operational risk a flu pandemic occur.
Country managers are required management framework by issuing a high level to update these plans as circumstances change.
standard, supplemented by more detailed formal policies.
The detailed policies explain HSBCs Legal risk approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and Unaudited controlling operational risk, give guidance on Each operating company is required to implement remedial action to be taken when rectifying policies, procedures and guidelines in respect of the operational risk events and set out responsibilities management and control of legal risk which conform for meeting local regulatory requirements.
Legal risk falls within the undertaken to manage operational risk are definition of operational risk and includes determined by reference to the scale and nature of contractual risk, legislative risk, intellectual property each HSBC operation.
The HSBC standard covers risk and litigation risk.
Legal risk is the risk of: the following: failing to act appropriately or diligently in operational risk management responsibility is response to a claim made against any HSBC assigned to senior management within each company: business operation: failing to take the proper action to preserve information systems are used to record the recourse to insurers in respect of any claim identification and assessment of operational against an HSBC company: risks and to generate appropriate, regular operational risk reporting: being unable to successfully defend a claim brought against any HSBC company: assessments are undertaken of the operational risks facing each business and the risks inherent HSBC being unable to take action to enforce its in its processes, activities and products.
Risk rights through the courts: or assessments incorporate an evaluation of the failing to take steps to mitigate the likelihood effectiveness of controls and are regularly that a claim will be made against an HSBC reviewed to identify significant changes: company.
operational risk loss data is collected and HSBC has a dedicated global legal function reported to senior management at the business which is responsible for managing legal risk.
Aggregate operational risk losses are comprises the provision of legal advice and support recorded and details of incidents above a in resisting claims and legal proceedings against materiality threshold are reported to Group HSBC companies, including analysis of legal issues Head Office.
A regular report on operational and the management of any litigation, as well as in losses is made to Group Audit Committee and respect of non-routine debt recoveries or other the Risk Management Meeting: and litigation against third parties.
risk mitigation, including insurance, is The Head Office legal department oversees the considered where this is cost-effective.
global legal function and is headed by a Group In each of HSBCs subsidiaries, local General Manager who reports to the Group management is responsible for implementing HSBC Chairman.
There are legal departments in 56 of the standards on operational risk throughout their countries in which HSBC operates which have operations and, where deficiencies are evident, primary responsibility for identifying and assessing rectifying them within a reasonable timeframe.
legal risk and advising local management in their Subsidiaries acquired by HSBC are required to respective jurisdictions on these matters.
There is assess, plan and implement the standards also a regional-level legal function in each of requirements within an agreed timescale.
Europe, North America, Latin America, the Middle East, and Asia-Pacific.
261 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Pension risk Reputational risk management Sustainability risk management HSBC policy requires operating companies to Pension risk notify the appropriate in-house legal department Unaudited immediately any litigation is either threatened or HSBC operates a number of pension plans commenced against the Group or an employee.
throughout the world, as described in Note 8 on the Claims which exceed US$1.5 million must be Financial Statements.
Some of these pension plans advised immediately to the appropriate regional legal are defined benefit plans, of which the largest is the department.
Claims where the amount exceeds HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme.
US$5 million, where the action is by a regulatory authority, where the proceedings are criminal, or In order to fund these benefits, sponsoring group where the claim might materially affect the Groups companies and in some instances, employees make reputation must immediately be advised to the Head regular contributions in accordance with advice from Office legal department.
Such matters are then actuaries and in consultation with the schemes advised to the Risk Management Meeting of the Trustees where relevant.
The defined benefit plans Group Management Board in a monthly paper.
invest these contributions in a range of investments designed to meet their long-term liabilities.
HSBC policy also requires that an exception report must be made to the local compliance function The level of these contributions has a direct and escalated to the Head of Group Compliance in impact on the cash flow of the Group and would respect of any breach which has given rise to a fine normally be set to ensure that there are sufficient and or costs levied by a court of law or regulatory funds to meet the cost of the accruing benefits for the body where the amount is US$1,500 or more, and future service of active members.
However, higher material or significant issues are reported to the Risk contributions will be required when plan assets are Management Meeting of the Group Management considered insufficient to cover the existing pension Board and or the Group Audit Committee.
Contribution rates are typically revised annually or triennially, depending In addition, operating companies are required to on the plan.
The agreed contributions to the HSBC submit quarterly returns detailing outstanding claims Bank UK Pension Scheme are revised triennially.
where the claim or group of similar claims exceeds US$10 million, where the action is by a regulatory A deficit in a defined benefit plan may arise authority, where the proceedings are criminal, where from a number of factors, including: the claim might materially affect the Groups investments delivering a return below that reputation, or, where the Head Office legal required to provide the projected plan benefits.
department has requested returns be completed for a This could arise, for example, when there is a particular claim.
These returns are used for reporting fall in the market value of equities, or when to the Group Audit Committee and the Board of increases in long-term interest rates cause a fall HSBC Holdings, and disclosure in the Interim in the value of fixed income securities held: Report and Annual Report and Accounts if appropriate.
a change in either interest rates or inflation which causes an increase in the value of the Global security and fraud risk scheme liabilities: and Unaudited scheme members living longer than expected Security and fraud risk issues are managed at Group known as longevity risk.
level by Global Security and Fraud Risk.
This unit, The plans investment strategy is determined which has responsibility for physical, fraud, in the light of the market risk inherent in the information and contingency risk, and security and investments and the consequential impact on business intelligence, is now fully integrated within potential future contributions.
the central Group Risk function.
This will facilitate synergies between it and other risk functions, such Ultimate responsibility for investment strategy as with Global Retail Risk Management in the rests with either the Trustees or, in certain selection, design and implementation of systems and circumstances, a Management Committee.
The processes to protect the Group against fraud by degree of independence of the Trustees from HSBC deterring fraudulent activity, detecting it where it differs in different jurisdictions.
For example, the does occur and mitigating its effects.
HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme, which accounts for over 40 per cent of the net liability of the Groups pension plans, is overseen by a corporate Trustee.
This schemes Trustee regularly monitors the market risks inherent in the scheme.
262 Reputational risk management ensure a strong adherence to HSBCs risk Unaudited management system and its corporate responsibility practices.
The safeguarding of HSBCs reputation is of paramount importance to its continued prosperity Sustainability risk management and is the responsibility of every member of staff, Unaudited and HSBC regularly reviews its policies and procedures for safeguarding against reputational and Sustainability risks arise from the provision of operational risks.
This is an evolutionary process financial services to companies or projects which run which takes account of relevant developments and counter to the needs of sustainable development: in industry guidance such as The Association of British effect this risk arises when the environmental and Insurers guidance on best practice when responding social effects outweigh economic benefits.
Within to environmental, social and governance ESG Group Head Office, a separate function, Group risks.
Corporate Sustainability, is mandated to manage these risks globally.
Its risk management HSBC has always aspired to the highest responsibilities include: standards of conduct and, as a matter of routine, takes account of reputational risks to its business.
This Reputational risks can arise from a wide variety of includes oversight of HSBCs sustainability risk causes, including ESG issues and operational risk standards, management of the Equator events.
As a banking group, HSBCs good reputation Principles for project finance lending, and depends upon the way in which it conducts its sector-based sustainability policies covering business, but it can also be affected by the way in those sectors with high environmental or social which clients, to whom it provides financial services, impacts forestry, freshwater infrastructure, conduct themselves.
The training of Directors on chemicals, energy, mining and metals, and appointment includes reputational matters.
defence-related lending : undertaking an independent review of transactions where A Reputational Risk Committee RRC has sustainability risks are assessed to be high, and been established at which relevant Group functions supporting HSBCs operating companies to with responsibility for activities and functions which assess similar risks of a lower magnitude: attract reputational risk are represented.
The primary role of the RRC is to consider areas and activities building and implementing systems-based presenting significant reputational risk and, where processes to ensure consistent application of appropriate, to make recommendations to the Risk policies, reduce the costs of sustainability risk Management Meeting and the Group Management reviews and capture management information to Board for policy or procedural changes to mitigate measure and report on the effect of HSBCs such risk.
lending and investment activities on sustainable development: and Standards on all major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for individual subsidiaries, providing training and capacity building within businesses and functions.
Reputational risks, HSBCs operating companies to ensure including ESG matters, are considered and assessed sustainability risks are identified and mitigated by the Board, the Group Management Board, the on a consistent basis and to either HSBCs own Risk Management Meeting, subsidiary company standards, or international standards or local boards, board committees and senior management regulations, whichever is the higher.
during the formulation of policy and the establishment of HSBC standards.
These policies, which form an integral part of the internal control system see page 304, are communicated through manuals and statements of policy and are promulgated through internal communications and training.
The policies cover ESG issues and set out operational procedures in all areas of reputational risk, including money laundering deterrence, environmental impact, anti-corruption measures and employee relations.
The policy manuals address risk issues in detail and co-operation between Head Office departments and businesses is required to 263 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Insurance risk Risk management of insurance focusing on operational risk, insurance risk, operations market and liquidity risk, and credit risk.
The Audited sub-committees of the Group Insurance Risk Committee were introduced during 2007.
The HSBC operates a bancassurance model which processes and controls employed to monitor provides insurance products for customers with individual risks are described under their respective whom the Group has a banking relationship.
The main contracts manufactured of these products are manufactured by HSBC by HSBC are described below.
subsidiaries, but where the Group considers it operationally more effective, third parties are Life insurance business engaged to manufacture and provide insurance Audited products which HSBC sells through its banking Life insurance contracts with discretionary network.
The Group works with a limited number of participation features DPF allow policyholders market-leading partners to provide these products.
to participate in the profits generated from such When manufacturing products, the Group business, which may take the form of annual underwrites the insurance risk and retains the risks bonuses and a final bonus, in addition to providing and rewards associated with writing insurance cover on death.
The largest portfolio, which is in contracts.
HSBCs exposure to risks associated with Hong Kong, is a book of endowment and whole-life manufacturing insurance contracts in its subsidiaries policies, with annual bonuses awarded to and its management of these risks are discussed policyholders.
In addition, certain minimum return below.
One advantage of the bancassurance model to Credit life insurance business is written to HSBC is that, where the Group manufactures underpin banking and finance products.
The policy products to sell to customers, the underwriting profit pays a claim if the holder of the loan is unable to is retained within the Group as is the commission make repayments due to early death or paid by the manufacturer to the bank distribution unemployment.
When HSBC sells products provided by third parties, it earns a commission.
HSBC sells Annuities are contracts providing regular insurance products across all its customer groups, payments of income from capital investment for mainly utilising its retail branches, the internet and either a fixed period or during the annuitants phone centres.
Payments to the annuitant either begin on customers attract the majority of sales and comprise inception of the policy immediate annuities or at a the majority of policyholders.
HSBC offers its designated future date deferred annuities.
customers a wide range of insurance and investment Term assurance and critical illness policies products, many of which complement other bank and provide cover in the event of death term assurance consumer finance products.
HSBCs bancassurance business operates in all Linked life insurance contracts pay benefits to five of the Groups geographical regions with over policyholders which are typically determined by 35 legal entities manufacturing insurance products.
reference to the value of the investments supporting The majority of these insurance operations are the policies.
subsidiaries of banking legal entities and comply with their management control procedures.
In Investment contracts with DPF allow addition to local management requirements, the policyholders to participate in the profits generated insurance operations follow guidelines issued by the by such business.
The largest portfolio is written in Group Insurance Head Office.
Policyholders are guaranteed to receive a Head Office is headed by the Groups Managing return on their investment plus any discretionary Director of Insurance, supported by a Chief bonuses.
In addition, certain minimum return levels Operating Officer and Chief Finance Officer.
role of Group Insurance Head Office includes setting Unit-linked investment contracts are those the control framework for monitoring and measuring where the principal benefit payable is the value of insurance risk in line with existing Group practices, assigned assets.
and defining insurance-specific policies and guidelines for inclusion in the Group Instruction Other investment contracts include pension Manuals.
The control framework for monitoring risk contracts written in Hong Kong.
includes the Group Insurance Risk Committee, to which four Group Insurance sub-committees report, 264 Non-life insurance business credit life products.
The Groups manufacturing Audited focuses on personal lines, i. e. contracts written for individuals.
Personal lines tend to be of higher Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire and volume and lower individual value than commercial other damage to property, accident and health, lines, and this diversifies the insurance risk.
repayment protection and commercial insurances.
Life and non-life business insurance risks are Motor insurance business covers vehicle controlled by high level procedures set centrally, damage and liability for personal injury.
For fire and supplemented as appropriate with locally-imposed other damage to property, the predominant focus in measures which take account of specific local most markets is insurance for home and contents for market conditions and regulatory requirements.
For individuals, with cover for selected commercial example, manufacturing entities are required to customers largely written in Asia and Latin America.
obtain authorisation from Group Insurance Head A very limited portfolio of liability business is Office to write certain classes of business, with written other than that which is included in the restrictions applying particularly to commercial and motor book.
Local ALCOs are required to monitor certain risk exposures, in Credit non-life insurance is concentrated in particular for life business.
This business is originated in conjunction with the provision of loans.
Reinsurance is also used as a means of mitigating exposure, in particular to aggregations of Given the nature of the contracts written by the catastrophe risk.
Specific examples are as follows: Group, the risk to which the Group insurance operations are exposed falls into two principal Accident and health insurance.
Potential categories: insurance risk and financial risk.
exposure to concentrations of claims arising from particular events, such as earthquakes or a The following section describes the nature and pandemic, are mitigated by the purchase of extent of the risks that arise in the Groups insurance catastrophe reinsurance.
subsidiaries and the principal approach that HSBC adopts to managing them.
The majority of the risk in Motor insurance.
Reinsurance protection is the insurance business resides in the manufacturing arranged to avoid excessive exposure to larger activities.
losses, particularly from personal injury claims.
Fire and other damage to property.
Portfolios at Insurance risk risk from catastrophic losses are protected by Audited reinsurance in accordance with information Insurance risk is a risk, other than financial risk, obtained from professional risk-modelling transferred from the holder of a contract to the organisations.
The principal insurance The following tables provide an analysis of the risk faced by HSBC is that the combined cost of insurance risk exposures by geography and by type claims, administration and acquisition of the contract of business.
By definition, HSBC is not exposed to may exceed the aggregate amount of premiums insurance risk on investment contracts, so they have received and investment income.
The cost of a claim not been included in the insurance risk management can be influenced by many factors, including analysis.
mortality and morbidity experience, lapse and surrender rates and, where the policy has a savings Life business tends to be longer-term in nature element, the performance of the assets held to than non-life business and frequently involves an support the liabilities.
element of savings and investment in the contract.
Separate tables are therefore provided for life and HSBC manages its exposure to insurance risk non-life businesses, reflecting their distinctive risk by applying formal underwriting, reinsurance and characteristics.
The life insurance risk table provides claims-handling procedures designed to ensure an analysis of insurance liabilities as the best compliance with regulations and insurance risk available overall measure of insurance exposure, appetite, the latter proposed by local businesses and because provisions for life contracts are typically set authorised centrally.
This is supplemented by by reference to expected future cash outflows undertaking stress testing.
relating to the underlying policies.
The table for The insurance contracts sold by the Group non-life business uses written premiums as the best relate, in the main, to core underlying banking available measure of risk exposure.
These additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
The increase in investment contracts with DPF resulted from the acquisition in March 2007 of the remaining 50.01 per cent share in HSBC Assurances, the French insurance business, that the Group did not already own, resulting in the consolidation of the assets and liabilities of HSBC Assurances.
2 Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
Audited Insurance risk arising from life insurance depends on the type of business, and varies The liabilities for long-term contracts are set by considerably.
The principal risks are mortality, reference to a range of assumptions which include morbidity, lapse, surrender and expense levels.
lapse and surrender rates, mortality and expense levels.
These assumptions are typically set by The main contracts which generate exposure to reference to the entitys own experience.
Economic mortality and morbidity risks are term assurance assumptions, such as investment returns and interest contracts and annuities.
These risks are monitored on rates, are typically set by reference to market a regular basis, and are primarily mitigated by observable data.
medical underwriting and by retaining the ability in certain cases to amend premiums in the light of The above table of liabilities to life insurance experience.
The risk associated with lapses and policyholders provides an overall summary of surrenders is generally mitigated by the application HSBCs life insurance activity.
In particular, the of surrender charges.
Expense risk can generally be table highlights that the most significant products are managed through pricing.
The level of expenses in investment contracts with DPF issued in France, the contract will be one of the items considered insurance contracts with DPF issued in Hong Kong, when setting premiums rates.
annuities issued in North America and Latin America and unit-linked contracts issued in Europe, Hong Kong and Latin America.
Audited The main risks associated with non-life business are underwriting risk and claims experience risk.
The above table of non-life net written insurance Underwriting risk is the risk that HSBC does not premiums provides an overall summary of the charge premiums appropriate to the cover provided non-life insurance activity of the Group.
Motor and claims experience risk is the risk that portfolio business is written predominantly in Europe and experience is worse than expected.
HSBC manages Latin America and represents the largest class of these risks through pricing for example, imposing non-life business in 2007.
Fire and other damage to restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and property business is written in all major markets, conditions, product design, risk selection, claims most significantly in Europe.
Credit non-life handling, investment strategy and reinsurance policy.
insurance, which is originated in conjunction with The majority of non-life insurance contracts are the provision of loans, is concentrated in the US and renewable annually and the underwriters have the Europe.
right to refuse renewal or to change the terms and conditions of the contract at the time.
2 Term assurance includes credit life insurance.
3 New category disclosed following HSBCs acquisition of HSBC Assurances.
Although investment contracts with DPF are financial investments, HSBC continues to account for them as insurance contracts as permitted by IFRS 4.
4 Other assets comprise shareholder assets.
5 Present value of in-force long-term insurance contracts and investment contracts with DPF.
6 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance.
7 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance companies, HSBC Assurances and Ping An Insurance.
A principal tool used to manage the Groups inflows with the benefits payable on the underlying exposure to insurance risk, in particular for life contracts which, in some cases, can extend for many insurance contracts, is asset and liability matching.
The table above shows the composition of Models are used to assess the effect of a range of assets and liabilities and demonstrates that there was future scenarios on the values of financial assets and an appropriate level of matching at the end of 2007. associated liabilities, and ALCOs employ the It may not always be possible to achieve a complete outcomes in determining how the assets and matching of asset and liability durations, partly liabilities should be matched.
The stresses applied because there is uncertainty over the receipt of all include factors which impact on insurance risk such future premiums and partly because the duration of as mortality and lapse rates.
Of particular importance liabilities may exceed the duration of the longest is the need to match the expected pattern of cash available dated fixed interest investments.
2 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance company, Ping An Insurance.
3 Does not include assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associated insurance companies, HSBC Assurances and Ping An Insurance.
270 Financial risks insurance manufacturing subsidiaries may Audited implement additional risk management procedures which reflect local market conditions and regulatory HSBCs insurance businesses are exposed to a range requirements.
of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Market risk includes interest rate In many jurisdictions, local regulatory risk, equity risk and foreign exchange risk.
The requirements prescribe the type, quality and nature and management of these risks is described concentration of assets that HSBCs insurance below.
manufacturing subsidiaries must maintain to meet Manufacturing subsidiaries are exposed to insurance liabilities.
Within each subsidiary, ALCOs financial risk, for example, when the proceeds from are responsible for ensuring that exposures to financial assets are not sufficient to fund the financial risks remain within local requirements and obligations arising from non-linked insurance and risk mandates as agreed with Group Insurance Head investment contracts.
Certain insurance-related Office, and ensure compliance with the control activities undertaken by HSBC subsidiaries such as framework established centrally through the Group insurance broking, insurance management including Instruction Manuals.
captive management and insurance, pensions and The following table analyses the assets held in annuities administration and intermediation, are HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at exposed to financial risk, but not to a significant 31 December 2007 by type of liability, and provides extent.
2 Comprises life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
5 Do not include financial assets of insurance manufacturing associate, Ping An Insurance.
6 Do not include financial assets of insurance manufacturing associates, HSBC Assurances and Ping An Insurance.
7 Comprises mainly loans and advances to banks, cash and intercompany balances with other non-insurance legal entities.
The table demonstrates that for linked contracts, Market risk Audited HSBC typically designates assets at fair value.
For non-linked contracts, the classification of the assets Insurance and investment products manufactured by is driven by the nature of the underlying contract.
HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries typically comprise features or combinations of The table also shows that approximately features which may not be easily or exactly 55.4 per cent of financial assets was invested in debt replicated by investments.
Market risk arises from securities at 31 December 2007 2006: 51.9 per cent the mismatch between product liabilities and the with 30.3 per cent 2006: 31.8 per cent invested in investment assets which back them.
interest rate risk arises from the mismatch between In life linked insurance, premium income less asset and liability yields and maturities.
charges levied is invested in a portfolio of assets.
HSBC manages the financial risk of this product on Description of market risks behalf of the policyholders by holding appropriate Audited assets in segregated funds or portfolios to which the The main features of products manufactured by liabilities are linked.
HSBC typically retains some HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries which exposure to market risk as the market value of the generate market risks, and the market risks to which linked assets influences the fees charged by HSBC these features expose the subsidiaries, are discussed and thereby affects the recoverability of expenses in the sections which follow.
incurred by the Group in managing the product.
The assets held to support life linked liabilities Long-term insurance or investment products represented 29.7 per cent of the total financial assets may incorporate investment return guarantees, of HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries at divided into the following categories: the end of 2007 2006: 41.7 per cent.
272 annuities in payment: within a prescribed range of average investment returns earned by predetermined market deferred annuities: these consist of two phases participants on the specified product.
the savings and investing phase, and the retirement income phase: Subsidiaries manufacturing products with guarantees are usually exposed to falls in market annual return: the annual return is guaranteed to interest rates as these result in lower yields on the be no lower than a specified rate.
This may be assets supporting guaranteed investment returns the return credited to the policyholder every payable to policyholders.
year, or the average annual return credited to the policyholder over the life of the policy, which The table below shows, in respect of each may occur on the maturity date or the surrender category of guarantee, the total policyholders date of the contract: liabilities established for guaranteed products, the range of investment returns net of operating costs capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive implied by the guarantees, and the range of current no less than the premiums paid plus declared yields of the investment portfolios supporting the bonuses less expenses: and guarantees.
2 Excluding guarantees from associate insurance companies, HSBC Assurances and Ping An Insurance.
3 There is no specific investment return implied by market performance guarantees because the guarantees are expressed as lying within prescribed ranges of average market returns.
A certain number of these products have been policies, assets may have to be sold at a loss to fund discontinued, including the US$609 million deferred redemptions.
annuity portfolio in HSBC Finance where, as Insurance and investment products with DPF are highlighted in the above table, the current portfolio primarily invested in bonds, but a proportion of their yield is less than the guarantee.
On acquisition of investment portfolios is allocated to equity securities this block of business by HSBC Finance, a provision in order to provide customers with potentially was established to mitigate the shortfall in yields.
Subsidiaries with portfolios of There has been no further deterioration in the such products are exposed to falls in the market price shortfall since acquisition.
There are a limited of equity securities when the risk cannot be managed number of additional contracts where the current through the discretionary bonus policy.
portfolio yield is less than the guarantee implied by the contract.
A subsidiary holding a portfolio of long-term insurance and investment products, especially with Long-term insurance and investment products DPF, may attempt to reduce exposure to one typically permit the policyholder to surrender the particular market by investing in assets in countries policy or let it lapse at any time.
When the surrender other than the country in which it is based.
These value is not linked to the value realised from the sale assets may be denominated in currencies other than of the associated supporting assets, the subsidiary is the subsidiarys local currency.
It is often not cost exposed to market risk.
In particular, when asset effective to hedge the foreign exchange exposure of values fall and customers seek to surrender their 273 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Insurance risk Market risk Credit risk these assets and the subsidiary will be exposed to a How the exposures to risks are measured Audited strengthening of its local currency against the currency of the related assets.
HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries monitor exposures against mandated limits regularly For unit-linked contracts, market risk is and report these quarterly to Group Insurance Head substantially borne by the policyholder.
Exposures are aggregated and reported to typically retains an exposure to market risk as the senior risk management forums in the Group, market value of the linked assets influences the fees including the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity HSBC earns for managing them.
Risk Meeting, Group Insurance Risk Committee and the Group Stress Test Review Group.
How the risks are managed Audited The standard measures used to quantify the HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries market risks are as follows: manage market risk by using some or all of the for interest rate risk, the sensitivities of the techniques relevant to the contracts being written by net present values of asset and expected the subsidiary.
The techniques applied may include: liability cash flows, in total and by currency, for products with DPF, adjusting bonus rates to a one basis point parallel upward shift in to manage the liabilities to policyholders.
The the discount curves used to calculate the net management of bonus rates is achieved by present values: regularly evaluating their sustainability.
In for equity price risk, the total market value of practice, this means that a portion of the equity holdings and the market value of market risk is borne by the policyholder: equity holdings by region and country: and as far as possible, matching assets to for foreign exchange rate risk, the total net liabilities.
For example, for products with short foreign exchange position and the net annual return or capital guarantees, HSBC foreign exchange positions by currency.
invests in bonds which produce a return at least equal to the investment return implied Although these measures are relatively by the guarantee: straightforward to calculate and aggregate, there are limitations.
The most significant limitation is that the using derivatives, in a limited number of one basis point parallel shift in yield curves measure instances: does not capture the non-linear relationships between when designing new products with the value of certain assets and liabilities and interest investment guarantees, evaluating the cost of rates which arise, for example, from investment the guarantee and considering this cost when return guarantees, and certain product features such determining the premium level or the price as the ability of policyholders to surrender their structure: policies.
If the yields on investments held to support contracts with guarantees are below the investment including features designed to mitigate return implied by the guarantee, shortfalls will fall to market risk in new products, for example, the account of HSBC.
surrender penalty charges to recoup losses incurred when policyholders surrender their HSBC recognises these limitations and policies: and augments its standard measures with stress tests which examine the effect of a range of market rate exiting investment portfolios when the level scenarios on the aggregated profits of the insurance of risk is no longer acceptable.
manufacturing subsidiaries for the year and their net Each insurance manufacturing subsidiary is assets.
A quarterly process was introduced for required to have a market risk mandate which HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries during specifies the investment instruments in which it is 2007 to report stress tests to Group Insurance Head permitted to invest and the maximum quantum of Office, where the reports are consolidated and market risk which it is permitted to retain.
It is the reviewed by the Group Insurance Market and responsibility of the local ALCO to ensure that its Liquidity Risk Meeting and the Group Stress Test mandate is consistent with local regulations.
mandates must be reviewed and agreed annually HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries with Group Insurance Head Office, and aggregate identify those assets and liabilities whose values in limits are approved by the Risk Management the financial statements are sensitive to each Meeting of the Group Management Board.
category of market risk and revalue them assuming 274 different market rates.
The outcome of the exercise the results of the stress tests.
The relationship is measured in terms of the change in profit after tax between the value of certain assets and liabilities and and net assets under the stress-tested assumptions, the risk factors may be non-linear and, therefore, the after taking into consideration tax and accounting results disclosed cannot be extrapolated to measure treatments where material and relevant.
sensitivities to different levels of stress.
The sensitivities are stated before allowance for the effect The following table illustrates the effect on the of management actions which may mitigate changes aggregated profit for the year and net assets under in market rates, and for any factors such as various interest rate, equity price, foreign exchange policyholder behaviour that may change in response rate and credit spread scenarios.
Where appropriate, to changes in market risk.
the impact of the stress on the PVIF is included in Sensitivity of HSBCs insurance subsidiaries to risk factors Audited 2007 2006 Impact on Impact on profit for Impact on profit for Impact on the year net assets the year net assets US$m US$m US$m US$m 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves........... 67 29 13 111 100 basis points parallel shift in yield curves........... 71 49 24 103 10 per cent increase in equity prices 147 151 93 95 10 per cent decrease in equity prices 145 149 86 87 10 per cent increase in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies........... 12 12 10 10 10 per cent decrease in US dollar exchange rate compared to all currencies........... 12 12 10 10 Sensitivity to credit spread increases 15 30 7 12 The sensitivity of the net profit of HSBCs HSBCs exposure to credit risk in its insurance insurance subsidiaries to the effects of increases in manufacturing subsidiaries primarily arises from credit spreads is a fall of US$15 million 2006: their portfolios of invested assets held, their US$7 million fall.
The sensitivity is expressed on an reinsurance transactions and any credit protection after tax basis consistent with the other sensitivities products they write.
noted above and has been calculated using simplified HSBC sells certain unit-linked life insurance assumptions based on one-day movement in credit contracts via a co-insurance agreement with a third spreads over a two-year period.
The insurance contracts issued under the of 99 per cent, consistent with the Groups VAR, has co-insurance agreement include market return been applied.
The impact of movements in credit guarantees, which are underwritten by the third spreads has become more significant in 2007 due to party.
HSBC has a credit risk exposure arising on the increased volatility in credit spreads.
guarantees were the counterparty unable to meet the terms of the guarantees.
At 31 December 2007, the Credit risk exposure to the counterparty was small.
Audited The exposure to credit risk products and the Credit risk can give rise to losses through default management of the risks associated with credit and can lead to volatility in income statement and protection products are included in the analyses of balance sheet figures through movements in credit life and non-life insurance risk from page 266 to spreads, principally on the US$29.8 billion 2006: 267.
US$14.1 billion non-linked bond portfolio.
The exposure of the income statement to the effect of Management of HSBCs insurance changes in credit spreads is small see the table manufacturing subsidiaries is responsible for the above.
36 per cent of the financial assets held by credit risk, quality and performance of their insurance subsidiaries are classified as either held to investment portfolios.
Investment credit mandates maturity or available for sale, and consequently any and limits are set locally by the insurance changes in the fair value of these financial manufacturing subsidiaries and approved by their investments would have no impact on the profit local insurance ALCO and Credit Risk function after tax.
before receiving concurrence centrally from Group Credit Risk.
The form and content of the mandates 275 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Insurance operations Credit risk accord with centrally set investment credit risk probabilities.
The stresses are reported to the guidance regarding credit quality, industry sector Group Insurance Credit Risk Committee.
concentration and liquidity restrictions, but allow for local regulatory and country-specific conditions.
Credit quality Audited The assessment of creditworthiness of issuers and counterparties is based primarily upon The following table presents the analysis of treasury internationally recognised credit ratings and other bills, other eligible bills and debt securities within publicly available information.
HSBCs insurance business by rating agency designation based on Standard and Poors ratings Investment credit exposures are monitored or equivalent.
Only assets supporting non-linked against limits by the local insurance manufacturing liabilities are included in the table since financial subsidiaries, and are aggregated and reported to risk on assets supporting linked liabilities is HSBCs Group Credit Risk function, the Group predominantly borne by the policyholder.
Insurance Credit Risk Meeting and the Group Insurance Risk Committee.
The table indicates that 72.3 per cent 2006: 74.5 per cent of the assets included in the table are Stress testing is performed by Group Insurance invested in AA or AAA rated investments.
2 Does not include treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities held by insurance manufacturing associate, Ping An Insurance.
3 Does not include treasury bills, other eligible bills and debt securities held by insurance manufacturing associates, HSBC Assurances and Ping An Insurance.
Audited Credit risk also arises when part of the insurance The split of liabilities ceded to reinsurers and risk incurred by HSBC is assumed by reinsurers.
The outstanding reinsurance recoveries, analysed by credit risk exposure for reinsurers is monitored by Standard and Poors reinsurance credit rating data or Group Insurance Head Office and is reported their equivalent, was as follows: quarterly to the Group Insurance Risk Committee and the Group Insurance Credit Risk Committee.
2 Does not include reinsurers share of liabilities under insurance contracts and reinsurance debtors of insurance manufacturing associates, HSBC Assurances and Ping An Insurance.
Liquidity risk investing in good credit-quality investments Audited with deep and liquid markets to the degree to which they exist: It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount monitoring investment concentrations and and the timing of settlement of claims liabilities that restricting them where appropriate, for may arise, and this leads to liquidity risk.
example, debt issues or issuers: and To fund the cash outflows arising from claims establishing committed contingency liabilities, HSBCs insurance manufacturing borrowing facilities.
subsidiaries utilise liquidity primarily from the During 2007, a quarterly process has been following sources: introduced whereby HSBCs insurance cash inflows arising from premiums from new manufacturing subsidiaries are required to complete business, policy renewals and recurring and submit liquidity risk reports to Group Insurance premium products: Head Office for collation and review by the Group Insurance Market and Liquidity Risk Meeting.
cash inflows arising from interest and Liquidity risk is assessed in these reports by dividends on investments and principal measuring changes in expected cumulative net cash repayments of maturing debt investments: flows under a series of stress scenarios designed to cash resources: and determine the effect of reducing expected available liquidity and accelerating cash outflows.
This is cash inflows from the sale of investments.
achieved by, for example, assuming new business or HSBCs insurance manufacturing subsidiaries renewals are lower, and surrenders or lapses are manage liquidity risk by utilising some or all of the greater than expected.
following techniques: As indicated in the table headed Expected matching cash inflows with expected cash maturity of insurance contract liabilities below and outflows using specific cash flow projections in the analyses of life and non-life insurance risks on or more general asset and liability matching pages 266 to 267, a significant proportion of the techniques such as duration matching: Groups non-life insurance business is viewed as short term, with the settlement of liabilities expected maintaining sufficient cash resources: to occur within one year of the period of risk.
There is a greater spread of expected maturities for the life business where, in a large proportion of cases, the 278 liquidity risk is borne in conjunction with The profile of the expected maturity of the policyholders wholly in the case of unit-linked insurance contracts as at 31 December 2007 has business.
The increase in the undated investment contract liabilities arises The following tables show the expected principally from the incorporation of HSBC undiscounted cash flows for insurance contract Assurances balance sheet as a subsidiary at liabilities and the remaining contractual maturity of 31 December 2007. investment contract liabilities, respectively, at 31 December 2007.
2 2006 balances for life insurance have been restated to ensure a consistent presentation with 2007 balances for this disclosure.
2 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown above.
3 Does not include investment contracts by insurance manufacturing associates, HSBC Assurances and Ping An Insurance.
279 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Insurance risk PVIF Present value of in-force long-term Sensitivity of PVIF to changes in economic insurance business assumptions Audited Audited PVIF at 31 December The HSBC life insurance business is accounted for 2007 2006 using the embedded value approach, which, inter US$m US$m alia, provides a comprehensive framework for the 100 basis points shift in evaluation of insurance and related risks.
The present risk-free rate.............. 195 130 value of the in-force long-term PVIF asset at 100 basis points shift in 31 December 2007 was US$2.0 billion 2006: risk-free rate.............. 232 141 US$1.5 billion.
The present value of the 100 basis points shift in shareholders interest in the profits expected to risk discount rate....... 95 64 100 basis points shift in emerge from the book of in-force policies at risk discount rate....... 106 70 31 December can be stress-tested to assess the ability of the life business book to withstand adverse disclosed may not be extrapolated to higher levels of developments.
A key feature of the life insurance stress.
In calculating the various scenarios, all other business is the importance of managing the assets, assumptions are held stable except for testing the liabilities and risks in a coordinated fashion rather effect of the shift in the risk-free rate, when than individually.
This reflects the greater consequential changes to investment returns, risk interdependence of these three elements for life discount rates and bonus rates are also incorporated.
insurance than is generally the case for non-life The sensitivities shown are before actions that could insurance.
be taken by management to mitigate effects and The following table shows the effect on the before consequential changes in policyholder PVIF of reasonably possible changes in the main behaviour.
economic assumptions, changes in the risk-free The following table shows the movements and risk discount rates, across all insurance recorded during the year in respect of PVIF and the manufacturing subsidiaries.
net assets of insurance operations: It should be noted that, due to certain conditions that may exist within the contracts, the effects may be non-linear and so the results of the stress-testing Movements in PVIF and net assets of insurance operations Audited 2007 2006 Net assets Net assets of insurance of insurance PVIF operations Total PVIF operations Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m At 1 January 1,549 4,400 5,949 1,400 3,582 4,982 1 Value of new business written during the year.
2 Experience variances include the effect of the difference between demographic, expense and persistency assumptions used in the previous PVIF calculation and actual experience observed during the year.
280 Non-economic assumptions mortality rates typically has a positive impact on Audited profit as the period over which the benefit is being paid to the policyholder is shortened.
However, The policyholder liabilities and PVIF are determined where an annuity contract includes life cover, the by reference to non-economic assumptions which positive impact of reduced future annuity payments include, for non-life manufacturers, claims costs and observed through an increase in mortality can be expense rates and, for life manufacturers, mortality offset by the benefits payable under the life cover.
and or morbidity, lapse rates and expense rates.
The table below shows the sensitivity of profit for the Sensitivity to lapse rates is dependent on the year to, and net assets at, 31 December 2007 to type of contracts being written.
For insurance reasonably possible changes in these non-economic contracts, the cost of claims is funded by premiums assumptions at 31 December 2007 across all received and income earned on the investment insurance manufacturing subsidiaries, with portfolio supporting the liabilities.
For a portfolio of comparatives for 2006. term assurance, an increase in lapses typically leads to a negative impact on profit due to the loss of Claims costs is a risk associated with non-life future premium income on the lapsed policies.
If the cost of claims increases, a portfolio of annuity contracts, an increase in lapse negative impact on profit would occur.
rates results in a positive impact on profit as the Mortality and morbidity risk is typically period over which the Group is obliged to pay associated with life insurance contracts.
The impact benefits to the policyholder is shortened.
of an increase in mortality or morbidity on profit Expense rate risk is the exposure to a change in depends on the type of business being written.
To the extent that increased expenses portfolio of term assurance contracts, an increase in cannot be passed on to the policyholder, an increase mortality would have a negative impact on profit in expense rates will have a negative impact on since the instances of claims would increase.
The Capital Management Framework covers the Capital management Audited different capital measures within which HSBC manages its capital in a consistent and aligned HSBCs capital management approach is driven by manner.
These include the market capitalisation, its strategy and organisational requirements, taking invested capital, economic capital and regulatory into account the regulatory and commercial capital.
HSBC defines invested capital as the equity environment in which it operates.
The Groups capital invested in HSBC by its shareholders.
strategy underpins HSBCs Capital Management Economic capital is the capital requirement Framework which has been approved by the Group calculated internally by HSBC to support the risks to Management Board.
It is HSBCs policy to maintain which it is exposed and is set at a confidence level a strong capital base to support the development of consistent with a AA target credit rating.
its business and to meet regulatory capital Regulatory capital is the capital which HSBC is requirements at all times.
It also maintains a strong required to hold as determined by the rules discipline over its investment decisions and where it established by the FSA for the consolidated Group allocates its capital, seeking to ensure that returns on and by HSBCs local regulators for individual Group investment are appropriate after taking account of companies.
In addition, the level of capital held by HSBC Holdings and other major subsidiaries, An annual Group capital plan is prepared and particularly HSBC Finance, is determined by its approved by the Board with the objective of rating targets.
maintaining both the optimal amount of capital and the mix between the different components of capital.
HSBCs strategic intention is to allocate capital The Groups policy is to hold capital in a range of to businesses based on their economic profit different forms and from diverse sources and all generation and, within this process, regulatory and capital raising is agreed with major subsidiaries as economic capital requirements and the cost of capital part of their individual and the Groups capital are key factors.
The responsibility for global capital management processes.
HSBC Holdings and its allocation principles and decisions rests with the major subsidiaries raise non-equity tier 1 capital and Group Management Board.
Stress testing is used as subordinated debt in accordance with the Groups an important mechanism in understanding the guidelines on market and investor concentration, sensitivities of the core assumptions in the capital cost, market conditions, timing, effect on plans to the adverse impact of extreme, but plausible, composition and maturity profile.
Stress testing allows senior management to debt requirements of other HSBC companies are met formulate management action in advance of internally.
conditions starting to reflect the stress scenarios identified.
The Group has identified the following as Each subsidiary manages its own capital being the material risks faced and managed through required to support planned business growth and the Capital Management Framework: credit, market, meet local regulatory requirements, within the operational, asset and liability management, pension, context of the approved annual Group capital plan.
As part of HSBCs Capital Management Framework, capital generated in excess of planned requirements In 2007, HSBC continued to manage its capital is returned to HSBC Holdings, normally by way of against its benchmark minimum tier 1 capital ratio of dividends.
8.25 per cent, which it has used under the current Basel Capital Accord Basel I for the purposes of HSBC Holdings is primarily a provider of its long-term capital planning.
In 2008, as the Group equity capital to its subsidiaries.
These investments operates under the new framework for calculating are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own minimum capital requirements known as Basel II, capital issuance and profit retentions.
HSBC it will target a tier 1 capital ratio within the range Holdings seeks to maintain a prudent balance 7.5 to 9.0 per cent, based on core tier 1 capital plus between the composition of its capital and that of its innovative tier 1 capital, less deductions from tier 1 investment in subsidiaries.
capital under the FSAs Basel II disclosure rules.
Capital measurement and allocation HSBC recognises the effect on shareholder Audited returns of the level of equity capital employed within The FSA supervises HSBC on a consolidated basis the Group and seeks to maintain a prudent balance and, as such, receives information on the capital between the advantages and flexibility afforded by a adequacy of, and sets capital requirements for, strong capital position and the higher returns on 282 HSBC as a whole.
The book values of goodwill and are directly regulated by their local banking intangible assets are deducted in arriving at core supervisors, who set and monitor their capital tier 1 capital.
In most jurisdictions, nonTier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated banking financial subsidiaries are also subject to the loan capital, collective impairment allowances, supervision and capital requirements of local minority and other interests in tier 2 capital and regulatory authorities.
Since 1988, when the unrealised gains arising on the fair valuation of governors of the Group of Ten central banks agreed equity instruments held as available-for-sale.
to guidelines for the international convergence of Tier 2 capital also includes reserves arising from capital measurement and standards, known as the revaluation of properties.
Basel I, the banking supervisors of HSBCs major banking subsidiaries have exercised capital adequacy Various limits are applied to elements of the supervision within a broadly similar framework.
The amount of innovative tier 1 securities cannot exceed 15 per cent of overall tier The FSA implements the capital adequacy 1 capital, qualifying tier 2 capital cannot exceed requirements issued by the Basel Committee on tier 1 capital, and qualifying term subordinated loan Banking Supervision the Basel Committee as capital may not exceed 50 per cent of tier 1 capital.
implemented by the relevant EU Directives.
In June There are also limitations on the amount of 2006, the EU Capital Requirements Directive collective impairment allowances which may be CRD was formally adopted by the Council and included as part of tier 2 capital.
From the total of European Parliament and it required EU Member tier 1 and tier 2 capital are deducted the carrying States to bring implementing provisions into force amounts of unconsolidated investments, investments on 1 January 2007.
The CRD recast the Banking in the capital of banks, and certain regulatory items.
Consolidation Directive and the Capital Adequacy Directive, which had previously applied.
Changes to the definition of capital came into force on 1 January 2007.
They include the In October 2006, the FSA published the General introduction of proportional consolidation of Prudential Sourcebook GENPRU and the banking associates, which previously were either Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies fully consolidated or deducted from capital, the and Investment Firms BIPRU, which took effect relaxation of rules covering the deduction of from 1 January 2007 and implemented the CRD in investments in other banks capital, and a change for the UK.
GENPRU introduced changes to the disclosure purposes only to make certain deductions, definition of capital and the methodology for previously from total capital, now 50 per cent from calculating a firms capital resources requirements.
each of tier 1 and tier 2 capital in the published BIPRU sets out the FSAs rules implementing the disclosures.
This applies to deductions of other CRD requirements for banks, building investments in insurance subsidiaries and associates, societies and investment firms and groups containing but the FSA has granted a transitional provision, such firms.
Transitional provisions regarding the until 31 December 2012, under which any of these implementation of capital requirements calculations insurance investments that were acquired before meant that, in general, unless firms notified the FSA 20 July 2006 may be deducted from the total of tier 1 to the contrary, they continued to apply the existing and tier 2 capital instead.
HSBC has elected to apply capital requirements calculations until 1 January this transitional provision.
2008: changes that took effect on that date are described below in the section Basel II.
Banking operations are categorised as either trading book or banking book and risk-weighted In implementing these EU Directives, the FSA assets are determined accordingly.
Banking book requires each bank and banking group to maintain an risk-weighted assets are measured by means of a individually prescribed ratio of total capital to riskhierarchy of risk weightings classified according to weighted assets, taking into account both balance the nature of each asset and counterparty, taking into sheet assets and off-balance sheet transactions.
account any eligible collateral or guarantees.
HSBCs capital is divided into two tiers: Banking book off-balance sheet items giving rise to credit, foreign exchange or interest rate risk are Tier 1 capital comprises core tier 1 capital and assigned weights appropriate to the category of the innovative tier 1 securities.
Core tier 1 capital counterparty, taking into account any eligible comprises shareholders funds, and minority collateral or guarantees.
Trading book risk-weighted interests in tier 1 capital, after adjusting for assets are determined by taking into account marketitems reflected in shareholders funds which are treated differently for the purposes of capital 283 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: The Management of Risk continued Capital management and allocation Basel II related risks such as foreign exchange, interest rate Basel II also introduces capital requirements for and equity position risks, and counterparty risk.
operational risk and, again, contains three levels of sophistication.
The capital required under the basic Basel II indicator approach is a simple percentage of gross Audited revenues, whereas under the standardised approach it is one of three different percentages of gross The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the revenues allocated to each of eight defined business Basel Committee has published Basel II which lines.
Finally, the advanced measurement approach replaces the 1988 Basel Capital Accord.
The uses banks own statistical analysis and modelling supervisory objectives for Basel II are to promote of operational risk data to determine capital safety and soundness in the financial system and requirements.
HSBC has adopted the standardised maintain at least the current overall level of capital approach to the determination of Group operational in the system: enhance competitive equality: risk capital requirements.
constitute a more comprehensive approach to addressing risks: and focus on internationally active The basis of calculating capital changed with banks.
Basel II is structured around three pillars: effect from 1 January 2008 and the effect on both minimum capital requirements, supervisory review tier 1 capital and total capital is shown in the table process and market discipline.
The CRD is the below, Impact of Basel II.
The Groups capital means by which Basel II is implemented in the EU.
base is reduced compared with Basel I by the extent The FSA gives effect to the CRD through GENPRU to which expected losses exceed the total of and BIPRU, as described above.
individual and collective impairment allowances on IRB portfolios.
These collective impairment Basel II provides three approaches, of allowances are no longer eligible for inclusion in increasing sophistication, to the calculation of tier 2 capital.
pillar 1 credit risk capital requirements.
The most basic, the standardised approach, requires banks to For disclosure purposes, this excess of expected use external credit ratings to determine the risk losses over total impairment allowances in IRB weightings applied to rated counterparties, and portfolios is deducted 50 per cent from tier 1 and groups other counterparties into broad categories 50 per cent from tier 2 capital.
In addition, a tax and applies standardised risk weightings to these credit adjustment is made to tier 1 capital to reflect categories.
In the next level, the internal ratingsthe tax consequences insofar as they impact on the based IRB foundation approach allows banks to availability of tier 1 capital to cover risks or losses.
calculate their credit risk regulatory capital Expected losses, derived under Basel II rules, requirement on the basis of their internal assessment represent losses that would be expected in the of the probability that a counterparty will default, but scenario of a severe downturn over a 12-month with quantification of exposure and loss estimates period.
This definition differs from loan impairment being subject to standard supervisory parameters.
allowances, which only address losses incurred Finally, the IRB advanced approach, will allow within lending portfolios at the balance sheet date banks to use their own internal assessment of not and are not permitted to recognise the additional only the probability of default but also the level of conservatism that the regulatory measure quantification of exposure at default and loss given requires through reflecting a downturn scenario.
Expected losses are calculated by rapidly revolving consumer credit portfolios such as multiplying the probability of default by the loss credit cards, therefore, impairment allowances only given default multiplied by the exposure at default.
capture some of the expected losses predicted over The capital resources requirement under the IRB the next 12 months.
These portfolios turn over three approaches is intended to cover unexpected losses to four times per year, and therefore a large and is derived from a formula specified in the proportion of expected losses relate to credit regulatory rules, which incorporates these factors advances not made at the measurement date.
and other variables such as maturity and correlation.
The effect of the deduction of the difference For credit risk, with FSA approval, HSBC has between expected losses and total impairment adopted the IRB advanced approach to Basel II allowances is to set the total effect on capital to be for the majority of its business with effect from equal to the regulatory definition of expected losses.
1 January 2008, with the remainder on either IRB Because expected losses are based on long-term foundation or standardised approaches.
A rollout estimates and incorporate through-the-cycle plan is in place to extend coverage of the advanced considerations, it is not anticipated that they will be approach over the next three years, leaving a small very volatile.
The impact of this deduction, however, residue of exposures on the standardised approach.
284 may vary from time to time as the accounting Basel II framework.
HSBC will provide qualitative measure of impairment moves closer to or further pillar 3 disclosures during 2008, with the first full set away from the regulatory measure of expected of pillar 3 disclosures including quantitative tables, losses.
being made during the first half of 2009 as of 31 December 2008.
The second pillar of Basel II Supervisory Review and Evaluation Process involves both firms For individual banking subsidiaries, the timing and regulators taking a view on whether a firm and manner of implementing Basel II varies by should hold additional capital against risks not jurisdiction according to requirements set by local covered in pillar 1.
Part of the pillar 2 process is the banking supervisors.
Applying Basel II across Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process HSBCs geographically diverse businesses, which which is the firms self assessment of risks not operate in a large number of different regulatory captured by pillar 1.
The pillar 2 process culminates environments, presents a significant logistical with the FSA providing firms with Individual and technological challenge, involving an extensive Capital Guidance.
The ICG replaces the current programme of implementation.
trigger ratio and is set as a capital resources Basel II allows local regulators to exercise requirement higher than that required under pillar 1, discretion in a number of areas.
The extent to which generally by a specified percentage.
their requirements diverge, coupled with how the Pillar 3 of Basel II is related to market discipline FSA and the local regulators in the other countries in and aims to make firms more transparent by which HSBC operates interact, are key factors in requiring them to publish specific, prescribed details completing implementation of Basel II locally.
2 Mainly comprises investments in insurance entities.
HSBC complied with the FSAs capital US$95 billion reflects balance sheet growth, mainly adequacy requirements throughout 2007 and 2006. in the loan book.
A further US$39 billion arose from Tier 1 capital increased by US$17.1 billion.
Retained the proportional consolidation of banking associates, profits contributed US$8.9 billion, shares issued, mainly Bank of Communications and Industrial including shares issued in lieu of dividends, Bank.
The weakening US dollar gave rise to an contributed US$4.8 billion and exchange differences increase of US$32 billion while increased trading added US$5.5 billion.
These increases were partly book activity contributed US$19 billion.
offset by an increase in goodwill and intangible assets, which are deducted from capital, Risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary Unaudited of US$2.4 billion, and are mainly due to the weakening of the US dollar against the pound In order to give an indication of how HSBCs capital sterling and the euro.
is deployed, the table below analyses the disposition of risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary.
The Total risk-weighted assets increased by risk-weighted assets are calculated using FSA rules US$185 billion, or 19.7 per cent.
Of this increase, and exclude intra-HSBC items.
A reduction in the credit risk capital requirement has As reflected in the table below, the Groups capital been more than offset by the new capital requirement base under Basel II is US$19.7 billion lower than for operational risk.
This reduction in the capital base does not reflect a change in the risk profile of the The Groups pro-forma capital position if it had underlying portfolios and the Group remains been reporting on a Basel II basis at 31 December strongly capitalised.
2 Includes removal of the fair value gains and losses, net of deferred tax, arising from the credit spreads on debt issued by HSBC Holdings and its subsidiaries and designated at fair value.
3 Includes a tax credit adjustment in respect of the excess of expected losses over impairment allowances.
4 Under Basel II, only collective impairment allowances on loan portfolios on the standardised approach are included in tier 2 capital.
5 Mainly comprises investments in insurance entities.
288 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance Biographies Directors Page Directors Corporate Governance Report 289 S K Green, Group Chairman Directors........... 289 Age 59.
Chairman of HSBC Bank plc and Group Managing Directors 292 HSBC North America Holdings Inc. and HSBC Group General Managers.. 293 Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
Executive Director, Global Banking Corporate governance codes.................... 299 and Markets from 1998 to 2003.
Chairman of The Board committees 300 British Bankers Association.
An executive Director of John Swire & Sons Employment of disabled persons.............. 308 Limited and a Director of Swire Pacific Limited.
A Remuneration policy 308 non-executive Director since 1990 and a nonexecutive Deputy Chairman since 1992.
A member Employee share plans 309 of the Nomination Committee.
A non-executive Subsidiary company share plans............... 313 Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Employee compensation and benefits....... 317 Corporation Limited from 1981 to 1996.
A Patron of Corporate sustainability 318 the UK Foundation of the University of British Investing in sustainability 318 Columbia, a registered charity.
A member of the Community involvement 319 Hong Kong Association and the Asia Task Force.
A former Senior Member of the Hong Kong Executive Health and safety 319 Council and Legislative Council.
A non-executive Director since 1998 and a Dividends for 2007 320 non-executive Deputy Chairman since 2001.
A nonCommunication with shareholders........... 320 executive Director of Macsteel Global BV.
Former Chairman of Corus Group plc and a former member Notifiable interests in share capital.......... 320 of the Court of the Bank of England.
Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares.......... 321 Annual General Meeting 321 M F Geoghegan, CBE, Group Chief Executive Age 54.
Joined Corporate Governance Report HSBC in 1973.
Chairman of the Group Management The information set out on pages 289 to 333 and Board.
Chairman of HSBC Bank USA, N. A. information incorporated by reference constitutes the HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Bank Canada.
Deputy Corporate Governance Report of HSBC Holdings.
Chairman of HSBC Bank plc.
A Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited, HSBC France, HSBC National Bank USA and HSBC North America Holdings Inc. President of HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco Mltiplo from 1997 to 2003 and responsible for all of HSBCs business throughout South America from 2000 to 2003.
Chief Executive of HSBC Bank plc from 2004 to March 2006.
A non-executive Director and Chairman of Young Enterprise.
289 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Directors Senior Management The Rt Hon the Lord Butler of Brockwell, AG.
A former Chairman of The Hundred Group of KG, GCB, CVO Retiring 30 May 2008 Finance Directors and a former member of the Accounting Standards Board.
Chairman of the J L Durn Corporate Sustainability Committee and the HSBC Global Education Trust.
Chief Executive of Carrefour SA and International Advisory Board of Marsh McLennan Chairman of its Management Board of Directors.
A Inc. Chaired the UK Government Review of non-executive Director since 1 January 2008.
Joined Intelligence on Weapons of Mass Destruction in Carrefour SA in 1991.
Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Managing Director, Organisation and Systems of Home Civil Service in the United Kingdom Carrefour SA from 2001 to 2005. from 1988 to 1998.
A non-executive Director of Imperial Chemical Industries plc from 1998 to R A Fairhead 2 January 2008.
Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Financial Times Group Limited and a Director of S A Catz Appointed 1 May 2008 Pearson plc.
Chairman of Interactive Data Age 46.
A non-executive Director with effect from Corporation.
President and Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Group Audit Committee.
Managing Director of executive Director of The Economist Newspaper Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette from 1997 to 1999.
Finance Director of Pearson plc from 2002 Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the Board of to June 2006.
Former Executive Vice President, Directors in 2001.
Strategy and Group Control of Imperial Chemical Industries plc.
V H C Cheng, OBE D J Flint, CBE, Group Finance Director Age 59.
Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
Joined HSBC as an executive Director in since 1 February 2008.
Non-executive Chairman of HSBC Finance China Company Limited and HSBC Investments Corporation.
A non-executive Director of BP p. l. c. Hong Kong Limited and a Director of HSBC Bank and a member of the Consultative Committee of the Australia Limited.
Appointed Large Business Advisory Board of HM Revenue & a Group General Manager in 1995 and a Group Customs.
Chaired the Financial Reporting Councils Managing Director in 2005.
A Director of Great review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Eagle Holdings Limited and a Member of the Served on the Accounting Standards Board and the Exchange Fund Advisory Committee of the Hong Standards Advisory Council of the International Kong Monetary Authority.
Vice Chairman of the Accounting Standards Board from 2001 to 2004.
China Banking Association from 10 December 2007.
Appointed a member of the National Committee of the 11th Chinese Peoples Political Consultative A A Flockhart, CBE Appointed 1 May 2008 Conference CPPCC, and a senior advisor to the Age 56.
Chief Executive Officer of The Hongkong 11th Beijing Municipal Committee of the CPPCC.
and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited and Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Global Head of Commercial Banking.
An executive Hang Seng Bank Limited from 1998 to 2005.
A Director with effect from 1 May 2008.
Joined HSBC Director of Swire Pacific Limited from 2005 to in 1974.
A Director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, January 2008.
HSBC Bank Australia Limited, HSBC Bank China Company Limited, and Chairman of HSBC Bank J D Coombe Malaysia Berhad.
Managing Director of The Saudi Age 62.
Chairman of Hogg Robinson plc.
A nonBritish Bank from 1997 to 1999 and Senior executive Director since 2005.
A member of the Executive Vice-President, Commercial Banking, Group Audit Committee and of the Remuneration HSBC Bank USA, N. A. from 1999 to 2002.
A non-executive Director of Home Executive Officer, Mexico from 2002 to October Retail Group plc.
A trustee of the Royal Academy 2006.
President and Group Managing Director Latin Trust.
Former executive Director and Chief America and the Caribbean from October 2006 to Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc and a 20 July 2007.
Appointed a Group General Manager former member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens in 2002 and a Group Managing Director in 2006.
A member of the Business Council for International Understanding.
Group Managing Director of Li & Fung and Chief Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Limited.
Chief Executive member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee.
Officer of Enterprise Oil plc from 2001 to 2002.
Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Executive Vice President of Chevron Corporation Banking Corporation Limited.
A Director of King from 2003 to 2006, and a non-executive Director of Lun Management Limited.
A non-executive Director Hanson PLC from 2003 to 24 August 2007. of CLP Holdings Limited, Integrated Distribution Services Group Limited, Convenience Retail Asia Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, KCMG Limited, Shui On Land Limited and VTech Holdings Limited.
A member of the Hong Kong Trade Age 67.
Chairman of Anglo American plc.
A former non-executive executive Director since 2001.
Chairman of the Director of Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. Remuneration Committee and a member of the Former Chairman of the Hong Kong General Corporate Sustainability Committee.
A nonChamber of Commerce, the Hong Kong Exporters executive Director of Accenture Limited, Saudi Association and the Hong Kong Committee for the Aramco, a Governor of Nuffield Hospitals and Pacific Economic Cooperation Council.
President of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine.
Chairman of the Global Business S T Gulliver Appointed 1 May 2008 Coalition on HIV AIDS and the Global Compact Foundation.
A former Director and Chairman of The Age 48.
Head of Global Banking and Markets and Shell Transport and Trading Company, plc and HSBC Global Asset Management.
An executive former Chairman of the Committee of Managing Director with effect from 1 May 2008.
Joined HSBC Directors of the Royal Dutch Shell Group of in 1980.
A Director of HSBC Bank plc, HSBC Companies.
Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA, HSBC USA Inc. and The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking G Morgan Corporation Limited.
A member of the Supervisory Board of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG.
A non-executive Director since October Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific from 2006.
A member of the Remuneration Committee.
Head of Global Markets from 2002 to Non-executive chairman of SNC-Lavalin Group Inc. 2003 and Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets A member of the Board of Trustees of The Fraser from 2003 to May 2006.
Appointed a Group General Institute and the Energy Advisory Board of Manager in 2000 and a Group Managing Director in Accenture Limited.
HSBC Bank Canada from 1996 until April 2006.
Former Founding President, Chief Executive Officer J W J Hughes-Hallett and Vice Chairman of EnCana Corporation.
A former Director of Alcan Inc. Age 58.
Chairman of John Swire & Sons Limited.
A member of N R N Murthy, CBE Appointed 1 May 2008 the Group Audit Committee and of the Nomination Committee.
A non-executive Director of The Age 61.
A non-executive Director with effect from Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation 1 May 2008.
Chairman and Chief Mentor and former Limited from 1999 to 2004.
A non-executive Chief Executive Officer of Infosys Technologies Director and formerly Chairman of Cathay Pacific Limited.
An independent non-executive Director of Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Limited.
A Unilever plc and New Delhi Television Limited and director of China Festival 2008.
A trustee of the a Director of the United Nations Foundation.
An Dulwich Picture Gallery and the Esme Fairbairn independent non-executive Director of DBS Bank Foundation.
A member of the Hong Kong Limited until 2 April 2008.
Association and of the Governing Body of the School of Oriental and African Studies, University S W Newton of London.
Chairman of The Real Return Group Limited.
A W S H Laidlaw member of the Group Audit Committee.
Chief Executive Officer of Centrica plc.
A of the Investment Committee of The Wellcome non-executive Director since 1 January 2008.
A Trust, and the Investment Board of Cambridge Trustee of RAFT, a medical charity for burns and University.
A Council Member of Imperial College, 291 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Senior Management London, and Chairman of the committee advising Adviser to the Board the Council on the College Fund.
An advisor to the D J Shaw Investment Committee of the Royal Marsden NHS Foundation Trust.
An Adviser to the Board since 1998.
A partner in Norton Rose from 1973 to S M Robertson, senior independent non-executive 1998.
A Director of The Bank of Bermuda Limited, Director HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA.
A non-executive Director of Kowloon Development Age 66.
Non-executive Chairman of Rolls-Royce Company Limited and Shui On Land Limited.
Group plc and the founder member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP.
A non-executive Group Managing Directors Director since January 2006 and senior independent non-executive Director since 25 May 2007.
A A Almeida member of the Nomination Committee.
A nonexecutive Director of Berry Bros. & Rudd Limited, Age 51.
Group Head of Human Resources.
A Group The Economist Newspaper Limited and The Royal Managing Director since 25 February 2008.
Joined Opera House Covent Garden Limited.
Appointed a Group General Manager Trustees of Ernest Kleinwort Charitable Trust.
Global Head of Human Resources trustee of the Eden Project and of the Royal Opera for Global Banking and Markets, Group Private House Endowment Fund.
A former Managing Banking, Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Director of Goldman Sachs International.
Former Amanah, from 1996 to June 2007.
Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and a former non-executive Director of Inchcape plc, C C R Bannister Invensys plc and the London Stock Exchange.
A Group Managing Director since August 2006.
Joined Sir Brian Williamson, CBE HSBC in 1994.
Appointed a Group General Manager Age 63.
Chairman of Electra Private Equity plc.
Chairman of HSBC Insurance Holdings non-executive Director since 2002.
Chairman of the Limited since November 2006.
A non-executive Director of Executive Officer, HSBC Securities USA Inc. from Resolution plc.
A member of the Supervisory Board 1996 to 1997 and Chief Executive Officer, Group of Euronext NV.
A Director of Climate Exchange Private Banking from 1998 to November 2006. plc.
A senior adviser to Fleming Family and Partners.
Former Chairman of London International A A Flockhart, CBE Financial Futures and Options Exchange, Gerrard Appointed an executive Director with effect from Group plc and Resolution Life Group Limited.
See page 290. former non-executive Director of the Financial Services Authority and of the Court of The Bank of S T Gulliver Ireland.
Appointed an executive Director with effect from Non-executive Director 1 May 2008.
Independent non-executive Director D H Hodgkinson Secretary Age 57.
A Group R G Barber Managing Director since May 2006 and Director of The Bank of Bermuda Limited since May 2006.
Appointed a Chairman of HSBC Bank Middle East Limited since Group General Manager in October 2006.
Company Secretary of HSBC Group General Manager in 2003.
Managing Director Holdings plc since 1990.
Chairman of the Disclosure of The Saudi British Bank from 1999 to 2003.
A member of the Listing Authority Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Advisory Committee of the Financial Services HSBC Bank Middle East Limited from 2003 to Authority and of the Primary Markets Group of the May 2006.
Corporation Secretary of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited from 1986 to 1992 and Company Secretary of HSBC Bank plc from 1994 to 1996.
292 A Hungate Group General Managers Age 41.
Global Head of Personal Financial Services E Alonso and Marketing.
Joined HSBC as a Group Managing Age 52.
Co-Head of Latin America and President Director on 3 September 2007.
Formerly Managing and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Bank Brasil Director, Asia Pacific at Reuters.
-Banco Mltiplo and South America.
Joined Marketing Officer of Reuters between 2002 and HSBC in 1997.
Appointed a Group General Manager 2005. in October 2006.
Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Turkey.
Joined HSBC Joined HSBC in 1990.
Appointed a Group General Bank plc in 1971.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2005.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad R E T Bennett from 1999 to 2002.
Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank plc from 2003 to 2005 and Deputy Age 56.
Group General Manager, Legal and Chief Executive from 2005 to March 2006.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 1998.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC North America Holdings Inc. A Group Managing Director Age 49.
Chief Operating Officer, HSBC Finance since 21 February 2008.
Corporation and Chief Operating Officer, HSBC Appointed a Group General Manager in 2005.
Appointed a Executive Officer, HSBC Finance Corporation and Group General Manager in 2004.
Chief Operating Officer, HSBC North America Holdings Inc. from 2007 to 21 February 2008.
Chief P W Boyles Operating Officer, HSBC Bank USA from 2004 to Age 52.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC France.
Appointed a Group General Manager in January 2006.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive of D C Budd HSBC Bank Middle East Limited since 22 May Age 54.
Director, International, HSBC Bank plc.
Appointed a Group General Joined HSBC in 1976.
Deputy Chairman of HSBC Manager in 2005.
A Director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA Z J Cama since September 2006.
President and Chief Executive Age 60.
Group General Manager, International Officer of HSBC Bank Canada from 1997 to HSBC Holdings plc.
President and Chief Executive Officer of Appointed a Group General Manager in 2001.
HSBC USA Inc. and HSBC Bank USA from 1999 to 2003.
President, HSBC Bank Brasil S. A.
-Banco T M Detelich Mltiplo from 2003 to October 2006.
President, Consumer and Mortgage Lending, HSBC Finance Corporation.
Joined HSBC B Robertson Finance Corporation in 1976.
A Group General Manager in October 2006.
A Group General Manager since I M Dorner 2003.
Head of Global Banking and Markets for Age 53.
Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive North America from 2003 to 2005.
Group General Officer, HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad.
Joined HSBC Manager, Group Credit and Risk from 2005 to in 1986.
Appointed a Group General Manager in September 2007.
293 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Biographies Senior Management Board of Directors J D Garner C M Meares Age 38.
Group General Manager, Personal Financial Age 50.
Chief Executive Officer, Group Private Services and Direct Businesses, HSBC Bank plc.
Appointed a Group Joined HSBC in 2004.
Appointed a Group General General Manager in November 2006.
Group Executive, Card Services, HSBC Age 55.
President and Chief Executive Officer, Finance Corporation.
Appointed a Group General Manager in October Appointed a Group General Manager in 2005.
Group General Manager and Group Chief Age 50.
Senior Executive Vice President, Personal Information Officer.
Joined HSBC Finance Financial Services, HSBC Bank USA, N. A.
Appointed a Group General HSBC in 1989.
Appointed a Group General Manager Manager in 2004. in October 2006.
Vice-Chairman and Chief Executive, Hang Joined HSBC in 1981.
Appointed a Group General Seng Bank Limited and Director, The Hongkong and Manager in October 2006.
Appointed a Group General Manager N L Kidwai in 2000.
Chief Executive Officer, HSBC India.
Appointed a Group General Manager in October 2006.
Group General Manager, Chief Executive Officer, Africa.
Appointed a M J W King Group General Manager in 2000.
Group General Manager, Internal Audit.
Appointed a Group General Manager in 2002.
Appointed a Group General Manager P J Lawrence in 2003.
Head of Global Banking and Markets, USA.
C D Spooner President and Chief Executive Officer, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. and HSBC USA Inc.
Head of Group Financial Planning & Tax.
Appointed a Group General Manager in June 2007.
Co-Head of Latin America and President of Manager in 2005.
HSBC Mexico and Central America.
Appointed a Group General Manager in A M Mahoney 2003.
Group General Manager and Head of PFS P T S Wong Distribution.
Appointed a Group General Manager in November 2006.
Executive Director, Hong Kong and Mainland China, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited.
In addition, the Board may establish any Board of Directors local or divisional boards or agencies for managing The Board the business of HSBC Holdings in any specified locality and delegate and confer on any local or The objective of the management structures within divisional board, manager or agent so appointed any HSBC, headed by the Board of Directors of HSBC of its powers, authorities and discretions including Holdings and led by the Group Chairman, is to the power to sub-delegate for such time and on such deliver sustainable value to shareholders.
The Board may also, by power Implementation of the strategy set by the Board is of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or delegated to the Group Management Board under the persons to be the agent of HSBC Holdings and may leadership of the Group Chief Executive.
delegate to any such person or persons any of its HSBC Holdings has a unitary Board of powers, authorities and discretions including the Directors.
The authority of each Director is exercised power to sub-delegate for such time and on such in Board Meetings where the Board acts collectively terms as it thinks fit.
At 3 March 2008, the Board comprises the The Board sets the strategy for HSBC through Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, two other the five-year strategic plan and approves the executive Directors and 14 non-executive Directors.
operating plans presented by management for the The names and brief biographical particulars of the achievement of the strategic objectives.
The Directors are listed on pages 289 to 292.
The Group operating plans ensure the efficient disposition of Chairman, Group Chief Executive and two other HSBCs resources for the achievement of these executive Directors are employees who carry out objectives.
The Board delegates the management executive functions in HSBC in addition to their and day-to-day running of HSBC to the Group duties as Directors.
Non-executive Directors are not Management Board but retains to itself approval of HSBC employees and do not participate in the daily certain matters including operating plans and business management of HSBC.
Non-executive performance targets, procedures for monitoring and Directors bring an external perspective, control of operations, the authority or the delegation constructively challenge and help develop of authority to approve credit, market risk limits, proposals on strategy, scrutinise the performance of acquisitions, disposals, investments, capital management in meeting agreed goals and objectives expenditure or realisation or creation of a new and monitor the reporting of performance.
The nonventure, specified senior appointments, and any executive Directors have a wealth of experience substantial change in balance sheet management across a number of industries and business sectors, policy.
including the leadership of large, complex multinational enterprises.
The roles of non-executive The Directors who served during the year were, Directors as members of Board committees are set Lord Butler, R K F Chien, J D Coombe, Baroness out on pages 300 to 304.
It is estimated that nonDunn, R A Fairhead, D J Flint, W K L Fung, executive Directors spend 24 days per annum on M F Geoghegan, S K Green, S Hintze, HSBC business after an induction phase, with J W J Hughes-Hallett, Sir Brian Moffat, Sir Mark Committee members devoting significant additional Moody-Stuart, G Morgan, S W Newton, time.
S M Robertson, H Sohmen and Sir Brian Williamson.
J F Gil Daz was appointed a Director The Board is responsible for managing the on 2 January 2007 and resigned on 5 March 2007. business of HSBC Holdings and, in doing so, may exercise all of the powers of HSBC Holdings, The Board of Directors meets regularly and subject to any relevant laws and regulations and to Directors receive information between meetings the Memorandum and Articles of Association.
In about the activities of committees and developments particular, the Board may exercise all the powers of in HSBCs business.
the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or Eight Board meetings were held during 2007. charge all or any part of the undertaking, property or The table that follows gives details of Directors assets present and future of HSBC Holdings and attendance at meetings of the Board, Group Audit may also exercise any of the powers conferred on it Committee, Nomination Committee and by the Companies Act 1985 and Companies Act Remuneration Committee during 2007.
2006 as appropriate and or by shareholders.
The Board is able to delegate and confer on certain During 2007, the non-executive Directors and Directors holding executive office any of its powers, the Group Chairman met twice without the presence authorities and discretions including the power to of the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance sub-delegate for such time and on such terms as it Director.
In addition, the non-executive Directors 295 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors met four times without the Group Chairman sixteen other meetings of Committees of the Board including a meeting to appraise the Group were held during the year to discharge business Chairmans performance.
In addition to the meetings of the principal All Directors attended the 2007 Annual General Committees referred to in the following pages, Meeting.
2 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2007.
3 Ceased to be a member on 25 May 2007.
4 Retired as a Director on 5 March 2007.
Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive S K Green as Group Chief Executive.
The appointments were made after consulting with The roles of Group Chairman and Group Chief representatives of major institutional investors and Executive are separated and held by experienced explaining the succession planning and independent full-time Directors.
S K Green and There is a clear division of responsibilities at the M F Geoghegan stood for re-election at the 2006 head of the Company between the running of the Annual General Meeting and were both re-elected Board and the executive responsibility for running ahead of taking up their new roles from the HSBCs business.
The Group Chairmans conclusion of that Meeting.
responsibilities include the long-term strategic development of HSBC, the development of Board balance and independence of relationships with governments and other significant Directors external parties and performance appraisal of the The balance of the Board includes a strong presence Group Chief Executive.
The Group Chairman also of both executive and non-executive Directors such monitors the performance of the Group Finance that no individual or small group can dominate the Director and, subject to the Group Chief Executives Boards decision making.
Following the 2008 recommendation, approves risk, capital allocation Annual General Meeting, the Board will comprise and capital investment decisions within authorities 19 Directors, 12 of whom are independent nondelegated by the Board.
The Group Chief Executive executive Directors.
The size of the Board is has responsibility for developing business plans and appropriate given the complexity and geographical delivering performance against these.
spread of HSBCs business and the significant time S K Green became Group Chairman at the demands placed on the non-executive Directors, conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on particularly those who serve as members of Board 26 May 2006 and M F Geoghegan succeeded committees.
296 The Board has appointed S M Robertson as the Committees and from the Group Chief Executive.
The The Board receives regular reports and presentations principal role of the senior independent nonon strategy and developments in the customer groups executive Director is to support the Group Chairman and principal geographical areas.
Regular reports are in his role, to lead the non-executive Directors in the also provided to the Board, the Group Audit oversight of the Group Chairman and to ensure there Committee and the Group Management Board on is a clear division of responsibility between the credit exposures and the loan portfolio, asset and Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The liability management, liquidity, litigation and senior independent non-executive Director is also compliance and reputational issues.
The agenda and available to shareholders for concerns which the supporting papers are distributed in advance of all normal channels have failed to resolve or are Board and Committee meetings to allow time for inappropriate.
appropriate review and to facilitate full discussion at the meetings.
All Directors have full and timely The Board considers all of the non-executive access to all relevant information and may take Directors to be independent in character and independent professional advice if necessary.
Baroness Dunn, Sir Brian Moffat, Lord Butler and W K L Fung have served on the Board The Directors have free and open contact with for more than nine years, however, and in that management at all levels.
Group Managing Directors respect only, do not meet the usual criteria for and Group General Managers meet informally with independence set out in the UK Combined Code on Directors after Board meetings.
Board offsite visits corporate governance.
The Board has therefore are made each year to enable Directors to see at first determined J D Coombe, J L Durn, R A Fairhead, hand the operations of subsidiary companies in local J W J Hughes-Hallett, W S H Laidlaw, Sir Mark environments and to meet management, employees Moody-Stuart, G Morgan, S W Newton, and customers.
In 2007 the Board visited New York S M Robertson, and Sir Brian Williamson to be and Curitiba.
In reaching its determination of each Full, formal and tailored induction programmes, non-executive Directors independence the Board with particular emphasis on internal controls, are has concluded that there are no relationships or arranged for newly appointed Directors.
The circumstances which are likely to affect a Directors programmes consist of a series of meetings with judgement and any relationships or circumstances other Directors and senior executives to enable new which could appear to do so were considered not to Directors to receive information and familiarise be material.
themselves with HSBCs strategy, operations and When determining independence the Board internal controls.
Prior to their appointment, each considers that calculation of the length of service of Director receives comprehensive guidance on the a non-executive Director begins on the date of his or duties and liabilities of a Director of HSBC her first election by shareholders as a Director of Holdings.
Opportunities to update and develop skills HSBC Holdings.
Given the complexity and and knowledge, through externally run seminars and geographical spread of HSBCs business, the through briefings by senior executives, are provided experience of previous service on a subsidiary to all Directors.
company Board can be a considerable benefit to HSBC and does not detract from a Directors Performance evaluation independence.
In November 2007, ICSA Corporate Services In accordance with the Rules Governing the Limited was commissioned to undertake an Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board.
This Hong Kong Limited, each non-executive Director was to investigate the performance of the Board as a determined by the Board to be independent has whole and, in that context, the main Board provided an annual confirmation of his or her committees and individual Directors.
The evaluation independence to HSBC Holdings.
examined whether eight key areas met the Boards needs and expectations: Board responsibilities: Information, induction and ongoing oversight: Board meetings: information received: development support for the Board: Board composition: working together: and outcome and achievements.
The report The Board regularly reviews reports on progress on the evaluation has been reviewed by the Board against financial objectives, on business and has been used by the non-executive Directors, developments and on investor and external relations led by the senior independent non-executive and receives reports from the Chairmen of Board Director, in their evaluation of the performance of 297 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Corporate governance codes the Group Chairman.
The review concluded that the the exception of Lord Butler, Baroness Dunn and Board and its committees were functioning Sir Brian Moffat, who are to retire, they offer effectively.
It is the intention of the Board of HSBC themselves for re-election.
Holdings to continue to review its performance and None of the non-executive Directors seeking that of its Directors annually.
re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting has a service contract.
Of the executive Appointment, retirement and re-election of Directors who are seeking re-election, D J Flint is Directors employed on a rolling contract dated 29 September The Board may at any time appoint any person who 1995 which requires 12 months notice to be given is willing to act as a Director, either to fill a vacancy by the Company and nine months notice to be given or as an addition to the existing Board, but the total by Mr Flint.
V H C Cheng and A A Flockhart are number of Directors shall not exceed twenty-five.
employed on rolling contracts dated 1 October 1978 Any Director so appointed by the Board shall retire and 6 July 1974 respectively, which require three at the Annual General Meeting following their months notice to be given by either party.
appointment and shall be eligible for re-election but S T Gulliver is employed on a rolling contract dated is not taken into account in determining the number 8 December 2005 which requires twelve months of Directors who are to retire by rotation at such notice to be given by either party.
The Board may appoint any Director to Following the performance evaluation of the hold any employment or executive office and may Board, the Group Chairman has confirmed that the revoke or terminate any such appointment.
non-executive Directors standing for re-election at Shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, appoint a the Annual General Meeting continue to perform person as a Director or remove any Director before effectively and to demonstrate commitment to their the expiration of his period of office.
General Meeting, one third of the Directors who are subject to retirement by rotation are required to retire Brief biographical particulars of all Directors and may offer themselves for re-election by including those seeking re-election at the Annual shareholders.
In addition to those required to retire by General Meeting, are given on pages 289 to 292. rotation, any Director who was not elected or reelected at either of the preceding two Annual General Relations with shareholders Meetings and any non-executive Director who has The Board ensures all Directors, including nonserved in office for a continuous period of nine years executive Directors, develop an understanding of the or more at the date of the Annual General Meeting is views of major shareholders through attendance at required to retire and may offer him or herself for analyst presentations and other meetings with re-election by shareholders.
institutional investors and their representative R K F Chien, S Hintze and H Sohmen retired bodies.
The Board also met with representatives of as Directors at the conclusion of the Annual General institutional shareholders in 2007 to discuss Meeting held on 25 May 2007.
J L Durn and corporate governance matters.
W S H Laidlaw were appointed non-executive The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Directors on 1 January 2008.
V H C Cheng was Group Finance Director and other senior executives appointed an executive Director on 1 February 2008. hold regular meetings with institutional investors and A A Flockhart and S T Gulliver have been appointed report to the Board on those meetings.
executive Directors, and S A Catz and N R N Murthy have been appointed non-executive Directors with As described in the Directors Remuneration effect from 1 May 2008.
Report, a consultation with institutional shareholders on the framework of Directors remuneration and S A Catz, V H C Cheng, J L Durn, proposed changes to The HSBC Share Plan began in A A Flockhart, S T Gulliver, W S H Laidlaw and January 2008.
N R N Murthy, having been appointed since the Annual General Meeting in 2007, will retire at the S M Robertson, senior independent nonforthcoming Annual General Meeting and offer executive Director since the conclusion of the 2007 themselves for re-election.
Annual General Meeting, and other non-executive Directors met and corresponded with institutional Lord Butler, J D Coombe, Baroness Dunn, investors and their representatives to discuss D J Flint, W K L Fung, J W J Hughes-Hallett, Sir strategy, remuneration policy and governance.
The Brian Moffat and S W Newton will retire by rotation senior independent non-executive Director is also at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
With available to shareholders should they have concerns 298 which contact through the normal channels of Group Code in the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Authority and with The Model Code for Securities Director or other executives has failed to resolve or Transactions by Directors of Listed Issuers Hong for which such contact would be inappropriate.
Kong Model Code set out in the Rules Governing Invitations to meet S M Robertson prior to his the Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of appointment as senior independent non-executive Hong Kong Limited, save that The Stock Exchange Director were extended to the Groups largest of Hong Kong Limited has granted certain waivers shareholders.
The senior independent non-executive from strict compliance with the Hong Kong Model Director may be contacted through the Group Code, primarily to take into account accepted Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, London practices in the UK, particularly in respect of E14 5HQ.
Following a specific enquiry, each Director has confirmed he or she has complied Indemnification of Directors, relevant audit with the code of conduct for transactions in HSBC information and contracts of significance Group securities throughout the year.
The Articles of Association of HSBC Holdings Differences in HSBC Holdings New York provide that Directors are entitled to be indemnified Stock Exchange corporate governance out of the assets of the Company against claims from practices third parties in respect of certain liabilities arising in connection with the performance of their functions, Under the NYSEs corporate governance rules for in accordance with the provisions of the UK listed companies, as a NYSE-listed foreign private Companies Act 1985.
Such indemnity provisions issuer, HSBC Holdings must disclose any significant have been in place during the financial year but have ways in which its corporate governance practices not been utilised by the Directors.
differ from those followed by US companies subject to NYSE listing standards.
HSBC Holdings believes Each person who is a Director at the date of the following to be the significant differences approval of this report confirms that so far as the between its corporate governance practices and Director is aware, there is no relevant audit NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US information of which the Companys auditor is companies.
unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director in order US companies listed on the NYSE are required to make himself or herself aware of any relevant to adopt and disclose corporate governance audit information and to establish that the guidelines.
The Listing Rules of the UK Financial Companys auditor is aware of that information.
This Services Authority require each listed company confirmation is given pursuant to section 234ZA of incorporated in the UK to include in its Annual the UK Companies Act 1985 and should be Report and Accounts a narrative statement of how it interpreted in accordance therewith and subject to has applied the principles of the Combined Code and the provisions thereof.
a statement as to whether or not it has complied with the code provisions of the Combined Code None of the Directors had, during the year or at throughout the accounting period covered by the the end of the year, a material interest, directly or Annual Report and Accounts.
A company that has indirectly, in any contract of significance with HSBC not complied with the Code provisions, or complied Holdings or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
with only some of the Code provisions or in the case of provisions whose requirements are of a Corporate governance codes continuing nature complied for only part of an accounting period covered by the report, must HSBC is committed to high standards of corporate specify the Code provisions with which it has not governance.
HSBC Holdings has complied complied, and where relevant for what part of the throughout the year with the applicable code reporting period such non-compliance continued, provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate and give reasons for any non-compliance.
As stated Governance issued by the Financial Reporting above, HSBC Holdings complied throughout 2007 Council and the Code on Corporate Governance with the applicable code provisions of the Combined Practices in Appendix 14 to the Rules Governing the Code.
The Combined Code does not require HSBC Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of Holdings to disclose the full range of corporate Hong Kong Limited.
governance guidelines with which it complies.
The Board of HSBC Holdings has adopted a Under NYSE standards, companies are required code of conduct for transactions in HSBC Group to have a nominating corporate governance securities by Directors that complies with The Model 299 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees committee, composed entirely of independent the provisions of the Code of Ethics, details of the directors.
In addition to identifying individuals amendment or waiver will appear at the same qualified to become Board members, this committee website address.
During 2007, HSBC Holdings made must develop and recommend to the Board a set of no amendments to its Code of Ethics and granted no corporate governance principles.
HSBCs waivers from its provisions.
The Group Business Nomination Committee, which follows the Principles and Values are available on requirements of the Combined Code, includes a www.
majority of members who are independent.
All Under NYSE listing rules applicable to US members of the Committee are non-executive companies, independent directors must comprise a Directors and three of the five members, including majority of the Board of directors.
Currently, over the Committee chairman, are independent nonhalf of HSBC Holdings Directors are independent.
The Committees terms of reference do not require the Committee to develop Under the Combined Code the HSBC Holdings and recommend corporate governance principles for Board determines whether a Director is independent HSBC Holdings.
As stated above, HSBC Holdings is in character and judgement and whether there are subject to the corporate governance principles of the relationships or circumstances which are likely to Combined Code.
affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
Under the NYSE rules a director cannot Pursuant to NYSE listing standards, nonqualify as independent unless the Board management directors must meet on a regular basis affirmatively determines that the director has no without management present and independent material relationship with the listed company: in directors must meet separately at least once per year.
addition the NYSE rules prescribe a list of During 2007, HSBC Holdings non-executive circumstances in which a director cannot be Directors met twice as a group with the Group independent.
The Combined Code requires a Chairman, but without the Group Chief Executive or companys Board to assess director independence Group Finance Director present, and met four times by affirmatively concluding that the director is as a group without the Group Chairman, Group independent of management and free from any Chief Executive or Group Finance Director present.
business or other relationship that could materially HSBC Holdings practice, in this regard, complies interfere with the exercise of independent with the Combined Code.
In accordance with the requirements of the Lastly, a chief executive officer of a US Combined Code, HSBC Holdings discloses in its company listed on the NYSE must annually certify annual report how the Board, its committees and the that he or she is not aware of any violation by the Directors are evaluated on page 297 and it provides company of NYSE corporate governance standards.
extensive information regarding Directors In accordance with NYSE listing rules applicable to compensation in the Directors Remuneration Report foreign private issuers, HSBC Holdings Group on pages 322 to 332.
The terms of reference of Chief Executive is not required to provide the NYSE HSBC Holdings Audit, Nomination and with this annual compliance certification.
However, Remuneration Committees are available at in accordance with rules applicable to both US www.
companies and foreign private issuers, the Group NYSE listing standards require US companies Chief Executive is required promptly to notify the to adopt a code of business conduct and ethics for NYSE in writing after any executive officer becomes directors, officers and employees, and promptly aware of any material non-compliance with the disclose any waivers of the code for directors or NYSE corporate governance standards applicable to executive officers.
In addition to the Group Business HSBC Holdings.
Principles and Values, which apply to the employees HSBC Holdings is required to submit annual of all HSBC companies, pursuant to the and interim written affirmations of compliance with requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act the Board of applicable NYSE corporate governance standards, HSBC Holdings has adopted a Code of Ethics similar to the affirmations required of NYSE-listed applicable to the Group Chairman and the Group US companies.
Chief Executive, as the principal executive officers, and to the Group Finance Director and Group Chief Board committees Accounting Officer.
HSBC Holdings Code of Ethics is available on www.
com codeofethics or from The Board has appointed a number of committees the Group Company Secretary at 8 Canada Square, consisting of certain Directors, Group Managing London E14 5HQ.
If the Board amends or waives Directors and, in the case of the Corporate 300 Sustainability Committee, certain co-opted members of the Committee are independent nonnon-director members.
The following are the executive Directors.
principal committees: The Board has determined that R A Fairhead, J D Coombe, J W J Hughes-Hallett and S W Newton Group Management Board are independent according to SEC criteria, and that The Group Management Board meets regularly and R A Fairhead, J D Coombe, and J W J Hughesoperates as a general management committee under Hallett may be regarded as audit committee financial the direct authority of the Board.
The objective of experts for the purposes of section 407 of the the Group Management Board is to maintain a Sarbanes-Oxley Act and as having recent and reporting and control structure whereby all of the relevant financial experience.
line operations of HSBC are accountable to Appointments to the Committee are made for individual members of the Group Management periods of up to three years, extendable by no more Board who report to the Group Chief Executive who than two additional three-year periods, so long as in turn reports to the Group Chairman.
The Board members continue to be independent.
has set objectives and measures for the Group Management Board.
These will align senior Formal and tailored induction programmes are executives objectives and measures with the held for newly-appointed Committee members and strategy and operating plans throughout HSBC.
appropriate training is provided on an ongoing and The members of the Group Management Board are timely basis.
M F Geoghegan Chairman, V H C Cheng and There were seven meetings of the Group Audit D J Flint, who are executive Directors, and Committee during 2007.
The table on page 296 gives A Almeida, C C R Bannister, A A Flockhart, details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
S T Gulliver, D H Hodgkinson, A Hungate, Following each meeting the Committee reports to D D J John, B P McDonagh, Y A Nasr and the Board on its activities.
B Robertson, all of whom are Group Managing Directors.
At each meeting, the Committee has the opportunity to meet with the external auditor, The Group Management Board exercises the without management present, to facilitate the powers, authorities and discretions of the Board in so discussion of any matter relating to its remit and any far as they concern the management and day-to-day issue arising from the audit.
Similar arrangements running of HSBC Holdings in accordance with such have been adopted for the Committee to meet with policies and directions as the Board may from time the internal auditor.
Matters reserved for approval by the Board are described on page 295.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which are reviewed annually, are available at Following each meeting the Group Chief www.
To ensure Executive reports to the Board on the Group consistency of scope and approach by subsidiary Management Boards activities.
company audit committees, the Group Audit Committee has established core terms of reference to Group Audit Committee guide subsidiary company Boards when adopting The Group Audit Committee meets regularly with terms of reference for their audit committees.
HSBCs senior financial, internal audit, credit, legal Subsidiary company audit committees are required and compliance management and the external to provide bi-annual certificates to the Committee auditor to consider HSBC Holdings financial relating to the financial statements and internal reporting, the nature and scope of audit reviews and control procedures of those subsidiaries.
the effectiveness of the systems of internal control, The Group Audit Committee is accountable to compliance and risk management.
The members of the Board and assists it in meeting its responsibilities the Group Audit Committee throughout 2007 were, for maintaining an effective system of internal R A Fairhead appointed Chairman on 25 May control and compliance and for meeting its external 2007, J D Coombe and J W J Hughes-Hallett.
The Committee S W Newton was appointed a member of the undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of Committee on 25 May 2007.
Sir Brian Moffat HSBCs system of internal control, which is ceased to be Chairman and a member of the described on page 304, and reviews the Companys Committee on 25 May 2007.
R K F Chien retired as financial statements before they are considered by a Director of HSBC Holdings and ceased to be a the Board.
member of the Committee on 25 May 2007.
All 301 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Board committees Regular reports are received on the risks and resolution of material complaints and concerns involved in HSBCs business and how they are from the Head of Group Compliance.
controlled and monitored by management which The Committee is directly responsible on behalf enable the Committee to review the effectiveness of of the Board for the selection, oversight and HSBCs risk management framework.
Each year the remuneration of the external auditor.
The Committee Committee agrees a schedule of presentations to be reviews and monitors the external auditors made to it by management during the ensuing year independence and objectivity and the effectiveness on the operation of the risk control framework within of the audit process, taking into consideration the Group.
The presentations specifically address relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
risk indicators and performance measures such as indicators of credit, liquidity and interest rate risk.
The Committee reviews the strategy and During 2007 the Committee also received frequent approves the terms for the engagement of the reports on the US mortgage services business, credit external auditor for the audit of the Annual Report performance in the US and the impact of the and Accounts.
Regular reports on the progress of the tightening of liquidity in the money markets.
audit facilitate the Committees assessment of the Comprehensive reports are received at each meeting effectiveness of the audit.
from the Group Chief Risk Officer, the Head of The Committee receives reports from the Group Compliance, the Group General Manager, external auditor on its own policies and procedures Legal and Compliance and the Group General regarding independence and quality control and Manager Internal Audit.
Periodic presentations oversees the appropriate rotation of audit partners are made by other functional heads and line within the external auditor.
provides the Committee with an annual confirmation The reports from the Group General Manager of its independence in accordance with industry Internal Audit include information on frauds and standards.
special investigations and weakness in internal On the recommendation of the Committee the controls identified through internal audit reports or Board has approved a policy for the employment by reviews of regulatory reports and external auditors HSBC of former employees of the external auditor reports.
The Committee monitors and reviews the or its affiliates.
The Committee monitors this policy effectiveness of the internal audit function and through the receipt of an annual report of those receives summaries of periodic peer reviews of former employees of the external auditor employed HSBCs principal internal audit functions.
HSBC by HSBC and the number of former employees of has adopted the Principles of the International the external auditor currently employed in senior Institute of Internal Auditors, which include a positions in HSBC.
The reports enable the periodic external quality assurance review of the Committee to consider whether there has been any internal audit function.
The first such review was impairment, or appearance of impairment, of the undertaken by Independent Audit Limited during auditors judgement or independence in respect of 2007. the audit.
The Committee receives regular updates on The Group Audit Committee has established changes in law, regulations and accounting standards policies for the pre-approval of specific services that and practices and the preparations being made to may be provided by the principal auditor, KPMG respond to those requirements.
During 2007, the Audit Plc and its affiliates KPMG.
These policies Committee received regular updates on the review of are kept under review and amended as necessary to internal financial reporting controls required by meet the dual objectives of ensuring that HSBC section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act and the benefits in a cost effective manner from the implementation of the Basel II capital adequacy cumulative knowledge and experience of its auditor, requirements.
The Committee also considered while also ensuring that the auditor maintains the a report on HSBCs compliance with the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
recommendations of the Institute of International These pre-approval policies apply to all services Finances Special Committee on Liquidity Risk.
where HSBC Holdings or any of its subsidiaries pays The Committee has approved procedures for the for the service, or is a beneficiary or addressee of the receipt, retention and handling of complaints service and has selected or influenced the choice of regarding accounting, internal accounting controls KPMG.
All services entered into with KPMG during and auditing matters.
The Committee receives 2007 were pre-approved by the Committee or were regular reports regarding the nature, investigation entered into under pre-approval policies established by the Committee.
A quarterly update on non-audit 302 services provided by KPMG is presented to the There were two Nomination Committee Committee.
The table on page 296 gives details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
The pre-approved services relate to regulatory reviews, agreed-upon procedures reports, other types Following each meeting the Committee reports of attestation reports, the provision of advice and to the Board on its activities.
other non-audit services allowed under SEC The terms of reference of the Committee are independence rules.
They fall into the categories of available at www.
audit services, audit-related services, tax services and other services.
The appointments of J F Gil Daz, J L Durn and W S H Laidlaw as non-executive Directors and All services provided by KPMG relating to the V H C Cheng as an executive Director were made on implementation of section 404 of the Sarbanesthe advice and recommendation of the Nomination Oxley Act were specifically pre-approved by the Committee.
J F Gil Daz, former Secretary of Group Audit Committee.
Finance and Public Credit in Mexico, was identified An analysis of the remuneration paid in respect by the Nomination Committee and so neither an of audit and non-audit services provided by KPMG external consultancy nor open advertising was used for each of the last three years is disclosed in Note 9 in connection with his appointment.
An external on the Financial Statements.
consultancy was used in connection with the appointments of J L Durn and W S H Laidlaw.
The Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed auditor at the The terms and conditions of appointment of forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
non-executive Directors are available for inspection at 8 Canada Square, London E14 5HQ and will be Remuneration Committee made available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and during the Meeting itself.
The role of the Remuneration Committee and its membership are set out in the Directors The Committee makes recommendations to the Remuneration Report on page 322.
Board concerning: plans for succession for both executive and non-executive Directors: the Nomination Committee appointment of any Director to executive or other office: suitable candidates for the role of senior The Nomination Committee is responsible for independent non-executive Director: the re-election leading the process for Board appointments and for by shareholders of Directors retiring by rotation: the identifying and nominating, for approval by the renewal of the terms of office of non-executive Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
Directors: membership of Board Committees, in Before recommending an appointment to the Board, consultation with the Group Chairman and the the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, chairman of such committees as appropriate: any knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the matters relating to the continuation in office of any light of this, identifies the role and capabilities Director at any time: Directors fees and committee required for a particular appointment.
Candidates are fees for the Company: and appointments and reconsidered on merit against these criteria.
Care is appointments to the Boards of Directors of major taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to subsidiary companies as appropriate.
Prospective Directors are asked to identify any significant other commitments and The Committee regularly reviews the structure, confirm they have sufficient time to discharge what size and composition including the skills, is expected of them.
In accordance with the Articles knowledge and experience required of the Board of Association all Directors are subject to election by and makes recommendations to the Board as shareholders at the Annual General Meeting appropriate.
It keeps under review the leadership following their appointment by the Board and to needs of HSBC, with a view to ensuring the re-election at least every three years.
The members continued ability of HSBC to compete effectively in of the Nomination Committee throughout 2007 were the marketplace.
The Board has satisfied itself that Sir Brian Williamson appointed Chairman on the Nomination Committee has in place appropriate 25 May 2007, Baroness Dunn and Sir Brian Moffat.
plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior J W J Hughes-Hallett and S M Robertson were management positions as well as procedures to appointed members of the Committee on 25 May ensure an appropriate balance of skills and 2007.
Lord Butler ceased to be a member on 25 May experience within HSBC and on the Board.
303 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Internal control Corporate Sustainability Committee HSBCs key internal control procedures include the following: The Corporate Sustainability Committee is responsible for overseeing corporate responsibility Authority to operate the various subsidiaries and and sustainability policies, principally responsibilities for financial performance environmental, social and ethical matters and for against plans and for capital expenditure is advising the Board, committees of the Board and delegated to their respective chief executive executive management on such matters.
The terms of officers within limits set by the Board of reference of the Committee are available at Directors of HSBC Holdings.
The members of authority from the Board to individuals requires the Committee throughout 2007 were Lord Butler these individuals, within their respective Chairman, W K L Fung and Sir Mark Moodydelegation, to maintain a clear and appropriate Stuart each of whom is a non-executive Director apportionment of significant responsibilities and and G V I Davis and Lord May, who are nonto oversee the establishment and maintenance of director members of the Committee.
S Hintze was a systems of controls appropriate to the business.
member of the Committee until her retirement as a The appointment of executives to the most Director at the conclusion of the 2007 Annual senior positions within HSBC requires the General Meeting.
approval of the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings.
There were five meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Committee during 2007.
Following Functional, operating, financial reporting and each meeting the Committee reports to the Board on certain management reporting standards are its activities.
established by Group Head Office management committees, for application across the whole of Further information will be in HSBCs HSBC.
These are supplemented by operating Sustainability Report 2007, available in May 2008. standards set by functional and local management as required for the type of business Internal control and geographical location of each subsidiary.
The Directors are responsible for internal control in Systems and procedures are in place in HSBC to HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness.
identify, control and report on the major risks Procedures have been designed for safeguarding including credit, changes in the market prices of assets against unauthorised use or disposition: for financial instruments, liquidity, operational maintaining proper accounting records: and for the error, breaches of law or regulations, reliability of financial information used within the unauthorised activities and fraud.
Exposure to business or for publication.
Such procedures are these risks is monitored by risk management designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of committees, asset and liability committees and failure to achieve business objectives and can only executive committees in subsidiaries and by the provide reasonable and not absolute assurance Group Management Board for HSBC as a against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud.
A risk management meeting of the Group The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to Management Board, chaired by the Group discharge its obligations under the Handbook of Finance Director, is held monthly.
These risk Rules and Guidance issued by the Financial Services management meetings address asset, liability Authority, HSBCs lead regulator.
Minutes of the risk management meetings of the Group The key procedures that the Directors have Management Board are submitted to the established are designed to provide effective internal Group Audit Committee and to the Board of control within HSBC and accord with the Internal Directors.
Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting A Disclosure Committee has been established to Council.
Such procedures for the ongoing review material disclosures made by HSBC identification, evaluation and management of the Holdings for any errors, misstatements or significant risks faced by HSBC have been in place omissions.
The membership of the Disclosure throughout the year and up to 3 March 2008, the date Committee, which is chaired by the Group of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts Company Secretary, includes the heads of the 2007.
In the case of companies acquired during the Finance, Legal, Risk, Compliance, Corporate year, the internal controls in place are being Communications, Investor Relations and reviewed against HSBCs benchmarks and integrated Internal Audit functions and representatives into HSBCs processes.
304 from the principal regions, customer groups company Boards, Board committees or senior and global businesses.
Reputational risks can arise from environmental, social or governance issues, or Processes are in place to identify new risks from as a consequence of operational risk events.
As a changes in market practices or customer banking group, HSBCs good reputation behaviours which could expose HSBC to depends upon the way in which it conducts its heightened risk of loss or reputational damage.
business but it can also be affected by the way in During 2007 attention continued to be directed which clients, to which it provides financial towards evolving best practice in the areas of services, conduct their business.
internet banking: counterparty risk management policy following the publication of the Corrigan The internal audit function, which is centrally report in July 2005: best practice guidance controlled, monitors the effectiveness of internal emerging on liquidity management from the control structures across the whole of HSBC.
Institute of International Finance: the The work of the internal audit function is implications of a slowing housing market in the focused on areas of greatest risk to HSBC as US coupled with rising payment obligations determined by a risk-based approach.
The head under ARMs: Group exposure to monolines and of this function reports to the Group Chairman money market funds: the impact on the Group and the Group Audit Committee.
of the market illiquidity situation: and the Management is responsible for ensuring that implications of changed customer behaviour in recommendations made by the internal audit the UK regarding seeking protection from credit function are implemented within an appropriate obligations.
Confirmation to this effect Periodic strategic plans are prepared for key must be provided to internal audit.
Management customer groups, global product groups, support must also confirm annually to internal audit that functions and certain geographies within the offices under their control have taken or are in framework of the Group Strategic Roadmap.
the process of taking the appropriate actions to Rolling operating plans are prepared and deal with all significant recommendations made adopted by all major HSBC operating by external auditors in management letters or by companies, and set out the key business regulators following regulatory inspections.
initiatives and the likely financial effects of The Group Audit Committee has kept under those initiatives.
review the effectiveness of this system of internal Centralised functional control is exercised over control and has reported regularly to the Board of all computer system developments and Directors.
The key processes used by the Committee operations.
Common systems are employed for in carrying out its reviews include: regular business similar business processes wherever practicable.
and operational risk assessments: regular reports Credit and market risks are measured and from the heads of key risk functions including reported on in subsidiaries and aggregated for Internal Audit and Compliance: the production review of risk concentrations on a Group-wide annually of reviews of the internal control basis.
framework applied at Group Head Office and major operating subsidiary level measured against HSBC Authorities to enter into credit exposures and benchmarks, which cover all internal controls, both market risk exposures are delegated with limits financial and non-financial: semi-annual to line management in the subsidiaries.
In confirmations from chief executives of principal addition, functional management in Group Head subsidiary companies as to whether there have been Office is responsible for setting policies, any material losses, contingencies or uncertainties procedures and standards in the following areas caused by weaknesses in internal controls: internal of risk: credit risk: market risk: liquidity risk: audit reports: external audit reports: prudential operational risk: IT risk: insurance risk: reviews: and regulatory reports.
In addition, where accounting risk: tax risk: legal and regulatory unexpected losses have arisen or where incidents compliance risk: human resources risk: have occurred which indicate gaps in the control reputational risk: and purchasing risk.
framework or in adherence to Group policies, the Policies to guide subsidiary companies and Group Audit Committee has reviewed special management at all levels in the conduct of reports, prepared at the instigation of management, business to safeguard the Groups reputation are which analyse the cause of the issue, the lessons established by the Board of HSBC Holdings and learned and the actions proposed by management to the Group Management Board, subsidiary address the issue.
305 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Board of Directors Internal control Directors interests Employees The Directors, through the Group Audit Directors interests Committee, have conducted an annual review of the Pursuant to the requirements of the UK Listing Rules effectiveness of HSBCs system of internal control and according to the register maintained by HSBC covering all material controls, including financial, Holdings pursuant to section 352 of the Securities operational and compliance controls and risk and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, the Directors management systems.
The Group Audit Committee of HSBC Holdings at the year-end had the following has received confirmation that management has interests, all beneficial unless otherwise stated, in the taken or is taking the necessary action to remedy any shares and loan capital of HSBC and its associated failings or weaknesses identified through the corporations: operation of HSBCs framework of controls.
Details of executive Directors other interests in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 arising from employee share plans are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 330 to 332.
At 31 December 2007, the aggregate interests under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong of D J Flint, M F Geoghegan and S K Green in HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50, including interests arising through employee share plans are: D J Flint 877,404: M F Geoghegan 1,509,480: and S K Green 1,710,886.
3 Non-beneficial interest in 9,772 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50.
M F Geoghegan has an interest as beneficial As Directors of HSBC France, S K Green and owner in 280,000 ordinary shares of HK$5.00 each M F Geoghegan each have an interest as beneficial in Hang Seng Bank representing less than 0.02 per owner in one share of 5 in that company cent of the shares in issue, which he acquired during representing less than 0.01 per cent of the shares in the year.
issue, which they held throughout the year.
The Directors have waived their rights to receive S K Green has an interest as beneficial owner in dividends on these shares and have undertaken to 75,000 of HSBC Holdings plc 5 per cent transfer these shares to HSBC on ceasing to be Subordinated Notes 2009 which he held throughout Directors of HSBC France.
No Directors held any short positions as defined As a Director of HSBC Private Banking in the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Holdings Suisse, S K Green has an interest as Kong in the shares and loan capital of HSBC and its beneficial owner in one share of CHF1,000 in that associated corporations.
Save as stated above and in company representing less than 0.01 per cent of the the Directors Remuneration Report, none of the shares in issue, which he held throughout the year.
Directors had an interest in any shares or debentures S K Green has waived his rights to receive dividends of HSBC or any associated corporation at the on the share and has undertaken to transfer the share beginning or at the end of the year, and none of the to HSBC on ceasing to be a Director of HSBC Directors or members of their immediate family was Private Banking Holdings Suisse.
306 awarded or exercised any right to subscribe for any Since the end of the year, the interests of each of shares or debentures in any HSBC corporation the following Directors have increased by the during the year.
2 Comprises scrip dividend on shares held as beneficial owner 779 shares, the acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Ownership Plan through regular monthly contributions 33 shares, the automatic reinvestment of dividend income on shares held in the plan 14 shares and by the automatic reinvestment of dividend income by an Individual Savings Account and Personal Equity Plan manager 56 shares.
3 Scrip dividend on conditional awards held under The HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000.
4 Comprises scrip dividend on shares held as beneficial owner 4,778 shares, the acquisition of shares in the HSBC Holdings UK Share Ownership Plan through regular monthly contributions 33 shares and the automatic reinvestment of dividend income on shares held in the plan 14 shares.
W S H Laidlaw had beneficial and nonEmployees beneficial interests in 20,000 and 4,500 HSBC At 31 December 2007, HSBCs customers were Holdings ordinary shares respectively, on 1 January served by 330,000 full and part-time employees 2008, the date he was appointed a Director of HSBC worldwide, compared with 312,000 at 31 December Holdings.
The main V H C Cheng had beneficial interests in 244,539 centres of employment are the UK with HSBC Holdings ordinary shares and 408,022 approximately 56,700 employees: the US 43,000: conditional long-term incentive awards of India 33,000: Hong Kong 29,000: Brazil 27,000: Performance Shares on 1 February 2008, the date he Mexico 23,000 and France 15,000.
HSBC negotiates was appointed a Director of HSBC Holdings.
The highest concentrations of union membership are in Argentina, Brazil, There have been no other changes in the share Colombia, Egypt, France, Germany, Jordan, and loan capital interests of the Directors until the Lebanon, Malaysia, Malta, Mexico, the Philippines, date of this Report.
Any subsequent changes up to Singapore and the UK.
It is HSBCs policy to the last practicable date before the publication of the maintain well-developed communications and Notice of Annual General Meeting will be set out in consultation programmes and there have been no the notes to that Notice.
material disruptions to its operations from labour At 31 December 2007, Directors and Senior disputes during the past five years.
Management held, in aggregate, beneficial interests HSBC continues to develop the capabilities of in 12,849,034 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares its people.
Formal policies and structures are in place 0.1 per cent of the issued ordinary shares.
to provide career development and training for all At 31 December 2007, executive Directors and employees, with particular emphasis on increasing Senior Management held, in aggregate, options to international mobility to enrich the diversity of the subscribe for 58,795 HSBC Holdings ordinary employees experience.
HSBCs talent strategy, shares under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share which focuses on the development of leadership Option Scheme and HSBC Holdings savings-related capability and smooth succession planning, share option plans.
These options are exercisable continues.
This is being achieved through mutual between 2008 and 2013 at prices ranging from and open dialogue and planned development from 5.3496 to 7.6736 per share.
graduate through to senior management levels.
307 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans HSBC continues to be committed to creating a survey, plans are underway for the second survey diverse and inclusive work environment reflective of in 2008. its customer base, international workforce, and communities in which it operates.
It has a GroupEmployee involvement wide strategy that aims to improve gender, ethnicity HSBC values open communication with its and age diversity to ensure the long-term employees.
Employees are encouraged to discuss sustainability of the organisation.
There is particular operational and strategic issues, and ways of focus on increasing gender and ethnic diversity at improving performance, with their line managers.
Diversity initiatives are Open communication throughout the organisation is implemented at a country level taking local and encouraged and opportunities to share individual national laws into account.
Employee network perspectives are created through networking events, groups and mentoring programmes are promoted and management blogs, international assignments and established where possible to facilitate open learning and development programmes.
Information discussion of workplace issues for employees is regularly given to employees about employment belonging to minority groups, and to foster an matters and the financial and economic factors environment that celebrates diversity.
This is HSBC recognises its role as an employer in a communicated via management channels, internal wider context and is committed to employee health seminars, training programmes, in-house magazines issues, promoting employee involvement in and an intranet site accessible to the majority of community and not-for-profit organisations and HSBCs employees worldwide.
As a responsible employer and corporate citizen, HSBC Employment of disabled persons recognises the need to address the issues raised by HSBC believes in providing equal opportunities to HIV AIDS in the workplace and, in 2007, launched a all employees.
The employment of disabled persons HIV AIDS policy.
The policy defines the approach is included in this commitment and the recruitment, and minimum standards to be achieved by HSBC training, career development and promotion of entities around the world.
Key principles include disabled persons is based on the aptitudes and non-discrimination and confidentiality, voluntary abilities of the individual.
Should employees become testing, commitment to prevention, education, disabled during employment, every effort is made to awareness, care and support.
To coincide with the continue their employment and, if necessary, launch of the Group policy an e-learning module and appropriate training is provided.
a dedicated intranet site was established to provide education on the important issues surrounding Remuneration policy HIV AIDS.
As the quality and commitment of its human capital HSBC considers its people to be fundamental to is deemed fundamental to HSBCs success, the its past and future success.
In its pursuit of making Boards stated strategy is to attract, retain and HSBC the best place to work, HSBC maintains an motivate the very best people.
ongoing dialogue with employees, and looks to understand how they are motivated and engaged.
In In a business that is based on trust and 2007, HSBC conducted its first Global People relationships, HSBCs broad policy is to recruit those Survey which comprised questions designed to who are committed to making a long-term career measure employee engagement levels consistently with the organisation since trust and relationships are across the Group.
The survey covered HSBCs built over time.
permanent global workforce, and responses were Remuneration is an important component in received from almost 290,000 employees, a peoples decisions on which company to join and to significant response rate of 88 per cent.
Questions stay with, but it is not the overriding one: it is were summarised under 12 dimensions.
On all of the HSBCs experience that people are attracted to, dimensions, employees rated HSBC above external an organisation with strong values, one which is global norms.
Particular areas of strength were meritocratic and competitive and which offers HSBCs brand reputation, its commitment to transparent and interesting career development.
corporate sustainability and the quality of its direct managers.
HSBC has communicated the results and In line with the overall principles applied by the key action plans are being developed to improve Remuneration Committee as described on page 322 engagement.
Following the success of the first in the Directors Remuneration Report: employees salaries are reviewed annually in the 308 context of individual and business performance, Employee share plans are subject to the market practice, internal relativities and following limits on the number of HSBC Holdings competitive market pressures.
Allowances and ordinary shares that may be subscribed for.
In any benefits are largely determined by local market 10-year period not more than 10 per cent of the practice: HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time to time approximately 1,187 million HSBC employees participate in various variable pay Holdings ordinary shares at 3 March 2008 may in arrangements.
Discretionary variable pay plans aggregate become issuable pursuant to the grant of will normally make reference to the options or be issued other than pursuant to options achievement of objectives which are ultimately under all-employee share plans.
In any 10-year aligned to those at the Group level, and which period not more than 5 per cent of the HSBC typically cover financial, customer, process and Holdings ordinary shares in issue from time to time people targets.
These targets typically include approximately 593 million HSBC Holdings revenue growth, expense control, customer ordinary shares on 3 March 2008 may in aggregate recommendation, employee engagement, be put under option under The HSBC Share Plan or adherence to HSBCs ethical standards, lending be issuable pursuant to the HSBC Holdings Group guidelines, internal controls and procedures to Share Option Plan, the HSBC Executive Share maintain a strong and secure operating platform.
Option Scheme, the HSBC Holdings Restricted Actual levels of pay will depend on the Share Plan 2000 or The HSBC Share Plan.
The performance of constituent businesses, the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary shares that may individuals concerned and competitive market be issued on exercise of all options granted on or practice: after 27 May 2005 under The HSBC Share Plan and HSBC has a long history of paying close any other plans must not exceed 1,119,000,000 attention to its customers in order to provide HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
Under the HSBC value for both customers and shareholders.
This Holdings savings-related share option plans, The has been achieved by ensuring that the interests HSBC Share Plan, HSBC Holdings Group Share of HSBC and its employees are aligned with Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Executive those of its shareholders and that HSBCs Share Option Scheme there were options outstanding approach to risk management serves the over 260,714,579 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares at interests of all.
Particulars of options over encouraged to participate in the success they HSBC Holdings shares held by Directors of HSBC help to create, through the HSBC Holdings Holdings are set out on page 331 of the Directors savings-related share option plans and local Remuneration Report.
share ownership and profit sharing The effect on earnings per share of granting arrangements.
share options and share awards is shown in diluted earnings per share on the face of the consolidated Employee share plans income statement, with further details disclosed in To help align the interests of employees with those Note 13 on the Financial Statements.
The effect on of shareholders, share options are granted under allbasic earnings per share of dilutive share options and employee share plans and discretionary awards of share awards would be to dilute it by 1.2 per cent.
Performance Shares and Restricted Shares are made under The HSBC Share Plan.
There have been no All-employee share option plans awards of discretionary share options since The HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option 30 September 2005.
Plan and the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Set out on pages 309 to 317 are particulars of Option Plan: International are all-employee share outstanding employee share options, including those plans under which eligible HSBC employees those held by employees working under employment employed within the Group on the first working day contracts that are regarded as continuous contracts of the year of grant may be granted options to for the purposes of the Hong Kong Employment acquire HSBC Holdings ordinary shares.
The options were granted at nil may make contributions of up to 250 or consideration.
No options have been granted to equivalent each month over a period of one, three or substantial shareholders, suppliers of goods or five years which may be used on the first, third or services, or in excess of the individual limit for each fifth anniversary of the commencement of the share plan.
No options were cancelled during the relevant savings contract, at the employees election, year.
Alternatively, the employee 309 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans may elect to have the savings, plus where five business days immediately preceding the applicable any interest or bonus, repaid in cash.
invitation date, then applying a discount of Options granted over a one-year period will be 20 per cent except for the one-year options awarded exercisable within three months following the first under the US sub-plan where a 15 per cent discount anniversary of the commencement of the savings is applied.
The exercise period of the options contract.
Options granted over three or five-year awarded under all-employee share plans may be periods will be exercisable within six months advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, following the third or fifth anniversary of the for example on retirement, and may be extended in commencement of the relevant savings contract.
In certain circumstances, for example on the death of a the case of redundancy, retirement on grounds of participant, the executors may exercise the option up injury or ill health, retirement at or after normal to six months beyond the normal exercise period.
retirement age, the transfer of the employing The closing price per HSBC Holdings ordinary share business to another party, or a change of control of on 24 April 2007, the day before options were the employing company, options may be exercised awarded in 2007 under the HSBC Holdings before completion of the relevant savings contract.
Savings-Related Share Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: Under the HSBC Holdings Savings-Related International, was 9.21.
The all-employee share Share Option Plan and the HSBC Holdings Savingsoption plans will terminate on 27 May 2015 unless Related Share Option Plan: International the option the Directors resolve to terminate the plans at an exercise price is determined by reference to the earlier date.
HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option prices expressed in US dollars, Hong Kong dollars Plan: International and euros as well as in pounds sterling.
Where applicable, the US dollars, Hong Kong dollars and To encourage greater participation in the HSBC euro exercise prices are converted from the sterling Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan: exercise price at the applicable exchange rate on the International, two amendments were approved at the working day preceding the relevant invitation date.
The first was the The second amendment was to provide the choice of introduction of the facility to save and have option options over one year in addition to three and five year terms.
2 Exercisable at a 15 per cent discount to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the five business days immediately preceding the invitation date.
311 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Share plans Subsidiary company share plans Discretionary Share Plans year together with the Performance Share awards under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan Note 10 on the Financial Statements gives detail on 2000 was 150 per cent or in exceptional share-based payments, including awards of circumstances 225 per cent of the employees Performance Shares and Restricted Shares made in annual salary at the date of grant plus any bonus paid 2007. in the previous year.
The HSBC Share Plan was approved at the 2005 Under the HSBC Executive Share Option Annual General Meeting.
Awards of Performance scheme the maximum value of options which could Shares are made under this Plan to executive be granted to an employee in any one year was four Directors and other senior executives.
The times the employees relevant earnings.
Subject to performance conditions for awards of Performance the attainment of the relative TSR performance Shares are described under Long-term incentive condition where applicable, options are generally plan on page 322. exercisable between the third and the tenth Awards of Performance Shares are directed to anniversary of the date of grant.
Employees of a those senior executives who can influence corporate subsidiary that is sold or transferred out of HSBC performance such as members of the Group may exercise options awarded under the HSBC Management Board.
Group Share Option Plan or the HSBC Holdings Executive Share Option Scheme within six or twelve Awards of Restricted Shares are typically made months respectively of the sale or transfer, regardless to other employees based on individual performance, of whether the performance condition is met.
business performance and competitive market practice.
The maximum value of options that may be granted to an employee in any one year under Restricted Share awards define the number of The HSBC Plan when taken together with any shares to which the employee will become entitled, Performance Share award made under The HSBC generally between one and three years from the date Share Plan is 700 per cent of the employees annual of the award, subject to the individual remaining in salary at the date of grant.
All awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares will be satisfied by the transfer of The exercise price of options granted under The existing shares.
HSBC Share Plan, and previously under the HSBC Holdings Group Share Option Plan, is the higher of Since 2005, awards of share options under The the average market value of the ordinary shares on HSBC Share Plan have only been granted in very the five business days prior to the grant of the option limited circumstances.
There may be particular or the market value of the ordinary shares on the date circumstances in the future where option grants of grant of the option.
The exercise price of options could be appropriate.
No options were awarded granted under the HSBC Holdings Executive Share under The HSBC Share Plan in 2007.
Option Scheme was the market value of the ordinary Prior to 2005, discretionary awards of share shares on the business day prior to the grant of the options, with vesting subject to the attainment of a option.
The HSBC Share Plan will terminate on predetermined TSR performance condition, were 27 May 2015 unless the Directors resolve to made to employees at all levels of HSBC.
terminate the Plan at an earlier date.
The vesting of these options was subject to the The exercise period of the options awarded attainment of pre-determined relative TSR under discretionary share incentive plans may be performance criteria, except in HSBC France which advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, was acquired in 2000 where performance criteria for example on retirement, or on the death of a were phased in.
Under the HSBC Holdings Group participant, options may be exercised up to Share Option Plan, the maximum grant of options 12 months beyond the normal exercise period.
No options have been granted under the Scheme since that date.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.15.
No options have been granted under the Plan since that date.
2 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.23.
The HSBC Share Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options Options exercised lapsed Options at Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January during during 31 December award price from until 2007 year year 2007 21 Jun 2005 8.794 21 Jun 2008 21 Jun 2009 552,526 103,071 449,455 30 Sep 2005 9.170 30 Sep 2008 30 Sep 2015 74,985 74,985 Subsidiary company share plans which options could be granted over their respective shares.
No further options will be granted under HSBC France and subsidiary company either of these companies plans.
The following are When it was acquired in 2000, HSBC France and details of options to acquire shares in HSBC France one of its subsidiary companies, HSBC Private Bank and HSBC Private Bank France.
France, operated employee share option plans under 313 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Subsidiary company share plans HSBC France shares of 5 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 1 award price from until 2007 during year during year 2007 7 May 1997 37.05 7 Jun 2000 7 May 2007 66,000 66,000 29 Apr 1998 73.48 7 Jun 2000 29 Apr 2008 192,154 91,775 100,379 7 Apr 1999 81.71 7 Jun 2000 7 Apr 2009 383,602 79,200 304,402 12 Apr 2000 142.50 1 Jan 2002 12 Apr 2010 646,125 43,875 602,250 1 Following exercise of the options, the HSBC France shares will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as for the acquisition of HSBC France 13 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC France share.
At 31 December 2007, The HSBC Holdings Employee Benefit Trust 2001 No.
1 held 11,665,278 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC France shares arising from the exercise of these options.
HSBC Private Bank France shares of 2 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 1 award price from until 2007 during year during year 2007 21 Dec 1999 10.84 21 Dec 2000 21 Dec 2009 57,130 23,880 33,250 9 Mar 2000 12.44 27 Jun 2004 31 Dec 2010 27,626 7,000 20,626 15 May 2001 20.80 15 May 2002 15 May 2011 155,025 13,500 141,525 1 Oct 2002 22.22 2 Oct 2005 1 Oct 2012 163,075 17,500 145,575 1 Following exercise of the options, the HSBC Private Bank France shares will be exchanged for HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the ratio of 1.83 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Private Bank France share.
At 31 December 2007, The CCF Employee Benefit Trust 2001 held 955,952 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares which may be exchanged for HSBC Private Bank France shares arising from the exercise of these options.
HSBC Finance and its subsidiaries transaction was announced, vested on completion of the acquisition.
Options and equity-based awards Following the acquisition of HSBC Finance in 2003, granted on or after 14 November 2002 are all outstanding options and equity-based awards over exercisable on their original terms, save that they HSBC Finance common shares were converted into have been adjusted to reflect the exchange ratio.
rights to receive HSBC Holdings ordinary shares in the same ratio as the share exchange offer for the The following are details of options and equityacquisition of HSBC Finance 2.675 HSBC based awards to acquire shares in HSBC Holdings.
Holdings ordinary shares for each HSBC Finance At 31 December 2007, the HSBC Household common share and the exercise prices per share Employee Benefit Trust 2003 held 1,856,417 HSBC were adjusted accordingly.
No further options will Holdings ordinary shares and 196,455 American be granted under any of these plans.
Depositary Shares, each of which represents five All outstanding options and other equity-based HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, which may be used awards over HSBC Finance common shares granted to satisfy the exercise of employee share options.
2 25 per cent of the original award was exercisable on each of the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of award.
The exercise period may be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e. g. retirement.
2 Restricted Stock Rights vest one third on each of the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of award.
3 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which rights vested was 8.47.
Beneficial Corporation: 1990 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 award price US$ from until 2007 during year during year 2007 14 Nov 1997 9.20 14 Nov 1998 14 Nov 2007 131,248 131,248 19 Nov 1997 9.39 19 Nov 1998 19 Nov 2007 309,225 309,225 1 Dec 1997 9.68 1 Dec 1998 1 Dec 2007 49,218 49,218 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.22.
315 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Employees Subsidiary company share plans Employee compensation Beneficial Corporation: BenShares Equity Participation Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 award price US$ from until 2007 during year during year 2007 31 Jan 1997 9.87 31 Jan 1998 31 Jan 2007 20,113 10,261 9,852 15 Nov 1997 11.04 15 Nov 1998 15 Nov 2007 36,407 32,837 3,570 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 9.05.
Renaissance Holdings, Inc: Amended and Restated 1997 Incentive Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December 1 award price US$ from until 2007 during year during year 2007 31 Oct 1997 1.25 31 Oct 1998 31 Oct 2007 1,325 1,071 254 1 Jan 1998 1.25 1 Jan 1999 1 Jan 2008 1,424 1,424 1 Oct 1998 1.74 1 Oct 1999 1 Oct 2008 803 803 1 Jan 1999 2.24 1 Jan 2000 1 Jan 2009 5,024 5,024 1 The weighted average closing price of the shares immediately before the dates on which options were exercised was 8.92.
Bank of Bermuda further options will be granted under any of these plans.
Following the acquisition of Bank of Bermuda in 2004, all outstanding options over Bank of Bermuda All outstanding options over Bank of Bermuda shares were converted into rights to receive HSBC shares vested on completion of the acquisition.
The Holdings ordinary shares based on the consideration following are details of options to acquire shares in of US$40 for each Bank of Bermuda share and the HSBC Holdings.
At 31 December 2007, the HSBC average closing price of HSBC Holdings ordinary Bank of Bermuda Employee Benefit Trust 2004 shares, derived from the London Stock Exchange held 1,889,903 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares Daily Official List, for the five business days which may be used to satisfy the exercise of these preceding the closing date of the acquisition.
Bank of Bermuda: Directors Share Option Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January exercised lapsed 31 December award price US$ from until 2007 during year during year 2007 22 Sep 1999 8.02 22 Sep 2000 22 Sep 2009 3,082 3,082 20 Sep 2000 11.31 20 Sep 2001 20 Sep 2010 4,046 4,046 28 Mar 2001 15.76 28 Mar 2002 28 Mar 2011 12,811 12,811 3 Apr 2002 16.01 3 Apr 2003 3 Apr 2012 24,520 24,520 30 Apr 2003 12.23 30 Apr 2004 30 Apr 2013 4,904 4,904 Their emoluments are within the following Employee compensation and benefits bands: Note 9 on the Financial Statements gives details Number of about employee compensation and benefits including Employees pension plans.
000 The aggregate remuneration of Directors and Senior Management for the year ended 31 December Basic salaries, allowances and benefits in kind 2,797 2007 was US$92,586,000.
Executive Directors and members of Senior Management are generally subject to notice periods of up to 12 months and a normal retirement age of 65.
317 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Corporate sustainability Corporate sustainability initiatives are communicated to internal and external audiences: and with Group Human Resources to Corporate sustainability is the term used at HSBC to integrate this area into employee engagement and describe the Groups approach to meeting a wide talent management strategies.
The unit reports range of non-financial responsibilities which, directly to the Group Chairman.
although not generally enshrined as legal or HSBC aims for consistency in the regulatory requirements, constitute business implementation of its sustainability strategy across practices expected of the Group by its stakeholders, all Group businesses, and has identified four themes including shareholders, customers and employees.
as relevant to its response to the United Nations Insofar as these expectations concern HSBCs Millennium Development Goals of resisting climate impact on the long-term environmental, social and change, achieving water availability, protecting economic well-being of the world at large, corporate biodiversity and alleviating poverty.
These themes sustainability influences the Groups response to are risk management policies and processes : encouraging sustainable development.
Previously, business development: operations buildings, travel, HSBC described these activities under the heading, suppliers and IT : and community investment Corporate responsibility.
Investing in sustainability The Groups Sustainable Risk Management Unit has published policies laying down minimum HSBC seeks to meet societys expectations by standards for lending and investment covering managing all aspects of its business ethically, relationships with clients in energy, forest land and responsibly and in an increasingly sustainable way.
products, freshwater infrastructure, mining and The Groups key business values include a metals and the chemicals industry.
Each policy commitment to the highest personal standards of focuses on how HSBCs involvement in these integrity at all levels, including honesty, environmentally sensitive industries can contribute transparency and fair dealing in all its business to sustainable development.
In recent years HSBC has intensified its efforts to embed sustainability into the way it In recognition of its leadership in building manages risk and business development responsible practices into the way it does business, opportunities.
This acknowledges that HSBCs HSBC moved from 7th to 4th in the Accountability continuing financial success depends, in part, on Rating prepared by Accountability.
HSBC continued its ability to identify and address non-financial to earn a high score of 95 and a triple-A rating in the considerations which are material to the business.
Carbon Disclosure Project, a climate change index ranking FT500 corporations.
Recognising that HSBCs core financial services businesses have the potential to exert the In 2005, HSBC was the first major banking most influence over sustainability issues, a Group organisation in the world to become carbon neutral.
Corporate Sustainability unit was formed in 2007 HSBC remains committed to reducing its own to work closely with individuals and businesses carbon emissions and helping to bring about a in all customer groups to help them to manage low-carbon economy.
sustainability risks and to pursue opportunities in HSBC created a Climate Change Centre of environmental markets worldwide.
The Centres goal is to evaluate Group Corporate Sustainability acts as a focal the implications of climate change for the HSBC point for the management of HSBCs environmental Group, its Global Research division and relevant and social initiatives.
The Centre is HSBCs central source of directed primarily to issues arising from climate climate knowledge, translating a wide range of change, including its effect on energy production and expertise from academic studies, think tanks and usage, water management and biodiversity.
Social government regulations into business opportunities initiatives are centred on community action to for the bank and its clients.
The Centre works closely promote education as a lasting way of alleviating with HSBCs Global Research sector heads and poverty.
The Group Corporate Sustainability unit analysts on integrating the financial implications of allows HSBC to join up its business development, climate change and relevant government regulations risk management, business operations, community into their sectoral research.
It also supports the investment and reporting activities.
The unit also implementation of HSBCs Carbon Finance works closely with Group Marketing to further Strategy, announced in June 2006, and advises a embed sustainability into the brand: with Group range of HSBC businesses for which climate change Communications to ensure that sustainability is increasingly important.
318 In 2007, HSBC appointed Lord Stern, the HSBC participated in the Prince of Wales renowned academic and former World Bank Chief Accounting for Sustainability Project, which seeks to Economist, as Special Adviser to the Chairman on develop systems to help public and private sector Economic Development and Climate Change.
Lord organisations account more accurately for the wider Stern is responsible for advising HSBC on economic social and environmental costs of their activities.
development issues and the implications of climate change on the Group and its clients.
His role Health and safety includes: The maintenance of appropriate health and safety providing direct advice on specific strategic standards throughout HSBC remains a key issues in emerging markets where the bank has responsibility of all managers and HSBC is aspirations to grow its business: committed to managing actively all health and safety advising on the socio-economic implications of risks associated with its business.
HSBCs objectives climate change and representing HSBC on these are to identify, remove, reduce or control material issues: risks of fires and of accidents or injuries to contributing to management development employees and visitors.
programmes, from graduate intake through to Health and Safety Policies, Group standards and senior management development activities: and procedures are set by Group Corporate Real Estate providing advice to major clients of the Group and are implemented by Health, Safety and Fire who seek to develop sustainable business Co-ordinators based in each country in which HSBC strategies or other programmes relating to operates.
climate change and to economic development issues.
Despite the considerable international pressure on terrorist networks over the past few years, the Community involvement global threat from terrorism persists.
HSBC remains committed to maintaining its preparedness and to HSBC has a longstanding commitment to supporting ensuring the highest standards of health and safety the communities in which it operates.
In 2006, for wherever in the world it operates.
example, the HSBC Global Education Trust launched Future First, a five-year programme Group Security provides regular risk designed to help street children, children in care and assessments in areas of increased risk to assist orphans.
HSBCs operations around the world management in judging the level of terrorist threat.
collaborate with local charitable organisations to In addition, Regional Security functions conduct make a lasting and beneficial difference by regular security reviews to ensure measures to supporting projects that bring these children into the protect HSBC staff, buildings, assets and mainstream of society.
The programme complements information are appropriate for the level of threat.
HSBCs sustainable business development focus on poverty, for which a microfinance strategy was Supplier payment policy developed during 2006.
To date, US$2 million has HSBC Holdings subscribes to the Better Payment been allocated to 80 projects in 30 countries.
These Practice Code for all suppliers, the four principles of projects will benefit 37,000 children.
which are: to agree payment terms at the outset and In May 2007, the Group Chairman launched stick to them: to explain payment procedures to the HSBC Climate Partnership, committing suppliers: to pay bills in accordance with any US$100 million over five years to fund the work contract agreed with the supplier or as required by of The Climate Group, Earthwatch Institute, law: and to tell suppliers without delay when an Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and WWF invoice is contested and settle disputes quickly.
to inspire action by individuals, businesses and Copies of, and information about, the Code are governments around the world on the challenge of available from: BERR Publications Orderline, climate change.
The HSBC Climate Partnership, Admail 528, London SW1W 8YT: and the internet at which will strengthen the Groups leadership www.
co. uk downloads DTI BPP position and help HSBC employees to use their brochure.
pdf business skills and climate change knowledge to build a more sustainable future, represents one of It is HSBC Holdings practice to organise the largest single corporate donations to each of the payment to its suppliers through a central accounts charity partners and one of the largest employee function operated by its subsidiary, HSBC Bank.
engagement programmes by any organisation on Included in the balance with HSBC Bank is the climate change.
amount due to trade creditors which, at 31 December 319 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Governance continued Corporate sustainability Dividends, shareholders and meetings 2007, represented 22 days average daily purchases dividend alternative.
As the fourth interim dividend of goods and services received from such creditors, for 2007 was declared after the balance sheet date it calculated in accordance with the Companies Act has not been included as a creditor at 31 December 1985, as amended by Statutory Instrument 1997 571.
The reserves available for distribution at 31 December 2007 are US$15,551 million.
Donations A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per 6.20 per cent non-cumulative US dollar preference share, During the year, HSBC made charitable donations Series A Series A dollar preference share, totalling US$101 million 2006: US$86.3 million.
equivalent to a dividend of US$0.3875 per Series A Of this amount, US$36.8 million 2006: American Depositary Share, each of which US$32.8 million was given for charitable represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar purposes in the UK.
No political donations were preference share, was paid on 15 March, 15 June, made during the year.
At the Annual General Meeting in 2007, shareholders renewed the authorities for HSBC Dividends for 2008 Holdings and HSBC Bank to make EU political donations and incur EU political expenditure up to The proposed timetable for interim dividends in a maximum aggregate sum of 250,000 and 50,000 respect of 2008 on the ordinary shares of US$0.50 is respectively as a precautionary measure in light of set out in the Shareholder Information section on the wide definitions in The Political Parties, page 454.
These A quarterly dividend of US$15.50 per Series A authorities have not been used and will expire on dollar preference share equivalent to a dividend of the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to US$0.3875 per Series A American Depositary Share, be held in 2008. each of which represents one-fortieth of a Series A dollar preference share was declared on 13 February Sustainability reporting 2008 for payment on 17 March 2008.
HSBC reports on its progress towards meeting the Groups environmental reduction targets and Communication with shareholders provides information for stakeholders in the annual Communication with shareholders is given high HSBC Sustainability Report previously called the priority.
Extensive information about HSBCs Corporate Responsibility Report.
The contents activities is provided in the Annual Report and of the report are informed by feedback from Accounts, Annual Review and the Interim Report stakeholder engagement forums, and are prepared which are sent to shareholders and are available on using the Global Reporting Initiative guidelines.
There is regular dialogue with report is verified by an external assurance provider institutional investors and enquiries from individuals to demonstrate to stakeholders that the information on matters relating to their shareholdings and the disclosed in the report is complete and covers business of HSBC are welcomed and are dealt material aspects of HSBCs business.
The HSBC with in an informative and timely manner.
All Sustainability Report 2007 will be available at shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual www.
General Meeting or the informal meeting of shareholders held in Hong Kong to discuss the Dividends, shareholders and progress of HSBC.
meetings Notifiable interests in share capital Dividends for 2007 As at 3 March 2008, the following disclosures of First, second and third interim dividends for 2007, major holdings of voting rights have been made to each of US$0.17 per ordinary share, were paid on the Company pursuant to the requirements of the 5 July 2007, 4 October 2007 and 16 January 2008 Financial Services Authority Disclosure and respectively.
Note 12 on the Financial Statements Transparency Rule 5: gives more information on the dividends declared in 2007.
On 3 March 2008, the Directors declared a Singularis Holdings Limited: AWAL Trust fourth interim dividend for 2007 of US$0.39 per Company Limited: and Maan Abdulwahed ordinary share in lieu of a final dividend, which will Al-Sanea gave notice on 16 April 2007 that it be payable on 7 May 2008 in cash in US dollars, or had an indirect interest on 16 April 2007 in in sterling or Hong Kong dollars at exchange rates to 360,055,575 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, be determined on 28 April 2008, with a scrip 320 representing 3.11 per cent of the ordinary shares Annual General Meeting in issue at that date.
The Annual General Meeting of HSBC Holdings Barclays PLC gave notice on 17 April 2007 that will be held at the Barbican Hall, Barbican Centre, it had an indirect interest on 16 April 2007 in London EC2 on 30 May 2008 at 11.00am.
518,233,657 HSBC Holdings ordinary shares, An informal meeting of shareholders will be representing 4.47 per cent of the ordinary shares held at Level 28, 1 Queens Road Central, Hong in issue at that date.
Legal & General Group Plc gave notice on Resolutions to receive the Annual Report 14 August 2007 that it had a direct interest on and Accounts, approve the Directors Remuneration 8 August 2007 in 480,363,459 HSBC Holdings Report, re-elect Directors and reappoint KPMG ordinary shares, representing 4.08 per cent of Audit Plc as Auditor will be submitted to the Annual the ordinary shares in issue at that date.
KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its There are no notifiable interests in the equity willingness to continue in office and the Group share capital recorded in the register maintained Audit Committee and the Board have recommended under section 336 of the Securities and Futures that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed.
Resolutions Ordinance of Hong Kong.
will also be submitted to the Annual General Meeting to renew the authorities for the allotment of In compliance with the Rules Governing the shares, the disapplication of pre-emption rights and Listing of Securities on The Stock Exchange of the purchase of ordinary shares.
In addition, Hong Kong Limited at least 25 per cent of the total resolutions will be proposed to amend The HSBC issued share capital of HSBC Holdings has been held Share Plan and to seek approval for changes to the by the public at all times during 2007 and up to the Articles of Association.
A live webcast of the Annual General Meeting Dealings in HSBC Holdings shares will be available on www.
From shortly after the conclusion of the Meeting until 30 June Except for dealings as intermediaries by HSBC 2008 a recording of the proceedings will be available Bank, HSBC Financial Products France and The on www.
Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation, which are members of a European Economic On behalf of the Board Area exchange, neither HSBC Holdings nor any S K Green, Group Chairman 3 March 2008 subsidiary has bought, sold or redeemed any securities of HSBC Holdings during the year ended 31 December 2007.
321 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report Remuneration committee Principles Executive Directors Page Committee to provide independent advice on Remuneration policy not audited executive remuneration issues.
As a global firm, Mercer also provides other remuneration consulting Remuneration Committee 322 services to various parts of HSBC.
Towers Perrin Overall principles 322 continues to provide remuneration data to the Executive Directors 322 Remuneration Committee.
Other consultants are Proposed changes to remuneration used from time to time to advise on specific issues.
arrangements from 2008 322 During the year the Group Chief Executive provided Current arrangements....... 324 regular briefings to the Remuneration Committee.
Share ownership guidelines 327 Service contracts................. 328 Overall principles Other directorships............. 328 In carrying out its responsibilities, the Remuneration Non-executive Directors........ 328 Committee applies the following key principles: Fees............. 328 to ensure that the total remuneration package Remuneration review audited salary, bonus, long-term incentive awards and Directors emoluments........... 329 other benefits is competitive in relation to Pensions.......... 330 comparable organisations in each of the markets Share plans...... 330 in which HSBC operates: to offer fair and realistic salaries with a focus on Remuneration Committee variable pay, differentiated by performance: The Remuneration Committee meets regularly to through awards of shares to recognise high consider human resource issues, particularly terms performance, retain key talent and provide and conditions of employment, remuneration and alignment with the interests of shareholders: and retirement benefits.
Within the authority delegated to follow a policy of moving progressively from by the Board, the Committee is responsible for defined benefit to defined contribution pension approving the remuneration policy of HSBC schemes.
including the terms of bonus plans, share plans and other long-term incentive plans and for agreeing the The Committee also considers corporate individual remuneration packages of executive performance on environmental, social and Directors and other senior Group employees.
No governance factors when determining the executive Directors are involved in deciding their own Directors remuneration.
Remuneration Committee has oversight that the incentive structure for senior management does not Following each meeting the Committee reports raise environmental, social and governance risks by to the Board on its activities.
The terms of reference inadvertently motivating irresponsible behaviour.
of the Committee are available at www.
Executive Directors The members of the Remuneration Committee throughout 2007 were Sir Mark Moody-Stuart Proposed changes to remuneration Chairman and J D Coombe.
At the conclusion of arrangements from 2008 the Annual General Meeting on 25 May 2007 In July 2007, the Remuneration Committee W K L Fung and S Hintze retired as members of the requested that Mercer conduct a comprehensive Committee and G Morgan became a member of the assessment of the remuneration arrangements of the Committee.
executive Directors and other senior executives.
The There were eight meetings of the Remuneration objective was to ensure close alignment with Committee during 2007.
The table on page 296 gives HSBCs business strategy, taking into account details of Directors attendance at these meetings.
In July 2007, following a competitive tender As part of this review, the Committee updated process, Mercer Limited, a firm of specialist human the remuneration comparator group to reflect more resources consultants, was appointed by the accurately the market in which the Company 322 competes for executive talent.
This group will the proposed arrangements, the performance-related comprise nine global financial services companies, proportion of the remuneration package will increase namely Banco Santander, Bank of America, with the performance-related elements making up Barclays, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, around 80 per cent of the remuneration package.
Royal Bank of Scotland, Standard Chartered and Under the current arrangements, the performanceUBS.
These companies were selected on the basis of related proportion of the remuneration package is their broadly similar business coverage, size and typically around 70 per cent of total compensation.
The arrangements for S T Gulliver, who has While in general HSBC salaries for executive been appointed a Director with effect from 1 May Directors were in the upper quartile of this 2008, will reflect the market practice in the Global comparator group, total cash base salary and bonus Banking and Markets sector where a greater and total compensation base salary, cash bonus and performance-related element is typical.
the expected value of long-term incentive awards The net effect of these changes would mean, for were generally at the lower quartile.
example, that the Group Chief Executives total The Committee concluded that while the overall compensation, on an expected value basis, would be remuneration principles described above remain at market median of the comparator group, but with appropriate, the remuneration strategy should be a significantly higher proportion of share-based refined by targeting base salary at the market median compensation than the group.
of the comparator group, while providing an As part of the Companys on-going commitment opportunity for top quartile total compensation for to shareholder engagement, the largest institutional higher levels of performance.
At the same time, a shareholders, representing approximately 50 per cent greater proportion of total compensation will be of the share capital of HSBC Holdings, the share based, and shareholding requirements will be Association of British Insurers and the National increased.
Association of Pension Funds, are being consulted In order to achieve this, the following steps are on these proposals.
The planned implementation of proposed: these changes will be as follows: For the executive Directors in place at the end of Salary 2007, where base salaries are above market median no increases are being made in 2008.
As stated above, in 2008, in view of the current This applies to the Group Chairman, Group competitive positioning of base salaries, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director: Remuneration Committee will not increase base salaries for the executive Directors in place at the The maximum annual bonus opportunity will be end of 2007. increased from 250 to 400 per cent of salary for the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance The base salaries for executive Directors Director, with the criteria for bonus awards appointed to the Board after the 2007 financial year being made more specific and 40 per cent of any will be set in light of the overall remuneration award being deferred into HSBC Restricted principles set out above.
Shares: Any future salary increases will be considered in The performance measures and vesting the light of the remuneration strategy, which targets conditions attached to long-term incentive base salary at market median, and the market data awards of Performance Shares under The HSBC from the remuneration comparator group.
Share Plan will be amended in order to further A similar approach has been adopted for other align the reward of senior executives to the senior executives across the Group.
achievement of HSBCs strategy and the interests of its shareholders: and Annual bonus The required shareholding of senior executives From the 2008 performance year, objectives will be under the share ownership guidelines will be set and assessed using a balanced scorecard.
This increased to the equivalent of four to five times will include financial and non-financial performance base salary to demonstrate further alignment measures, with an emphasis on tangible, measurable with shareholders.
targets to ensure the appropriate alignment with This proposed policy would generally apply to HSBCs strategy in the assessment of annual bonus all executive Directors from 2008 onwards.
Example measures for the Group Chief 323 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors Executive are set out below: Annual cash bonus Financial Customer The annual cash bonus for executive Directors is EPS Customer recommendation based upon individual performance as well as ROE Brand health performance measured against a number of key Cost efficiency ratio financial targets for the Group, including financial Process People e. g. revenue growth, economic profit and cost Operational losses Employee engagement efficiency.
Annual bonus payments are not Regulatory relationship Leadership pensionable.
The Committee took into account the Groups The Committee intends to provide significantly absolute performance and relative performance greater transparency in subsequent Reports regarding compared to its peers in a challenging operating both the performance measures and the achievement environment, in setting the overall bonus payment against performance targets, together with a levels.
commentary on the resulting levels of bonus awards.
There were significant increases in profit Long-term incentive plan before tax, earnings per share and improvements The long-term incentive plan LTIP was last in cost efficiencies during 2007.
During that year reviewed in 2005 when, with the adoption of The management moved effectively to resolve the issues HSBC Share Plan, a growth in earnings per share identified in late 2006 in the United States in relation measure EPS was introduced alongside Total to consumer lending, and to anticipate and respond Shareholder Return TSR relative to a peer group to the sector-wide liquidity crisis.
On this basis, the Remuneration Committee The Committee is proposing changes to the approved annual bonus payments for the following performance measures and vesting conditions of the executive Directors in 2008 in respect of 2007 long-term incentive awards of Performance Shares performance payments made in 2007 in respect of under The HSBC Share Plan, the details of which 2006 performance are shown for reference : will be described in the circular containing the 2008 2007 Notice of the 2008 Annual General Meeting, which 000 000 is expected to be sent to shareholders in April 2008, D J Flint 800 500 and submitted to shareholder vote at that Meeting.
M F Geoghegan............ 2,140 1,750 Awards will be granted to executive Directors and other senior executives shortly after the Meeting.
Chairmans variable compensation These will be made under the amended Plan subject The Committee has determined, at the request of to the proposed changes to the Plan receiving the Chairman, that future variable compensation shareholder approval.
payments to the Chairman will be delivered exclusively through Performance Share awards Current arrangements given the key focus of the role of the Chairman in Salary the formation and management of Group strategy.
The Committee reviews salary levels for executive The Remuneration Committee approved an Directors each year.
annual bonus payment for the Chairman for 2008, in respect of 2007 performance, that was unchanged As described above, the Remuneration from the prior performance year as indicated in the Committee will not increase base salaries for current table below the payment made in 2007 in respect of executive Directors in 2008.
2006 performance is shown for reference : 2008 2007 2008 2007 000 000 000 000 D J Flint 700 700 S K Green 1,750 1,750 M F Geoghegan............ 1,070 1,070 S K Green 1,250 1,250 Long-term incentive plan Under The HSBC Share Plan, executive Directors, as with other participants in the Plan, are eligible to receive awards of Performance Shares with a face value at grant of up to a maximum of seven times 324 salary.
The individual awards received in any one values of individual awards made in 2007 are set out year are based on market competitive information in the table below awards made in 2006 are shown and individual performance.
The face and expected for reference.
2 M F Geoghegans 2006 award relates to his position as Chief Executive of HSBC Bank plc, prior to his current role as Group Chief Executive of HSBC Holdings.
3 S K Greens 2006 award relates to his position as Group Chief Executive.
Vesting of the awards is subject to the HSBCs relative TSR ranking, measured over the performance conditions described in the next three years, against the comparator group as shown section being met.
Shares released will include below: additional shares equivalent to the value of the If HSBCs performance Proportion of TSR Award 1 dividends payable on the vested shares over the matches vesting st th performance period.
Banks ranking 1 to 7 100% th Bank ranking 8 90% th Bank ranking 9 80% Performance conditions th Bank ranking 10 70% th Bank ranking 11 60% Arrangements from 2005 to 2007 th Bank ranking 12 50% th Vesting of the awards of Performance Shares under Bank ranking 13 40% th Bank ranking 14 30% The HSBC Share Plan is based on two independent th Banks ranking below 14 nil measures, relative TSR and growth in EPS.
The performance conditions are measured over a three- 1 Vesting will occur in a straight line where HSBCs year performance period and awards forfeited to performance falls between these incremental steps.
the extent that they have not been met.
The vesting of 50 per cent of the awards is based on TSR and EPS award the remaining 50 per cent on growth in EPS.
The method for calculating EPS growth has been summarised in narrative form in the 2005 and 2006 TSR award Directors Remuneration Reports, as well as in the The comparator group of 28 banks for the TSR circular containing the Notice of Annual General award comprises the largest banks in the world, Meeting for 2005. on the basis of their market capitalisation, their This years Report sets out more information geographic spread and the nature of their activities: including a graph and an example on the method ABN AMRO Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group of calculation of EPS growth in light of some Banco Santander Mizuho Financial Group questions from shareholders on the operation of Bank of America Morgan Stanley this element.
The Committee regrets if there has Bank of New York National Australia Bank been any misunderstanding, but wishes to reassure Barclays Royal Bank of Canada BBVA Royal Bank of Scotland shareholders that the method of calculation, which BNP Paribas Socit Gnrale is set out in the rules of The HSBC Share Plan, has Citigroup Standard Chartered remained unchanged since the Plan was adopted.
Crdit Agricole UBS Further, before introducing the Plan in 2005, the Credit Suisse Group UniCredito Italiano Committee consulted extensively with major Deutsche Bank US Bancorp HBOS Wachovia shareholders and their representative bodies in line JP Morgan Chase Wells Fargo with best practice, and the rules of the Plan Lloyds TSB Westpac Banking Corporation including worked examples of the EPS calculation were available for inspection at the time.
The extent to which the TSR award will vest will be determined on a sliding scale based on 325 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors The percentage of the conditional award the year in question.
In the event that the published vesting will depend upon the absolute growth EPS for the base year is restated during the in EPS achieved over the three years the performance period to adjust for changes in performance period.
30 per cent of the conditional accounting standards, that restated EPS will be shares will vest if the incremental EPS over the used for the purposes of the EPS performance performance period is 24 per cent or more of EPS condition.
The percentage of shares vesting In addition, awards will not vest unless the will rise on a straight line proportionate basis to Remuneration Committee is satisfied that HSBC 100 per cent if HSBCs incremental EPS over the Holdings financial performance has shown a performance period is 52 per cent or more of EPS sustained improvement in the period since the in the base year.
In the interests of clarity, this has award date.
In determining whether HSBC been set out in graphical form in the chart below.
Holdings has achieved a sustained improvement in 100% performance the Remuneration Committee will 90% take account of all relevant factors but in particular 80% 70% comparisons against the comparator group in areas 60% such as revenue growth and mix, cost efficiency, 50% credit performance, cash return on cash invested, 40% 30% dividend performance and TSR.
20% 10% If events occur which cause the Remuneration 0% Committee to consider that a performance 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 24% 52% condition has become unfair or impractical in either Total Incremental EPS Delivered direction, the right is reserved to the Remuneration For the EPS element of the award, the base Committee, if it considers it appropriate to do so, to measure shall be EPS for the financial year amend, relax or waive the condition.
preceding that in which the award is made the Awards will vest in full immediately in cases base year.
Absolute growth in EPS will then be of death.
In the event of redundancy, retirement on compared with the base year over three consecutive grounds of injury or ill health, early retirement by financial years commencing with the year in which agreement, normal retirement and where a the award is made.
Incremental EPS will be participant ceases to be employed by HSBC due to calculated by expressing as a percentage of the EPS a company ceasing to be part of HSBC, awards will of the base year the difference each year of the normally vest at the end of the vesting period on a three-year performance period between the EPS of time-apportioned basis to the extent that the TSR that year and the EPS of the base year.
These and EPS performance conditions have been percentages will then be aggregated to arrive at the satisfied.
In the event of a change of control, total incremental EPS for the performance period.
awards will normally vest immediately and on a As illustrated in the table below, an incremental time-apportioned basis to the extent that the TSR EPS of 51 per cent over three years would equate to performance condition has been satisfied.
Awards a compound annual growth rate of 8 per cent.
will normally be forfeited if the participant is Percentage difference between: Total dismissed for cause or resigns from HSBC.
In all incremental these circumstances the Committee retains Year 1 EPS Year 2 EPS Year 3 EPS EPS for the discretion to ensure fair and reasonable treatment.
and Base Year and Base Year and Base year performance EPS EPS EPS period Arrangements from 2002 to 2004 8% 17% 26% 51% Between 2002 and 2004, awards of Performance Illustration of incremental EPS of 51 per cent over three years.
Shares were made under the HSBC Holdings Restricted Share Plan 2000.
Vesting was based If EPS in any of the Years 1, 2 or 3 is below on HSBCs relative TSR performance over a the base year, then the percentage difference three-year period from the date of the award, between that particular year and the base year is with full vesting of awards and transfer of shares negative.
to participants being no earlier than the fifth For this purpose, EPS means the profit anniversary of the date of award.
attributable to the Shareholders expressed in US The initial performance period was three dollars, excluding goodwill amortisation, divided years from the date of award.
Prior to 2004, by the weighted average number of Ordinary awards were subject to re-testing on the fourth Shares in issue and held outside the Group during 326 Proportion of EPS Award Vesting and fifth anniversaries of the date of award if The table below describes the outcome of the the performance target was not met at the third performance tests for the 2002, 2003 and 2004 anniversary.
The awards made in 2004 had a awards: three-year performance period with no re-testing.
2002 award 2003 award 2004 award First test third anniversary.. March 2005, performance March 2006, performance March 2007, performance target met, awards vested in target not met target not met, and therefore 2007 award forfeited First re-test fourth March 2007, performance anniversary
Already vested target not met No re-test Second test fifth anniversary
Already vested March 2008 No re-test In addition to these performance conditions, Graph 2: HSBC TSR and FTSE 100 Index none of the outstanding awards will vest unless the 200% Remuneration Committee is satisfied that, during the 190% performance period, HSBC Holdings has achieved 180% 170% sustained growth.
The Remuneration Committee 160% retains discretion to recommend early release of 150% 140% shares awarded in certain circumstances, for 130% example, retirement, redundancy or ill health.
120% 110% When events occur which cause the Remuneration 100% Committee to consider that the performance Dec 2002 Dec 2003 Dec 2004 Dec 2005 Dec 2006 Dec 2007 conditions have become unfair or impractical, the HSBC TSR FTSE 100 right is reserved for the Committee to amend or Source: Datastream substitute the performance conditions.
Pursuant to the Directors Remuneration Report Funding Regulations 2002, Graph 2 shows HSBCs TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Index, for the The Companys policy is to fund long-term incentive five-year period ended 31 December 2007.
The awards of Performance Shares and Restricted Shares FTSE 100 has been chosen as this is a recognised under The HSBC Share Plan through employee broad equity market index of which HSBC Holdings benefit trusts which undertake market purchases of is a member.
The dilution limits set out in the HSBC share plans comply with the Pensions Association of British Insurers guidelines.
The normal retirement age for executive Directors Total Shareholder Return is 65.
The pension entitlements earned by the executive Directors during the year are set out on The graphs below show how HSBC has performed page 330. against the benchmark TSR used to determine vesting for the 2004 Performance Share awards Share ownership guidelines and the FTSE 100 Index.
In line with a focus on highly leveraged variable pay, Graph 1: HSBC TSR and Benchmark TSR HSBC operates a formal share ownership policy, 150% expressed as a number of shares, for the executive Directors and the Group Managing Directors.
The 140% Committee believes that material levels of share 130% ownership by executives create a community of interest between the leadership team and 120% shareholder.
The executive Directors and Group 110% Managing Directors are therefore required to build and retain the following shareholdings: 100% Mar 2004 Mar 2005 Mar 2006 Mar 2007 HSBC TSR TSR Benchmark 327 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Directors emoluments Number of shares eligible for a bonus calculated as not less than the at 31 average of the previous two years of bonus payments December received, pro-rated for any part year worked to to be held 2007 termination.
Group Chairman 300,000 536,652 Group Chief Executive 300,000 385,189 The dates of executive Directors service Group Finance Director.................... 100,000 112,781 1 contracts are as follows: Group Managing Directors............... 75,000 Contract date 1 A majority of the Group Managing Directors exceed the expected holdings: where the holdings are below, the D J Flint.............. 29 September 1995 executives are within five years of their appointment and M F Geoghegan.. 24 May 2007 working towards the expected level.
S K Green 24 May 2007 Under the guidelines, the shareholding is Other directorships expected to be achieved within five years of the executives appointment or three years from the date Executive Directors, if so authorised by either the of approval of the guidelines May 2007, whichever Nomination Committee or the Board, may accept is the later.
All executive Directors and the majority appointments as non-executive directors of suitable of Group Managing Directors exceed the required companies which are not part of HSBC.
The Remuneration Committee will will not be given for executive Directors to accept a monitor compliance annually prior to approving any non-executive directorship of more than one FTSE awards or vesting of Performance Shares.
When considering a non-executive Remuneration Committee will have full discretion in appointment, the Nomination Committee or Board determining any penalties in case of nonwill take into account the expected time commitment compliance, which could include: a reduction of of such appointment.
The time commitment for future awards of long-term incentives and or an executive Directors external appointments will be increase in the proportion of the annual bonus that is reviewed as part of the annual Board review.
Increases in the expected level remuneration receivable in respect of an external of share ownership will be introduced as part of the appointment is normally paid to HSBC, unless refinements to reward strategy and structure from otherwise approved by the Remuneration 2008 discussed above.
D J Flint does not retain his fees as a non-executive Director of BP p. l. c. Service contracts Non-executive Directors HSBCs policy is to employ executive Directors on one-year rolling contracts although longer initial Non-executive Directors are appointed for fixed terms may be approved by the Remuneration terms not exceeding three years, subject to their Committee if considered appropriate.
The re-election by shareholders at Annual General Remuneration Committee will, consistent with Meetings.
Non-executive directors have no service the best interests of the Group, seek to minimise contract and are not eligible to participate in HSBCs termination payments.
Current non-executive Directors terms S K Green, M F Geoghegan and D J Flint have of appointment will expire as follows: in 2008, rolling service contracts with a notice period of Lord Butler, Baroness Dunn and Sir Brian Moffat: 12 months for either party save that D J Flints in 2009, W K L Fung, S W Newton, S M Robertson contract provides for nine months notice to be and Sir Brian Williamson: in 2010, R A Fairhead, given by Mr Flint.
Sir Mark Moody-Stuart and G Morgan: and in 2011, J D Coombe, J L Dran, J W J Hughes-Hallett and In the event of early termination of employment W S H Laidlaw.
S A Catz and N R N Murthy were of S K Green, M F Geoghegan, or D J Flint, other appointed non-executive Directors with effect from than for cause, HSBC is entitled to make a payment 1 May 2008.
Subject to their re-election by in lieu of notice equal in the case of D J Flint, to base shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2008, salary and pension entitlement and in the case of their terms of appointment will expire in 2011.
S K Green and M F Geoghegan to base salary, pension entitlements and other benefits.
Fees In addition, on termination of employment by Non-executive Directors fees are regularly reviewed HSBC, other than for cause or termination by either and compared with other large international party within 12 months following a change of companies.
The current fee, which was approved by control, S K Green and M F Geoghegan will be shareholders in 2006, is 65,000 per annum.
328 A fee of 30,000 per annum is payable to the Chairman, Remuneration Committee.................... 40,000 p. a.
Member, Remuneration Committee 20,000 p. a. senior independent non-executive Director.
In addition, non-executive Directors receive the During 2007, eight meetings of the Remuneration Committee were held.
following fees for service on Board Committees: Chairman, Nomination Committee 30,000 p. a.
During 2007, two meetings of the Nomination Committee were During 2007, seven meetings of the Group Audit Committee held.
Chairman, Corporate Sustainability Committee... 30,000 p. a.
Member, Corporate Sustainability Committee...... 20,000 p. a.
During 2007, five meetings of the Corporate Sustainability Committee were held.
2 Benefits in kind for executive Directors include provision of company car, medical insurance, other insurance cover, accountancy advice and travel assistance.
3 These discretionary bonuses are in respect of 2007.
See page 324 for comparison with 2006.
4 In return for the prior waiver of part of his bonus, an employer contribution has been made into a pension arrangement for M F Geoghegan equal to 225,000 2006: 215,000 which would otherwise have been paid.
5 Retired as a Director on 25 May 2007.
6 Includes fees as non-executive Chairman of HSBC Private Equity Asia Limited and as a non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
7 Includes fees as a non-executive Director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation.
8 Appointed as a Director on 2 January 2007 and retired as a Director on 5 March 2007.
J F Gil Diz elected to waive any fees payable to him by HSBC Holdings 10,833.
9 H Sohmen elected to waive any fees payable to him by HSBC Holdings 2007: 27,083: 2006: 65,000.
10 Total emoluments for 2006 include the emoluments of Directors who retired in that year.
329 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Pensions Share plans Pensions thirtieth of pensionable salary for each year of Audited pensionable service.
S K Green is entitled to receive benefits from an For M F Geoghegan an employer contribution Employer-Funded Retirement Benefits Scheme was made to the HSBC Asia Holdings Pension Plan EFRBS.
The benefits to which he is entitled from in respect of 2007 of 225,000 2006: 215,000 the HSBC Bank UK Pension Scheme but in respect arising entirely from a bonus sacrifice.
There were of which he ceased membership on 5 April 2006, no other employer contributions made to this plan.
will be calculated based on completed service to Mr Geoghegan receives an executive allowance of the date of opting out and on pensionable salary 50 per cent of annual basic salary to fund personal calculated at the date employment with HSBC pension arrangements.
The intention of this arrangement D J Flint receives an executive allowance of is to provide benefits to Mr Green that would be 55 per cent of annual basic salary to fund personal broadly comparable to an accrual rate of onepension arrangements.
Transfer value less personal Increase in Increase of contributions at accrued Transfer Transfer transfer value 31 December 2007 Accrued Increase in pension value value of accrued relating to increase annual accrued during 2007, of accrued of accrued pension less in accrued pensions pension at pension excluding pension at pension at personal during 2007, 31 December during any increase 31 December 31 December contributions excluding any 1 1 1 1 2007 2007 for inflation 2006 2007 in 2007 increase for inflation 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 S K Green........... 628 42 19 11,082 12,780 1,698 383 1 The transfer value represents a liability of HSBCs pension funds and not a sum paid or due to the individual: it cannot therefore meaningfully be added to annual remuneration.
The following unfunded pension payments, in The options under the HSBC Holdings Savingsrespect of which provision has been made, were Related Share Option Plan were awarded for nil made during 2007 to five former Directors of HSBC consideration and are exercisable at a 20 per cent Holdings: discount to the average market value of the ordinary shares on the five business days immediately 2007 2006 preceding the invitation date.
No options lapsed during the year and Sir Brian Pearse 56,269 54,261 except as otherwise indicated, no options were Sir William Purves 95,767 99,310 awarded or exercised during the year.
There are no 578,402 548,957 performance criteria conditional upon which the outstanding options are exercisable.
The payments in respect of R Delbridge and The market value of the ordinary shares at Sir Brian Pearse were made by HSBC Bank plc as 31 December 2007 was 8.42.
The highest and former Directors of that bank.
The payment in lowest market values during the year were 9.64 and respect of C F W fide Croisset was made by HSBC 8.03.
Market value is the mid-market price derived France as a former Director of that bank.
from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List on the relevant date.
Share plans Audited Under the Securities and Futures Ordinance of Hong Kong, Performance Share awards under At 31 December 2007, the undernamed Directors The HSBC Share Plan and the HSBC Holdings held Performance Share awards and options to Restricted Share Plan 2000 are categorised as the acquire the number of HSBC Holdings ordinary interests of a beneficiary of a Trust.
shares set against their respective names.
330 HSBC Holdings Savings-Related Share Option Plan HSBC Holdings ordinary shares of US$0.50 Audited Options at Options Options Options at Date of Exercise Exercisable Exercisable 1 January awarded exercised 31 December 1 award price from until 2007 during year during year 2007 2 D J Flint................. 2 May 2002 6.3224 1 Aug 2007 31 Jan 2008 2,617 2,617 24 Apr 2007 7.0872 1 Aug 2012 31 Jan 2013 2,310 2,310 S K Green.............. 23 Apr 2003 5.3496 1 Aug 2008 31 Jan 2009 3,070 3,070 1 May be advanced to an earlier date in certain circumstances, e. g. retirement.
2 Options over 2,617 shares were exercised on 11 September 2007.
At the date of exercise, the market value per share was 8.82.
1 At the date of the award, 5 March 2007, the market value closing price per share was 8.96.
The Trustee of the Plan purchased the shares at a price of 8.936358.
2 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends.
Full vesting and transfer of the shares will not generally occur until the fifth anniversary of the date of award.
A benchmark for HSBC Holdings TSR, weighted by market capitalisation, was established which takes account of the TSR performance of: 1 a peer group of nine banks weighted by market capitalisation which were considered most relevant to HSBC in terms of size and international scope.
For performance periods up to and including the one beginning in 2003, this group comprised ABN AMRO Holding N. V. The Bank of East Asia, Limited, Citigroup Inc. Deutsche Bank AG, JPMorgan Chase & Co. Lloyds TSB Group plc, Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Limited and Standard Chartered PLC.
To be more relevant to HSBC in terms of size and international scope, this peer group was amended for conditional awards made in 2004 by the replacement of Lloyds TSB Group plc, 331 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Directors Remuneration Report continued Share plans Statement of Directors Responsibilities Oversea-Chinese Banking Corporation Ltd. Mitsubishi Tokyo Financial Group Inc. and The Bank of East Asia, Limited with Bank of America Corporation, The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Banco Santander Central Hispano S. A. and UBS AG: 2 the five largest banks from each of the US, the UK, continental Europe and the Far East, other than any within 1 above, weighted by market capitalisation: and 3 the banking sector of the Morgan Stanley Capital International World Index, excluding any within 1 or 2 above, weighted by market capitalisation.
By combining the weighted average TSR for each of the above three groups and weighting that average so that 50 per cent is applied to 1, 25 per cent is applied to 2 and 25 per cent is applied to 3, a single TSR benchmark for market comparison was determined.
The benchmark was chosen to reward the delivery of sustained financial growth of HSBC Holdings and to align the interests of participants with those of shareholders.
The extent to which each award will vest will be determined by reference to HSBC Holdings TSR measured against the TSR benchmark.
If HSBC Holdings TSR over the performance period exceeds the benchmark TSR, awards with a value, at the date of grant, of up to 100 per cent of the individuals earnings base salary and bonus in respect of the previous performance year, will vest.
For higher value awards, the greater of 50 per cent of the award or the number of shares equating at the date of grant to 100 per cent of the individuals earnings, will vest at this level of performance.
If HSBC Holdings TSR over the performance period places it within the upper quartile of the ranked list of the banks comprising the benchmark, these higher value awards will vest in full.
For performance between the median and the upper quartile, vesting will be on a straight-line basis.
If the upper quartile performance level is achieved at the third anniversary of the date of award then an additional award equal to 20 per cent of the initial Performance Share award will be made and will vest at the same time as the original award to which it relates.
1 Includes additional shares arising from scrip dividends.
2 The performance conditions have been met and the shares have vested.
At the date of vesting, 8 March 2007, the market value per share was 9.12.
At the date of the award, 8 March 2002, the market value per share was 8.34.
3 The performance conditions for awards made in 2004 were not met and, under the rules of the Plan, the awards held by D J Flint 137,447 shares, M F Geoghegan 103,086 shares and S K Green 188,990 shares were forfeited on 4 April 2007.
On behalf of the Board 3 March 2008 Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Chairman of Remuneration Committee 332
