ASIA-PACIFIC 2007 was a strong year with good Global Drive Brand and overall volume growth, productivity savings, improved distribution effectiveness to the retail trade and a strengthened talent pipeline.
John Daly Director, Asia-Pacific In Asia-Pacific, profit rose by In Vietnam, profit increased 56 million to 672 million, mainly significantly benefiting from better attributable to strong performances pricing, productivity initiatives and from Australasia, Vietnam, Pakistan volume growth.
Market share was and Bangladesh, despite the adverse higher, driven by a good performance impact of exchange.
At comparable from Craven A. rates of exchange, profit would have Volumes and market share rose in increased by 66 million or 11 per South Korea, with Dunhill continuing cent.
Volumes at 145 billion were to grow strongly.
However, the positive 2 per cent higher as a result of strong impact of higher volumes, margins growth in Pakistan, South Korea and and supply chain savings were offset Vietnam, partially offset by declines by increased marketing investment Share gains for Dunhill across in Malaysia and Bangladesh.
In Asia-Pacific In Australia, profit growth was Taiwan, volume and profit rose due to For the second year in a row, Dunhill achieved with improved margins from a strong performance from Pall Mall, delivered an additional one billion product cost reductions and price increased prices and cost reductions.
sticks with over 4 per cent volume increases.
Market share grew with Pakistan continued its strong volume growth in 2007. good performances from Dunhill, Pall growth with Gold Flake the major Mall and Winfield.
In New Zealand, There were strong performances contributor.
Overall market share in the key markets of South Korea, strong competition affected market increased confirming our market Malaysia and Australia.
share and profit but Pall Mall and leadership.
Higher volumes, price Dunhill showed good growth.
The roll-out of the global strategy increases and effective cost across Asia-Pacific is led by Dunhill In Malaysia, the strong performance management led to an impressive Fine Cut, launched in South Korea of Dunhill and, more recently, Pall Mall, profit performance.
In South Korea, it resulted in growth in their respective despite lower volumes due to the was successfully introduced as a price segments with Dunhill increasing growth of the Value-for-Money Super Slim product.
However, the large segment, profit increased as a result Both launches enhanced the excise increase in July 2007 impacted of improved pricing and product mix.
image of the House of Dunhill industry volumes which were already In Sri Lanka, profit and market share and strengthened the brands declining due to high levels of illicit premium qualities and attributes.
continued to grow although overall trade and total market share was lower.
volumes declined due to the security Profit was slightly lower as a result situation and price increases.
of increased marketing expenditure and lower volumes which more than offset the benefits of higher pricing and an improved product mix.
36 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
