OUR STRATEGY Our vision is to achieve leadership of the global tobacco industry in order to create shareholder value.
Quantitatively, we seek volume leadership among our international competitors.
Qualitatively, we aim to lead our industry as the preferred partner of key stakeholders and in demonstrating responsibility.
Our strategy to deliver our vision is based on Growth, Productivity, Responsibility and building a Winning Organisation.
Achieve leadership of the global tobacco industry Growth Productivity Responsibility Winning Organisation 14 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW go online at www.
Growth We are saving money by turning a 4.
Winning Organisation multinational business operating in To increase our volume and value To ensure we have the right people over 180 markets into an integrated share of the global tobacco market and the right work environment to global enterprise that can take through organic growth and deliver our vision.
We aim to develop leaders at all integration across our supply chain Organic growth means increasing levels, who have a clear vision for is helping us to reduce costs, increase our market share in existing markets the business and will energise those speed to market and improve and through entering new markets.
We are also reducing To achieve organic growth, we focus culture that embraces change and our overheads and indirect costs on key market segments that offer the innovation is also central to our anything other than leaf, wrapping best long term prospects, including strategy, together with attracting, materials, cigarette making machinery Premium and International Brands.
growing and retaining talent and and labour.
ensuring continuous improvement We also aim to optimise the throughout the Group.
Responsibility performance of our Global Drive Brands and seek opportunities for To continue balancing our profitable volume growth in the commercial objectives with the A number of other Business Value-for-Money and Low Price expectations of a broad range Measures, financial and nonsegments.
We see innovative products of stakeholders, thus ensuring financial, are monitored and that offer consumers meaningful, a sustainable business.
assessed frequently to ensure value-added differentiation as key that all the Groups strategies Because we manage a product to organic growth.
Although these that poses real risks to health, we are not included in managements Strategically important and financially strongly believe that our business incentives, we believe that these attractive M&A may also provide us must demonstrate responsibility Business Measures contribute with growth opportunities.
to the success of the Group, particularly over the long term.
Our Business Principles and our 2.
Productivity Standards of Business Conduct We have therefore included, To effectively and efficiently deploy set out what we require of our in the following pages, the our global resources to increase performance of some of these companies and employees in profits and generate funds to Business Measures relating to terms of responsible corporate reinvest in our business.
the four elements of our strategy.
Our focus is on smart cost We support tobacco regulation management, marketing efficiency that balances the preferences of and capital effectiveness.
This consumers with the interests of includes ensuring that we use our society, establishes an open-minded marketing resources and capabilities approach to harm reduction as a in the most efficient way, reducing policy, and enables our businesses unnecessary complexity and using to continue to compete and prosper.
our cash and other assets effectively.
Harm reduction is an important element of our strategy.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 15 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
