Jan du Plessis British South African 5.
Christine Morin-Postel French Chairman Chief Operating Officer and Director, Non-Executive Director Appointed Chairman in July 2004, having been America-Pacific Appointed a Director on 1 October 2007. a Non-Executive Director since his appointment Appointed a Director and Chief Operating Christine is currently a Non-Executive Director to the Board in 1999.
He was previously Group Officer on 1 January 2008 having previously of Royal Dutch Shell PLC and 3i Group plc.
She Finance Director of Richemont.
He is Chairman been Regional Director for Africa and Middle previously held a number of executive positions of the Nominations Committee.
He is a NonEast and a member of the Management Board including Chief Executive of Socit Gnrale Executive Director of Lloyds TSB Group plc.
He previously held senior fide Belgique, Executive Vice-President and general management roles in Brazil including member of the Executive Committee of Suez 2.
Kenneth Clarke QC MP British President of Souza Cruz and also in the UK and Chairman and CEO of Crdisuez plc before Deputy Chairman and Senior and Hong Kong.
61 Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in 1998 and will retire at 6.
Anthony Ruys Dutch the conclusion of this years AGM on 30 April Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director 2008.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration and Appointed a Director in 2005, he is Chairman A Director from March 2006, he has been Corporate Social Responsibility Committees.
He of the Audit Committee.
He has been Chief appointed Chairman of the Remuneration is Non-Executive Director of Independent News Executive of Aegis Group plc since 2005 and Committee with effect from 1 May 2008.
& Media UK Limited and Independent News was formerly a Director of Cable & Wireless plc He was previously Chairman of Heineken N. V. and Media p. l. c. Republic of Ireland.
He is a Non-Executive He is a member of the Supervisory Boards of Director of Synergy Healthcare plc.
56 ABN AMRO Bank and Schiphol Airport N. V. 3.
Paul Adams British and a director of Lottomatica S. p. A. Italy.
Karen fide Segundo Dutch Appointed a Director in March 2001 and Chief Non-Executive Director 11.
Sir Nicholas Scheele British US Executive in January 2004.
He joined British Appointed a Director on 1 October 2007, she Non-Executive Director American Tobacco in July 1991 and held senior has been appointed Chair of the Corporate Appointed a Director in 2005, he has been appointments as Regional Director, Asia-Pacific Social Responsibility Committee with effect from appointed Senior Independent Director with and Regional Director, Europe prior to becoming 1 May 2008.
Karen retired as CEO Renewables effect from 1 May 2008.
He is Chancellor of the Deputy Managing Director in June 2001 and and President Hydrogen of Shell International University of Warwick.
He is Chairman of The Managing Director in January 2002.
She is currently a Non-Executive Cambridge-MIT Institute and Key Safety Systems, Director of Lonmin plc, Merrill Lynch New Inc. USA and a Director of Caparo plc.
Paul Rayner Australian Energy Technology plc, Ensus Ltd, Pyry Oyj Finance Director 12.
Thys Visser South African and Ahold NV.
61 Joined Rothmans Holdings Limited in Australia Non-Executive Director in 1991.
He held senior executive positions with 8.
Dr Ana Maria Llopis Spanish A Director since 2001.
He is CEO of Remgro Rothmans before becoming Chief Operating Non-Executive Director Limited, having held senior management positions Officer of British American Tobacco Australasia Appointed a Director in 2003.
She is Executive with Rembrandt Group since 1980.
He is Chairman Limited in September 1999.
He became Deputy Chairman of the J F Llopis Foundation of Rainbow Chicken Ltd and is a Non-Executive Finance Director in January 2002.
He has been and a member of the Good Governance Director of Medi-Clinic Corporation Limited, a Non-Executive Director of Centrica plc since Working Group for Spanish listed companies.
Nampak Limited and Distell Group Limited.
Paul Rayner will retire as Ana Maria was appointed a Non-Executive Finance Director at the conclusion of the AGM Director of ABN AMRO Bank in April 2007.
53 Committee membership is indicated by the following symbols: Nominations Committee Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Committee 46 British American Tobacco Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT AND ACCOUNTS
