REGIONAL AND FINANCIAL REVIEW AMERICA-PACIFIC In Japan, we are the only tobacco company which grew volumes and share.
In Canada, major structural improvements have improved our cost base and benefited distribution.
We expect to build on these strengths in 2008.
Nicandro Durante Director, America-Pacific The profit from the America-Pacific In Japan, where there was a significant region increased by 22 million to decline in industry volumes, the growth 446 million as a result of higher profit of market share, profit and volumes in local currency in Japan and Canada, continued, driven by the strong partly offset by the impact of weaker performances of Kent and Kool.
At comparable rates of Profit grew through higher volumes, exchange, profit would have increased increased margins, improved product by 45 million or 11 per cent.
Volumes mix and effective cost management, decreased by 3 per cent to 42 billion, partly offset by the impact of mainly as a result of the decline in unfavourable exchange rates.
industry volumes in Canada, partly offset by the increase in Japan.
Innovation in Japan In Canada, profit of 276 million In 2006, we recognised that was down 4 million from last year.
Japan was rapidly becoming one However, profit would have been of the worlds most demanding 4 million higher at comparable rates and innovative consumer markets.
of exchange, due to higher margins We resolved to gear our consumer and lower production costs following offerings around highly innovative the transfer of manufacturing to and contemporary ideas to meet Mexico.
The impact of these more consumers expectations.
than offset the reduction in volumes To achieve this, a dedicated driven by the increased prevalence innovation group was established of illicit product and loss of market at our headquarters in Tokyo, with share.
The continued growth of Peter the task of creating and delivering a Jackson resulted in share growth in step change in innovation.
In 2007, the Value-for-Money segment, but, almost 14 per cent of our business as this was more than offset by the came from new innovations.
decline in the Premium segment, Perhaps the most noteworthy of the overall market share was lower.
these is Kool Boost, a highly original product that employs a crushable capsule in the filter to deliver an extra boost of menthol.
Such has been the consumer reaction to Boost, that Kool is today the fastest growing brand in the market.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 British American Tobacco 39 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW
