Overview s k n a H e b d g t e n f e u n m d t s s e C v o r n p o ICAP plc 02 Annual Report 2007 ICAP and the OTC markets Significant growth potential About ICAP Role of the interdealer broker ICAP is the worlds premier voice and electronic interdealer broker ICAP provides a specialist broking service to trading professionals and the source of global market information and commentary in the global wholesale financial markets.
Our customers include for professionals in the international financial markets.
The Group investment and commercial banks and they pay a commission is active in the wholesale markets in interest rates, credit, energy, to use us to complete a transaction.
ICAP covers a very broad foreign exchange and equity derivatives.
ICAP has an average daily range of OTC financial products and services in energy, FX, transaction volume in excess of $1.5 trillion, more than 50% of interest rates, credit and equity markets as well as data and which is electronic.
We are active in both established and emerging markets.
Our electronic networks deliver global connectivity to customers seeking unparalleled liquidity and flow in an orderly marketplace.
i r a t e d s n a C e l n a t i r c a l r b e a n m k s m o C Overview ICAP plc 03 Annual Report 2007 Market growth and scale Market drivers and outlook ICAP is a growth business in a growing market.
Many factors continue The principal areas in which we are seeing faster growth are FX, energy, to support this growth including: credit derivatives, equity derivatives and financing, emerging markets and structured products generally.
The expansion of electronic broking macro-economic imbalances in currencies, interest rate and credit in the more liquid and commoditised markets itself feeds additional markets leading to continuing price volatility and the basis for further growth through: growth in interest rate and credit derivatives, FX, energy and listed futures markets: driving lower transaction costs which increase trading volumes by encouraging the development of algorithmic and other highly price the search for yield among global investors underpinning the growth in sensitive trading strategies: structured credit and equity products and reinforcing the attractions of efficient electronic execution: concentrating volumes among fewer, electronics venues: commoditisation of flow markets and the increasing focus on enabling lower post-trade transaction costs through automated electronic trading and increasing commitment of capital to proprietary confirmation and STP, thereby increasing customer efficiency and and algorithmic trading strategies by dealers and their customers: attracting extra marginal volumes.
rapid growth in equity derivatives driven by rising stock markets and We estimate that total global revenues in the interdealer market the search for yield: excluding cash equities grew by approximately 16% in 2006 07 to continuing liberalisation of emerging markets and the growth in onshore reach $6.9bn.
This reflects periods of very high volatility in May 2006 and local currency fixed income, derivatives and credit markets: and and March 2007 but the overall market activity grew at a steadier pace.
We currently estimate that the underlying rate of growth of industry increasing regulatory pressure for best execution and price transparency, revenues, which may be expected in the medium term, could be which favour electronic trading venues.
13 19 More detail 2005 06 2006 07 $5.9bn p $6.9bn Estimated interdealer broking market revenues Estimated interdealer broking market revenues Excludes cash equities Overview ICAP plc 04 Annual Report 2007 ICAPs business Comprehensive coverage Geographic Markets ICAPs businesses are broadly distributed across 29 countries worldwide The broad range of wholesale financial and energy markets covered with over 3,500 staff: with Europe and the Americas the two largest by ICAP can be divided into the following groups interest rates, credit, regions.
Europe was the most profitable division with the highest profit energy, FX, equities, emerging markets and information.
The region delivered a very good performance during the period are aligned with the way our customers manage their businesses and the with both voice and electronic revenues growing rapidly.
While revenue markets in each group have different drivers to their growth.
The revenue and profit increased on a headline basis in the Americas, growth in and percentage of ICAPs revenue for each of these product groups are underlying revenue was more subdued and there was a small reduction set out below: in the overall profit margin of the region.
Both revenue and profit margin Revenue m % of total increased significantly in Asia Pacific as a result of EBS in the foreign exchange market and Reset in the interest rate market: following last Interest rates 468.4 42 years staff upheavals, this year the voice broking business has seen Credit 124.9 11 a rebuilding phase.
Energy 101.1 9 Revenue m FX 159.2 15 The Americas 458.3 Equities 98.3 9 Europe 502.4 Emerging markets 114.6 10 Asia Pacific 145.6 Information 39.8 4 1,106.3 1,106.3 100 15 19 More detail on our geographic performance More detail on our performance by market Asia Europe The Americas Pacific 41 % 46% 13 % Proportion of Group revenue Proportion of Group revenue Proportion of Group revenue Overview ICAP plc 05 Annual Report 2007 Divisions Voice ICAP continued to have a significant share of the global interdealer voice broking market revenue in 2006 07.
ICAP has continued to focus on developing its businesses in the faster-growing products of energy, transport, credit derivatives, equity derivatives, emerging markets and 69% structured products.
Growth in these markets has been a key part of Proportion of the recent success of the Groups voice broking business.
Group profit Voice Electronic The active conditions in global financial markets also led to a significant increase in volume on ICAPs electronic broking platforms EBS and BrokerTec.
Daily electronic broking volume exceeded $1trillion $1,000 billion for the first time on two successive days in February 2007.
This $1 trillion of trading activity comprised more than 175,000 transactions on each day by various counterparties in more than 40 countries.
Average daily electronic broking volume rose to $678 billion in the second half of the year.
The integration of the ICAP and EBS electronic businesses continues to make good progress.
Total technology and other related savings 22% are on track to deliver at least $58 million per annum by the financial Proportion of year ending in March 2009.
Group profit Electronic Information ICAP is also the source of global market information and commentary for professionals in the international financial markets.
Our market data offers real-time, end-of-day and historical market data sourced from our global interdealer trading platforms, providing authoritative and comprehensive information on global markets across a broad range of asset classes.
A significant part of the revenue of ICAPs information division is drawn from the electronic broking businesses and grew strongly this year on the back of the acquisition of EBS.
17 More detail on our 9% performance by division Proportion of Group profit Information Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
Overview ICAP plc 06 Annual Report 2007 ICAPs strategy Clear and consistent Strategy and goals Key achievements in delivering strategy in 2006 07 Acquisition of EBS for $534 million in cash and 36.1 million ICAP shares Our vision is to create the global exchange for Approval from the Chinese authorities for the China Foreign Exchange OTC financial products and to build a global brand Trade System and ICAP to prepare to form joint venture in Shanghai in wholesale financial services.
We believe that we Acquisition of the remaining 45% of our Korean subsidiary can provide the service our customers need by Korean IDB combining the strengths of our people together Reset, the matching service which reduces outstanding fixing risk in the with technology and that by doing so we aim interest rate market, began operations to continue setting the standard for our industry.
Acquisition of a minority interest in The Clearing Corporation, one of the Our strategic goals are to be the leading global worlds oldest, independent clearing houses for derivative instruments.
ICAP plc and GFI Group Inc plan to develop jointly new clearing services intermediary in the wholesale OTC markets by a for OTC derivative products with The Clearing Corporation clear margin with at least a 35% share of overall Completion of the first phase of the integration of ICAP Electronic market revenue and with 50% of our profit Broking and EBS derived from electronic broking.
Agreement to establish a joint venture company owned equally with 13 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc, a leading insurance and reinsurance More detail on our broking group, to operate in areas where the market for insurance, Group strategy financial derivatives and securities are converging Key strategic priorities for 2007 08 Accelerate growth of electronic broking revenue Expand into new markets and geographic areas to continue the growth of the voice broking business Complete the integration of the Hyde ship broking acquisition and pursue further transport opportunities Pursue acquisition and organic growth strategy in the emerging markets and energy products Further improve credit and equity derivatives capability and market share Deliver incremental synergies from the integration of EBS with ICAP Electronic Broking Overview ICAP plc 07 Annual Report 2007 Measuring success Key performance indicators Share of the global OTC market Target: 35% The financial highlights on the inside front cover set out the financial KPIs.
Here we describe other important measures of our performance and 2006 28%29% the progress that we are making towards our strategic goals: to be the leading global intermediary in the wholesale OTC markets by a clear 2007 margin with at least a 35% share of overall market revenue and with 30%31% 50% of our profit derived from electronic broking.
This year we made good progress towards these goals with the acquisition of EBS in June 2006 and increased our share of global interdealer market revenue 1 2 Operating profit split between voice, electronic and information to an estimated 30%31%.
The percentage of ICAPs total profit arising Target: 50% of profit derived from electronic broking Voice Electronic Information from electronic broking was 22%, a rise from 15% in the previous year.
2006 78% 15% 7% There is significant innovation in the wholesale financial services markets and it is essential to introduce and acquire new businesses in these innovative products.
This year ICAPs revenue, derived from businesses 2007 69% 22% 9% acquired or started in the previous three years, was 16%, up from 12% in the previous financial year.
While we do not set a specific target for new business as a percentage of revenue, it is important that this 3 New business is material.
ICAPs considerable investment in technology is essential to keep both the electronic and voice broking businesses competitive.
The measure 2006 12% which ICAP can benchmark itself against competitors is technology spend as a percentage of revenue.
During the financial year to 31 March 2007 16 16% % 2007, we spent 10% of our revenue on technology.
This included investing in upgrading our technology platforms and extending our data networks.
ICAP combines electronic and voice broking and this percentage appears appropriate when compared with other interdealer Voice revenue per voice broker brokers and exchanges.
We now have 550 staff committed to the development and support of these systems.
Following the acquisition 2006 of EBS, this is a key performance indicator.
This is the first year in which 413,000 ICAP has aggregated its technology spend in this manner.
We monitor the voice revenue per voice broker as the most relevant 2007 454,000 454,000 efficiency measure of our voice division.
This year ICAPs voice revenue per voice broker grew by 10% from 413,000 in the previous financial year to 454,000.
We believe that this compares favourably with other Staff compensation as percentage of revenue interdealer brokers.
The variable component of voice broker remuneration increased to 60% in this year from 58% in the previous year.
2006 60% In addition, a key part of cost control is the overall percentage of staff compensation as a percentage of revenue.
There has been a material decline in this percentage as a result of the increase in the proportion 2007 57% 57% of ICAPs revenue coming from electronic businesses.
1 Excludes amortisation and impairment of intangibles arising on consolidation and exceptional items.
2 60% of ICAPs information divisions operating profit is derived from the electronic division.
3 Revenue derived from businesses acquired or started in the previous three years.
Overview ICAP plc 08 Annual Report 2007 ICAPs management team Strength in depth How we manage ICAP We have built this business to a very strong competitive position in our markets with a very capable management team who between them have 240 years experience in the industry.
The Global Executive Management Group consists of the four executive directors of ICAP and eight other directors and meet six times a year.
Our voice broking business is organised on a geographic basis: the electronic broking and information businesses and Michael Spencer Group Chief Executive Officer technology have global reporting lines.
Bruce Collins has decided to retire He was the founder of Intercapital in 1986 and became from the Group and George Macdonald is taking over the management of Chairman and Chief Executive of Intercapital in October our businesses in Asia Pacific, in addition to his responsibilities for London and 1998, following the Exco Intercapital merger.
Since the year end Jack Jeffery has decided to seek a career outside with IPGL and its subsidiary INFBV, to have an interest in 20.92% of ICAP plc.
IPGLs other interests include City ICAP.
Following this decision, John Nixon has been appointed Chief Executive Index and a variety of other companies.
Michael Spencer Officer of ICAPs Electronic Broking division.
has been non-executive Chairman of Numis Corporation plc since April 2003.
In February 2007, he was appointed the Conservative Party Treasurer.
34 More detail on our board of directors Members of ICAP plc board Bruce Collins Chief Executive Officer, Asia Pacific He was previously Group Chief Executive Officer of Tullett Electronic Liberty Tullett, now a part of Tullett Prebon.
He has very broking broad experience of our markets having begun his career in the industry in 1973.
Since joining Tullett in 1980 he spent 17 years in management positions in both Asia and the Middle East.
He then moved to be Managing Director responsible for Europe in 1999 and in the following year became Group Chief Executive Officer of Tullett.
Voice broking Global Executive Information The Americas Management Group Ron Purpora Chief Operating Officer, North America and President North American Securities Voice broking Technology Europe He also serves as President of First Brokers Securities, a subsidiary of ICAP.
Within the industry he serves as a board member of the Depository Trust Clearing Corporation, Chairman of the Fixed Income Membership Voice broking Asia Pacific and Risk Committee, Chairman of FICC Operation and Planning Committee and is an executive director of the Bond Market Association.
Overview ICAP plc 09 Annual Report 2007 Mark Yallop Group Chief Operating Officer Matthew Lester Group Finance Director Stephen McDermott Executive Director He was appointed on 13 July 2005 and is chairman of He was appointed on 6 September 2006, following the He was appointed on 28 October 1998.
He is responsible the group risk and new business approvals committees.
resignation of Jim Pettigrew, and is chairman of the finance for overseeing the integration with EBS and the interface He had previously been Group Chief Operating Officer of committee.
He worked for Diageo plc from 1996 in a between the Groups voice and electronic broking Deutsche Bank Group, following many years involvement number of senior finance roles, most recently as Group businesses.
He is Chief Operating Officer for the Americas.
in trading in the derivatives, foreign exchange and cash Financial Controller.
He is a Chartered Accountant and He was appointed a director of the US operations in markets.
He was also a director of the International Swaps a member of the main committee of The 100 Group December 1995 having joined the foreign exchange & Derivatives Association ISDA from 1996 to 1998. of Finance Directors.
Aged 43. business of Garban in 1986.
He is also a board member Aged 47. of Columbia Universitys Executive Masters of Science and Technology Management.
Jack Jeffery George Macdonald John Nixon Chief Executive Officer, Electronic Broking Chief Executive Officer, London and Europe Director, Strategic Acquisitions and Global Market Data Services He was previously Chief Executive Officer of EBS, a He was appointed in July 2000.
Prior to this he held position he was appointed to in February 2002.
He has the positions of Chief Executive of the Asia Pacific region Prior to his full-time involvement in ICAP he was a more than 20 years experience with financial markets excluding Japan and Executive Chairman of Australia.
non-executive director of ICAP plc from 1998 to 2002. trading and sales.
This includes 12 years with Citibank, He had previously held the position of Joint Managing He was previously the Chief Executive Officer of Tullett both in Australia and the UK.
He is a member of the Director, Tullett & Tokyo Australia, a company he and Tokyo Forex, now part of Tullett Prebon, where he Bank of England Joint Standing Committee and the established as a partner in 1982.
Prior to that he held worked from 1978 to 1997 in Toronto, New York US Federal Reserve Bank Foreign Exchange Committee.
senior management positions with Butler Till Ltd in London and London.
Aged 47. and with Guy Butler International in London and Sydney.
Douglas Rhoten David Rutter Jay Spencer Chief Executive Officer, North America Chief Executive Officer, Electronic Broking Global Chief Information Officer North America and Asia He has over 27 years experience in the broking industry.
He was appointed in October 2003.
He is responsible for He is a director of SIF ICAP, ICAPs joint venture in Latin Prior to joining ICAP, David Rutter was a significant ICAPs technology strategy, planning and delivery for its America and was previously Chief Executive Officer of shareholder in Prebon.
His tenure at Prebon began in 1988 voice and electronic business platforms.
Prior to this, he Garban Capital Markets covering the OTC derivative, and he served in various capacities including Global Chief was Chief Technology Officer for BrokerTec Global, which money market, foreign exchange and commodity markets.
Executive officer of Prebon Energy and Managing Director he joined as a start-up venture in 1999.
Additionally, he He is a member of the US Federal Reserve Bank Foreign of the Americas.
He has served on several corporate boards has held senior positions with Fidelity Investments and Exchange Committee.
Aged 52. of entities in the e-commerce field.
SEI Investment Group prior to joining BrokerTec.
Aged 56. Business review Business review Business review 12 Group Chief Executive Officers review 14 Business review 14 Results 14 Business drivers 15 Geographic performance 17 Divisional performance 19 Markets 20 Competitive environment 21 Technology 22 Risk 27 Corporate and social responsibility 29 Financial review
