IG Group Holdings plc Report and Financial Statements 2007 Directors Biographies 0 02 03 04 05 0 07 0 0 0 Directors Biographies Global Equities Business in 1991.
Tim Howkins Jonathan became Deputy Chairman of Non-Executive Chairman, 0 years old Chief Executive, 44 years old BZW and then Vice Chairman of Credit Jonathan qualified as a Chartered Suisse First Boston in 1998 on their Tim has a first class degree in Accountant.
He joined George M. Hill acquisition of most of BZWs businesses.
Mathematics and Computer Science and Co, a jobber on the London Stock Jonathan is presently a senior advisor to from Reading.
He qualified as a Exchange in 1969.
The firm was acquired Credit Suisse, a non-executive director of Chartered Accountant with Ernst & by Wedd Durlacher Mordaunt and Co the Credit Suisse Private Bank in the UK Young and is also a member of the where Jonathan became a partner in and a partner in First Avenue Partners, an Chartered Institute of Taxation.
Jonathan was the senior dealing alternatives advisory boutique.
one of a group of partners and staff who partner of the firm on its acquisition left Ernst & Young in 1990 to form Rees by Barclays Bank to form BZW in 1986.
Pollock, a firm of chartered accountants Jonathan developed BZWs Fixed Income targeted at entrepreneurial, ownerbusiness prior to becoming CEO of the IG Group Holdings plc 7 Directors Biographies Report and Financial Statements 2007 managed businesses.
Nat le Roux in Rees Pollock for seven years and was Non-Executive Director, years old Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, the partner responsible for IGs audit.
He 50 years old Sir Alan was appointed a non-executive joined IG as Finance Director in 1999, and director of IG in April 2005.
He was Chief Nat read Law at St Catharines College, became Chief Executive in 2006.
Economic Advisor to the Treasury and Cambridge.
He spent ten years in futures head of the government economic broking and stock broking before joining 3.
Steve Clutton service between 1991 and 1997 and IG in 1992.
Initially he held the position Finance Director, 4 years old served as a member of the Monetary of Financial Dealing Director, which Steve gained a first class degree in Policy Committee of the Bank of gave him operational management Chemistry from Nottingham.
After England between 1997 and 1999. of all aspects of the financial division qualifying as a Chartered Accountant Prior to 1991, he was group economic including dealing, risk management and with KPMG, he spent five years in advisor at Barclays Bank and Professor marketing.
He was promoted to deputy corporate finance with BZW.
In 1994 he of Economics at the London Business Chief Executive in 1999 in which role he joined British Telecom heading up its School.
He was chairman of the took the lead in business development internal corporate finance team before Gambling Review Body and is currently and overseas expansion.
He became becoming the Chief Financial Officer Provost of The Queens College, Oxford.
Chief Executive in 2002 and held the of BTs international business based in position for four years before becoming Virginia, USA.
Between 2000 and 2004, non-executive deputy chairman in 2006.
Martin Jackson Steve was Finance Director of Interoute Non-Executive Director, 5 years old Communications Ltd, a private equity 0.
Roger Yates Martin was appointed a non-executive backed supplier of telecoms services Senior Independent Non-Executive director of IG and chairman of the with operations throughout Europe.
Director, 50 years old audit committee in April 2005.
He was Steve joined IG Group in October 2006 the group Finance Director of Friends Roger joined the board as non-executive from Barclays Bank plc, where he was Provident plc between 2001 and and Senior Independent Director in Finance Director of UK Retail Banking.
2003 and Friends Provident Life Office February 2006.
Roger read Modern between 1999 and 2001.
Prior to that, History at Worcester College, Oxford, 4.
Peter Hetherington he was the group Finance Director and has 24 years experience in the fund Chief Operating Officer, 3 years old at London & Manchester Group plc management industry as an investment Peter read Economics at Nottingham from 1992 to 1998 up to the date of its professional and business manager.
University and has a Masters in Finance acquisition by Friends Provident Life Previously he was Chief Investment from the London Business School.
He is a non-executive director Officer of Invesco Global and held senior was an officer in the Royal Navy before and chairman of the audit committee of roles for fund management companies joining IG Index, as a graduate trainee, Admiral Group plc and is a fellow of the LGT and Morgan Grenfell.
He became head Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Henderson Global Investors as Chief of financial dealing in 1999 and was Executive in 1999, and in 2003 led the appointed a director of IG Group in June fide-merger of Henderson from its then-.
Robert Lucas 2002, since when he has performed the parent AMP, becoming Chief Executive Non-Executive Director, 44 years old role of Chief Operating Officer.
To date, of the resulting listed entity, now Robert read Electrical Engineering at this role has focused on driving forward Henderson Group plc.
He joined a number of significant strategic projects Marconi post graduation until 1987, including the highly successful launch of when he moved into private equity the online financial dealing system.
In 1996, he joined CVC Capital Partners Limited and, in 5.
Andrew MacKay 2004, he became a Managing Partner.
Legal Director, 4 years old Robert is a non-executive director of a Andrew has a Masters in History from St number of companies in which funds Andrews University and completed the managed or advised by CVC Capital Law Society Finals examination at the Partners Limited or its affiliates have College of Law in London.
He qualified invested, including The AA.
He became as a lawyer with Linklaters and worked a non-executive director of IG Group in there for seven years, principally in the 2003. litigation and financial services practices.
In 1998, Andrew moved to LIFFE as market investigations manager before joining the IG Group as Legal Counsel in March 1999.
