IG Group Holdings plc 40 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Directors Report Directors Report The directors have pleasure in submitting their report together The final ordinary dividend, if approved, will be paid on 12 with the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 May October 2007 to those shareholders on the register at 7 2007.
Principal activities Review of business and future developments The principal activities of the Group throughout the year have been those of running a spread betting market, trading as A review of the Groups progress, outlining developments principal and market maker for foreign exchange and contracts during the year and giving an indication of likely future for difference and acting as a fixed odds bookmaker.
The Group developments, is provided in the Chief Executives report set hedges unmatched bets and trades, as considered appropriate, out on pages 10 to 15. to ensure that it is not unacceptably exposed to material losses.
An analysis of the position of the Company at the year end and Results key performance indicators is provided in the operating and financial review on pages 18 to 26.
The Groups profit for the year, after taxation amounted to 47,867,000 2006 35,668,000 all of which is attributable to Directors and their interests the members of the Company.
Details of the directors who served and their interests in the Dividends share capital of the Company are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 32 to 39.
The directors recommend a final ordinary dividend of 6.50 pence per share, amounting to 21,288,000 making totals of 8.50 pence per share and 27,838,000 for the year.
Because of the adoption of IFRS, dividends are now recognised in the financial statements in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of a final dividend, when approved by the shareholders.
The amount recognised in the financial statements, as described in note 12, is made up of this years interim dividend and the final dividend from the previous year, which were both paid during the year.
IG Group Holdings plc 41 Directors Report Report and Financial Statements 2007 Major interests in shares Notifications have been received by the Company of the following shareholdings of three percent or more of the issued ordinary share capital: As at 20 July 2007 As at 31 May 2007 No.
percentage Janus Capital Management, LLC 32,750,008 10.0% 26,809,383 8.2% CVC Capital Partners Limited 25,105,819 7.7% 25,105,819 7.7% ReachCapital Management, LLC 18,095,546 5.5% 18,095,546 5.5% Prudential Limited 17,826,267 5.4% 17,826,267 5.4% Legal & General Group plc 9,946,779 3.0% 9,946,779 3.0% Supplier payment policy and practice The Company does not incur significant costs and the Group does not follow any stated code on payment practice.
It is the Groups policy to agree terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms for each transaction and to abide by those terms.
Standard terms provide for payment of all invoices within 30 days after the date of the invoice except where different terms have been agreed with the supplier at the outset.
There were 17 creditor days of suppliers invoices outstanding at the year end 2006 19 for the Group.
Financial instruments The principal activities of the Group outlined above give rise to exposure to financial risks in the ordinary course of business.
The objective of the risk department is to manage the Groups financial risk and to minimise the effects of fluctuations in the financial markets on the value of the Groups financial assets and liabilities, on reported profitability and on the cash flows of the Group.
The main risks associated with the Groups financial assets and liabilities are set out below, as are the policies agreed by the board for their management.
Market risk The Groups products can be divided into two groups: those which relate to a liquid financial market in which it is normally easy for the Group to hedge and those for which there is not an easily accessible and cost effective hedge.
The Groups revenue model for each of these product groups is set out below.
The Group does not take proprietary positions based on an expectation of market movements.
The hedging policy includes limits, or a methodology for setting limits, for every single liquid financial market which the Group trades, as well as certain groups of markets which the directors consider to be correlated.
These limits determine the maximum net exposure arising from client activity and hedging which the Group is prepared to carry.
IGs systems allow it to continually monitor its exposure against these limits.
If the Groups exposure exceeds these limits, the policy requires that sufficient hedging is carried out to bring the exposure back within the defined limit.
Changes to the hedging policy require approval by the Groups risk committee, which comprises the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Risk Director and the Credit Director.
Changes to the hedging policy which may result in a significant increase in market risk require approval of the board.
IG Group Holdings plc 42 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Directors Report IG also has potential credit risk arising from its exposure to Financial instruments continued market counterparties with which it hedges and with banks.
The Group sets limits for its maximum acceptable exposure Sports spread bets and binary bets are difficult or not cost to each market counterparty and bank to which it has credit effective to hedge and there is often no direct underlying exposure.
These limits are approved by the risk committee and market which can be utilised in setting the price which IG are reviewed at least annually.
The Group normally undertakes no hedging for these markets.
The directors aim to reduce the volatility of revenue Liquidity risk from these markets by offering a large number of different In the event of a significant movement in world markets, IG betting opportunities the results of which should, to some could have a short-term funding requirement to meet its extent, offset each other irrespective of the underlying market payment obligations to market counterparties or winning outcome.
clients before payment would be received from losing clients.
Foreign currency risk Any failure by IG to meet its payment obligations could result in market counterparties closing IGs hedge positions which Foreign currency exposures arise in the normal course of would have materially adverse consequences for the Groups business and the management of this risk forms part of the business.
At the year end the Group had total committed bank facilities Interest rate risk of 106.0m 2006 25.0m, none of which were drawn.
The Group has interest rate risk arising from its trading Facilities of 80.0m are to provide the short-term liquidity activities which is hedged as part of the overall market risk which may be necessary to meet payments to market management.
counterparties before payment is received from clients in the event of a large market movement.
Facilities of 26.0m provide Credit risk the ability for paperless settlement of share transactions A minority of clients are permitted to deal in circumstances CREST.
The Group had cash of 484.6m at the year end of where they may be capable of suffering losses greater than the which 391.3m was held on segregated accounts for clients funds they have on their account, or in some circumstances to and 93.3m was held in the Groups own accounts.
trade without funds on account.
The Group has a formal credit policy which determines the financial and experience criteria In the directors opinion the Group has sufficient funds which a client must satisfy before being given an account available to meet all operational requirements, future which exposes the Group to credit risk and the account limits operations and stated strategies.
IG Group Holdings plc 43 Directors Report Report and Financial Statements 2007 To remain competitive, IG must continue to enhance and Other risks and uncertainties improve the responsiveness, functionality, accessibility and other features of its software, network distribution systems and Other than financial risks, outlined in the financial instruments technologies.
section above, the directors have identified the following risks which are considered significant to the Group.
Donations Regulation The Group made no political donations.
The Group made The Groups spread betting, CFD and foreign exchange charitable donations of 24,077 in the year 2006 1,291 as businesses are regulated in a number of jurisdictions.
In follows: addition, two of the Groups subsidiaries hold bookmakers permits and are subject to regulation as licenced bookmakers.
Cornwall Community Foundation 10,000 From 1 September 2007 licenced bookmakers will be subject Children specific 8,000 to regulation by the Gambling Commission.
The Group is Medical research 3,425 also subject to various regulation and legislation relating to Other 2,652 technology, the provision of internet services and the use of the internet.
These regulatory frameworks impose restrictions Disabled employees on certain of the Groups activities and resources which place constraints on the Group operations and development.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the candidates The regulatory environment is regularly changing and particular aptitudes and abilities are consistent with imposes significant demands on the resources of the Group.
adequately meeting the requirements of the job.
Opportunities As the Groups activities expand, offering new products and are available to disabled employees for training, career penetrating new markets, these regulatory demands will development and promotion.
Where existing employees inevitably increase.
The increasing complexity of the Groups become disabled, it is the Groups policy to provide continuing operations require training and recruitment be tailored to meet employment wherever practicable in the same or alternative these regulatory demands and the costs of compliance are position and to provide appropriate training to achieve this expected to increase.
Technology Employee involvement The Groups operations are highly dependent on technology and advanced information systems.
Its ability to provide During the year, the policy of providing employees with its clients with reliable, real-time access to its systems is information about the Group continued through quarterly fundamental to the success of the business.
Such dependency management forums where line managers were informed upon technology exposes the Group to significant risk in the of current developments and were encouraged to present event that such technology or systems experience any form suggestions and views of the Groups performance, of damage, interruption or failure.
IG has business continuity development and policies.
Line management communicate procedures and policies in place which are designed to allow the points raised in the forum with their departments.
the Group to continue trading in its core markets and its systems are designed to mitigate the risk of failure of any The Groups intranet is used to communicate with staff.
Employees participate directly in the success of the business through the Groups performance related bonus schemes and Where the Group is dependent upon providers of data, market employee share plans.
information, telephone and internet connectivity, the Group mitigates against the risk of failure of any of these suppliers by ensuring that where possible multiple providers and data routes are utilised.
IG Group Holdings plc 44 Report and Financial Statements 2007 Directors Report Events since the balance sheet date There have been no significant events since the balance sheet date.
Annual general meeting The Groups annual general meeting will be held on 8 October 2007.
A separate circular will be sent to all shareholders which details the agenda for the AGM.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditor will be put to the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on pages 16 to 17.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
On behalf of the board Steve Clutton Finance Director 23 July 2007
