British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 24 Board of Directors Sir Adrian Montague CBE 59 Brg Bob Davies 58 Brgri Chairman Non-Executive Director sir Adrian Montague joined British Energy as Chairman in Bob Davies was appointed as an independent non-Executive november 2002. he is currently Chairman of Friends Director in May 2006. he was previously Chief Executive of provident plc, Michael page international plc, infrastructure Arriva plc, the uK transport services group, from 1998 until investors Limited and a Director of London First, the April 2006 prior to which he was Chief Executive of East Waterways trust, skanska AB and CellMark AB.
Before joining Midlands Electricity plc.
he holds an LLB in Law and British Energy he undertook a number of senior roles in the Economics from the university of Edinburgh and is a Fellow implementation of the governments private finance policies.
of the Chartered institute of Management Accountants.
he is he was awarded a CBE in 2001 and was knighted in Chairman of Biffa plc, and a Director of Barratt Developments December 2005. plc and northern Business Forum Limited.
in addition he chairs the CBi Council, north East region and the Board of Bill Coley 64 BtriF governors of the university of sunderland.
he is Chairman Chief Executive of the remuneration Committee.
Bill Coley accepted the position of Chief Executive in March 2005 and was formally appointed on 14 April 2005, having John Delucca 64 BAgri served as an independent non-Executive Director since Non-Executive Director 2003.
During his 37 year career with Duke power he held a John Delucca was appointed as an independent nonvariety of management and executive roles, culminating in Executive Director in 2004. he holds an MBA in Finance group president between 1997 and 2003. he is a nonfrom Fairleigh-Dickinson university school of graduate study.
Executive Director of Ct Communications inc. peabody he has held a variety of senior roles in us business.
Most Energy Corp. and Er Jahna Enterprises.
he is Chairman of the recently, from 2003 until March 2005, he was Executive generation Board and the Finance and policy Committee.
Vice-president and Chief Financial officer of the rEL Consultancy group.
prior to that, from 1998 to 2002, he was Dr Stephen Billingham 49 BriF Executive Vice-president, Finance and Administration and Finance Director Chief Financial officer of Coty inc. and a member of their stephen Billingham was appointed as Finance Director in executive committee.
he is a non-Executive Director, and september 2004. immediately prior to joining British Energy, chairs the audit committees of Deltacom, Enzo Biochem, he was the group Finance Director of the engineering Endo pharmaceuticals inc. and the Elliott Company.
he is consultancy and support services group, Ws Atkins plc, Deputy Chairman of the Audit Committee.
during its successful financial recovery.
he led the finance team which signed the Metronet London underground public Ian Harley 57 BAgri private partnership.
he was previously group treasurer of the Non-Executive Director engineering group BiCC plc now Balfour Beatty plc and held ian harley was appointed as an independent non-Executive finance positions in severn trent plc, Burmah oil plc and Director in 2002. prior to joining British Energy he held a British telecom plc.
variety of posts in the Finance, retail Banking and Wholesale Banking Divisions of Abbey national and spent nine years on Dr Pascal Colombani 61 Brgt their Board.
he is a Fellow of the institute of Chartered Non-Executive Director Accountants and Fellow and past president of the institute of Dr pascal Colombani was appointed as an independent Bankers.
he is currently a non-Executive Director of rentokil non-Executive Director in June 2003. he holds a Doctorate in initial plc, JW Educational Limited and remploy Limited, nuclear physics and presently holds directorships at Alstom Chairman of the Court of governors of the Whitgift Foundation sA, rhodia sA, technip sA, Valeo sA and is an Associate and a Director of south London Church Fund and southwark Director and senior Adviser for Energy and high technology Diocesan Board of Finance.
he was previously Chairman of at A. t. Kearney.
he was, until 2003, Chairman and Chief the Association for payment Clearing services, a member of Executive officer of the Commissariat lEnergie Atomique, the Deposit protection Board, having been appointed by the a member of the Electricit fide France Board of Directors and Bank of England, and a member of the Financial services the non-Executive Chairman of the supervisory Board of Authoritys practitioner panel.
he is Chairman of the Audit Areva, the international nuclear engineering group.
he is a Committee and, from the 2007 AgM will be senior Knight of the Legion of honour and an officer of the order of independent non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman.
he is Chairman of the technical Advisory Committee.
B o A r D o F D i r E C t o r s British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 25 Board of Directors B denotes member of the Board David Pryde 57 BArgri A denotes member of the Audit Committee Non-Executive Director r d enotes member of the remuneration Committee David pryde was appointed as an independent non-Executive g d enotes member of the governance and nominations Committee Director in september 2004. he has extensive trading and s d enotes member of the safety, health and Environment Committee risk management experience and has held various senior t d enotes member of the technical Advisory Committee management positions in trading businesses, including ri denotes member of the risk review Committee global head of precious Metals trading, global head of F denotes member of the Finance and policy Committee Commodity Derivatives trading and Marketing and global head of Futures and options Brokerage at Jp Morgan.
he was e-commerce strategist for Jp Morgan Chase investment Bank and sat on the Boards of the Commodity Exchange, the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Futures industry Association.
he is Chairman of the risk review Committee.
Clare Spottiswoode CBE 54 BArgri Non-Executive Director Clare spottiswoode was appointed as an independent nonExecutive Director in 2001.
Between 1993 and 1998 she was Director general of ofgas and she was previously a nonExecutive Director of Booker plc.
she currently chairs gas strategies group Limited and is also a non-Executive Director of Advanced technology uK plc, Biofuels Corporation, tullow oil plc and Bergensen As.
she was awarded a CBE for services to industry in 1999. she has been Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-Executive Director since June 2002. she steps down at the 2007 AgM.
Sir Robert Walmsley 66 BArgst Non-Executive Director sir robert Walmsley was appointed as an independent non-Executive Director in 2003. previously he served in the royal navy where his final appointment was as Controller of the navy and member of the navy Board as a Vice Admiral, starting in 1994.
During his naval career he held a number of nuclear-related posts including service as the Chairman of the naval nuclear technical safety panel and Director general, submarines.
After retiring from the navy, he was appointed as Chief of Defence procurement a permanent secretary grade post in the Civil service, occupying that position from 1996 until 2003. he is an independent Director of general Dynamics Corporation, the Major projects Association, EDo Corporation, stratos global Corporation and Cohort plc.
he is Chairman of the governance and nominations Committee and the safety, health and Environment Committee.
