F i n A n C i A L s tAt E M E n t s British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 41 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2007 Financial Statements Research and Development the Directors present their Annual report and the audited During the year the group spent 13m 2006: 13m on consolidated financial statements of British Energy group plc research and these costs have been expensed within the group for the year ended 31 March 2007. operating and energy costs in the consolidated income statement.
this is primarily scientific and engineering Principal Activities, Review of the Business and Future research activity that is directed towards securing further Developments improvements in the reliability, performance and safety of the groups principal activities are the generation and sale of the groups generating business and related activities.
the Chief Executives Business review on pages 6 to 11 and the Financial review on pages 12 to 21 together Directors with the information contained in the graphs on page 3 form Details of the Directors who served throughout the year are the groups Business review.
the Business review covers set out on pages 24 and 25 of the Annual report.
information the groups business performance during the financial year required under the provisions of the Companies Acts and the and its future prospects, and forms part of this Directors Listing rules of the Financial services Authority regarding the report.
remuneration and share options of Directors, the interests of the Directors and their families in the share capital of the Non-adjusting Post Balance Sheet Events Company, and Directors service contracts, is detailed in the Details of post balance sheet events are provided in note 35 remuneration Committee report on pages 33 to 40. to the consolidated financial statements.
Policy on Payment of Suppliers Share Capital the groups policy is to settle the terms of payment with Details of British Energy group plcs share capital are suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, to included in note 27. ensure that suppliers are made aware of these terms and abide by the agreed terms.
the Company had no trade Results and Dividends payables at 31 March 2007 2006: nil and the group had the consolidated results for the group are set out in the trade payables of 200m at 31 March 2007 2006: 166m.
consolidated income statement on page 45. subject to the During the year, suppliers to the group were paid within an approval of members at the Annual general Meeting in July, average of 57 days 2006: 56 days.
For the purpose of this a base dividend, payable as a final dividend, of 13.6p per analysis supplier purchases exclude payments to BnFL, the ordinary share equivalent to 80m in total based on current groups principal supplier, which are generally made against issued share capital fully diluted by the exercise of all an agreed contract profile.
remaining Warrants will be paid on 31 July 2007 to shareholders whose names are on the Companys Charitable and Political Contributions shareholder register at close of business on 29 June 2007. the group made charitable donations during the year of Additionally, the Board intends to consider the payment of 257,884 2006: 178,864 in support of the community.
an additional dividend in February 2008 following the third no political donations were made during the year 2006: nil.
the profit for the year of 465m 2006: 430m has been transferred to reserves.
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies the groups financial risk management objectives and Substantial Shareholdings policies, including policies for hedging transactions, are As at 30 May 2007 the Company had been notified of the discussed in the Financial risk Management section on following interests in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share pages 17 to 19 of the Financial review.
capital of the Company: Employees holder % the group is committed to involving employees in the business through a policy of communication and consultation.
AMVEsCAp pLC 14.98 Arrangements have been established for the regular provision AXA sA 12.54 of information to all employees through briefings, staff Deutsche Bank Ag 9.70 conferences and well established formal consultation prudential plc 6.13 procedures.
Barclays pLC 5.93 Franklin resources, inc 4.18 the group is committed to its equal opportunities policies, Legal & general group plc 3.48 which include promoting training and career development for Wellington Management Company, LLp 3.95 all employees.
Full and fair consideration for all vacancies and opportunities will be given to men and women, people with disabilities and those from ethnic minorities, regardless the Company has not been notified of any other interest of marital status, age, religion or sexual orientation.
the in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company of 3% policy is supported by a Code of practice on harassment that or more.
recognises that all employees have the right to be treated with dignity and respect.
British EnErgy group plc Annual report and Accounts 2006 07 42 Directors report for the year ended 31 March 2007 the group operates a share incentive plan, which is an allDirectors Statement as to Disclosure of Information employee performance related share scheme.
More details to Auditors of the share incentive plan, and the groups other share the Directors who were members of the Board at the time of schemes, are set out in note 30 to the consolidated financial approving the Directors report are listed on pages 24 and statements.
25. having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: Corporate Responsibility to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, the group will publish a separate Corporate social there is no information relevant to the preparation of responsibility report including health, safety and their report of which the auditors are unaware: and environmental data on its website later this year.
A report each Director has taken all the steps a Director might on Corporate social responsibility appears on pages 22 reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of and 23 of this Annual report, addressing the topics of relevant audit information and to establish that the our marketplace, the workforce, the environment and auditors are aware of that information.
this report was approved by the Board of Directors on Auditors 30 May 2007 and signed on its behalf by: the auditors,  LLp, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed at the Annual general Meeting.
Authority is delegated to the Audit Committee to approve the fees of  LLp.
Robert Armour Annual General Meeting Company Secretary the Annual general Meeting will be held at the Murrayfield stadium Conference Centre on 19 July 2007 at 11.00 am.
A letter from the Chairman detailing the business to be considered at the meeting, together with a notice of Meeting, accompanies this Annual report.
