08 Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Managing Directors Review of our website to take full advantage of our local presence in our Tokyo office.
Priorities in the Far East include improving our technical support and speeding up the delivery of our products to customers.
Japan is a challenging market and so far we have been delighted with the performance of the business, which has generated 160m 680k in revenue in the second half of the year.
We continue to improve the performance of our website in general, focusing on the speed of access to our global market We are now deploying a content caching and delivery solution so that our website can be served locally from over 25,000 servers across 69 countries.
This important initiative will help stabilise Our high-throughput facility, which is one the website and improve response times for users, supporting the continued of the worlds most advanced antibody expansion of our geographical reach.
production laboratories, is designed to Growth of the scale we are achieving produce an increasing number of higher relies in large part on the continued margin in-house products to add to our commitment of staff.
We place strong emphasis on responsibility for and online catalogue.
Through a programme of weekly updates, quarterly departmental and annual strategy and budget presentations, we ensure that The construction of our HTP facility in of the speed and reliability of order each employee understands his or her Cambridge UK was a major project this delivery.
Using leading-edge storage and objectives and targets and how these year, and I am delighted to report it was handling facilities, we have successfully relate to the Group as a whole.
completed on time and within budget.
cut our shipping times and increased our The success of the programme is At this facility we will develop a highly rate of output without incurring additional demonstrable in the enthusiasm and automated monoclonal antibody expenditure on staffing and conventional creativity which drives the Group.
production system and continue to refrigeration systems.
We expect Jim Warwick it to become one of the most advanced Extended opening times and Saturday Managing Director antibody production facilities in the world, working in the US have further improved 28 September 2007 further proving our commitment to build service levels to customers and we are scaleable business processes and now trialling a key-account marketing products of the highest standard.
The initiative, selling to targeted market areas facility is expected to add over 35,000 new in the country.
In the UK, we recently quality high-margin monoclonal antibodies launched a new service promising to our catalogue over the next five years.
same-day delivery of antibodies to scientists based in the Cambridge The robotic stock storage and retrieval area at no extra cost.
system that has been so successful in the UK has now been replicated in the US, We have successfully developed and and it is delivering similar results in terms deployed a Japanese-language version Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc 09 Our facilities Major expansion of manufacturing facilities The benefits The facility is expected to add over 35,000 new quality high-margin products to our catalogue over the next five years to complement our existing range from trusted suppliers, giving us the best catalogue in the world.
With this development we will be able to improve both the range and the availability of the products we offer our customers and maintain our position as market leader for the provision of antibodies and reagents.
We are now recruiting key staff for the planning, implementation and ongoing management of this exciting new Abcam is massively expanding its laboratory and development.
Its brand new laboratory in Cambridge, UK, covers 20,000 square feet and includes high throughput antibody purification and characterisation facilities.
