12 Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 The Board 1.
David Cleevely, PhD, 54 Chairman David Cleevely is the founder and former Managing Director of Analysys Ltd. After its formation in 1985, he oversaw Analysys growth into Europes largest independent consultancy specialising in telecommunications strategy.
Analysys was sold in August 2004 and David has no current involvement.
David has a first class honours degree in Cybernetics and 1.
Instrument Physics with Mathematics and a PhD in regional structure in telecoms demand from Cambridge University.
In 1982 he joined The Economist Informatics Intelligence Unit EIU, becoming Divisional Director.
He founded Abcam with Jonathan Milner and Tony Kouzarides in February 1998.
Jonathan Milner, PhD, 43 Group Chief Executive Jonathan Milner has a BSc in Applied 3.
Biology from Bath University and a PhD in Molecular Genetics from Leicester University.
From 1992 to 1995 he was a research fellow for Pfizer Pharmaceuticals in the laboratory of Professor Tony Rees at the University of Bath, and from 1995 until 1998 he was a research fellow at Cambridge University in the laboratory of Professor Tony Kouzarides, where he studied genes and proteins associated with human cancers.
He founded Abcam with David Cleevely and Tony Kouzarides in February 1998.
Jim Warwick, BSc, 43 Managing Director Jim Warwick has a BSc in Computer Science from Cambridge University.
From 1986 to 2003 he worked for Analysys Ltd, a Cambridge-based telecommunications consultancy, heading up the IT, software and web development initiatives.
During this period he also held a number of non-executive directorships with external organisations, including Workbench 7.
Software Ltd, a start-up with a targeted software package for time recording systems, and VBN Ltd, a web-based hosting company specialising in business Abcam plc Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Annual report and accounts 30 June 2007 Abcam plc 13 cluster and innovation network solutions.
Tim Dye, MA, 44 He joined Abcam in 2001 as Technical Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Director, initially working part-time but as Tony Kouzarides has a BSc in Molecular Tim Dye is currently Chairman and Chief a permanent employee from 2003.
He Genetics from Leeds University and Executive of William Ransom & Son plc, has overseen the expansion of Abcams a PhD in Virology from Cambridge an AiM-quoted business specialising in bespoke web-based systems.
He was subsequently awarded the manufacture, sales and marketing promoted to Managing Director of Abcam a research fellowship from Fitzwilliam of natural healthcare products.
From 1986 to 1989 a series of successful acquisitions, he he spent three years working as a has led the transformation of William 4.
Eddie Powell, PhD, FCA, 59 research fellow in the laboratory of Ransom into one of the UKs largest Finance Director Professor Ed Ziff at New York University natural healthcare groups.
Prior to joining Eddie Powell has a BSc and a PhD in Medical Centre, where he discovered a Ransom in 1999, and following an early Chemistry from Cambridge University fundamental principle underlying the career as a strategy consultant, he and qualified in 1976 as a chartered association of proteins involved in human founded and ran businesses in automated accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell cancer.
He was awarded a professorship meter reading, environmental now KPMG in London.
He then worked at Cambridge University in 1999 and now management and property development.
for two years as a financial controller in oversees a group of scientists studying He has an MA in Economics from Frankfurt, Germany.
After returning to genes and proteins associated with Cambridge University.
the UK he joined Marconi Instruments, a human cancers.
He has played a central subsidiary of GEC, as Financial Controller, role in expanding Abcams own antibody and later Finance Director.
In 1990 he product range into the Chromatin moved to Colt, a privately owned research area.
international light-engineering group, as Group Finance Director.
Peter Keen, BSc, ACA, 50 in March 2000 as Finance Director.
Non-Executive Director Peter Keen is a Chartered Accountant 5.
Mark Webster, BSc, 45 with more than 20 years experience in Commercial Director the financing and management of Mark Webster has a BSc in Chemistry biotechnology companies.
After gaining from Durham University.
He joined Abbott experience in the agricultural Laboratories in 1988 and ran the UK biotechnology and medical diagnostics Pharmaceutical and Hospital Divisions sectors, he was a co-founder and Finance before moving to Montreal, Canada in Director of Chiroscience Group plc.
He 1997 and then Chicago, USA in 1999, then helped establish Merlin Biosciences, as Vice President of Anti-Virals, US being responsible for a number of Pharmaceuticals.
Here he launched investments including Ark Therapeutics, Kaletra for HIV infection, which generated Cyclacel, ReNeuron and Vectura.
In 2001 he joined Shire recently, he was Chief Financial Officer of Pharmaceuticals as Head of Global Arakis Ltd until its successful trade sale in Strategic Marketing and Licensing 2005.
He is a partner with the technology Acquisitions and a member of the venture firm Esprit Capital Partners LLP Executive Committee.
He then joined and a Non-Executive Director of Ark Bayer Healthcare in Germany in 2004 Therapeutics plc, The Biotech Growth as Senior Vice President, Head of Global Trust plc and Prelude Trust plc.
He also Strategic Marketing and Licensing acts as an advisor to various other Acquisitions and a member of Bayer organisations.
After joining the Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2006 he became a full-time Director of Abcam in March 2007.
He will revert back to a Non-Executive role in November 2007.
