The portfolio In the 12 months ended 31 March Cerba is a French speciality Link Group are leading specialists in 2007, ICG and mezzanine funds laboratory which performs clinical superannuation administration and advised by ICG invested in the tests.
In July 2006 ICG invested share registry services in Australia.
In following 31 companies: 30m of junior and senior mezzanine January 2007 ICG arranged and finance to assist in the secondary provided mezzanine finance of AUD Albingia is a specialist French buyout.
ICG also invested 9.4m in $70m to assist in the acquisition and insurance company.
ICG also invested AUD 2006 ICG invested 20m in the $15m in the equity.
mezzanine finance provided to Easycash is Germanys largest card assist in the buyout.
ICG also payment network service provider.
In Loewenplay is the second largest invested 1m in the equity.
November 2006 ICG arranged and gaming arcade operator in Germany.
provided mezzanine finance of 25m In January 2007 ICG took a Apem is a French company and is to assist in the buyout.
participation of 15m to assist in the one of the worlds largest secondary buyout.
manufacturers of professional Elior, a French company, is a leading switches and keyboards.
In contract and concession caterer in Loyalty Partners is a German December 2006 ICG invested 9.5m Europe.
In August 2006 ICG invested company and provides the leading in the mezzanine finance provided 16m in the equity required to take multi-company loyalty card in that to assist in the buyout.
ICG also the company private.
In April 2006 ICG took a invested 1.5m in the equity.
ICG also took a participation of participation of 23m in the 142m in the mezzanine finance.
mezzanine facilities arranged to Attendo, a Swedish company, is a assist in the buyout.
leading provider of elderly and Euroloc is a Spanish company that disabled care services.
In January provides equipment and machinery Materis is a French group of 2007 ICG co-arranged a SEK 460m for hire.
In July 2006 ICG arranged businesses in aluminates, mortars, mezzanine facility to assist in the and provided mezzanine finance of paint, refractories and admixtures.
ICG also invested 30.5m to assist in a buyout.
ICG In April 2006 ICG invested 85m in SEK 90m in the equity.
also underwrote the senior debt and the mezzanine finance provided to invested 6m in the equity.
assist in the secondary buyout.
BAA is the leading U. K. airport operator and the largest international Fraikin is Frances largest Mayborn is a UK company that airport operator in the world.
In independent truck rental company.
manufactures baby and household August 2006 ICG took a participation In February 2007 ICG invested products.
In October 2006 ICG took a of 35.5m in the perpetual Toggle 66.4m in the mezzanine finance participation of 12m in the facility arranged to assist in financing provided to assist the buyout.
ICG mezzanine facility arranged to assist in the acquisition.
ICG invested a further also invested 9.7m in the equity.
the public to private acquisition.
Gerflor is a French company that Medica is the third largest provider of Bodybell is a Spanish retailer of holds the position as Europes No.
In August cosmetics and perfumes.
In 2006 ICG took a participation of December 2006 ICG arranged and November 2006 ICG invested 30m 61.3m in the mezzanine financing provided mezzanine finance of 20m in the mezzanine finance provided to arranged to assist in the secondary to assist recapitalisation.
ICG also assist in the tertiary buyout.
ICG also invested 5m in arranged the second lien facility.
Care Management Group is a UK Groupe Moniteur is a leading French Medi-Partenaires is a leading player operator of care homes for people magazine group.
In June 2006 ICG in the French acute care private with physical and learning disabilities.
invested 48m in the mezzanine hospital sector.
In March 2007 ICG In August 2006 ICG invested 30m in finance provided to support the invested 140m in the senior and junior mezzanine and equity to assist secondary buyout.
ICG also made junior mezzanine finance provided in in a refinancing.
support of the secondary buyout.
22 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Open dialogue through mutual respect is what defines the relationship between ICG and Hi-mart.
Mr. Joon Ho Rhee, Chief Financial Officer, Hi-mart Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 23 The portfolio continued Mehilainen is a Finnish company TDF is the leading broadcasting In the same period ICG and funds providing private healthcare.
In May operator in France.
In January 2007 managed by ICG arranged 2006 ICG arranged and provided a ICG invested 10m in the equity participated in refinancings for the 20m mezzanine facility to assist in provided for the secondary buyout.
following 4 companies: the add-on acquisition to Carema.
Tegel is the leading brand poultry Duni refinanced in March 2007.
ICG Minimax, a German company, is the producer in New Zealand.
In April reduced its exposure by 11.4m.
third largest global supplier of fire 2006 ICG arranged and provided protection systems and services.
In subordinated notes and mezzanine Marken refinanced in March 2007.
August 2006 ICG took a participation preference notes totalling NZ$89.5m ICG increased its exposure by 7.5m.
of 45m in the mezzanine loan to assist in the buyout.
ICG also arranged to assist in the tertiary invested NZ$5m in the equity.
Raet refinanced in January 2007. buyout.
ICG also invested 10m in ICG rolled over its exposure.
Viadom is the leading French company in the home hairdressing Target refinanced in September.
ICG Motip Dupli, a Dutch company, is the market.
In June 2006 ICG invested increased its exposure by 7.5m.
leading European manufacturer of 22m in the mezzanine finance aerosol paints, touch up pencils and provided to assist in the secondary technical aerosols.
ICG also invested 3m in arranged and provided mezzanine the equity.
finance of 25m to assist in the secondary buyout.
ICG also invested Visma, a Norwegian company, 13m in the equity.
provides business software and enterprise resource planning services Orizonia is the leading vertically in the Nordic region.
In June 2006 integrated tour operator in Spain.
ICG arranged and provided a PIK In July 2006 ICG provided mezzanine preference note of NOK 600m.
finance of 100m to assist in the ICG also took a participation of NOK buyout.
ICG also invested 10m 300m in the senior mezzanine and in the equity.
Sebia is a French manufacturer of Vivarte is a leading French apparel medical diagnosis equipment.
In and footwear retail specialist.
In September 2006 ICG invested 60m March 2007 ICG invested 10m in the mezzanine finance provided to in the equity provided for the assist in the secondary buyout.
also invested 30m in the equity.
Select Service Partner, a UK company, is the world-leading travel catering business.
In July 2006 ICG co-arranged and took a participation of 40m in the mezzanine and PIK facilities provided to assist in the buyout.
ICG also invested 8m in the equity.
24 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 25 The portfolio continued Sector analysis of ICGs portfolio Geographical analysis of ICGs portfolio France 37% Building materials 5.2% Waste management 3.0% Other Europe 1% Asia Pacific Region 3% Travel 2.4% Business services 11.6% Italy 2% Telephone networks 1.6% Consumer Spain 4% products 5.7% Shipping & transport 9.2% Germany 7% Retail 1.3% Electrical 1.5% Publishing & printing 3.6% Electronics 6.3% Scandinavia 13% Motors 7.2% Financial services 5.5% Mechanical engineering 1.8% Food manufacturing 4.6% Leisure 4.9% Food retailing 2.5% Insurance brokers 3.1% UK 25% Health 14.7% Hotels & caterers 4.2% Benelux 8% Repayments During the year, repayments of loans and investments amounted to 436m.
Loans and or investments to the following companies were repaid or prepaid: Name Country Form of realisation Type of finance Accantia UK Refinance Loan investment Accord UK Trade sale Investment Aviagen Germany Refinance Loan Caradon UK Part refinance Loan Cerba France Secondary buyout Investment CIS France Trade sale Investment CPL Industries UK Refinance Loan Danish Timber Denmark Trade sale Investment DV Holdings France Secondary buyout Investment Eliokem France Secondary buyout Investment Famosa Spain Refinance Loan Gealan Germany Refinance Loan Gerflor France Tertiary buyout Investment Groupe Moniteur France Secondary buyout Investment Helly Hansen Norway Secondary buyout Investment Janton Finland Trade sale Investment Keolis France Trade sale Investment LWB Refractories Belgium Secondary buyout High yield bond Materis France Secondary buyout Investment Medica France Secondary buyout Investment Medi-Partenaires France Secondary buyout Investment Molnlycke Sweden Trade sale Loan Motip Dupli Netherlands Secondary buyout Loan Orefi France Secondary buyout Investment Petroplus Netherlands IPO Investment Picard France Refinance Investment Sebia France Secondary buyout Investment Springer Germany Refinance of part Loan SR Technics Switzerland Trade sale Loan Talbot UK Letter of credit release Letter of credit Target UK Trade sale Loan Tunstall UK Refinance Loan Vetco UK Trade sale Loan Via Location France Refinance Investment Viterra Germany Refinance Loan 26 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Current loan and investment portfolio At 31 March 2007, in addition to the new loans and investments listed previously, ICGs loan and investment portfolio consisted of the following companies: Name Country Business Type of finance 1st Credit UK Provides debt purchase and outsourced debt collection services Loan investment AA UK Provider of roadside breakdown services and insurance Loan investment Accantia UK Health and beauty products Investment Acteon France Dental equipment and consumables Investment A-Katsastus Denmark Vehicle inspection services Loan Allflex France Animal identification tags Loan investment Asco UK Provider of logistic services for the oil industry Investment Aster Poland Cable television, broadband internet and telephony services Loan investment Aviapartner Belgium Airport ground handling services Loan AVR Netherlands Waste management Loan investment Caradon UK Manufacturer of boilers and radiators Loan Carema Sweden Healthcare and care services provider Loan Ceva Sante France Developer and distributor of animal health products Investment Codere Spain Gaming company Investment Condor Ferries UK Operates ferry services to the Channel Islands Loan investment Courtepaille France Chain of grill restaurants Investment Craegmoor UK Nursing homes Investment Dometic Sweden Supplier of appliances for recreational vehicles Loan DSV Environment Denmark Transportation and logistics Loan Duni Sweden Supplier of tabletop products Loan Edscha Germany Global automotive supplier Loan investment Elis France Leader in textile rental and cleaning business Investment Eurodatacar France Services to complement traditional insurance policies covering vehicle theft Investment Eurofarad France Manufacturer of passive components Investment Famosa Spain Toy manufacturer Investment Fitness First UK Health club operator Loan investment Focus UK DIY stores Investment Gala Coral Group UK Leading bingo, casino and licenced betting office operator Loan investment Geoservice France Service provider in the upstream oil industry Investment Geoxia France House building Investment Global Garden Products Sweden Garden equipment Loan Himart South Korea Electronic speciality stores Loan Heath Lambert UK Insurance broking Loan HMY France Provider of shelving equipment, checkout counters and point of purchase items Investment Homann Germany Producer of chilled foods and salads Investment IPT UK Fabric manufacturers Investment Lariviere France Distributor of roofing materials Investment Lecta Italy Manufacturer of coated wood-free papers Investment Mach Luxembourg Global clearing house of roaming bill records for mobile network operators Loan investment Marken UK Specialist global logistic services for clinical drug trials Loan Menissez France Industrial bread producer Investment Meyn Netherlands Manufacturer of poultry processing equipment Loan investment Nocibe France Retailer of perfumes and cosmetics Investment Norcros UK Manufacturer and distributor of showers and tiles Investment NW Vending Italy Manufacturer of food and beverage vending machines Loan investment Petroplus Netherlands Petroleum products Investment PHS UK Washroom cleaning and maintenance services Loan Porcelain and Fine China UK Manufacturer of china and porcelain Loan investment Picard France Frozen food distributor and retailer Investment Protection One France Electronic surveillance services Investment Raet Netherlands Provider of payroll and H. R. services Loan Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 27 The portfolio continued Name Country Business Type of finance Remeha Netherlands Boiler manufacturer Loan Retif France Wholesaler and retailer of display units Investment Saga UK Provides products and services to people aged 50 and over Loan Score France Contract catering Investment Sia France Designs, sources and distributes household products Investment Sogetrel France Design, installation and maintenance of communication networks Investment Souriau France Designs, manufactures and sells connectors to the commercial aircraft market Investment Sound Holdings Denmark Hearing aid component supplier Investment Servicetec UK Computer services and maintenance Investment Spring UK IT recruitment agency Loan Springer Germany Academic publishing company Loan Svenson Spain Specialised haircare group Loan investment Takko Germany Apparel retailer Investment Talbot UK Underwriter of insurance at Lloyds Investment Team System Italy Provides software packages and related maintenance Loan investment Terreal France Produces clay roofing tiles and bricks Investment Thornbury UK Provider of relief nursing staff Loan investment Thule Sweden Global sports utility transportation company Loan TSL UK Publisher Loan Tunstall UK Manufactures and maintains social alarm systems Loan Vetco UK Supplier to upstream oil and gas companies Investment Via Location France Independent truck rental company Investment WZG Group Netherlands Distributor of mobility aids Loan The top twenty companies, as valued on ICGs balance sheet, are as follows: Name m Name m Elior 72.8 Dometic 37.8 BAA 63.0 Materis 37.0 Gala Coral Group 62.3 Mach 35.7 Medi-Partenaires 56.4 Fraikin 31.1 AVR 52.8 Select Service Partner 30.2 Elis 46.9 Medica 28.0 AA 43.9 Springer 27.5 Saga 42.7 Marken 27.0 Orizonia 40.3 Menissez 25.2 Visma 39.9 Sebia 38.2 Total 838.7 28 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Report and accounts Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 29
