The Board of Directors BACK ROW Left to right Jean-Daniel Camus Andrew Phillips Paul Piper James Nelson Managing Director age 44.
Prior to Managing Director Age 49.
Paul Non-executive Director age 59, is Non-executive Director age 61.
He was a founding partner of Orium, joining ICG in 1989, he worked for joined ICG in 1989.
He has performed a non-executive partner in Graphite Chemical Bank.
He is responsible a number of roles predominantly in the Capital, Chairman of PIFC Group a proprietary investment firm and previously worked for LBO France.
for ICGs UK and Nordic mezzanine UK mezzanine market and latterly was Limited and a non-executive director business.
responsible for the Operations of ICG.
of Henderson Smaller Companies He started his career in the French civil service and served as a special adviser He is now responsible for maintaining Investment Trust Plc.
He is a past the credit quality at ICG as well as for Chairman of the BVCA.
to the Department of the General Secretary to the President of the compliance.
Paul is the Chairman of the Investment Committee, which he French Republic.
FRONT ROW Left to right Christophe Evain Tom Attwood Managing Director age 45.
Prior to Managing Director age 54.
Prior to joining ICG in 1994, he worked for joining ICG in April 1996, he was a Banque fide Gestion Privee in Paris.
director of James Capel & Co where He is responsible for ICGs mezzanine he worked for eight years.
He is business in Germany, Benelux and All Managing Directors are members Chairman of the Executive Committee the Asia Pacific Region.
of the Executive Committee and the and is responsible for ICGs Fund Investment Committee.
2 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Peter Stone Tom Bartlam Francois fide Mitry Eric Licoys Non-executive Director age 60, is a Non-executive Director age 59, is a Managing Director age 41.
Prior to joining Non-executive Director age 68, was qualified solicitor.
He is a non-executive Chartered Accountant.
He joined ICG in ICG in 1997, he worked for Societe formerly Director General of Vivendi director of DTZ Holdings PLC as well as 1989 and was a Managing Director until Generale.
He is responsible for ICGs Universal, the media and communications a number of other businesses and was his retirement in 2005, when he was French, Iberian and Italian mezzanine group, having previously been President previously a director of Close Brothers appointed a non-executive director.
businesses and the sponsoring Managing of the venture capital arm of Lazard Freres Group plc.
He is Chairman of Pantheon International Director for the Minority Partner business.
He is a past chairman of AFIC.
Participations PLC, a non-executive director of Numis Corporation PLC and of F&C UK Select Trust PLC.
John Manser CBE DL Justin Dowley Philip Keller Non-executive Chairman age 67, is Non-executive Director age 52, is a Managing Director age 41.
He was a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Chartered Accountant.
He is currently a Finance Director at ERM Holdings Ltd, Accountants in England and Wales.
He Partner of Tricorn Partners LLP, the one of the worlds largest environmental was formerly Chairman of Robert Fleming independent advisory firm, which he coconsultancies.
He is Finance Director and Holdings Limited and is currently Chairman founded in 2003 and a non-executive responsible for finance and operations.
He of Shaftesbury PLC, Hiscox Investment director of Bridgewell Group plc.
He was has previously held a number of financial Management Ltd, Deputy Chairman of previously head of investment banking directorships in the GlaxoSmithKline and Colliers CRE plc and a non-executive at Merrill Lynch Europe.
director of SAB Miller plc Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 3
