Directors report The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the twelve months ended 31 March 2007.
Principal activities and business review The principal activities of the Group are those of providing mezzanine capital and equity to companies in Europe and the Asia Pacific Region, along with the management of third party funds.
The Directors expect the Group to continue with these activities while exploring opportunities for future geographic expansion.
The Groups profit before taxation was 224m fourteen months ended 31 March 2006 190m.
The Directors consider the state of the Companys affairs to be satisfactory.
The review of the Groups business is contained in the business and market review and the financial review on pages 7 to 21.
Key Performance Indicators KPIs The Board reviews a range of financial and non-financial KPIs.
The principle KPIs are listed below: Interest rate spreads on mezzanine loans, detailed in the Managing Directors business and market review on page 8: Investments in warrants and equity, detailed in the Managing Directors business and market review on page 8: Gearing level of portfolio, detailed in the Financial review on page 18: Default and loss rates, detailed in the Financial review on page 18: New lending and repayments, detailed in the Managing Directors business and market review on page 13.
Principal risks and uncertainties ICG operates primarily in the European private equity market at the riskier end of the credit spectrum.
The key risks to ICG as a business are firstly the inability to win new business, secondly incurring significant losses on the existing portfolio and thirdly, in the case of the Fund Management business, regulatory risk.
Loss of staff ICG is a people business and therefore susceptible to the loss of key executives or teams of executives.
The Company has in place a number of incentive schemes designed to attract and retain high calibre executives and is committed to provide competitive remuneration packages for such people.
New business The inability to win new mezzanine business or raise new funds could occur for a number of reasons.
Competition ICG operates in a market where there are always new entrants who are attracted by the yields and security package of mezzanine finance.
During periods when the supply of credit is readily available, competition increases, not only for mezzanine assets but also for all sub-investment grade debt.
During these periods ICG will be selective as to new business and seek to maintain its credit discipline in spite of the risk of losing market share.
Accelerated payments Current liquidity in the leveraged loan market is leading to more aggressive debt packages being arranged by the investment banks.
In some cases mezzanine finance is being replaced by larger and cheaper senior debt tranches.
If this trend continues and ICG is unable to identify sufficient new investment opportunities that represent an appropriate balance between risk and reward, it is possible that the loan book will grow at a slower rate or even contract.
Lack of funding ICG currently funds its operations by way of equity and debt, with a maximum ratio of one part equity to four parts debt.
ICG recognises that there may be times when the credit markets are closed and it would not be possible to raise finance for what might be attractive investment opportunities.
It is therefore the Companys policy to maintain diverse sources of medium-term finance and to ensure that it always has sufficient committed but unutilised debt facilities.
30 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Loss of reputation Were the Company to behave in an unprofessional manner, when either dealing with its fund management clients or the private equity market, it could jeopardise future business opportunities.
To minimise this possibility, the Company employs high calibre staff who are trained to behave in a professional manner and deal with third parties accordingly.
Existing business Significant losses on the existing portfolio could arise from: An economic downturn A severe economic recession could have an adverse effect on the portfolio quality, which would impact interest income, gains on investments and the level of impairment provisions.
In order to minimise the effects of any such downturn, ICG has a policy to diversify its portfolio in terms of geography, sector and size and has in place disciplined credit procedures both before and during the period of investment to protect its portfolio: Specific company factors There will be occasions when the Company incurs a loss for specific reasons.
Such reasons may be industry specific, country specific or be due to fraud and or poor management.
In these cases, ICG relies on its investment procedures to minimise occurrences of such losses and also upon its long experience in dealing with such situations in the past: Regulatory risk The Fund Management business is the part of the business that is most exposed to regulatory risk.
ICG is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA and withdrawal of its approvals could result in the loss of its Fund Management activity.
ICG has a full-time Compliance Officer whose role it is to ensure that the Company complies with all current FSA regulations and who ensures the quality of internal and external training.
The Company also has in place thorough anti-money laundering and know-your-customer procedures to comply with current legislation.
Financial risk management The financial management of the Group is detailed in the Corporate Governance Report on pages 38 to 39.
Detailed financial risk management policies and disclosures are disclosed in note 28 to the accounts.
Directors The present membership of the Board is as set out below.
All the Directors shown below served throughout the year except for Mr Keller who was appointed on 28 September 2006 and Mr Camus who was appointed on 29 March 2007.
Both offer themselves for election at the forthcoming AGM.
Mr Licoys and Mr Stone will both retire at the AGM.
In accordance with the articles of association and best practice, Messrs Bartlam, fide Mitry, Nelson and Piper retire by rotation and offer themselves for re-election.
The interests of the Directors of the Company and their immediate families as defined by the Companies Act in the shares of the Company as at 31 March 2007 are as follows: 31 Mar 2007 31 Mar 2006 Number of 20p Number of 20p ordinary shares ordinary shares T R Attwood Chief Executive Officer 161,197 161,197 T H Bartlam 311,065 311,065 J D Camus appointed 29 March 2007 L J Dowley 20,000 20,000 C A Evain 123,514 123,514 E G Licoys 2,076 2,076 P H Keller P J Manser Chairman 34,300 25,151 F fide Mitry 80,226 57,665 J J Nelson 7,306 7,306 A C Phillips 205,163 205,163 P J Piper 193,963 193,963 P J Stone Senior Independent Director 25,000 14,134 No changes to the Directors interests in shares at 31 March 2007 as set out above had been notified up to 12 June 2007.
Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 31 Directors report continued Directors share options Details of Directors share options are provided in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on page 45.
The Directors had no interests in the shares of any subsidiary company.
The Company issued 293,567 shares under its Executive Share Option Schemes during the year raising 1.2m of new equity.
The number of 20p ordinary shares in issue at the year-end amounted to 70,242,959.
Substantial shareholdings According to the Companys share register at 16 May 2007, the following investment managers through separately managed funds had interests in aggregate amounting to over 3%.
Barclays Global Investors 6,670,699 9.49% Jupiter Asset Management 5,730,183 8.16% JP Morgan Asset Management 3,893,399 5.54% Schroder Investment Management 3,376,796 4.81% Deutsche Bank AG 3,359,883 4.78% Legal & General Investment Management 2,823,441 4.02% Threadneedle Asset Management 2,495,031 3.55% AXA Framlington Investment Management 2,403,044 3.42% M&G Investment Management 2,380,641 3.39% Fidelity 2,342,727 3.33% On 23 May 2007, the Company received notification from Deutsche Bank AG that they are interested in 5.06% of the ordinary share capital of the Company.
On 7 June 2007 the Company received notice from Jupiter Asset Management that they are interested in 8.10% of the Company.
Dividend The Directors recommend a final net dividend payment in respect of the ordinary shares of the Company at a rate of 41.5p per share 31 March 2006 42.0p, which when added to the interim net dividend of 16.5p per share 2006 14.0p gives a total net dividend for the year of 58.0p per share fourteen months ended 31 March 2006 56.0p.
The amount of dividend paid in the year was 40.9m fourteen months ended 31 March 2006 29.4m.
Trade creditors It is Group policy to agree and clearly communicate terms of payment as part of the commercial arrangements negotiated with suppliers and then to pay according to those terms, based upon the timely receipt of an accurate invoice.
The Group does not follow any code regarding terms of payment, and the average number of creditor days throughout the year was 32 2006 27.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of the current auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
32 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts Executive Committee The Executive Committee comprises the six Managing Directors of ICG, each of whom has a specific area of responsibility.
The Executive Committee has general responsibility for ICGs resources, determining strategy, approving all investments, financial and operational control and managing the business worldwide.
Investment process Investments are primarily sourced from private equity sponsors, banks, corporations and local professional advisors.
Initially ICG assesses whether the opportunity meets ICGs investment criteria.
The deal team will present to the Investment Committee details of pricing, leverage and structure together with the commercial background to the company.
The Investment Committee will guide the team regarding the focus for due diligence, structure and pricing.
Extensive due diligence will then be undertaken either by advisors retained by the equity sponsor or appointed directly by ICG.
This covers the management, the market, financial and legal review and environmental and corporate social responsibility issues.
The due diligence is focussed on ensuring the safety of principal and interest and assessing the future value of the equity.
At the conclusion of the due diligence process a further Investment Committee meeting is held to discuss final structure and pricing at which a unanimous approval is required before an investment is made.
All investments are reviewed by the Investment Committee which is made up of the six Managing Directors plus other Investment Executives depending upon their geography and sector.
Annual General Meeting A number of resolutions will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as ordinary and special business.
Ordinary business Annual Report and Accounts Resolution 1 The Directors are required to present to shareholders at the AGM the Annual Report and Accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Report of the Remuneration Committee Resolution 2 The Directors are required to seek approval of the shareholders for the Report of the Remuneration Committee.
The resolution is an advisory vote, as permitted by law, and no entitlement to remuneration is made conditional on the resolution being passed.
The Report of the Remuneration Committee is on pages 41 to 46. Dividend Resolution 3 The Directors recommend a dividend of 41.5p per share.
The final dividend cannot exceed the amount recommended by the Directors.
If approved by shareholders, the final dividend will be paid on 27 July 2007 to those shareholders on the register as at 6 July 2007.
The Auditors Resolutions 4 and 5 The shareholders are asked every year to approve the appointment of the auditors, Deloitte & Touche, LLP, and agree that the Directors may approve their remuneration.
Election of Directors Resolution 6 Philip Keller and Jean-Daniel Camus are standing for election for the first time following their appointment to the Board on 28 September 2006 and 29 March 2007 respectively.
Short biographies of Philip and Jean-Daniel appear on pages 2 and 3.
Re-election of Directors Resolution 7 Thomas Bartlam, Francois fide Mitry, James Nelson and Paul Piper are retiring by rotation under the Articles of Association of the Company and will be standing for re-election.
Biographies of all the Directors appear on pages 2 and 3.
Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 33 Directors report continued Special business Resolutions 8, 9, 10, and 11 will be proposed as special resolutions.
To pass special resolutions 75% or more of the votes cast must be in favour.
Authority to allot shares Resolutions 8 and 9 The Companys Articles of Association give the Directors general authority to allot or issue unissued shares.
The Companies Act 1985 limits that power by requiring shareholders to give specific prior approval.
At the 2006 AGM, the Directors were given authority to allot ordinary shares and Resolution 8 seeks to renew this authority for a period until the date of the AGM to be held in July 2008.
The authority is limited to a maximum of 23,414,000 shares being approximately one third of the ordinary issued share capital as at 31 March 2007.
There is no current intention to use the authority other than in connection with employee share and incentive schemes.
If the Directors wish to allot unissued shares for cash, the Companies Act 1985 requires that these shares are offered first to existing shareholders in proportion to their existing holdings.
This is known as shareholders pre-emption rights.
There may be occasions, however, when, in order to act in the best interests of the Company, the Directors need flexibility to finance business opportunities as they arise without offering securities on a pre-emptive basis.
Resolution 9 asks shareholders to renew the Directors authority to allot shares for cash up to an aggregate nominal value of 702,430 otherwise than in connection with a rights issue or share scheme equivalent to approximately 5 per cent of the ordinary issued share capital as at 31 March 2007 without the shares being offered first to existing shareholders.
Resolution 10 The Company may buy its own shares with the authority of shareholders.
Resolution 10 seeks to renew the current authority given at the 2006 AGM.
The resolution specifies the maximum number of shares that may be purchased approximately 15% of the Companys issued share capital and the highest and lowest prices at which they may be bought.
Any shares purchased under this authority will either be treated as cancelled or held as treasury shares.
Listed companies, with authorisation from shareholders, may buy and hold their own shares instead of cancelling them immediately.
Shares held as treasury shares can in the future be cancelled, re-sold or used to provide shares for employee share schemes.
For information, as at 31 March 2007, there were 2,872,565 options outstanding over the Companys shares representing 4.1% of the issued share capital.
If the full authority to buy shares is used, these options will represent 4.2% of the then issued share capital of the Company.
The authority given at the last AGM expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
Resolution 11 Certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 came into force on 1 January, 20 January and 6 April 2007 respectively which updated and, in some instances amended, current companies legislation.
This resolution provides, broadly, for the necessary amendments to be made to the Companys Articles so as to permit the Company to communicate with shareholders electronically via its website, unless a shareholder wishes to receive documents or other information in hard copy, in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006, which it is hoped will cut the costs of producing and posting bulky paper documents.
In addition, this resolution seeks to amend the Companys Articles so as to bring the provisions relating to the indemnification of Directors in line with corresponding statutory provisions set out in the Companies Act 1985.
In particular, it seeks to introduce a new power for the Company to fund any expenditure incurred by a Director in defending proceedings in accordance with section 337A of the Companies Act 1985.
34 Intermediate Capital Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts This resolution also seeks to amend the Companys Articles by updating references to certificated securities in accordance with the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 the Regulations.
Although there are currently no references to uncertificated shares in the articles, the Company is permitted to trade in uncertificated shares by virtue of the Regulations, however, the inclusion of this wording in the articles will formalise the Companys use of these provisions.
Finally this resolution will enable the Company to pay out, in aggregate, up to 600,000 per annum to its non-executive Directors by way of fees.
The current level of 400,000, which was approved by the shareholders in May 2004, is sufficient for this year to 31 March 2007.
However the Company needs to be able to attract additional and maintain the current high quality of non-executive Directors in order to retain the appropriate balance on its Board and would be unable to do so within the existing limits.
Authority is therefore being sought to increase the limit in aggregate to 600,000 per annum.
Charitable and political contributions During the year the Group made charitable donations of 7,000 2006 8,000 principally to local charities serving the communities in which the Group operates.
The Group also allows employees to take 2 days paid leave a year to devote to charitable causes supported by the Group further to its Corporate Social Responsibility programme.
No contributions were made during the year 2006 nil for political purposes.
Directors indemnity The Company has Directors and Officers Insurance for all Directors and executives that covers all employment related activities.
Resolution 11, if passed, will extend the Directors indemnity to encompass the new provisions under the Companies Act.
By Order of the Board C Reilly Company Secretary 12 June 2007 Annual Report and Accounts Intermediate Capital Group PLC 35
