18 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Our business Five reasons customers like our home credit service because...
Were fast Were personal We deliver rapidly typically within 48 hours of our first An agent is key to the customer relationship meeting the customer contact.
customer each week in their home to collect repayments.
They make further loans as appropriate and as their knowledge of the customers payment history and credit Were accessible requirements develops.
Our loans are delivered in the home by our agents, the majority of whom are female.
This loan to home approach is valued by our customers and facilitates Were flexible gathering additional information before a loan is granted.
Our approach to credit is distinctive.
On our home collected product no interest is added for late payment, there are no hidden charges and no default charges because we Were inclusive understand that it can be difficult to manage the household Our customers are typically not well served by banks.
budget when the unexpected happens.
They often have no credit history and prefer to use cash.
Our simple and transparent approach appeals particularly well to this customer group.
co. uk ar07 businessreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 19 International Personal Finance IPF is a Emerging markets such as those in Central Europe are characterised by rapid economic development and a corresponding business built around people.
5,600 employees, rise in demand for consumer credit.
The provision of credit, 28,000 agents and 1.94 million customers.
At its however, still lags behind.
For most ordinary people, credit core is our ability to meet each of our customers, traditionally meant getting by with the help of family and friends.
in their own home, every week.
The strength of Emerging market customers tend to rely more on cash than the relationship that develops as a result, enables their counterparts in developed markets.
Even among those with bank accounts, its not unusual for people to withdraw us to ensure we provide a level of personal and their money at the start of the month and make it last to the flexible service that is difficult to match.
The home credit model of cash loans therefore human face of finance that sets IPF apart.
fits well with the way consumers tend to budget.
What we do Built upon a robust business model calling on 1.94 million Our product, home credit, is a simple concept based on regular, customers every week, there is a unique relationship with personal contact with customers.
We call it the human face our customers at the core of what we do.
In 1997 the international business of Provident Financial plc Home credit consists of small-sum, unsecured loans delivered was created.
Since the signing of the first overseas customer to the customers door by an agent who then calls every week in Poland, businesses have been established in six emerging to collect the repayments.
An important feature of the home markets.
The Group operates in Poland, the Czech Republic, collection product is that there are no extra charges for late Hungary, Slovakia, Mexico, Romania and has acquired a small or missed payments.
bank in Russia to facilitate a pilot.
The agent force now stands at around 28,000 and customers at 1.94 million.
Fast, accessible, inclusive, personal and flexible, the service is popular with people on modest incomes.
20 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Our business continued How we do it The heart of the service is the personal relationship between the agent and the customer.
By virtue of the weekly visit, the agent gets to know the customers financial circumstances.
Customers enjoy a friendly, face-to-face service while the business benefits from the agents personal judgement of their ability to repay.
Who we do it for We typically serve a segment of customers that earns an average or below-average income and is underserved by mainstream banks.
Far from having a poor credit history, our average customer has had little opportunity to use credit Inclusion and has therefore not been able to build a formal credit record.
Home credit allows customers access to financial products that mainstream financial services do not offer.
The majority of our customers are female.
Most are employed or run small businesses.
Why were successful Our success so far has rested on two particular skills.
The first is the ability to deliver a service that meets our customers needs.
Compared with most forms of consumer lending, home credit is a people-focused business.
Our success depends on maintaining good relationships with our customers.
We aim to treat them responsibly, respectfully and in a straightforward manner, in order to succeed in our business.
This in turn requires a high-quality agent force able to communicate the values of the business.
Respect For the customers for whom its designed, home credit has The strong relationship and understanding between an agent and their customers is key.
clear advantages over more conventional forms of credit.
The agent often a woman from the local community is key to the customer relationship.
Because theyre aware of their customers circumstances, agents can make sure they lend responsibly and can demonstrate empathy.
The friendly, face-to-face nature of home credit is one of its great attractions.
The service is also fast: we aim to deliver cash within 48 hours of the customers first contact.
Its convenient in that repayments can be made without having to leave home.
There are no add-on charges for late or missed payments, so the total amount owed can never go up.
Customers know at the start exactly how much theyll have to repay a welcome Service feature if theyre on a tight budget.
Our employees are focused on delivering a high quality service to all our customers.
At 68%, our customer satisfaction ratings are unusually high in the financial services industry and an indication of how much customers appreciate the human face of finance.
In 2007 more than 75% of eligible customers took out a subsequent loan.
co. uk ar07 businessreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 21 48 hours 75% Low and grow is our target for of eligible customers strategy of starting loans low delivery of the loan in took a further loan cash, from first contact in 2007 The second is the ability to manage risk.
We use the unique The first of these systems, application scoring, uses demographic insight into customers circumstances that is afforded by data to predict the repayment performance of new customers the weekly agent-customer contact, together with statistical and shows the size of loan that the agent can offer.
decision support systems that guide lending decisions to The second new system, behavioural scoring, does a similar manage impairment at relatively low levels.
Basing the calculation on the customers repayment record, and demographic data, it predicts the risk and A responsible approach therefore the maximum acceptable loan.
As well as preventing Protecting the customer and the business lending to higher risk customers, behavioural scoring allows Responsible lending and proper care for the customer are the agent to suggest further loans to the better payers.
built into the home credit system.
We know how important it is that customers should not over-commit themselves, so we start Under both systems, the final decision lies with the agents our loans low.
The first is usually between 75 and 200 and is and their assessment of the customers ability to pay.
Once customers have established By the end of 2007 we had introduced behavioural scoring to a sound repayment record and the agent knows them better, all our markets and application scoring to all except Romania.
they can be offered higher loans of 300 to 400, repayable over 39 or 52 weeks.
We call this our low and grow strategy.
With the new technology, we now have the best of both worlds the personal judgement of the agents, supplemented by The way in which agents are rewarded supports our responsible sophisticated systems to enhance their decision-making.
Agents earn commission primarily on the money The benefits are apparent in the improvement in impairment they collect, not what they lend, so its not in their interests levels through 2006 and 2007. to lend more than customers can afford to repay.
While the agent system has served us well, weve now added sophisticated scoring systems to refine the agents lending decisions.
22 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Our business continued Our continued success depends on our ability to Agents Given that the agent-customer relationship is the heart of our recruit and retain high calibre people, to train and business, we also devote a great deal of effort to recruiting, motivate them and create a working environment training, managing and motivating the agent force in each market.
that enables them to develop as individuals.
Because not many people do what we do, and certainly not on our scale, there is normally no ready-trained pool of agents Our people in our marketplace.
Starting from scratch, weve shown we Our continued business success depends on having enough can build high-quality national agent forces many thousands talented managers to take the home credit service into more strong and put in place the supporting management and emerging markets and to repeat the success weve achieved so infrastructure.
We continually strive to improve communications far.
In addition to this, we also need to recruit and retain large with agents and development managers to involve them more teams of high-calibre people and to train and motivate them.
Developing and rewarding our people Health and personal safety Its our policy to support employees at all levels throughout Were committed to seeking to protect the health, safety and their employment.
We do this through learning and development wellbeing of all our people and those to whom we owe a duty programmes and personal development reviews.
dedicated learning and development managers in place in all A full health and safety induction, extensive ongoing businesses.
communication and refresher training through a twice-yearly We make sure our rewards and remuneration are competitive.
Personal Safety Week help to keep health and safety issues at We also work hard to be recognised as a good employer, the forefront of employees and agents minds.
External health encourage work in the community and maintain strong links and personal safety audits and risk assessments are carried with universities.
Over 65% of our employees are graduates.
out regularly across the Group.
In 2007 there were over 100,000 formal training hours undertaken Diversity and inclusion by employees, representing 18.2 hours per employee.
We are committed to treating our employees equally and will not tolerate discrimination in any form in any aspect Talent management of employment.
Our equality policy, which applies globally, Talent management is a major focus in the business.
In 2007 ensures we not only comply with legislation but reflect best we initiated efforts to identify the country managers, operations practice in our businesses.
directors and field development managers that well need to support our future expansion.
We also launched a new leadership In the UK were a member of Race for Opportunity and the development programme.
In Poland we run an initiative which helps disabled people to get started in their careers In 2008 this approach will also be cascaded to other levels and addresses the obstacles they face in competing for jobs.
These are just two examples of the high standards we set in all our markets.
Fostering good employee relations Regular communication helps employees to understand what Please visit our Corporate Responsibility report online at we expect of them and is important in keeping up-to-date with www.
co. uk to find out more about our activities whats happening in the business.
Formal engagement surveys in this area.
are carried out every two years to help the Group to gauge if approaches to people management are appropriate and to understand the perceptions of the overall working experience.
In our faster growing markets, we also conduct pulse checks each year to measure employee satisfaction.
