24 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Managing our responsibilities We think one of the most effective methods Our commitments In 2007 the CR steering committee outlined broad commitments of continually improving performance, and and all businesses have set specific operational goals through of demonstrating a genuine commitment the international CR working group.
to responsible business practice, is the At Group level, we have committed to achieve the following over development of measurable goals.
the next three years: Improve the co-ordination of responsible business initiatives, Our approach to corporate responsibility CR involves setting such as TCF and responsible lending, and improve the up initiatives which support the business and address the efficiency of our programmes by establishing effective global issues that matter.
This means having corporate standards working groups.
in place to ensure we carry out our business in a responsible manner, including, for example, measures to gain the trust Bring greater focus to financial literacy and develop it as and confidence of our customers.
It also means investing a strategic theme of our community investment activity.
in local communities and the way we manage, develop and Build on the success of our environmental management ultimately retain our people.
system and bring all businesses up to a consistently high standard through training and audits.
The process has been led from the top by the Chief Operating Officer who, as board member responsible for CR, chairs the Build on responsible workplace initiatives, including CR steering committee which directs and oversees our policies diversity and employee engagement.
This in turn is supported by a responsible lending group, an international CR working group and an environmental working group in each country.
2008 will see the formation of a TCF project group.
co. uk ar07 businessreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 25 Communicating with our stakeholders We aim to be a responsible company that treats Stakeholder dialogue is about connecting with those who its customers well.
have an interest in, or effect on, the business.
Our stakeholders include customers and consumer groups, Working with others towards best practice industry bodies, employees, agents, shareholders and investors, We work with a wide range of external organisations in all regulators, providers of finance, suppliers, government and the areas of operation with the aim of sharing best practice and media.
They also include interested professionals from nonlearning from others.
We are members of CSR Europe and the governmental organisations and academia.
We encourage our businesses to benchmark their performance against national indices such Stakeholder engagement is important for gathering input as the Czech Donors Forum and the Empresa Socialmente and ideas, improving our decision-making, strengthening Responsable which translates as socially responsible relationships and ultimately enhancing our reputation.
The Group engages with stakeholders both formally and When it comes to community investment, all our businesses work informally.
Weve carried out informal discussions with a with partner organisations with expertise in local community wide range of external organisations and are developing needs.
We greatly value our partnerships with charitable and this area as a priority for 2008.
We also organise employee not-for-profit organisations and believe they add great value and agent forums and carry out engagement surveys along to our CR activities.
with market research and customer surveys.
Visit our full 2007 Corporate Responsibility report online at www.
co. uk 26 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Managing our responsibilities continued A responsible approach to lending predominantly rewarded by what they collect, not by what they We aim to be a responsible company that treats its customers lend, means its not in their interests to allow their customers well.
We have controls to guide how we lend and the way the to over-commit themselves.
field agent force behaves, and have clear credit control and The agents personal judgement is supplemented by rigorous arrears policies.
Each new customer is subject to a In 2007 we set up a responsible lending group to investigate budget assessment, and new scoring systems for first-time and ways of giving home credit customers a better experience.
repeat borrowers are a further move towards making sure that We are committed to developing policies and practices to ensure each loan is appropriate.
With these systems now in place in we are aligned to the principles of TCF.
most markets, weve seen impairment rates reduced across the Group.
This is good for the customer and good for the business.
Simple, transparent products We make every effort to ensure that our customer documentation Recruiting and supporting agents is clear and simple.
We send welcome letters to new customers Its vital that agents behave responsibly and so we recruit them to clarify their responsibilities and provide cooling-off periods with care.
During 2007 we reviewed the agent recruitment to give them time to reconsider.
Our operating companies have processes and guidance to ensure we find agents who share supported the read before you sign campaign which encourages our values and our commitment to responsible lending.
consumers to be fully informed before making commitments.
Agent skills are tested in a thorough induction process and they are supported by our network of field managers.
Weekly Helping customers to manage their commitments meetings between agents and their development managers By virtue of their weekly visits, agents get to know their customers not only provide guidance but can cover issues such as health changing circumstances and can make sure they lend accordingly.
and safety and the agents development.
All agents receive ongoing guidance in managing their customers and deciding the appropriate amount to lend.
co. uk ar07 businessreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 27 90% 88% 68% overall customer of customers feel that of customers are satisfied satisfaction our loan agreements with using agents are easy to understand Investment helps us build better Financial literacy We decided in 2007 to make financial literacy the central theme relationships with our local communities.
Helping consumers to be better educated on issues such as money management and using credit Investing in our local communities wisely is clearly good for consumers and good for our business.
Community investment is one of the most visible aspects of our CR programme.
A key part of managing our reputation, it Community programmes helps us build better relationships with our local communities Community programmes in each of our markets are designed to and therefore with our customers, employees and agents.
support business objectives while making a lasting and positive impact on those benefiting from our activities.
Our businesses Through our community investment activities, we want to manage their own programmes but are guided by a central build confidence in those excluded from education and to community investment policy.
reduce or eliminate the barriers to employment and wider social participation.
Details of our extensive community investment programmes In our community activities, its important to balance the can be found in our full 2007 Corporate Responsibility report needs of the community with those of the business, as well as online at www.
the aspirations of our employees.
As a result, we have a mix of strategic programmes in financial literacy, regional education and social inclusion initiatives along with employee-driven activities such as volunteering and fundraising.
co. uk 28 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Managing our responsibilities continued 2 We work hard to understand and manage electricity per M of office space.
Our emissions by car were an average of 6.32 kg of CO per customer.
Emissions from 2 our impact on the environment.
air travel were an average of 0.24 kg of CO per customer.
2 In the UK, the move to new offices in February 2007 was Protecting the environment an opportunity to become more energy-efficient.
We have We work hard to understand and manage our impact on ongoing programmes to manage our environmental impact the environment.
To ensure we constantly improve, we have a across the Group.
Group environmental policy and an environmental management system EMS.
Environmental objectives are set at Group level A key priority is to reduce the amount of paper we use and and each business environmental working team devises the waste we produce.
All our businesses segregate and annual targets for its own business.
Environmental data used recycle waste where possible.
In the UK, weve already to monitor performance and progress towards targets is verified moved to using 100% recycled paper.
All countries carry out an annual audit against the requirements of the international environmental management Raising awareness standard ISO14001.
All our businesses are seeking to engage their employees in the environmental agenda.
Most make good use of their Climate change employee and agent magazines as well as communicating Our impact on climate change mainly results from our use of via the intranet and through competitions, employee forums transport.
Our business requires international air travel and the and family days.
We would not be able to run the environmental necessary high use of cars, mainly by field employees and agents.
programmes with such success without the enthusiasm of our employees.
Our carbon footprint for 2007 was 18,868 tonnes of CO 2 based on energy mainly electricity use used in buildings and Details of our individual country environmental programmes business travel.
This represents 3.59 tonnes per employee.
can be found in our full 2007 Corporate Responsibility report In 2007 across the Group we used an average of 111 kWh of online at www.
co. uk ar07 busines o. uk ar07 businessr sre evie view w I In nt te er rn national P ational Pe er rs sonal Financ onal Finance e pl plc c Annual Report and Financial St Annual Report and Financial Stat atements 2007 ements 2007 29 29 1.1% 6,000 100% 3.59 of pre-tax profit working hours use of recycled paper tonnes of CO per 2 invested in community volunteered by in the UK employee initiatives employees and agents Looking ahead A key ingredient is harnessing the support of our people in our CR efforts, and we think thats one area were getting right.
For example, the Executive Chairman is personally involved in overseeing our project to embed our new values, all the way through to our office employees promoting the merits of waste reduction and recycling.
That said, its early days for the Group and we still have a great deal to do.
We expect to report good progress next year regarding all aspects of our CR programmes, especially our work on Treating Customers Fairly, responsible lending, financial literacy and stakeholder engagement.
