40 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Directors and board committees Christopher Rodrigues CBE Charles Gregson Executive Chairman, age 58 Independent non-executive director, age 61 Graduated with a degree in economics and economic history and an Graduated in history and law and qualified as a solicitor.
He joined the board of Provident Financial plc in January 2007 the board of Provident Financial plc in 1995 as a non-executive director as Joint Deputy Chairman and Chairman of its international division and was appointed Deputy Chairman in 1997.
He joined the board of before joining the board of International Personal Finance at demerger International Personal Finance at demerger.
He is non-executive Chairman from Provident Financial plc in July 2007.
Between 2000 and 2004 he of ICAP plc and Chief Executive of PR Newswire Association Inc and has served as Chief Executive of Bradford and Bingley plc and prior to that served on the board of United Business Media plc.
as Chief Executive of Thomas Cook.
He was a founding board member of the Financial Services Authority and is also a former President and Tony Hales Chief Executive of Visa International.
He is Chairman of VisitBritain, a Independent non-executive director, age 59 non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc and Chairman of the Trustees Graduated with a degree in chemistry.
He joined the board of Provident of the Windsor Leadership Trust.
Financial plc in October 2006 as a non-executive director and was appointed to the board at demerger.
He is currently Chairman of each John Harnett of British Waterways, Workspace Group plc and NAAFI Limited and a Chief Operating Officer, age 53 non-executive director of SIS Group Limited.
He has previously served Graduated in business studies and qualified as a chartered accountant as Chief Executive of Allied Domecq plc and as a non-executive director in 1981.
He joined Provident Financial plc in 1999 and was appointed of Welsh Water plc, Aston Villa plc, HSBC Bank plc and Reliance Finance Director before becoming Managing Director of its international Security Group plc.
He transferred to International Personal Finance at demerger.
He previously served as Finance Director of Allied Colloids Nick Page PLC and of Holliday Chemical Holdings plc.
Independent non-executive director, age 55 Graduated in philosophy, politics and economics and qualified as a David Broadbent chartered accountant in 1977.
He was appointed as a consultant by Finance Director, age 39 Provident Financial plc in April 2007 and to the board of International Graduated with a degree in classics and qualified as a chartered Personal Finance at demerger.
He was formerly Chief Operating Officer accountant in 1990 before taking an MBA.
He joined the international of Travelex plc and previously held positions as Managing Director of division of Provident Financial plc in 1999 and was appointed Finance Hambro Insurance Services plc, an executive director of Hambros Bank Director of the division in 2003.
He was appointed Finance Director and Joint Deputy Chairman of Hambro Group Investments.
He has also of International Personal Finance at demerger.
He was previously served as a non-executive director of MoneyGram International Limited.
Ray Miles Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive director, age 63 Graduated with a degree in economics and an MBA.
He served on the board of Provident Financial plc from 2004 until July 2007 and joined the board of International Personal Finance at demerger.
He is Chairman of Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC and an advisory director of Stena AB of Sweden.
He is also Chairman of Devon Community Foundation.
He was formerly Chief Executive of CP Ships Limited.
co. uk ar07 directors International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 41 Audit and risk committee Nomination committee From left to right Nick Page, Chairman Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman Christopher Rodrigues Tony Hales Charles Gregson Tony Hales Ray Miles Tony Hales Charles Gregson John Harnett John Harnett Executive committee Ray Miles Ray Miles Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman Nick Page Nick Page David Broadbent David Broadbent John Harnett Disclosure committee John Harnett, Chairman Remuneration committee David Broadbent Ray Miles, Chairman Rosamond Marshall Smith Tony Hales Nick Page
