co. uk ar07 businessreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 17 New markets There is significant opportunity for home credit in new, emerging markets and we pride ourselves on our disciplined approach to market selection.
A country has to be safe, economically and politically stable, have a target customer base sufficiently large and with suitable per capita incomes, exhibit strong and growing demand for consumer credit and be able to be funded in local currency.
These criteria form the basis Russia of an extensive due diligence process that can A population of 142.6 million and an expected compound annual growth rate take up to two years to complete.
Russia In December 2007, following a rigorous search and extensive due diligence, we acquired a small Russian bank for a consideration of 2.8 million in order to provide us with a licence to operate.
We are now completing the regulatory filings and procedures that will allow us to commence lending in the Moscow region in the first half of this year.
We intend to pilot both in Moscow and one further major Russian city for about 18 months to evaluate the market and build our local team.
If this is successful, we will begin a wider geographic roll-out in mid- 2010.
The cost in 2007 of preparing for entry into the Russian market was 0.5 million 2006: nil.
India The business model will continue to revolve around weekly A population of 1,132 million and an expected compound annual growth rate of GDP for 2006-2009 of 8.9%.
home collected credit using self-employed agents to make collections in customers homes: however, we are introducing a new delivery mechanism in the form of a pre-loaded Visa debit card.
The card will be given to approved customers with an agreed loan amount that can be withdrawn in cash through an ATM.
India and the Ukraine Our research programme is progressing well.
Following the commencement of the pilot in Russia noted above, our next medium-term targets remain India and the Ukraine.
Ukraine A population of 46.2 million and an expected compound annual growth rate of GDP for 2006-2009 of 6.6%.
