30 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Principal business risks Our approach to risk management Funding and liquidity risk The Group takes the identification and management of its This is the risk that the Group may not have sufficient liquid key risks very seriously, under the governance of the audit funds to repay its liabilities as they fall due, or that funding and risk committee.
The schedule of risks is formally updated is withdrawn as a result of a breach of financial covenants.
and presented to the committee twice a year, although key This is managed through the preparation and review of a rolling risks are monitored on an ongoing basis, with developments 12-week cash flow forecast for all operations, along with reported to the board.
regular monitoring of relevant KPIs in comparison with budgets and forecasts.
As a policy, IPF seeks to ensure that it has Risks are managed at a country level, with the local management sufficient dedicated funding in place for all of its businesses teams responsible for the identification and mitigation of risks such that it is able to fund the peak borrowing requirement for specific to their country.
However, some risks are pertinent the following 12 months, with additional headroom of 5%.
The across all markets and are managed on a consistent basis, latest five-year plan indicates that the Group has sufficient with support provided by the central team in the UK.
funding through to 2010 and will not breach any covenant.
These risks are wide ranging but can be broadly categorised as Credit risk financial, reputational, regulatory, strategic and operational risks.
The management of customer credit risk is of particular importance.
This is managed through a combination of Financial risks application scoring for new customers, behavioural scoring The Groups main financial risks and policies are discussed for repeat lending and centralised collections units which in more detail in the financial review on pages 37 to 39.
However, are used in some markets to support arrears management.
the main financial risks facing the Group are as follows: Additional control is provided by the agent, through the Counterparty risk discipline of face-to-face contact with the customer.
International Personal Finance IPF does not hold significant Credit trends are closely monitored by credit committees investments.
However, as a cash business, it does hold cash in each country, comprising both local and UK-based senior balances in operational bank accounts for withdrawal by agents management.
to use in providing loans to customers.
Where possible, IPF holds cash only with A3 rated financial institutions.
Balances Tax risk held at institutions with a lower credit rating are classified as Like any business, changes in tax legislation and practice excess risk and are subject to board approval.
could materially affect the Groups taxation liabilities.
This risk is heightened because the Group operates in a number Currency risk of different countries, where tax legislation and practice All of the Groups trading operations are denominated in can vary significantly.
In many cases in these countries, currencies other than sterling.
This means that the value of tax treatments cannot be agreed in advance or determined the reported results and related assets and liabilities, as well precisely until tax audits or enquiries have been completed as cross border transactions, are at risk of adverse exchange by the tax authorities, which in some cases can be several rate fluctuations.
This is mitigated by borrowing in the same years after the transaction concerned.
local currencies as customer net receivables and where possible, by fixing rates to provide certainty.
Tax risks are mitigated by using the best external professional advice for all material transactions, supported by strong Interest rate risk internal tax expertise both in-country and in the UK.
Where Financing costs represent only around 5% of revenues and possible, tax treatments are agreed in advance with relevant therefore, changes in interest rates do not represent a significant authorities.
However, the Group seeks to manage this risk through the use of interest rate swaps.
co. uk ar07 businessreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 31 Reputational risk Business development Reputational damage is a significant risk in a financial A key strategic aim of the Group is to enter new emerging services business.
markets in addition to the countries it currently operates in.
To mitigate the risks involved with entering a new geographic The board mitigates this risk in a number of ways.
There area, the Group uses a formal country selection model which are established procedures for dealing with media issues applies a number of benchmark tests.
These are as follows: and an active communication programme to foster a better understanding of the Groups products is targeted at key Safety is the country safe enough for a home-based opinion formers.
The Group has a corporate responsibility financial service?
management framework led by the Chief Operating Officer.
Stability is the country politically and economically Continued investment in our community schemes helps to stable enough?
foster good relations with customers and the areas in which they live.
Size is it large enough to support the fixed costs and earn suitable returns?
Regulatory risks Regulation does the legal and regulatory environment The Groups operations are subject to various forms of support home credit?
regulation in the jurisdictions in which it operates and these regulations may change and adversely impact the Groups Demand is demand for financial products growing?
Local funding can we fund in local currency to manage The Group monitors regulatory developments in all of its currency risk?
markets and, in respect of the European Union, in Brussels.
If these tests are passed, the country will be submitted IPF works actively with opinion formers in all markets to ensure to the board for investment approval.
If successful, a pilot its businesses are well understood to mitigate this risk.
This is operation will be opened to test our ability to recruit customers facilitated by membership of the British Chamber of Commerce cost-effectively, and their related credit performance and in most markets and membership of relevant local trade bodies, propensity to repay.
This would typically be 12 to 18 months along with the Consumer Credit Association in the UK.
in duration and only if successful will full roll-out occur.
Strategic risks In addition, to deliver new products, enter new countries, Competition improve operational efficiencies or react to any other changes IPF operates in emerging markets because of their strong required by the countries means significant changes to growth characteristics, coupled with a lower level of penetration information technology systems.
This risk is mitigated by of financial products.
They are, therefore, very attractive and are the requirement that all strategic IT projects require approved subject to increasing levels of competition.
As for any business, business cases and are monitored both by a steering group and an increase in competition will place greater pressure upon the the relevant operational board, along with the fact that IPF uses Group to retain its existing customers, attract new customers professional third parties for delivery of the Groups IT services.
and to recruit and retain high calibre employees and agents.
Operational risks This risk is mitigated by the Groups distinctive operating Recruiting and retaining highly skilled management, model that engenders high levels of customer satisfaction employees and agents and by continuous use of market research to assess the As the Group continues to grow, it will need to recruit and satisfaction levels of our customers and to identify usage of retain additional suitable personnel, as well as retaining key other financial products.
We also monitor competitor activity in existing employees, in order to develop its operations further.
terms of product offer and media usage to identify appropriate This is probably the biggest risk that the Group faces.
32 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Principal business risks continued To mitigate this risk the Group has developed bespoke Health and safety leadership development programmes to identify and develop The health and safety of all our employees and agents is its top internal talent.
a key area of importance for the Group.
This is also supported by the use of effective recruitment, Consequently, the Group invests a considerable amount of retention and succession planning strategies.
IPF monitors resource ensuring employees and agents are safety conscious.
remuneration and incentive structures to ensure they are Safety awareness is fully integrated into the agent induction appropriate and competitive, and ensures there are training programme and we provide ongoing safety awareness training, and development opportunities and effective employee holding two dedicated employee and agent safety weeks in communication throughout.
Service disruption The Groups ability to operate effectively depends on information and communication systems.
Such reliance on technology exposes the Group to risk in the event of damage, interruption or failure.
The Group has detailed business continuity procedures and policies in place which are designed to allow the Group to continue trading in the event of such an occurrence.
These policies and procedures are tested on a regular basis.
Political and economic instability in operating markets Each country in which the Group operates will be exposed to its own specific risks.
Adverse political, economic, regulatory or social developments in such territories could have a material effect on the development of the Group.
These risks are specifically addressed by the new country entry model, as discussed above.
For existing operations, these risks are monitored by the local management teams as well as the Group board.
In the current climate, it is likely that the risk of an economic downturn has increased.
The key risk for a consumer lending business is unemployment.
The Group monitors trends in this, as well as detailed management information on customer repayment patterns and feedback from agents, which could provide an early warning.
In the event of a recession, the Group believes its risk is mitigated by the short-term nature of its lending, with the average remaining duration of customer receivables being around six months.
The risk is also mitigated by credit management systems which would enable the Group to tighten its lending criteria quickly.
co. uk ar07 financialreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 33 Financial review International Personal Finance IPF was created by the In order to provide a better understanding of the underlying yeardemerger of the international home credit businesses of on-year performance of the businesses comprising the Group, Provident Financial plc.
Its shares were admitted to the the financial information which is presented in the business Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchanges review and this financial review includes a number of pro forma main market for listed securities on 16 July 2007.
Its results as adjustments which are designed to show the results of the Group a trading division for the period up to the demerger date form a as if it had operated as a standalone entity throughout 2006 and part of the consolidated final results of Provident Financial plc.
The main adjustments are as follows: Since then, the Group has traded independently.
Its results for funding costs: an increase due to borrowing margins on the full year ended 31 December 2007, along with comparative bank facilities being 50 basis points higher post-demerger, information, are reported in the financial statements which are offset by a reduction in the level of borrowings following a included on pages 54 to 91 of this report and which have been capital contribution from the former parent of 70 million prepared using the principles of reverse acquisition accounting, prior to demerger: in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union IFRS.
These financial the costs of being a separately listed entity and the need statements show that the statutory profit before tax for the to establish an independent central office in the UK: year is 47.0 million 2006: 34.6 million.
Statutory earnings additional costs arising from the need to move to new per share EPS has increased by 41.4% from 8.94 pence to premises and establish an independent IT function: 12.64 pence.
The statutory income statement is set out on page 56 of this document.
a reduction in interest payable to reflect the fact that certain interest costs were charged to IPF by its former parent which would not have been charged had IPF been a standalone entity: pension contributions made to the schemes provided by the former parent and accounted for as an addition to the carrying value of the scheme assets rather than as a charge to the income statement : and an adjustment for exceptional demerger costs, which mainly comprise the cost of setting up a separate IT function, an accelerated charge in respect of share-based payments and a credit in respect of the defined benefit pension scheme.
A reconciliation from the statutory profit before tax to the pro forma profit before tax is presented below: 2007 2006 m m Statutory profit before tax 47.0 34.6 Funding costs 1.1 2.8 Central office costs 2.8 6.9 Additional property and IT costs 2.7 Interest payable to former parent 2.0 2.6 Pension contributions 5.3 Exceptional demerger costs 2.8 4.2 Pro forma profit before tax 50.1 39.9 David Broadbent Finance Director
