co. uk ar07 financialreview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 39 95% of customer receivables due in less than a year 95% of debt facilities committed for more than one year Exposure is limited to banks which meet a minimum external The expected future cash flows in respect of delinquent credit rating, and individual limits are applied to those banks customers are based on actuarial curves which have been based on their rating.
Where possible, the Group holds cash derived by third-party actuaries and are refreshed periodically only with A3 rated banks.
Balances held at institutions with a to ensure they are reflective of recent credit trends.
lower credit rating are classified as excess risk and are subject Any failure to make a full contractual repayment is treated to board approval.
as a customer delinquency and the carrying value of the Capital risk customer receivable is reassessed to include an estimate This is the risk that the availability of capital will not be of impairment.
This, combined with the fact that for our sufficient to support the growth of the business.
Capital home collected products the Group does not charge defaults adequacy is monitored internally by considering the ratio of for missed payments, means that 73% of receivables were equity to amounts receivable from customers and the gearing impaired at 31 December 2007 at 31 December 2006: 64%.
It is not subject to regulatory control.
As noted on page 35, The Group does not look to re-age or renegotiate contracts equity to receivables at 31 December 2007 was 45.9% 2006: when customers take longer than the contracted term to repay.
As a result of this, the Group believes that it is well As a result, no receivables are past due and not impaired and capitalised.
there are no receivables that would have been impaired had Credit risk their terms not been renegotiated.
This is the risk that amounts receivable from customers will not be recovered.
The Group lends low value amounts over Going concern short-term periods to a diverse group of customers across a After reviewing the budget for the year to 31 December 2008 number of countries and the risk of a material unexpected loss and the forecasts for the four years to 31 December 2012 is therefore low.
The risk is minimised by the use of application which included information in respect of profit, cash flows and and behavioural scoring techniques to ensure the Group only banking covenants, and after taking into account the existence lends to those customers who can afford the repayments.
of committed banking facilities which are sufficient to fund the planned growth of the business until 2010, the directors have a IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources The financial statements include the disclosures in respect to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this of financial instruments required by IFRS 7.
In reviewing the reason they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing disclosures in respect of customer receivables, the following the financial statements.
should be noted: Amounts receivable from customers are assessed for David E S Broadbent impairment each week and any change in expectation of Finance Director the amount to be recovered is reflected in the impairment charge in the income statement.
