06 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Our management team Strong international management 4.
Kenny McPartland Country manager Mexico A new generation of leaders is now adding to Kenny joined the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc in the UK expatriates who founded the business 1984.
He held various operational roles before joining the international team in 1998 as field development manager in the Czech Republic.
Its a strong team with significant He was appointed country manager for Slovakia in 2001 and moved experience of running home credit businesses to be country manager for the Czech Republic in 2003.
He took charge of both countries in January 2006.
In January 2008 he was appointed in emerging markets.
Its also international with country manager for Mexico.
considerable skills in operating across national boundaries.
Behind the top team is a depth of 5.
Stephen Rice Country manager Romania management to ensure strong leadership in Stephen joined the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc years to come, both in existing markets and 30 years ago, progressing through various field management roles.
In 2001 he joined the international team in Poland, progressing to the in new markets waiting to be entered.
Its also position of development director.
In 2004 he became managing director of a team with a common vision for the business the business in Slovakia.
In 2006 he was appointed as country manager in Romania.
that sees strong growth and rapid expansion into new geographies.
Chris Wheeler Country manager Russia 1.
Balzs Pap Chris joined the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc Country manager Poland in September 1985 and held management positions at a number of Balzs joined the international team in Hungary in April 2001 levels in the UK.
He transferred to the international team in June 2001, as operations manager.
He progressed to operations director working in operations in the Czech Republic, Slovakia, and Poland.
in 2003, and was appointed as country manager of Hungary in In 2005 he moved to Mexico to lead the expansion into the Guadalajara 2006.
In February 2008 he became country manager of Poland.
region and in January 2008 was appointed country manager for Russia.
Before joining the team he held positions at GE and Citibank.
David Parkinson Country manager Czech Republic and Slovakia David joined the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc in 1986.
He held various field-based and head office roles, including head of communications, head of training and head of agent support before joining the international team in 2003 as field development manager.
David was appointed as country manager for the Czech Republic and Slovakia in January 2008.
Botond Szirmak Country manager Hungary Botond joined the international team in Hungary in February 2002 as a development manager, moving to area manager, regional operations manager and divisional operations manager.
He was appointed operations director in 2006 and in February 2008 he became country manager for Hungary.
co. uk ar07 overview International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 07 7.
John Mitra New markets Marketing and communications Fred joined the UK home credit division of Provident Financial plc in John joined the international team in 2004 as marketing and 1974.
Prior to joining the international team as development director communications director having previously worked for global companies in 2003, Fred held various roles including HR director, marketing including Rothmans, Sheaffer and Bic International.
He is responsible and commercial director and in his role as deputy managing director for developing the marketing and communications strategy.
was responsible for the UK and Irish operations.
He is responsible for identifying, researching and setting up new country opportunities and 11.
John Saville for managing the portfolio of new markets through their initial pilot Information technology period until they become self-sufficient.
John joined the international team in 2007 as director of information technology IT, having previously worked for companies including 8.
Catherine Gardner HBOS, Telewest, Vodafone, Cable & Wireless and Lehman Brothers.
Human resources John is responsible for all aspects of IT across the Group.
Catherine joined the international team in 2000 as director of human resources having previously worked for a variety of companies, including 12.
John Williams , ASDA and House of Fraser Stores.
She is Credit and risk responsible for the development and implementation of an effective John joined the international team in 2005 as director of credit having HR strategy for the business.
previously worked for companies including GUS plc, The Associates, and Marks & Spencer.
His role includes managing all aspects of credit 9.
Nick Illingworth risk across all markets.
Operations Nick joined Provident Financial plc in 1986 in an accounting capacity then moved to the insurance division in 1991 as operations director before joining the international team in 2001.
He is responsible for improving the effectiveness and efficiency of field operations in all markets.
15 76 2 3 9 12 8 08 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Business review
