Directors Report For the financial year ended 30 September 2007 The Directors are pleased to present their report and the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 30 September 2007.
Principal activities The Group trades principally as a manufacturer and distributor of soft drinks.
Review of activities A detailed review of the Groups activities and of future plans is contained within the Chairmans Statement on page 8 and the Chief Executives Review and Operating and Financial Review on pages 9 to 19.
Results and dividends The Groups profit for the financial year before taxation attributable to the equity shareholders amounted to 55.6m 2006: 36.5m and the profit after taxation amounted to 42.5m 2006: 24.2m.
An interim dividend for the current year of 3.3p per ordinary share was paid on 29 June 2007.
The Directors are proposing a final dividend for the current year of 7.7p per share.
This will be paid on 15 February 2008 to shareholders on the register at close of business on 7 December 2007, subject to shareholder approval.
Directors The following were Directors of the Company during the financial year ended 30 September 2007: Gerald Corbett, Paul Moody, Joanne Averiss, Chris Bulmer, John Gibney, Bob Ivell and Michael Shallow.
In accordance with Article 79 of the Companys Articles of Association none of the current serving Directors are required to offer themselves for re-election until the AGM in 2010.
Their biographical details are set out on pages 22 and 23 of this report.
Directors interests The Directors interests in ordinary shares of the Company are shown within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 39.
No Director has any other interest in any shares or loan stock of any Group company.
Other than Joanne Averiss, who is a director of a number of PepsiCos subsidiaries, no Director was or is materially interested in any contract other than his service contract, subsisting during or existing at the end of the financial year which was significant in relation to the Groups business.
Further details of Joanne Averiss appointment are set out on page 29 in the Corporate Governance section of the Annual Report.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors remuneration The Remuneration Committee, on behalf of the Board, has adopted a policy that aims to attract and retain the Directors needed to run the Group successfully.
The Directors Remuneration Report is shown on pages 33 to 39.
Annual General Meeting Details of the Companys forthcoming AGM are set out in a separate circular which has been sent to all shareholders with this report.
Employee involvement The Group uses a number of ways to engage employees on matters that impact them and the performance of the Group.
These include annual roadshows at key sites conducted by members of the Executive Committee, regular team meetings, the publication of a bi-monthly internal newsletter, The Mag, together with the b. link intranet site containing easy access to the latest company information as well as company policies and vacancies.
This year the Company launched formal quarterly business performance updates for employees, which are cascaded by line managers.
An Employee Involvement Forum was established in 2004 through which nominated representatives ensure that employees views are taken into account regarding issues that are likely to affect them.
In addition, where the Company has entered into a recognition agreement with a Trade Union, it fulls its obligations to consult and negotiate accordingly.
The Group approaches these relationships from a partnership perspective.
A robust employee opinion survey process is also in place to ensure that employees are given a voice in the organisation and that the Group can take action based on employee feedback.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 25 Directors Report continued All eligible employees are able to participate in the Britvic Share Incentive Plan which gives them the opportunity to purchase ordinary shares in the Company using money deducted from their pre-tax salary and to receive matching shares from the Company up to a maximum of 75 per four week pay period.
Britvic Ireland has a number of well established employee involvement mechanisms including team brief cascades to all employees, newsletters and Trade Unions.
Equal opportunities The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all employees without discrimination and applies fair and equitable employment policies which ensure entry into and progression within the Group.
Appointments are determined solely by application of job criteria and competency.
Disabled persons Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated in respect of training and career development.
For those employees becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group is supportive, whether through retraining or redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group, wherever reasonably practicable.
Supplier payment policy The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided the supplier meets its obligations.
The average number of days of payments outstanding for the Group at the financial year end was 30 2006: 41.
Political contributions During the year the Group and its subsidiaries made no political contributions.
Charitable donations During the year the Group has contributed 17,187 2006: 36,491 to communities in the UK.
Major shareholders As at 28 November 2007, the Company had been notied of the following major shareholdings.
Number of ordinary shares Per cent Snowdon Acquisitions Limited 30,207,082 13.98 AXA S. A.
25,530,380 11.82 Barclays PLC 15,099,229 6.99 PepsiCo, Inc 10,739,120 4.97 J. P. Morgan Chase & Co. 10,576,107 4.89 Newton Investment Management Limited 10,178,856 4.71 Legal & General Group plc 8,845,302 4.09 Deutsche Bank AG 6,546,894 3.03 Aviva plc & its subsidiaries 6,507,470 3.01 Where not provided previously in this Directors Report, the following provides the additional information required for shareholders as a result of the implementation of the Takeovers Directive into English law.
As at 30 September 2007, the Companys issued share capital comprised a single class of shares referred to as ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary share capital can be found in Note 22 to the financial statements.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares present in person and entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll, every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every ordinary share held.
The notice of the AGM species deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the general meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the numbers for, against or withheld in relation to each resolution are announced at the AGM and published on the Companys website after the meeting.
26 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Company other than: Certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority whereby certain employees of the Company require the approval of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
Resolution 9, which will be proposed as a Special Resolution at the 2008 AGM, will give the Company authority to use its available cash resources to acquire up to 21,600,000 of its own shares in the market for either cancellation or to hold them as treasury shares.
The Directors will only use this power after careful consideration, taking into account market conditions prevailing at the time, other investment opportunities, appropriate gearing levels, and the overall position of the Company.
The Directors will only purchase such shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benets for shareholders.
IFG Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the Britvic Employee benefit Trust, holds 1.03% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 28 November 2007 in trust for the benefit of the Executive Directors, senior executives and managers of the Group.
The voting rights in relation to these shares are exercised by the Trustee.
The Trustee may vote or abstain from voting the shares or accept or reject any offer relating to shares, in any way it sees t, without incurring any liability and without being required to give reasons for its decision.
It may take all or any of the following matters into account: The long-term interests of beneciaries: Interests of beneciaries other than financial interests: Interests of beneciaries in their capacity as employees or former employees or their dependants: Interests of persons whether or not identied who may become beneciaries in the future: and Considerations of a local, moral, ethical, environmental or social nature.
The Trustee may not accept any offer relating to the shares without the prior written consent of the Company.
Under the rules of the Britvic Share Incentive Plan the Plan eligible employees are entitled to acquire shares in the Company.
Plan shares are held in trust for participants by Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited the Trustees.
Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an instruction to the Trustees no vote is registered.
In addition, the Trustees do not vote on any unawarded shares held under the Plan as surplus assets.
As at 28 November 2007, Equiniti Share Plan Trustees Limited held 1.97% of the issued share capital of the Company.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities and or voting rights.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment whether through resignation, purported redundancy or otherwise that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Companys banking arrangements are terminable upon a change of control of the Company.
Certain other indebtedness becomes repayable if a change of control leads to a downgrade in the credit rating of the Company.
The Companys agreements with PepsiCo are terminable upon a change of control, details of which are included on page 19.
The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a Special Resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
At the 2008 AGM a Special Resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the Companys existing Articles of Association in relation to the provisions of the new Companies Act 2006.
It is the Groups objective to manage its financial risk so as to minimise the adverse uctuations in the financial markets on the Groups reporting profitability and cash ows.
The specic policies for managing each of the Groups main financial risk areas are detailed in Note 27 to the financial statements.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the financial statements The Directors have chosen to prepare the Financial Statements for the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union, and for the Company in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice UK GAAP.
In the case of UK GAAP financial statements, English company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial period, which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 27 Directors Report continued State whether applicable accounting standards have been followed: and Prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In the case of IFRS financial statements, IAS1 requires that the financial statements present fairly for each financial period the Groups financial position, financial performance and cash ows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the denitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of financial statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable IFRS.
Directors are also required to: Properly select and apply accounting policies consistently: Present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: and Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specic requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal controls, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as dened by the Companies Act 1985 of which the auditors are unaware.
Each Director has taken all steps that ought to be taken by a Director to make themselves aware of and to establish that the auditors are aware of, any relevant information.
A copy of the financial statements is placed on the Companys website.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial Statements After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group overall have adequate resources to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, these financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to accept reappointment as auditors of the Company and a resolution proposing their reappointment is contained in the Notice of AGM and will be put to the shareholders at the AGM.
By Order of the Board John Price Company Secretary 28 November 2007 28 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007
