Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Financial and Business Review continued Business Resources The Treasury department is also Britvic is one of the two leading A successful long-standing relationship responsible for the management of branded soft drinks businesses in with PepsiCo that resulted in the the Groups debt liquidity, currency GB and Ireland.
It is one of the top Exclusive Bottling Agreement EBA requirements and cash.
A key activity two soft drinks businesses in the GB being renewed in GB in 2004 for a in the period was to replace around take-home channel, is the leading further 15 years, with an extension to 229m of bank-based borrowings with soft drinks supplier to the GB licensed 2023 on admission to the London Stock the proceeds of a private placement.
on-trade and is a significant player Exchange.
The acquisition of Britvic The issue of the placement, largely with a growing presence in the leisure Ireland has further strengthened this in the US, had the following features: and catering channel.
relationship with the EBA for Ireland lasting until 2019.
This relationship gives A maturity ranging from seven to The main resources the Group uses Britvic the exclusive right to distribute twelve years: to achieve its results are: the Pepsi and 7UP brands in GB and Sterling and US dollar proceeds An extensive and balanced portfolio Ireland, access to all new carbonated the latter swapped to sterling : of stills and carbonates brands, including drinks developed by PepsiCo for Robinsons, Pepsi, 7UP, Tango, J2O, distribution in GB and Ireland and, All proceeds on an effective xedBritvic, Fruit Shoot, R Whites and to support the development of its interest rate basis after taking into Pennine Spring.
The breadth and depth carbonates offering, access to PepsiCos account the effects of the interest of Britvics portfolio enables it to target consumer and customer insight, rate swap arrangements.
consumer demand across a wide range competitor intelligence, marketing best At 30 September 2007, the Groups net of consumption occasions, in all the practice, brand and product development debt of 403.6m consisted of 195.3m major soft drinks categories and across expertise and technological know-how.
drawn under the Groups committed all relevant routes to market.
In take-home, bank facility, 13.1m of drawings under strength of Britvics brand portfolio Britvics customers include the Big 4 uncommitted bank facilities and 223.7m is underpinned by its consumer insight supermarkets Tesco, J Sainsbury, of private placement notes.
This was and product development capability Asda and Morrisons together with a netted off with 27.3m of surplus cash which has consistently enabled it to number of other important grocery and 1.2m of issue costs of loans.
produce innovative products, packaging retailers.
The Group has significant formats and promotional activity Pensions supply arrangements with a number of designed to meet evolving consumer The Group operates a pension scheme, key players in the GB pub sector and tastes and preferences.
During the which has both a dened benefit fund leisure and catering channels.
Through period we acquired the soft drinks and and a dened contribution fund.
The Britvic International, the Group has built distribution businesses of C&C Group dened benefit section of the scheme on the success of the Robinsons and plc for 249.2m 169.5m in cash was closed on 1 August 2002, and since Fruit Shoot brands by introducing these Britvic Ireland.
Britvic Ireland owns this date new employees have been products into markets outside GB.
a number of leading brands in the eligible to join the dened contribution Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, Britvic also has a well-invested and section of the scheme.
As a result of including Club, Ballygowan water, exible production capability and a the full actuarial valuation carried out as Britvic, Cidona, MiWadi, and Energise recently outsourced distribution network at 31 March 2004, further contributions Sport, as well as the rights to the that, according to AC Nielsen, enabled of 30m were made in March and Pepsi and 7UP brands.
its soft drinks to be made available to December 2005 and an additional consumers at over 96% of the points of 10m in December 2006.
Additional sale on a sterling-weighted value basis contributions of 10m per annum will in the GB take-home and over 94% be made in December 2007 to 2010 of the points of sale of the licensed total of 40m in order to further reduce on-trade channels in 2007. the funding deficit in the scheme.
The Group IAS 19 deficit at the full year was 5.6m.
Excluding Britvic Ireland, there is an IAS 19 surplus at the full year of 9.1m 65.8m deficit at 1 October 2006.
The change from a deficit to a surplus is mainly due to changes in actuarial assumptions applied as at 30 September 2007.
It should be noted that this is an accounting valuation and is subject to high volatility.
