BR1-007 Front end 07 vAW5 13 12 07 17:20 Page 2 Britvic brands are synonymous with quality, and parents know they can buy our drinks with confidence.
With brands that appeal to all ages, our drinks keep the whole family hydrated and happy every day.
2 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 BR1-007 Front end 07 vAW5 13 12 07 17:20 Page 3 It has been a particularly busy year for the Robinsons brand.
We have introduced two new ambient fruit juices: Fruit Shoot 100% for children and Robinsons Smooth Juice for the whole family.
These new juices, each available in three avours, require no refrigeration or preservatives, thanks to our investment in new production facilities.
In response to the growing trend towards more natural products, we have redesigned the Robinsons range of squashes with no articial colours or avours, plus distinctive new label designs.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 3 Britvic offers a wide range of drinks for all occasions.
Whether at home, in the pub, or out-and-about, we provide great tasting drinks in a broad range of avours and formats to meet everyones needs.
4 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 This year the Britvic range of mixers and juices, a part of many peoples night out, has been redesigned and relaunched in stylish new packaging, with some great new avours.
Our well-received not-from-concentrate fruit juices have also gone through a make-over and are now even more distinctive as AJ and OJ.
J2O, Britvics leading on-premise brand, has continued to prosper.
Last years limited edition Orange & Pomegranate proved so popular that it has now been confirmed as a permanent member of the range.
Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 5 With iconic brands and innovative and stylish pack designs, our products provide refreshment and enjoyment for the young and the young at heart alike.
6 Britvic plc Annual Report 2007 This year has been a year of transition for a number of our brands.
Tango went into rehab and returned with a new look and a new formulation, with reduced sugar and no articial colours or avours.
And Drench, our recently developed water brand, was repositioned to ensure more mass market appeal, with an emphasis on the benets of hydration.
Our relationship with PepsiCo continues to thrive, with a continued emphasis on no-added sugar varieties of both Pepsi and 7UP.
New pack designs for Pepsi have continued to refresh the brand image.
