Property Activities Leading fund management consolidator, seeking selective trading opportunities Scope of activities Property Fund Management Property Services Property Projects development and trading Listed Property Portfolio Management Strategic focus UK and Europe We are making progress in expanding our property model in the UK to include property fund management and aligning the strategic focus of the UK business with that of South Africa.
South Africa Property Fund Management Our strategy has been to: Grow assets under management.
Pursue the strategic acquisition of individual properties and portfolios.
65 Property Services Our strategic objective is integrally linked to the growth of Property Fund Management Subsequent to the year end we sold our property fund management and property administration businesses to Growthpoint Properties Limited.
Property Projects Our strategy is to: Source development and trading opportunities to create value and trade for profit within agreed risk parameters Listed Property Portfolio Management Our strategic objectives are to: Substantially increase our assets under management.
Attract foreign investment into South African listed property equities.
Management structure Global Head of Property Activities Sam Hackner South Africa Regional Head Sam Leon Fund Management Norbert Sasse Property Services Andrew Cox Property Projects Robin Magid Listed Property Portfolio Management Angelique fide Rauville Finance Dave Donald Divisional review Contribution analysis Operating profit Employees Adjusted shareholders equity 100% 100% 100% 1.6 3.0 5.0 97.0 98.4 95.0 0% 0% 0% Property Activities Remainder of Investec group Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation and excluding Group Services and Other Activities.
The numbers prior to 31 March 2005 were reported in terms of UK GAAP.
Amounts are shown before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
Divisional review Property Activities Leading fund management consolidator, seeking selective trading opportunities Overview and financial analysis Operating profit decrease by 23.9% to 14.1 million, contributing 3.0% to group profit.
Funds under management increased by 31.0% to R25.9 billion 2006: R19.8 billion.
The variance in operating profit over the year can be explained as follows: Excluding the revaluation of investment properties, the South African division showed an improvement in operating profit largely due to: - Strong equity and property market fundamentals.
- An increase in funds under management.
- Realised gains on the sale of properties.
Revaluation of investment properties net of funding costs amounted to 1.1 million 2006: 6.4 million.
The lower contribution is due to increased funding costs.
Outlook UK and Europe Refer to strategic focus on page 65.
South Africa Property fundamentals continue to be positive, with lower vacancies, increasing rentals in all sectors and reasonably stable financing costs.
Development opportunities also remain positive: however, there are concerns on the availability of skills and the increased cost and shortage of building materials.
A shortage of prime zoned land has become evident, driving land prices to unprecedented levels, particularly industrial land.
Subsequent to the year end we sold our property fund management and property administration businesses to Growthpoint Properties Limited.
