Dividers Front 6 28 07 3:29 PM Page 1 C M Y CM MY CY CMY K Overview of the year Composite Who we are Investec comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited is an international, specialist banking group that provides a diverse range of financial products and services to a select client base.
Founded as a leasing company in Johannesburg in 1974, we acquired a banking licence in 1980 and were listed on the JSE Limited South Africa in 1986.
In July 2002, we implemented a Dual Listed Companies DLC structure with linked companies listed in London and Johannesburg.
A year later, we concluded a significant empowerment transaction in which our empowerment partners collectively acquired a 25.1% stake in the issued share capital of Investec Limited.
Since inception, we have expanded through a combination of substantial organic growth and a series of strategic acquisitions.
Today, we have an efficient integrated international business platform, offering all our core activities in the UK and South Africa and select activities in Australia.
What we do We are organised as a network comprising five business divisions: Private Client Activities, Capital Markets, Investment Banking, Asset Management and Property Activities.
Our head office provides certain group-wide integrating functions and is also responsible for our central funding and the Trade Finance business.
Our strategic goals and objectives are based on the aspiration to be recognised as a distinctive specialist banking group.
This distinction is embodied in our entrepreneurial culture, which is balanced by a strong risk management discipline, client-centric approach and ability to be nimble, flexible and innovative.
We do not seek to be all things to all people and aim to build well-defined, value-added businesses focused on serving the needs of select market niches where we can compete effectively.
1 Mission statement We strive to be a distinctive specialist banking group, driven by commitment to our core philosophies and values.
Values Outstanding talent - empowered, enabled and inspired Respect for others Meritocracy Embrace diversity Passion, energy, stamina, tenacity Open and honest dialogue Entrepreneurial spirit Unselfish contribution to colleagues, clients and society Distinctive Performance Dedicated Partnerships Client Focus Cast-iron Integrity Distinctive offering Moral strength Leverage resources Risk consciousness Break china for the client Highest ethical standards Philosophies Single organisation Meritocracy Focused businesses Differentiated, yet integrated Material employee ownership Creating an environment that stimulates extraordinary performance Overview of the year
