Directorate Investec plc and Investec Limited Executive directors Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography Area of 31 directorships membership expertise March 2007 Chief Executive Officer Stephen Koseff 55 BCom CA SA The Bidvest Group Board Risk Review Stephen joined Investec in Finance H Dip BDP MBA Limited, JSE Limited, Committee and DLC 1980.
He has had diverse Rensburg Sheppards Capital Committee experience within Investec plc and a number of as Chief Accounting Officer Investec subsidiaries and General Manager of Banking, Treasury and Merchant Banking.
Managing director Bernard Kantor 57 - Phumelela Gaming Board Risk Review Bernard joined Investec in Finance and Leisure Limited, Committee and DLC 1980.
He has had varied Rensburg Sheppards Capital Committee experience within Investec 145 plc and a number of as a Manager of the Trading Investec subsidiaries division, Marketing Manager and Chief Operating Officer.
Group Risk and Finance director Glynn R Burger 50 BAcc CA SA Investec Bank Limited Board Risk Review Glynn joined Investec in Finance H Dip BDP MBL and a number of Committee and DLC 1980.
His positions within Investec subsidiaries Capital Committee Investec have included Chief Accounting Officer, Group Risk Manager and Joint Managing Director for South Africa.
Alan Tapnack 60 BCom CA SA Investec Bank UK Board Risk Review Alan is a former partner of Finance Limited and a number Committee and DLC Price Waterhouse and of Investec Capital Committee former Managing Director subsidiaries of Grey Phillips Bunton Mundell and Blake, a leading South African marketing services group.
Alan joined Investec in 1991 and has held the positions of Chief Finance Officer and Chief Executive Officer of Investec Bank UK Limited and Chief Executive Officer of Investec's UK operations.
Additional information Non-executive directors Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography Area of 31 directorships membership expertise March 2007 Non-executive Chairman Hugh S 66 BA LLB LLD hc Growthpoint Nomination Hugh practised as an Law Herman Properties Limited, Committee attorney before joining Pick Pick 'n Pay Holdings 'n Pay, a leading South Limited, Pick 'n Pay African retail group, where Stores Limited and a he became Managing number of Investec Director.
subsidiaries Sam E 68 FCA CA SA Investec Bank Limited, DLC Audit Sam is a former Finance Abrahams Foschini Limited, Committee, Investec international partner and Auditing Super Group Limited plc Audit Committee, South African Managing and Phumelela Investec Limited Audit Partner of Arthur Andersen.
Gaming and Leisure Committee, Limited Nomination Committee, Board Risk Review 146 Committee and DLC Capital Committee George FO 58 BSc Econ FCIS Investec Bank UK DLC Audit George is a former Head of Banking Alford FIPD MSI Limited Committee, Investec Private Banking and Regulaplc Audit Committee, Personnel at Kleinwort tions Investec Limited Audit Benson Group and was a Finance Committee, senior advisor to the UK Remuneration Financial Services Authority.
Committee and Board Risk Review Committee Cheryl A 48 BA Law B Ed fide Beers - Cheryl acted as the South SustainCarolus Consolidated Mines African High Commissioner able Limited, IQ Business to London between 1998 developGroup Pty Limited, and 2001 and was Chief ment Fenner Conveyor Executive Officer of South EducaBelting South Africa African Tourism.
She is tion Pty Limited, Ponhalo Chairperson of South Holdings Pty African National Parks.
Limited, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd and Executive Chairperson of Peotona Group Holdings Pty Limited Additional information Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography Area of 31 directorships membership expertise March 2007 Huruko Fukuda 60 MA Cantab DSc Chairman Caliber - Huruko was previously Finance OBE Global Investments Chief Executive Officer of Asset Ltd, Aberdeen Asian the World Gold Council, ManageSmaller Companies and senior advisor at Lazard.
She is former vice Chairman She is an adviser to of Nikko Europe plc and a Metro AG, Centaurus partner of James Capel & Capital Ltd and Aspis Co and a former director of Bank SA.
AB Volvo and of Foreign and Colonial Investment Trust plc.
Geoffrey MT 57 MA Hons Jardine Lloyd DLC Audit Geoffrey is a former Law Howe Thompson Group plc Committee, Investec Managing Partner of Clifford Chairman, The JP plc Audit Committee, Chance LLP and was Morgan Overseas Investec Limited Audit Director and Group Investment Trust plc Committee, General Counsel of Robert and Nationwide Remuneration Fleming Holdings Ltd.
He is Building Society Committee and also a former Chairman of Board Risk Review Railtrack Group plc.
Committee 147 Donn E Jowell 65 BCom LLB Investec Bank Limited, DLC Audit Donn is a director of Law Wits Donald Gordon Committee, Investec Werksmans Inc. and former Medical Centre, JCI Limited Audit Chairman and founder of Limited and Committee, Board Jowell, Glynn and Marais, Werksmans Inc Risk Review Investecs South African legal Committee, DLC advisors.
Ian R Kantor 60 BSc Eng MBA Insinger fide Beaufort - Former Chief Executive of Finance Holdings SA in which Investec Limited.
Investec holds an 8.6% interest, Bank Insinger fide Beaufort NV where he is Chairman of the management board Senior independent director Sir Chips 67 - Investec Bank Limited, DLC Audit Sir Chips is former Finance Keswick fide Beers SA, Arsenal Committee, Investec Chairman of Hambros Bank Holdings Plc and plc Audit Committee, Limited and Hambros PLC Arsenal Football Club Investec Limited Audit and a former director of Plc.
He was Remuneration on the Court of the Bank of Committee, England.
Nomination Committee and Board Risk Review Committee Additional information Non-executive directors continued Name Age at Qualifications Current Investec committee Brief biography Area of 31 directorships membership expertise March 2007 M Peter 49 BCom MAP LDP Super Group Limited - Peter is Chairman and Finance Malungani Chairman, founder of Peu Group Phumelela Gaming Proprietary Limited.
and Leisure Limited Chairman, Investec Bank Limited, Investec Asset Management Holdings Pty Limited and a number of Peu subsidiaries Sir David 63 BSc Hons FIA Pippbrook Limited, DLC Audit Sir David was previously Finance Prosser Epsom Downs Committee, Investec Chief Executive of Legal & Racecourse Limited, plc Audit Committee General Group PLC, joining The Royal and Investec Limited Legal & General in 1998 as Automobile Club Audit Committee Group Director Limited and Investments becoming Intercontinental Deputy Chief Executive in 148 Hotels Group PLC January 1991 and Group Chief Executive in September 1991.
Sir David was previously Chairman of the Financial Services Skills Council.
Peter RS 62 CA SA Investec Bank Limited, DLC Audit Peter was the former Finance Thomas various Investec Committee, Investec Managing Director of The companies and JCI plc Audit Committee, Unisec Group Limited.
Limited Investec Limited Audit Committee and Board Risk Review Committee Fani Titi 44 BSc Hons MA Investec Bank Limited Board Risk Review Fani is Chief Executive Finance MBA Chairman, AECI Committee Officer of Tiso Group Limited and Investec Limited.
Asset Management Holdings Pty Ltd Notes: The dates on which the directors were appointed to the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited can be found on page 109.
Details of the Investec committees can be found on pages 112 to 117.
