Directors' report Business review Investec is an international, specialist banking group that provides a diverse range of financial products and services to a niche client base in three principal markets, the UK, South Africa and Australia, as well as certain other markets.
Investec is organised into five principal business divisions: Private Client Activities, Capital Markets, Investment Banking, Asset Management and Property Activities.
In addition, our head office provides certain group-wide integrating functions such as Risk Management, Information Technology, Finance, Investor Relations, Marketing, Human Resources and Organisational Development.
It is also responsible for the group's central funding as well as other activities, such as trade finance.
The operating financial review on pages 6 to 8 provides an overview of the group's strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read in conjunction with the sections on pages 9 to 152 which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
The directors' report deals with the requirements of the combined consolidated Investec group, comprising the legal entities Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Authorised and issued share capital Investec plc and Investec Limited Details of the share capital are set out in note 31 to the financial statements.
153 Investec plc The ordinary shares and the special convertible preference shares were subdivided on a 5 for 1 basis on 4 September 2006.
During the year the following shares were issued: 5 700 000 preference shares on 22 February 2007 at 887 pence per share.
9 381 149 preference shares on 3 August 2006 at 859 pence per share.
2 613 835 ordinary shares on 22 February 2007 at 640 pence per share.
1 830 642 ordinary shares on 23 November 2006 at 209 pence per share.
800 000 ordinary shares on 23 July 2006 at 1 054 pence per share.
Investec Limited The ordinary shares, class A variable rate compulsory convertible preference shares and the special convertible preference shares were subdivided on a 5 for 1 basis on 4 September 2006.
During the year the following shares were issued: 1 100 000 ordinary shares on 4 July 2006 at R164.50 per share this occurred prior to the 5 for 1 share split.
2 173 785 ordinary shares on 20 November 2006 at R31.94 per share this occurred after the 5 for 1 share split.
800 000 special convertible redeemable preference shares on 4 July 2006 at R0.
001 per share this occurred prior to the 5 for 1 share split.
1 830 642 special convertible redeemable preference shares on 20 November 2006 at R0.0002 per share this occurred after the 5 for 1 share split.
2 613 835 special convertible redeemable preference shares on 19 February 2007 at R0.0002 per share this occurred after the 5 for 1 share split.
Financial results The combined results of Investec plc and Investec Limited are set out in the financial statements and accompanying notes for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Ordinary dividends Investec plc An interim dividend was declared to shareholders as follows: 10 pence per ordinary share to non-South African resident shareholders 2006: 7.6 pence registered on 15 December 2006.
Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited to South African resident shareholders registered on 15 December 2006, a dividend paid by Investec Limited on the SA DAS share, equivalent to 5 pence per ordinary share and 5 pence per ordinary share paid by Investec plc.
The dividends were paid on 22 December 2006.
The directors have proposed a final dividend to shareholders registered on 27 July 2007, which is subject to the approval of the members of Investec plc at the Annual General Meeting which is scheduled to take place on 8 August 2007 and, if approved, will be paid on 13 August 2007.
Shareholders in Investec plc will receive a distribution of 13 pence 2006: 10.6 pence per ordinary share.
Investec Limited An interim dividend of 138 cents per ordinary share 2005: 89.2 cents was declared to shareholders registered on 15 December 2006 and was paid on 22 December 2006.
The directors have proposed a final dividend of 180 cents per ordinary share 2006: 125.4 cents to shareholders registered on 27 July 2007 to be paid on 13 August 2007.
The final dividend is subject to the approval of members of Investec Limited at the Annual General Meeting scheduled for 8 August 2007.
The holders of 3 700 000 Investec Limited shares have agreed to waive their rights to the proposed final dividend.
Preference dividends Investec plc Non-redeemable non-cumulative non-participating preference shares 154 Preference dividend number 1 for the period 3 August 2006 to 30 September 2006, amounting to 9.3 pence per share, was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 8 December 2006 and was paid on 11 December 2006.
Preference dividend number 2 was declared amounting to: i 30.2 pence per share for the period 1 October 2006 to 31 March 2007 in respect of the preference shares trading on the JSE Limited JSE ISIN: GB00B19RX541.
ii 6.51 pence per share in respect of the further tranche of preference shares issued on 22 February 2007 in respect of the period 22 February 2007 to 31 March 2007 ISIN: GB00B1N73946 and trading on the Channel Islands Stock Exchange CISX.
Preference dividend number 2 will be paid to holders of the non-redeemable non-cumulative non-participating preference shares as recorded in the books of the company at the close of business on 29 June 2007 on 4 July 2007.
Preferred securities The second annual distribution, fixed at 7.075 per cent, on the e200 million fixed floating rate, guaranteed non-voting non-cumulative perpetual preferred callable securities issued by Investec Tier 1 UK LP on the 24 June 2005, is due on 24 June 2007 and will be paid on the next business day, the 25 June 2007.
Investec Limited Non-redeemable non-cumulative non-participating preference shares Preference dividend number 4 for the period 1 April 2006 to 30 September 2006 amounting to 385 cents per share was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 8 December 2006 and was paid on 11 December 2006.
Preference dividend number 5 for the period 1 October 2006 to 31 March 2007 amounting to 428.44 cents per share was declared to members holding preference shares registered on 29 June 2006 and will be paid on 4 July 2006.
Redeemable cumulative preference shares Dividends amounting to R32 452 219.18 were paid on the redeemable cumulative preference shares.
Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Directors and secretaries Details of directors and secretaries of Investec plc and Investec Limited are reflected on pages 145 to 148 and at the beginning of the Annual Report.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Messrs SE Abrahams, GFO Alford, GR Burger, HS Herman, fide Jowell, IR Kantor, A Tapnack, PRS Thomas and F Titi retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, but being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Directors and their interests Directors' shareholdings and options to acquire shares are set out on pages 132 to 138.
The register of directors' interests contains full details of directors' shareholdings and options to acquire shares.
Share incentive trusts Details regarding options granted during the year are set out on pages 184 and 185.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprising non-executive directors meets regularly with senior management, the external auditors, Operational Risk, Internal Audit, Group Compliance and the group's Finance division, to consider the nature and scope of the audit reviews and the 155 effectiveness of the group's risk and control systems.
Further details on the role and responsibility of the Audit Committee are set out on page 113.
Auditors Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc. have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors of Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors will be proposed at the next Annual General Meeting scheduled to take place on 8 August 2007.
Contracts Refer to page 124 for details of contracts with directors.
Subsidiary and associated companies Details of principal subsidiary and associated companies are reflected on pages 228 and 229.
Major shareholders The largest beneficial shareholders of Investec plc and Investec Limited are reflected on page 142.
Special resolutions Investec plc At the Annual General Meeting held on 10 August 2006, special resolutions were passed in terms of which: a renewable authority was granted to Investec plc to acquire its own shares in terms of Section 166 of the Companies Act, 1985. a renewable authority was granted to Investec plc to allot equity securities of the Company for cash without application of the pre-emption rights provided by section 89 of the UK Companies Act, 1985.
An authority was granted to Investec plc that each ordinary share and special converting share be subdivided into 5 ordinary shares and 5 special converting shares, respectively.
various amendments were made to the Articles of Association to reflect the changes to the share capital of Investec plc following the subdivision of the Investec plc ordinary shares and the special converting shares.
Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Investec Limited At the Annual General Meeting held on 10 August 2006, the following special resolutions were passed in terms of which: a renewable authority was granted to Investec Limited and its subsidiaries to acquire its own shares in terms of Section 85 and 89 of the South African Companies Act No 61 of 1973. authority was granted to Investec Limited that each ordinary share, each class A variable rate compulsory convertible noncumulative preference share and each special convertible redeemable preference share be subdivided on a 5 for 1 basis.
Amendments were made to the Memorandum of Association to reflect the subdivision of the above mentioned shares in the authorised share capital of the company.
Accounting policies and disclosure Accounting policies are set having regard to commercial practice and comply with applicable United Kingdom and South African law and International Financial Reporting Standards.
These policies are set out on pages 165 to 173.
Creditor payment policy The group's standard practice is to agree the terms of payment with suppliers at the time of contract and make payments within the agreed credit terms, subject to satisfactory performance.
Employees The group's policy is to recruit and promote on the basis of aptitude and ability, without discrimination of any kind.
Applications for 156 employment by disabled people are always considered bearing in mind the qualifications and abilities of the applicants.
In the event of employees becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure their continued employment.
The group's policy is to adopt an open management style, thereby encouraging informal consultation at all levels about aspects of the group's operations, and motivating staff involvement in the group's performance by means of Employee Share Schemes.
Donations During the year, Investec plc made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 893 067 and Investec Limited made donations for charitable purposes, totalling 1 781 971.
During the year the group made donations of 4 048 to political parties outside the European Union.
Environment The group is committed to pursuing sound environmental policies in all aspects of its business and seeks to encourage and promote good environmental practice among its employees and within the community in which it operates.
Further information on the group's sustainability practices can be found on pages 139 and 140 and on our website.
Subsequent events Refer to page 223.
David Miller Benita Coetsee Company Secretary Company Secretary Investec plc Investec Limited 15 June 2007 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Directors responsibility statement The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the auditors' report set out on page 158 to 160, is made with a view to distinguishing for stakeholders the respective responsibilities of the directors and of the auditors in relation to the combined consolidated financial statements.
The directors are responsible for the preparation, integrity and objectivity of the combined consolidated financial statements that fairly present the state of affairs of the company and the group at the end of the financial year and the net income and cash flows for the year, and other information contained in this report.
To enable the directors to meet these responsibilities: The board and management set standards and management implements systems of internal controls and accounting and information systems aimed at providing reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and the risk of fraud, error or loss is reduced in a cost effective manner.
These controls, contained in established policies and procedures, include the proper delegation of responsibilities and authorities within a clearly defined framework, effective accounting procedures and adequate segregation of duties: The group's internal audit function, which operates unimpeded and independently from operational management, and has unrestricted access to the group Audit Committee, appraises and, when necessary, recommends improvements in the system of internal controls and accounting practices, based on audit plans that take cognisance of the relative degrees of risk of each function or aspect of the business: and The group Audit Committee, together with the internal audit department, plays an integral role in matters relating to financial and internal control, accounting policies, reporting and disclosure.
To the best of our knowledge and belief, based on the above, the directors are satisfied that no material breakdown in the operation of the system of internal control and procedures has occurred during the year under review.
The group consistently adopts appropriate and recognised accounting policies and these are supported by reasonable judgements and 157 estimates on a consistent basis and provides additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the group's financial position and financial performance.
The financial statements of the company and the group have been prepared in accordance with the respective Companies Acts of the United Kingdom and South Africa, comply with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS and Article 4 of the IAS regulation.
The directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the company, key processes in operation and specific enquiries, that adequate resources exist to support the company on a going concern basis over the next year.
These financial statements have been prepared on that basis.
It is the responsibility of the independent auditors to report on the combined consolidated financial statements.
Their report to the members of the company and group is set out on page 158 of this report.
Approval of financial statements The director's report and the financial statements of the company and the group, which appears on pages 153 to 157 and pages 161 to 235, were approved by the board of directors on 15 June 2007.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companies website.
legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Signed on behalf of the board Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Chief Executive Officer Managing Director 15 June 2007 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Independent auditors report to the members of Investec plc We have audited the group financial statements the financial statements of Investec plc for the year ended 31 March 2007 which comprise the combined consolidated income statement, combined consolidated and parent company balance sheets, combined consolidated cash flow statement, the combined consolidated statement of total recognised income and expense and the related notes 1 to 44.
These financial statements have been prepared under the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the information in the Directors' Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
This report is made solely to the company's members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to the company's members those matters we are required to state to them in an auditors' report and for no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the company and the company's members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
Respective responsibilities of directors and auditors The directors' responsibilities for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and for preparing the parent company financial statements and the Directors' Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice are set out in the Statement of Directors' Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
158 We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, in addition, the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
We also report to you whether in our opinion the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
In addition we report to you if, in our opinion, the company has not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding directors' remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement reflects the company's compliance with the nine provisions of the 2006 Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the board's statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the group's corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Director's Report, the unaudited part of the Directors' Remuneration Report, the Chairman's Statement, the Operating and Financial Review and the Corporate Governance Statement.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
Basis of audit opinion We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the directors in the preparation of the financial statements, and of whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the group's and company's circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited are free from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited.
Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Opinion In our opinion: the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of the group's affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended: the group financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation: the parent company financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the parent company's affairs as at 31 March 2007: the parent company financial statements and the part of the Directors' Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985: and the information given in the directors' report is consistent with the financial statements.
Separate opinion in relation to IFRSs As explained in the accounting policies of the group financial statements, the group, in addition to complying with its legal obligation to comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, has also complied with the IFRSs as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
In our opinion the group financial statements give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRSs, of the state of the group's affairs as at 31 March 2007 and of its profit for the year then ended.
Ernst & Young LLP 159 Registered auditor London 15 June 2007 Notes: 1.
The maintenance and integrity of the Investec plc web site is the responsibility of the directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited Independent auditors report to the members of Investec Limited We have audited the group annual financial statements of Investec Limited, which comprise the directors' report, the consolidated balance sheet as at 31 March 2007, the consolidated income statement, the consolidated statement of total recognised income and expenses and consolidated cash flow statement for the year then ended, a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes, as set out on pages 153 to 229 and the parent company annual financial statements of Investec Limited, which comprise the balance sheet as at 31 March 2007, the income statement and the statement of changes in equity for the year then ended, a summary of significant accounting policies, and other explanatory notes, as set out on pages 232 to 235.
Directors' responsibility for the financial statements The company's directors are responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the South African Companies Act of 1973.
This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error: selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies: and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances.
Auditor's responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing.
Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement.
160 An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error.
In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity's preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control.
An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion.
Opinion In our opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group and the company as of 31 March 2007 and of the financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, and in the manner required by the South African Companies Act of 1973.
Registered auditors Johannesburg 15 June 2007 Financial statements Investec plc and Investec Limited
