Compliance Compliance risk is the risk that we fail to comply with the letter and spirit of all statutes, regulations, supervisory requirements and industry codes of conduct which apply to our businesses.
We seek to bring the highest standard of compliance best practice to all our jurisdictions.
In keeping with our core values, we also endeavour to comply with the highest professional standards of integrity and behaviour, which builds trust.
We are subject to extensive supervisory and regulatory governance in the countries in which we operate.
The South African Reserve Bank is our lead regulator.
Significant business developments in any of our operations must be approved by the Reserve Bank as well as by the business's home country regulatory authority.
Under the DLC structure, both Investec plc and Investec Limited maintain separate Compliance structures.
Each Compliance structure operates under terms of reference which are approved by its listed company board and Audit Committee.
Each Compliance structure is headed by a Group Compliance Officer, who operates independently from operational management and is responsible for ensuring adequate management of compliance risk within their silo.
Each Group Compliance Officer reports to the Chief Executive Officer of their listed company as well as to the Global Head of Compliance, who is ultimately responsible for management of the Compliance function of both listed groups.
The Group Compliance Officers have unrestricted access to the Chairman of their Audit Committee.
The Compliance divisions operate under matrix management reporting structures and are decentralised throughout the businesses.
Under these arrangements, Compliance Officers are appointed to all significant business units and report to the business heads, but remain under the general supervision of Group Compliance.
Where appropriate, certain cross-enterprise compliance functions, such as Compliance Monitoring, are centralised and report directly to the Group Compliance Officer.
Compliance risk is managed through internal policies and processes, which include legal, regulatory and other technical requirements relevant to the business.
The Compliance Officers provide regular training to ensure that all employees are familiar with regulatory obligations.
They also provide advice on regulatory issues.
Compliance staff independently monitor the business units to ensure adherence to policies and procedures and other technical requirements.
101 Compliance staff work closely with business and operational units to ensure consistent management of compliance risk.
The group's Compliance Officers are charged with developing and maintaining constructive working relationships with regulators and supervisors in all our geographies.
UK and Europe - year in review Regulatory activity in the UK and Europe during the year focused on the implementation of various European directives and initiatives of the UK's Financial Services Authority FSA.
These included: More principles based regulation.
Markets in Financial Instruments Directive MiFID.
More principles based regulation We have been monitoring the FSA's Better Regulation Action Plan, which aims to improve future regulation in the UK.
This plan is underpinned by the FSA's objective to become a more principles based regulator by moving the balance of financial services regulation towards high-level principles rather than detailed rules and guidance.
Our Compliance function is closely involved with the development of more principles based regulation.
The business has dealt effectively with practical issues arising out of the principles based initiatives to date.
These include TCF, the deletion of the money laundering sourcebook in favour of high level principles, and proposals to delete the training and competence sourcebook.
MiFID During 2006, we began implementing MiFID.
We engaged external consultants to conduct an impact analysis of the implementation of MiFID on our businesses.
The impact analysis formed the basis for scoping our implementation project.
As part of the project governance, we established an implementation steering committee, comprising senior executives and a working group.
Implementation is progressing in line with expectations ahead of the 1 November 2007 UK implementation date.
MiFID includes more detailed requirements on the effective identification and management of conflicts of interest than the current regime.
We are finalising work on a wide-ranging conflicts of interest project to address MiFID requirements and ensure we remain at the forefront of good practice.
Compliance Compliance TCF In line with the FSA's expectations for 2006, we continued to embed TCF throughout the life cycle of transactions and into our business.
The TCF agenda is closely aligned to our core values to treat people fairly and act with integrity.
We have benchmarked our progress on TCF and we continue to meet good practice standards.
We also continue to develop the capabilities of the London based control room and transaction monitoring functions.
This area is particularly dependent on effective use of information technology.
It has focused on systems developments to enhance our ability to identify conflicts of interest and aggregate and disclose holdings and dealings information for regulatory purposes and monitoring of trading behaviour.
The Compliance monitoring function developed and enhanced its approach to risk based monitoring.
A significant number of business specific and thematic reviews were completed.
The Irish branch applied significant resources to implementing a new Consumer Protection Code.
This introduced a broader definition of consumer and significantly changed the regulatory landscape for the provision of financial services to consumers in Ireland.
South Africa - year in review Implementation of Financial Intelligence Centre Act and Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities Act The implementation of the Financial Intelligence Centre Act and Protection of Constitutional Democracy against Terrorist and Related Activities is ongoing.
As required by the legislation, new clients are required to undergo a significant process at the take-on stage to ensure that they are adequately identified and verified prior to transacting.
The allocated time periods set by the South African Reserve Bank for the re-identification of existing clients expired during 2006.
Accordingly and, as required by legislation, all existing Investec clients who have not been adequately identified or verified have had their accounts frozen, subject to our receipt of the outstanding information and documentation.
102 The focus during the year was on ongoing implementation of international best practice standards of anti-money laundering and antiterror financing in the banking environment.
These standards include: Risk weighting of clients according to the money laundering and or terror financing risks they pose.
An enhancement of the Client Acceptance Policy to accommodate this risk weighting.
A comparison of client lists to databases of adverse client information including persons named on the United Nations lists.
The ongoing maintenance of a client's identification and verification and risk weighting.
Implementation of the National Credit Act 34 of 2005 The National Credit Act, 2005 NCA governs the granting and management of credit and comes into operation on 1 June 2007.
The NCA applies to all categories of credit agreements we enter with affected parties, at arms length.
It focuses on consumer protection, specifically the prevention of reckless credit behaviour, combating over-indebtedness and curbing discriminatory lending practices.
The Act imposes strict requirements on credit providers including disclosure to consumers, advertising and marketing practices, complaints and pricing.
Affected entities within the group have successfully applied to the National Credit Regulator for registration as credit providers.
A project plan has been implemented to ensure that the affected entities will be compliant with the provisions of the NCA by the effective date.
Compliance monitoring A project was initiated to align the existing compliance monitoring process with the operational risk processes.
The project entails the adoption of the Enterprise Risk Assessor risk based methodology used by the Operational Risk division The first phase of the project involved a comprehensive analysis of all acts, regulations, rules, guidance notes and codes of conduct affecting each of the operating units, the performance of a risk assessment of each underlying regulatory risk, and the identification and recording of all controls the operating units use to mitigate such risks.
The second phase of the project involves a review of the compliance monitoring programmes used within the operating units and the design and migration of a fully comprehensive risk based monitoring programme onto the Enterprise Risk Assessor software.
Compliance Compliance Mauritius - year in review Following the significant legislative changes that were introduced in the previous year, the regulatory environment remained stable.
Investec Bank Mauritius Limited adopted, and is an active participant in, the compliance projects initiated by the South African Compliance function.
Australia - year in review During the past year, the Australian regulatory environment underwent continued reform.
This included new legislation, Australian Securities and Investments Commission policy statements and Australian Prudential Regulation Authority standards, specifically on Fit and Proper requirements for responsible persons and a new standard on governance for banks.
Anti-money laundering With the enactment of the Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorism Financing Act 2006 in December 2006 and the publication of various anti-money laundering rules, businesses affected by the new laws including ourselves can start planning for compliance.
The Act will be implemented in stages with commencement dates of obligations ranging from immediately to 24 months.
These obligations include customer identification and verification, record keeping, establishing and maintaining an Anti-Money Laundering and CounterTerrorism Financing programme, and ongoing customer due diligence and reporting suspicious matters, threshold transactions and international funds transfer instructions.
Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA The APRA has finalised certain standards requiring us to implement and update various internal processes.
For instance, the APRA Fit and Proper standard, which was finalised in 2006, seeks to ensure that responsible persons have the appropriate skills, experience and knowledge for their role and act with honesty and integrity.
This strengthens the protection given to depositors and stakeholders.
We conducted fit and proper assessments of each responsible person and have notified APRA of the details of each nominated responsible person.
103 Financial services reform Reforms of the Australian regulatory environment have been aimed at streamlining the regulatory process, while maintaining the highest standards of market integrity and consumer protection.
Reforms introduced in the Financial Services Reform Act FSRA in March 2002 which became effective 11 March 2004 were intended to reduce compliance costs, while facilitating the entry of new market participants and the introduction of new services and products.
However, in March 2007, the Australian government, recognising that there was still room for improvement, published the Corporate and Financial Services Regulation Review: Draft Corporations Amendment Regulations and Commentary Draft Regulations.
The Draft Regulations are part of the government's progress towards a simpler regulatory system arising out of the Corporate and Financial Services Regulation Review, which started in April 2006.
The Draft Regulations are a significant step towards reducing the regulatory burden on business and helping to make the system more userfriendly for consumers.
However, there are still a number of issues in relation to these proposed regulations which require fine-tuning and, in a few instances, reassessment of whether some of the underlying objectives of the review process are being achieved.
Licensing Various Investec Australian Financial Services Licences have been amended to reflect recent changes in our activities as well as the addition of the acquired NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited businesses.
Group processes implemented to address conflicts of interest It has become increasingly important to ensure that actual or potential conflicts of interest are managed appropriately.
A project has been initiated across the group to identify areas where conflicts of interest may arise and to ensure that appropriate processes are implemented to either avoid or manage these.
To facilitate this process, a conflicts of interest control room is being established to manage conflicts of interest within the group.
Compliance Compliance Credit ratings In general, we were assigned strong ratings for credit quality, capacity for timely repayment and financial strength.
In terms of our Dual Listed Companies structure, Investec plc and Investec Limited are treated separately from a credit point of view.
As a result, the rating agencies have assigned ratings to the significant banking entities within the group, namely Investec Bank UK Limited, Investec Bank Limited and Investec Bank Australia Limited.
Certain rating agencies have assigned ratings to the holding companies, namely, Investec plc and Investec Limited.
Ratings for Investec plc Moody's Short-term deposit rating Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating Baa1 Ratings for Investec Bank UK Limited - a subsidiary of Investec plc Fitch Individual rating B C Support rating 5 Foreign currency short-term rating F2 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB Global Credit Rating Co. Short-term rating A2 Long-term rating A- 104 Moody's Financial strength rating C Short-term deposit rating Prime-2 Long-term deposit rating A3 Ratings for Investec Bank Australia Limited - a subsidiary of Investec plc Moody's Financial strength rating CShort-term deposit rating Prime-1 Long-term deposit rating A3 Fitch Individual rating C Support rating 2 Foreign currency short-term rating F3 Foreign currency long-term rating BBB Ratings for Investec Limited CA Ratings Local currency short-term rating za A1 Local currency long-term rating za AAFitch Individual rating B C Support rating 5 Foreign currency short-term rating F3 positive outlook Foreign currency long-term rating BBB positive outlook Credit ratings Credit ratings Credit ratings continued Ratings for Investec Bank Limited - a subsidiary of Investec Limited CA Ratings Local currency short-term rating za A1 Local currency long-term rating za AACapital Intelligence Ratings Domestic strength rating AForeign currency short-term rating A3 Foreign currency long-term rating BBBFitch Individual rating B C Support rating 2 Foreign currency short-term rating F3 positive outlook Foreign currency long-term rating BBB positive outlook Local currency short-term rating F1 zaf Local currency long-term rating A zaf Global Credit Rating Co. Local currency short-term rating A1 za 105 Local currency long-term rating AAza Moody's Financial strength rating C Global local currency deposit long-term rating A2 Foreign currency deposit long-term rating Baa1 positive outlook Foreign currency deposit short-term rating Prime-2 National scale long-term rating Aa2.
za National scale short-term rating P1.
za Credit ratings Corporate governance
