Capital Markets Specialist structuring and advisory business Scope of activities The growth and development of the business over the last few years has caused us to reflect on the appropriateness of the name Treasury and Specialised Finance.
The name is not reflective of our core activities and has caused some confusion in the market, as a result from now on we will rebrand ourselves Investec Capital Markets.
This does not mean a change of direction of the business.
The Capital Markets division provides a wide range of specialist products, services and solutions to select corporate clients, public sector bodies and institutions.
The division undertakes the bulk of Investec's wholesale debt, structuring, proprietary trading, capital markets and derivatives business.
Strategic focus Our objectives include: Continuing to remain a focused and specialised business, targeting markets and products where we can be distinctive and competitive.
Seeking through strong discipline, that is centred on clients and delivery of structured products: - Asset creation opportunities.
- Product structuring and distribution opportunities.
- Trading, hedging and proprietary market opportunities.
45 Creating platforms for the origination and securitisation of internal and third party originated banking assets on a sustainable basis.
Developing our market leading position, focusing on growth initiatives and growing a portfolio of quality term assets.
Continuing to concentrate on systems, processes and automation, to ensure maximum competitive advantage and long-term cost savings.
Taking advantage of opportunities to use our specialist skills to launch specialist funds.
Investing in the future and targeting growth.
Management structure Global Head of Southern Africa Capital Markets David van der Walt Regional Head Richard Wainwright Commodities and Resource Finance Dharmesh Kaylan UK and Europe Corporate Treasury Gary Gorman Regional Head David van der Walt Equity Derivatives South Africa and Balance Sheet and Interest Rates John Barbour International Milton Samios Commodities and Resource Finance George Rogers Financial Products Mark Currie Corporate Forex UK James Arnold Foreign Exchange Grant Barrow Equity Derivatives Mark Roessgen Interest Rates Brett Hopkins Fixed Income Options David Kantor Project Finance Michael Meeser Foreign Exchange Phillip Wells Structured and Asset Finance David Kuming Principal Finance UK and Europe Andy Clapham Anton Millar Principal Finance US Ruth Leas Balance Sheet Management Clive Sindelman Michael Schewitz Regional Head: Mauritius Craig McKenzie Project Finance Operations Stuart Spencer UK and International Maurice Hochschild Structured and Asset Finance Alistair Crowther Australia Operations UK and International Kevin McKenna Regional Head Jos fide Nobrega Regional Head: Ireland Michael Cullen Commodities and Resource Finance Corporate Treasury: Ireland Aisling Dodgson Australia Anthony Hawke Equity Finance: Ireland Loman Gallagher Commodities and Resource Finance Operations: Ireland Alan Byrne International Jos fide Nobrega Principal Finance Darren Klein Project and Infrastructure Finance Cosmas Kapsanis Mark Schneider Structured Finance David Phillips Balance Sheet Management Jeff Duncan-Nagy Divisional review Contribution analysis Operating profit Employees Adjusted shareholders equity 100% 100% 100% 13.2 25.1 28.3 86.8 74.9 71.7 0% 0% 0% Capital Markets Remainder of Investec group Before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation and excluding Group Services and Other Activities.
The numbers prior to 31 March 2005 were reported in terms of UK GAAP.
Amounts are shown before goodwill, non-operating items and taxation.
Divisional review Capital Markets Specialist structuring and advisory business Overview and financial analysis Strong growth continued as operating profit increased by 75.3% to 117.3 million, contributing 25.1% to group profit.
Growth was underpinned by contributions from all our core value drivers: advising, structuring, asset creation, distribution and trading.
The lending book grew by 3.2% to 3.1 billion.
The variance in operating profit over the year can be explained as follows: Net interest income benefited from an increase in advances, higher activity levels within a number of the businesses established over the past two years and the acquisition of NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited effective 7 July 2006.
The increase in net fees and commissions receivable is attributable to a solid performance from the advisory and structuring businesses in all geographies, with a number of mandates closed successfully, particularly in Project Finance, Structured Finance and Equity Finance.
Principal transactions reflect a significantly improved trading performance on the back of structured transactions and increased client business.
In South Africa, this was helped by increased market volatility and liquidity as well as revaluations and realisations of investments in the Structured Finance and Resource Finance businesses.
In the UK and Australia, we benefited from profits earned in the Principal Finance securitisation, Commodities and Resource Finance and Structured Finance businesses.
Further analysis is provided below.
Impairment losses on loans and advances in local currencies remained largely in line with the prior year.
Expenses increased largely due to an increase in average headcount staff have been hired to progress new initiatives, greater variable remuneration in line with strong growth in profitability, and an increase in costs associated with complying with new and forthcoming regulatory requirements.
Divisional review Capital Markets Specialist structuring and advisory business Developments UK and Europe The European Principal Finance business is fully established and closed a number of transactions during the year, with various deals in the pipeline.
The strong performance of the US business was negatively affected by the volatility in the US sub-prime market, where a number of fair value adjustments were required.
The Acquisition Finance business continued to perform well.
The Project Finance division closed the St Barts and St Helens hospital projects, realising significant fees.
The St Barts deal is the largest PFI project to date in the UK.
Activity continued in the aircraft finance market and we earned strong fee income from this area during the current period, with mandates of more than 0.5 billion completed.
The Fixed Income Options Trading business commenced operations during May 2006 and volumes increased steadily.
The desk is fully resourced and an improved performance is expected going forward.
There are two fund initiatives under way: a structured credit fund and a resources fund.
The resources fund is established with seed capital of $40 million and further capital raising is expected.
The credit fund was delayed due to volatility in credit markets.
A platform for the securitisation of third party originated residential mortgages in Ireland was launched called Nua.
The first assets are being underwritten.
The resources sector continues to be active and we benefited from increased deal flow and good positioning within this market.
Subsequent to the year end, we bolstered our Equity Derivative Sales and Structuring business with a number of high calibre hires.
South Africa 49 Deal activity in most of our lending areas was strong but we were negatively affected by unexpected repayments, resulting in a lower than anticipated closing advances book.
We increased our market share significantly in the equity derivative listed products market through an ongoing focus on innovation and service levels.
The central Derivative Sales and Structuring team continued to be successful, reflected by increased levels of client flows and profitability on the trading desks.
Our focus in the debt capital markets area was rewarded with numerous successful securitisations concluded in the financial year and significant mandates received for deals yet to close.
We continue to concentrate on establishing platforms to provide securitisable assets.
The division holds numerous equity related positions, which are linked to underlying advances.
The results were positively affected both through realisation of certain of these positions and through the increase in valuation of positions held at year end.
Australia The division benefited from the integration of the relevant businesses within NM Rothschild & Sons Australia Limited and now has an increased presence in Commodities and Resource Finance, Project and Infrastructure Finance and Principal Finance as well as a larger lending book.
The acquisition increased the loans and advances book by A$338 million.
The newly established Commodities Desk contributed significantly to earnings during the year and enabled us to provide clients with a full product suite across a range of interest rates, foreign exchange and precious and base metal products.
The Rothschilds acquisition has been successful with people, clients and businesses embedded, effectively transforming Capital Markets into a significant banking business within Australia.
The year ahead will see the strengthening of our origination capability, coupled with the development of new businesses in the areas of Principal Finance, Securitisation and Acquisition Finance.
Outlook The strategy has not changed.
We continue to remain a focused specialist business targeting markets where we can be distinctive and competitive focusing on our core value drivers.
In the UK and South Africa we will continue to strive for depth and greater penetration.
In Australia we will look for opportunities to broaden our franchise.
Securitisation and capital markets are a key focus.
In particular we will look to originate assets in higher margin niche areas to be funded through securitisation in the capital markets.
We will continue to pursue our strategy around specialist funds.
Momentum in the business is good Markets remain favourable and we are still targeting growth in excess of the group target, although are unlikely to achieve the levels of the recent past.
We will continue to invest in the business to ensure continued growth in the medium term.
