Internal Audit Internal Audit provides objective and independent assurance to the board that management processes are adequate for identifying the significant risks to which we are exposed and that the control environment is effective enough to manage these risks.
Internal Audit recommends enhancements to risk management, control and governance processes where weaknesses are identified.
An Internal Audit charter, approved by the Group Audit Committees and reviewed annually, governs our internal audit activity.
The charter defines the role, objectives, authority and responsibilities of the function.
As a result of the silo specific regulatory responsibilities arising from our DLC structure, there are two group Internal Audit divisions located in London and Johannesburg, responsible for Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
An Internal Audit function reporting into Investec plc also exists in Sydney.
The combined functions cover all of the geographies in which we operate.
All the Internal Audit departments use similar risk based methodologies and co-operate technically and operationally.
The heads of Internal Audit report at each Audit Committee meeting and have a direct reporting line to the Chairman of their entity's Audit Committee.
They operate independently of executive management but have ready access to their local Chief Executive Officer and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For administrative and co-ordination purposes, they also report to the Global Head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
Annually, Internal Audit conducts a formal risk assessment of all businesses, incorporating management's assessment of risk, which is documented within the Enterprise Risk Assessor Operational Risk system.
A comprehensive risk based annual audit plan is derived from this assessment, which identifies areas of focus.
These are then confirmed with executive management and approved by the responsible Audit Committee.
High risk businesses and processes are audited annually, with other areas covered at regular intervals based on their risk profile.
There is an ongoing focus on identifying fraud risk as well as auditing technology risks given our dependence on IT systems.
In the past year, there was also a focus on reviewing and providing assurance on our readiness for Basel II and other new regulatory requirements.
We also liaise with the external auditors to ensure a complementary approach and avoid duplication.
The annual plan is reviewed regularly to ensure that it remains relevant and responsive, given changes in our operating environment.
The Audit Committee 100 approves any changes to the plan.
Internal Audit proactively reviews its practices and resources for adequacy and appropriateness, to meet our increasingly demanding corporate governance and regulatory environment.
Audit teams comprising well-qualified, experienced staff ensure that the function has the competence to match our diverse requirements.
Where specific specialist skills or additional resources are required, these will be obtained from third parties as appropriate.
The Internal Audit resources are subject to review by the respective Audit Committees at least once a year.
Significant control weaknesses are reported, in terms of an escalation protocol, to the Audit and Compliance Implementation Forums, where rectification procedures and progress are considered and monitored at a detailed level by management.
The Audit Committee receives a report on significant issues and actions taken by management to enhance controls.
