Customer Risk Acquisitions Risk Review The Group has a broad customer base that is Acquisitions are formally assessed prior to the spread throughout the UK and Ireland.
This involves a process largest single customer, British Gas, represents that includes setting out the financial criteria around 3% of Group sales and is covered by against which the acquisition is targeted and a three year contract.
Credit insurance is in judged plus a due diligence process that covers The Group is subject to a variety of risks which place to minimise the exposure to bad debts commercial, financial and legal aspects of the could have an impact on its performance and and credit vetting and control procedures are target company.
The Group uses external financial condition.
The Board is responsible applied to minimise risk.
advisers to support the Executive Committee for the Groups system of internal control through the due diligence process.
Return on and risk management and for reviewing its Supplier Risk capital employed represents a key measure against effectiveness.
This section describes some of The Group has a number of major suppliers which investment decisions are assessed.
the risks that could materially affect the Groups who work in partnership with the Divisions of business.
The factors below should be considered the Group to deliver value to our customers.
Dened benefit Pension Scheme and Funding in connection with any financial and forward The Commercial Teams within our Divisions The Group is required by law to maintain a looking information and the cautionary monitor supplier performance and are aware minimum funding level in relation to its statement contained on page 4. of the financial position of our suppliers.
This ongoing obligation to provide current and understanding forms part of the negotiation future pensions for members of its pension Health and Safety process in setting commercial terms.
To schemes who are entitled to dened benets.
The Group sets a high priority on the welfare, ensure that best value is achieved in this If any scheme of the Group is wound-up the health and safety of our employees.
Considerable process, alternative sourcing strategies are Group could become statutorily liable to time and energy is spent on ensuring that there considered and pursued where appropriate.
make an immediate payment to the trustees is awareness and understanding of the risks to bring the funding of these dened benets inherent within our trading and distribution Technology and Systems to a level which is higher than this minimum.
operations and that we undertake our work The Group is reliant on its trading and Some of the issues which could adversely in a way that minimises the risk involved.
Considerable investment affect the funding of these dened benets The emphasis is on prevention: training has been made in upgrading the hardware, include poor investment performance all our employees, making people aware network and infrastructure that hosts the of pension fund investments, which is of how we should approach our daily tasks, Groups systems.
They are run from the substantially weighted towards equity monitoring, recording incidents that do Groups head ofce and full disaster recovery markets, and longer life expectancy.
The three occur and learning from our experiences.
procedures are in place and have been tested Group dened benefit schemes have been to ensure that they provide a reliable fall back closed to new members since 2002.
The three Political and Economic Development position.
The Group will continue to invest schemes have benefited in recent years from The Group has benefited from a sustained in modernising its systems.
the high equity weighting and the trustees are period of economic growth and stability in looking at ways to minimise the downside risk the UK.
As the economy has expanded public Employees of this investment strategy.
Assumptions in and private revenues have increased and the Retention and development of our employees respect of expected costs are set after increased prosperity has been a key contributor is a key feature in ensuring the continued success consultation with qualied actuaries.
to investment in infrastructure, both public of the Group.
Staff turnover of 18% is low and private, as well as the supporting growth relative to the industry and the Group places Litigation Risk in repair and maintenance activity.
The Group emphasis on identifying the individuals in the During the past year there has been no has exposure to the risks of deterioration or Group that have the aptitude and ability to grow significant litigation against the Group and downturn in the UK economy.
The Group within the Group.
A number of senior executives the Directors are not aware of any pending does not, however, have a direct exposure within the Group commenced their employment action that would be detrimental to the to consumer spending as a high proportion with the Group working on trade counters and Group as a whole.
of Group revenue is generated from their understanding of our customers is of great non-discretionary purchasing.
benefit to the management of the businesses.
Key Performance Indicators Area KPI Target Actual Actual 2007 2006 Financial Revenue growth Sustainable 17.2% 15.7% performance increase Operating Sustainable 5.1% 4.8% margin% increase EPS Sustainable 27.1p 21.0p increase Long term Dividend Sustainable 6.2p 4.9p value creation increase Customer service Like for like active Sustainable 7% 4% customer accounts increase organic growth Safety Rolling Lost Minimise 37 60 Time Accidents Staff retention Staff turnover Minimise 18.2% 17.8% Workplace Employee opinion Monitor to develop surveys high performance culture THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 05
