This Business Review contains certain forward equipment is to be installed or to the customers Our Business looking statements with respect to the financial business premises.
Most everyday plumbing condition, results, operations and businesses and heating products are available direct from of The BSS Group PLC.
These statements the local branch or can be ordered for next and forecasts involve risk and uncertainty day delivery.
because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that occur in the future.
There Merchant heating, plumbing and sanitaryware Strategic Objective: are a number of factors that could cause actual is supplied through F & P Wholesale which has To create outstanding results or developments to differ materially 10 branches providing nationwide coverage.
from those expressed or implied by these The needs of independent plumbers merchants shareholder value through forward looking statements.
and appliance outlets are serviced through daily deliveries, competitive pricing and F & Ps organic growth, enterprise Our Business is the marketing and distribution exclusive Pro brands.
Within each branch and acquisitions that deliver of heating, plumbing, tools, process, pipeline, there is a team of knowledgeable staff ready to ventilation, mechanical services equipment assist customers with order and product queries.
market leadership in the and industrial supplies in the UK and Ireland.
The product ranges held at each branch have We now address three broad market sectors: been tailored to meet local requirements.
supply of heating, plumbing, pipeline, industrial supplies Industrial Formation of Specialist Division The industrial, commercial, process, construction With effect from 10 April 2007 and the and mechanical services and maintenance markets are served by the acquisition of the trade and assets of equipment to the industrial BSS, Warrens and BOSS brands which BuckHickman InOne, the Group has formed operate from 64 branches in the UK and a Specialist Division which comprises Buck & and domestic construction Ireland.
Customers are serviced across all Hickman Limited and Price Tool Sales Ltd industrial sectors.
Specialist teams provide technical sales support The Division distributes power and hand and a nationwide branch network is supported tools, accessories, consumables, cleaning by a Central Logistics Team as well as a National and maintenance equipment to a range of Distribution Centre based at Lutterworth, which customers from major end users, industrial provides daily branch deliveries.
The business customers, engineers to wholesalers.
is service and quality driven, through world class brands and critically the expertise and Stock is delivered directly to customers from knowledge of our people.
a National Distribution Centre and through a branch network of 28 branches.
Revenue To enhance our service offering to the split by industrial market an Engineering Centre Price Tools specialises in distributing power division based in Nottingham incorporating our tools, accessories, and personal protective specialist brands Pegler & Louden, Austin equipment.
The well established Midlands Stroud and AMS Service & Engineering based distributor offers a complete service has been established.
Notable projects are including technical advice and repairs from secured utilising expert product knowledge a fully equipped workshop.
and operational expertise in valve assembly and actuation.
Business Relationships BSS prides itself in maintaining effective 30% Domestic business relationships with customers, The domestic heating, plumbing and suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Groups Industrial Division sanitaryware markets are serviced through operations are not dependant on any single PTS Plumbing Trade Supplies which has 245 customer or supplier.
To promote effective branches nationwide and a full programme of relationships, the Groups management meets new branch openings planned.
A wide range with customers and suppliers on a regular 70% of customers, both public and private sector, basis and conducts business in an open and Domestic Division from national house builders to the sole direct manner that recognises the needs of all trading plumber and sole trading heating parties to make a commercial return.
Prole Management and Organisation The BSS Group PLC is a specialist Our central purchasing teams work closely In May 2006 Roddy Murray was appointed distributor of heating, ventilation, plumbing, with leading manufacturers, so that we can Group Finance Director and in November 2006 tools, pipeline, industrial supplies and offer our customers the latest product Alan Ball, PTS Managing Director, joined the mechanical services equipment.
innovations and the best range of market Board as an Executive Director.
Function leading brands at competitive prices.
We heads have been part of the Executive Our customers are industrial contractors, are committed to providing our customers Committee since November 2006.
There were domestic plumbers and heating engineers with outstanding promotions which are run no other significant changes to the Executive as well as independent merchants and throughout the year.
With five Regional Committee during the year ended March 2007.
Distribution Centres, PTS are able to offer an unrivalled local level of service backed up by Our branch based, sales focused approach, a national support network.
At local level the supported by nationwide logistics, focuses branches provide a fast and efficient delivery on delivering high levels of customer service.
service either direct to the site where the THE BSS GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 04
