Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT be accepted to the exclusion of the Principal activities and business Dividends and distributions votes of the other joint holders and for review Shareholders can declare final dividends this purpose seniority will be Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc is a by passing an ordinary resolution but determined by the order in which the holding company.
the amount of the dividend cannot names stand in the Register of Members exceed the amount recommended by Its principal subsidiary and associated in respect of the share.
Voting rights in the Board.
The Board can pay interim undertakings are engaged in risk relation to Treasury shares are dividends whenever the financial management advice, insurance & suspended and the voting rights are not position of the Company, in the opinion reinsurance broking and the provision normally exercised in respect of the of the Board, justifies such payment.
shares held in the employee benefit The Board can withhold payment of all trusts.
The Operating & Financial Review, or any part of any dividend or other comprising the Chairmans Statement, Restrictions on voting monies payable in respect of the Chief Executives Report, Review of No member is entitled to vote either in Companys shares from any person with Operations and Finance Directors person or by proxy at any general a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in Review on pages 4 to 21 report on the meeting in respect of any shares held by the Articles if that person has been Group's development during the year him if any call or other sum then served with a notice after failure to under review and on the outlook for payable by him in respect of that share provide the Company with information the future.
These fulfil the requirements remains unpaid.
In addition, no member concerning interest in those shares of the Business Review and are is entitled to vote if he has been served required to be provided under the incorporated in this report by reference.
with a notice after failure to provide the Companies Acts.
In addition, the Company with information concerning Directors may deduct from any dividend Results and dividends interests in those shares required to be payable to any member all sums of The financial statements deal with the provided under the Companies Acts.
money if any presently payable by him consolidated results of the Group for to the Company on account of calls or Deadlines for exercising voting the year ended 31st December 2007, otherwise in relation to shares of the rights which are shown on pages 44 to 100.
The Directors may retain any Votes may be exercised in person, by The profit attributable to shareholders dividends payable on shares on which proxy, or in relation to corporate amounted to 72,402,000 2006: the Company has a lien, and may apply members, by corporate representative.
46,166,000. the same in or towards satisfaction of The Articles provide a deadline for the debts, liabilities or engagements in The unconsolidated financial statements submission of proxy forms of not less respect of which the lien exists.
for the Company to 31st December than 48 hours before the time 2007, prepared in accordance with UK appointed for the holding of the Shareholders Rights GAAP, are set out on pages 103 to 106. meeting or adjourned meeting and the Voting Rights notice of AGM will specify the deadline The directors recommend the payment On a show of hands at a general for exercising voting rights.
of a final dividend of 12.0p per share meeting, every member present in which, together with the interim Variation of rights person has one vote and on a poll every dividend of 8.5p per share paid in If at any time the capital of the member who is present in person or by October 2007 amounts to a total Company is divided into different proxy has one vote for each share held.
dividend of 20.5p per share 2006: classes of shares then, subject to In the case of joint holders of a share 20.5p per share.
statute, the Articles specify that rights the vote of the senior who tenders a attached to any class of shares may be vote whether in person or by proxy will varied with the written consent of the holders of at least 75% nominal value Substantial shareholders of the issued shares of that class, or At the date of this report, the Company had been notified of the following major with the sanction of an extraordinary interests, each representing 3% or more of the existing issued ordinary share resolution passed at a separate general capital see table below.
Jardine Matheson Holdings Limiteds interest is held meeting of the holders of those shares.
through its wholly owned subsidiary JMH Investments Limited.
Jardine Strategic At every such separate general meeting Holdings Limited is interested in the shares of Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited the quorum is two persons holding or under Section 823 1 b of the Companies Act 2006. representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of Ordinary the class calculated excluding any Shareholder shares % Held shares held as treasury shares.
JMH Investments Limited 64,514,916 30.3% Silchester International Investors Limited 34,941,807 16.4% Sanderson Asset Management Limited 8,464,221 3.98% Legal & General Group Plc 6,665,081 3.1% 26 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Directors Report A member that is a corporation may Subject to statutes and applicable The service contracts for Mr Howe and appoint an individual to act on its behalf CREST rules, the Directors may Lord Leach are subject to a six month at a general meeting or class meetings determine that any class of shares may and three month notice provision as a corporate representative.
The be held in uncertificated form and that respectively.
person so authorised shall be entitled to title to such shares may be transferred The Company is required to give 364 exercise the same powers on behalf of by means of the CREST system or that days notice under the service contract such corporation as the corporation shares of any class should cease to be with Mr Burke.
could exercise if it were an individual so held and transferred.
During the past twelve months, a formal A shareholder does not need to obtain evaluation of the Board, its committees the approval of the Company, or of Transfer of shares and individual directors has been other shareholders of shares in the All transfers of shares may be effected undertaken.
Company, for a transfer of shares to by transfer in writing in any usual or take place.
The performance evaluation was common form or in any other form undertaken by means of individual acceptable to the Directors.
The questionnaires that were summarised instrument of transfer must be signed Relationship with Jardine and debated by the Board or the by or on behalf of the transferor and Matheson Group relevant committee.
except in the case of fully-paid shares During the year, the Group continued to by or on behalf of the transferee.
The have a number of arms-length trading The non-executive directors, led by the transferor shall remain the holder of the links with Jardine Matheson Group senior independent director, also carried shares concerned until the name of the companies, the financial implications of out a performance evaluation of the transferee is entered in the Register of which are given in note 35 on page 98.
The Directors Full details of the directors may, at any time after the allotment of The Board remuneration and interests are shown in any share, but before any person has Appointment and replacement of the Remuneration Report.
During the been entered in the Register of Directors period, no director had any material Members as the holder, recognise a The rules relating to the appointment interest in a contract, disclosable renunciation by the allottee in favour of and replacement of directors are set out pursuant to s317 Companies Act 1985, some other person and may accord to in the Articles of Association, under to which the Company or any of its any allottee of a share a right to effect which the minimum number of subsidiary undertakings was a party.
such renunciation upon and subject to Directors must be no less than 2 and such terms and conditions as the At the date of this report the Board is this number may be increased or Directors may think fit to impose.
comprised of five executive directors reduced by ordinary resolution.
Transfers of shares which are in and six non-executive directors including uncertificated form are effected by The Board can appoint any person to be the Chairman.
means of the CREST system.
a Director and any person so appointed Powers of the Directors and Board must stand for re-election at the next The Directors may refuse to register a Procedures Annual General Meeting, and cannot be transfer of certificated shares that are Subject to the Articles, the Companies taken into account when determining not fully paid provided that the refusal Acts and any directions given by special the number of Directors who are to does not prevent dealings in that class resolution, the business of the Company retire by rotation at such meeting.
At of shares from taking place on an open is managed by the Directors who may the Annual General Meeting held in and proper basis.
The Directors may also exercise all the Companys powers, each year, one-third of the Directors refuse to register an allotment or including borrowing money, mortgaging retire from office and a retiring Director transfer of shares whether fully-paid or or charging any of its undertaking, is eligible for re-election, except as not in favour of more than four persons property and uncalled capital and noted above.
Directors are not required jointly.
If the Directors refuse to register issuing debentures and other securities, to hold any shares of the Company by an allotment or transfer they must whether outright or as collateral security way of qualification.
within two months after the date on for any debt, liability or obligation of the which the letter of allotment or transfer In addition, the Articles of Association Company or of any third party.
was lodged with the Company send to and the Combined Code require each the allottee or transferee a notice of the There are established formal procedures director to stand for re-election at least for the structure and authorities through refusal.
once every three years and Lord Leach is which the Board discharges its required to stand for re-election The Directors may decline to recognise responsibilities for the direction and annually, having been in office for over any instrument of transfer unless the management of the Group.
instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share and when Accordingly, Geoffrey Howe, Lord Leach submitted for registration is and Dominic Burke will retire at the accompanied by the relevant share forthcoming Annual General Meeting certificates and such other evidence as and, being eligible, will offer themselves the Directors may reasonably require.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 27 Directors Report Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT The Board meets at least six times a Reviewing the drafting of the Approved the annual audit plan and year, to review the performance of the Interim Report, Preliminary ensured that it was consistent with Group and to discuss the matters Announcement and the Annual the scope of the audit engagement: reserved for its decisions, which include, Report and Accounts for the 2007 Reviewed the findings of the audit, inter alia, the approval of Group year end before their submission to including discussion of any major strategy and budget plans, material the Board: issues arising, any accounting and expenditure authorisations and any Reviewing the Group's Business audit judgements and the internal other matters that are referred to it.
Continuity Plans: control reports, including responses from management and any The Board has established a number of Reviewing the regular reports of the standing committees including an Audit proposed remedial action: and external auditors including internal Committee, a Nominations Committee control reports following the year Reviewed the effectiveness of the and a Remuneration Committee.
The end audit: external auditors.
terms of reference of these Committees Receiving and reviewing reports To encourage the external auditors to are available on the Company's website.
from business risk & compliance and speak freely, the Audit Committee held Relationship with shareholders: The internal audit functions on a regular meetings with the external auditors Board endeavours to maintain dialogue basis: without management present.
The with institutional shareholders and Committee schedules this into its Approving the external audit plan carries out a programme of meetings timetable as a matter of course, usually and fee proposal and considering and presentations each year following every other meeting.
auditor independence in relation to the publication of interim and final non-audit services provided: results and at other times as Internal audit function appropriate.
At the Annual General Evaluating the performance of the The Committee is required to assist the Meeting the Chairmen of the Audit, Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating external auditors by way of a Nominations and Remuneration questionnaire completed by Group to the adequacy of the resourcing and Committees will be available to answer companies worldwide: plans of the Internal Audit department.
To fulfil these duties, the Committee: Reviewing the progress of the UK general insurance intermediaries Reviewed and assessed the annual Committees of the Board within the Group in respect of the internal audit plan: The Audit Committee Risk Mitigation Programme Reviewed all reports on the Group The Committee members are nonfollowing the FSA risk assessment from the internal auditors: executive directors, a majority of whom visits: are independent.
The membership of Reviewed the co-ordination between Considering the Groups risk the Committee during the year internal and external auditors: management profile and controls: comprised: Nick MacAndrew Reviewed and monitored and Chairman, Chris Keljik and Simon management's responsiveness to the Keswick.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the findings and recommendations of Committee.
This exercise is Mr MacAndrew is a chartered the internal auditor: conducted annually by way of an accountant and his profile is noted on Evaluated the effectiveness of the assessment questionnaire completed page 25.
The Board considers that the Internal Audit function by way of a by the members and regular members of the Committee have, questionnaire completed by Group attendees.
collectively, the requisite skills and companies worldwide: experience to enable it to discharge its External auditors Reviewed the terms of reference of responsibilities in a proper manner.
The Committee is responsible for the Internal Audit department: overseeing the relationship with the The Committee met five times during external auditor.
Reviewed a report by the head of the year, with representatives from the internal audit on Risk Management external and internal auditors, and the During the year, the Committee: & Control: and Group Finance Director and Group Legal Approved their remuneration for Director in attendance at each meeting.
Met the head of internal audit, both audit and non-audit services, The Chairman and the Group Chief without management being present, including satisfying itself that the Executive may also attend, subject to to discuss their remit and any issues level of audit fee is appropriate to availability.
arising from the internal audits enable an adequate audit to be carried out.
In addition, the Committee meets conducted: separately with the external and internal The Terms of Reference of the Audit Approved terms of engagement, auditors.
Details of the attendance of Committee cover all matters indicated including any engagement letter each member are set out on page 29. by the Combined Code and include issued at the start of each audit and responsibility for providing advice to the The work of the Committee during the scope of the audit: Board on the Groups interim and 2007 and to the date of this Report Assessed their independence: financial statements: on accounting included: 28 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Directors Report policies and on the control of its Assistance was provided to the Corporate Governance financial and business risks as well as Committee by the Chairman and the During the year the Company has been reviewing the work of the internal and Chief Executive, neither in relation to his in compliance with the provisions as set external auditors.
own remuneration, and by New Bridge out in Section 1 of the Combined Code Street Consultants LLP NBSC.
"on Corporate Governance issued by the A copy of the Terms of Reference can NBSC were appointed by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 be obtained from the Company Remuneration Committee to act as and amended on 1st November 2006 Secretary and is displayed on the advisers to the Committee and they the ""Code"" except for the following: Groups website at have no other connection with the http: www."
In addition Lord Leach Deputy Chairman and Company.
the Audit Committee, through its Simon Keswick both served as nonChairman, formally reports to the Nominations Committee executive directors and both are Board on its activities.
The membership of the Committee directors of Jardine Matheson during the year comprised: Lord Leach Holdings Limited, which has a Remuneration committee Chairman : Geoffrey Howe: Chris Keljik, 30.3% interest in the Company.
The Committee consists of nonSimon Keswick: Nick MacAndrew and The relationship with Jardine executive directors, a majority of whom Bob Scott.
Matheson is maintained on an armsare independent.
The membership of length basis as detailed in note 35 the Committee during the year The Committee met once during the on page 98.
However neither comprised: Chris Keljik Chairman : year.
director can be regarded as Lord Leach: Simon Keswick: Nick Its purpose is to make recommendations independent in the context of the MacAndrew and Bob Scott.
to the Board on the appointment of Code.
The Remuneration Committee met four directors of the Company.
The terms of The Board believes that the presence times during the year.
It is responsible, reference of the committee are available of Lord Leach and Mr Keswick on inter alia, for setting the remuneration on the Companys website.
the Board and its committees and terms and conditions of the Group Executive Committee subject to re-election under the executive directors and setting overall The Group Executive Committee is an Articles continues to be appropriate remuneration policy for senior and in the interests of shareholders advisory group to the Chief Executive management of the Group.
It also generally and does not detract from who has primary responsibility for the approves the allocations under all long their independence and judgment day-to-day management of the Groups term incentive plans and share option on any relevant issue.
Board attendance The number of Board and Committee meetings attended by Board or appropriate Committee members in the year is shown in the table below.
Board Audit Remuneration Nominations meeting Committee Committee Committee 7 x in period 5 x in period 4 x in period 1 x in period G M T Howe 7 - - 1 D J Burke 7 - - - B P Carpenter 6 - - - C A Keljik 7 5 4 1 S L Keswick 5 4 2 1 Lord Leach 4 - 1 1 N R MacAndrew 7 5 4 1 W J N Nabarro 7 - - - J W Rush 7 - - - R A Scott 7 - 4 1 V Y A C Wade 6 - - - Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 29 Directors Report Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT The non-executive directors bring to Directors responsibilities Share capital the Board a broad range of The following statement should be read Movements in the share capital of the experience and expertise.
in conjunction with the Independent company during the year ended 31st The knowledge held by Lord Leach Auditors Reports on page 43 and 102.
December 2007 are set out in note 27 and Mr Keswick built from the long on page 86.
The directors are required to present for standing relationship between each accounting period financial At 31st December 2007 the authorised Jardine Matheson and JLT continues statements which give a true and fair share capital of the Company was to be of particular value.
view of the state of affairs of the 12,500,000 of which 10,667,547.80 The majority of the members of the Company and the Group at the end of had been issued and 1,832,452.20 Audit and Remuneration the financial year and of the profit or unissued.
loss of the Group for that period.
These At 31st December 2007 the issued However, Lord Leach served on the statements are prepared on the going share capital consists of 212,512,825 Remuneration Committee and concern basis unless it is inappropriate ordinary shares of 5p each with voting Simon Keswick served on both these to presume that the Group will continue rights and 838,131 shares are held as committees during the year, and in business.
Treasury shares for which voting rights therefore the Group did not comply The financial statements must be with the Code in relation to the would not be exercised.
prepared in compliance with the membership of these Committees.
The Company has one class of share required formats and disclosures of the Both the Board and the external capital being ordinary shares of 5p each Companies Acts 1985 2006 and with auditors have safeguards in place to and all the shares rank pari passu.
prevent the compromise of the auditors are no special control rights in respect It is also the responsibility of the independence and objectivity.
Details of the Companys shares.
At 31st directors to ensure that arrangements of services provided by the Groups December 2007, the Jardine Lloyd are made for the maintenance of auditors are set out in note 9 on Thompson Employee Share Trusts held adequate accounting records, to page 69.
5,352,416 shares in the Company safeguard the assets of the Group and 2.5%.
The Audit Committee also have a policy to prevent and detect fraud and other on the engagement of external auditors The board has power to implement the irregularities.
and the supply of non-audit services to purchase by the Company of its own The directors confirm that suitable the Group, including an annual review shares in accordance with the power accounting policies, consistently applied of the auditors independence.
granted at the AGM each year, and will and supported by reasonable and be seeking renewal of that power at the The external auditors also report prudent judgements and estimates, forthcoming AGM within the limits set regularly on the actions that they have have been used in the preparation of out in the notice of that meeting.
taken to comply with professional and the financial statements and that regulatory requirements and current All the Companys share schemes applicable accounting standards have best practice in order to maintain that contain provisions relating to a change been followed.
Outstanding options and So far as the directors are aware, there awards would normally vest and The directors are able to consult the is no relevant audit information of become exercisable on a change of Companys legal, financial and other which the Companys auditors are control, subject to the satisfaction of professional advisers on any matter unaware.
any performance conditions at that relating to the Companys affairs.
The directors have taken all the steps Any director may make use of this that they ought to have taken as facility subject to notifying the Accountability and audit directors in order to make themselves Chairman or Finance Director.
The Board has overall responsibility for aware of any relevant audit information If independent advice is sought, this is the Groups systems of internal control and to establish that the Companys subject to prior consultation with the auditors are aware of that information.
and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Chairman or a non-executive director as The implementation and maintenance appropriate.
All directors also have Operating Company controls of the risk management and internal The identification and mitigation of access to the advice and services of the major business risks is the responsibility Company Secretary.
control systems are the responsibility of of operating management.
Each the Executive Directors and senior The Company maintains appropriate operating company maintains controls management.
The systems are designed directors and officers liability insurance and procedures appropriate to its own to manage, rather than eliminate, the in respect of legal actions against its business environment while conforming risk of failure to achieve business directors.
to Group standards and guidelines.
objectives and can provide only reasonable assurance, but not absolute These include procedures to identify and assurance, against material misthen investigate all types of material statement or loss.
30 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Directors Report Compliance and legal Financial and capital There are no restrictions on the use of The Groups legal, compliance and risk management these facilities in the normal course of quality control departments establish The nature of the Groups international business.
compliance policy and carry out regular operations and debt profile expose it to The insurance broking operations within a variety of financial risks including the audits.
The scope of work includes the Group operate in a number of ensuring compliance with laws, effects of changes in foreign currency jurisdictions where local regulation regulations and operating standards for exchange and interest rates, requires a minimum level of capital to the conduct of business which is counterparty credit risks.
The total regulatory reported to the Board and Audit The Group has in place financial risk capital to be held by the Group is not Committee.
management policies, which are considered significant in the context of approved by the Board, and uses Going concern the Groups total available capital.
financial instruments, including The directors consider that the Group Currency risk derivatives, to manage these risks.
and the Company have adequate The Groups major currency transaction resources to continue in operational It is not Group policy to engage in exposure arises from the US dollar existence in the foreseeable future.
speculative activity or enter into revenue earned in the UK.
The Groups Consequently, the financial statements transactions unrelated to underlying US dollar denominated revenue in 2007 have been prepared on a going concern commercial exposures.
The Groups represented 39% of total UK revenue basis.
centralised treasury department is compared to 40% last year.
As a subject to regular internal and external Internal control consequence, the Groups results are audit reviews.
The directors acknowledge that they are highly sensitive to changes in the responsible for the Groups systems of Sterling US dollar exchange rate, each Capital risk management internal control and for reviewing their one-cent movement in the achieved The Group's objectives when managing effectiveness and this review has been exchange rate after hedging translating capital are to safeguard the group's undertaken during the year.
into a change of approximately 0.6 ability to continue as a going concern to million in profit before tax.
Group policy provide returns for shareholders and Internal financial controls is to adopt a prudent approach to the benefits for other stakeholders and to The present framework of financial management of these exposures by maintain an optimal capital structure to controls may be summarised under the maintaining a rolling currency hedging reduce the cost of capital.
In 2007, the Group In order to achieve these objectives, the Organisational structure achieved an average rate after hedging Group may adjust the amount of There are clearly defined areas of of US$1.85 compared with the average dividends paid to shareholders, return responsibility and limits of authority market rate of US$2.00.
In 2006, the capital to shareholders, issue new shares within the Group.
Annual budgets are Group achieved an average rate after or sell assets to reduce debt.
approved by the Board following hedging of US$1.82 compared to an detailed reviews by management.
Group average market rate of US$1.84.
The Group classifies net debt and equity results are reviewed against budget and as capital and manages its balance At the end of February 2008, some reported to the Board on a regular sheet through monthly management 75% of anticipated dollar earnings for basis.
reviews, controls and financial reporting.
2008 are hedged at an average rate of Treasury US$1.96 and for 2009 some 25% of The Group has adequate committed Treasury policy is reviewed and dollar earnings are hedged at an long term credit facilities to ensure that approved by the Board and a review average rate of US$1.96.
the Group is well positioned to meet group reporting to the Finance Director the variances of the seasonal capital is responsible for monitoring treasury requirements and to support the activity and performance.
The Group strategic growth of the businesses.
has policies to cover the key treasury activities of investment of funds, The total capital of the Group at 31st December 2007 and 2006 was as follows: counterparty risk, foreign exchange and interest rate risk.
'm 2007 2006 Cash and cash equivalents - own funds 50.3 76.9 Available-for-sale investments 0.3 1.2 Total cash and available-for-sale investments 50.6 78.1 Borrowings 51.6 21.2 Net debt 1.0 56.9 Total equity 222.5 165.6 Total capital 221.5 222.5 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 31 Directors Report Directors Report DIRECTORS REPORT The table below illustrates the potential Interest rate risk The respective credit quality of each sensitivities of the achieved rate taking The Group has both interest bearing class of financial asset is included within into account hedging, if the balance of the notes to these accounts.
assets and interest bearing liabilities that forecast US dollar revenue was sold at give rise to net exposures to changes in Commodity price risk various sterling US dollar rates.
interest rates, primarily in US dollars and The Group does not have a material Given the sensitivity of the outcome, Sterling.
Where appropriate, the Group exposure to commodity price risk.
if the US dollar remains at its present uses interest rate swaps and forward level or weakens further over a rate agreements to hedge future Risk management controls sustained period, it would have a interest rate exposures, increasing the In accordance with the Code, a process meaningful impact on the Groups proportion of fixed rate interest.
The has been established for identifying, results.
The objective of the Groups Group's policy is to continue to adopt a evaluating and managing risks faced by hedging policy is to mitigate the impact prudent approach to the management the Group.
This process has been in of such volatility but it cannot eliminate of net interest rate exposures.
place for the full financial year and up the long term effect of a permanent to the date the financial statements The Group currently has interest rate movement in exchange rates.
swaps on investment income that have The table below illustrates the sensitivity the effect of converting floating rates to On an ongoing basis, management of the achieved average rate after fixed rates at 4.5% for sterling and profiles the significant risks, both hedging for US dollar revenue earned in 4.6% for US dollars.
The notional operational and strategic, faced by the the UK if the balance of current principal amounts of the swaps, which Group and reviews the effectiveness of unhedged forecast revenue was sold mature during 2008, are 50 million risk management controls including loss forward based off a range of spot rates: and US$100 million.
Each one half percent movement in the Potential achieved This exercise involves the senior average achieved rate of return impacts average rate management across the Group and 2008 2009 interest income receivable by covers a broad range of risks, including approximately 2 million.
operational, financial treasury, USD Sterling spot rate: information technology, health & safety, 1.90 1.95 1.86 Counterparty credit risk human resource and legal areas.
1.95 1.96 1.90 The Group's maximum exposure to 2.00 current rates 1.98 1.94 credit risk is 471.4 million being cash, The key operational risks facing the 2.05 1.99 1.98 investments and deposits, derivative Group include errors & omissions, 2.10 2.00 2.02 assets and trade receivables.
The Group failure of business planning, regulatory maintains a counterparty policy based sanctions and IT security.
on published rating criteria to limit the Transactional currency exposures, other Monitoring of risk is facilitated internally concentration of funds and the than the above US dollar revenue by the Risk & Compliance function and exposure with any one party.
Monetary exposure in the UK, include the Euro assurance gained through financial, limits are assigned to each counterparty and Australian dollar and are selectively compliance and quality based auditing.
based on an agreed scale in relation to hedged through forward foreign Significant failures are reported to the their credit rating.
The Group does executive directors to ensure remedial The Group manages its cash and action is taken.
not hedge exposure to currency investment balances in the form of movements that affect the translation of The Board reviewed the Groups deposits with prime banks, money the profits earned in foreign currencies, procedures for the management of risk market funds and other short term except to the extent that those profits during the year and the Board is money market instruments in are expected to be distributed to the satisfied that appropriate processes and accordance with this investment and holding company.
The Group has procedures are in place in order to counterparty policy which is agreed by significant investments in overseas identify and manage the significant risks the Board of Directors and, in respect of operations.
Movements in exchange faced by the Group.
rates between balance sheet dates may fiduciary funds, all relevant regulatory guidelines.
Investment and banking affect the sterling value of the Groups As noted above, the overall counterparties are subject to preconsolidated balance sheet.
responsibility for internal controls approval at Board level.
within the Company and its subsidiary The currency profile of the Groups undertakings rests with the directors of borrowings is managed to mitigate The Groups approval criteria requires the Company.
Reviewing and financial institutions with a minimum exposure to translation exposures where monitoring the effectiveness of such rating of A.
All exposures to individual practicable and cost effective.
controls forms part of the duties of the counterparties are subject to a limit to Audit Committee.
Monitoring control undue concentrations of credit procedures include detailed reviews of risk.
Counterparty limits and utilisation operating company systems which are levels are reviewed regularly and routinely undertaken by internal audit.
reported to the Board and Audit The responsibility for internal controls Committee.
32 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Directors Report within associated undertakings rests control and, where possible, restrict reason of the change in its percentage essentially with the senior management polluting emissions: holding in the capital of the Company of those operations, the role of the Group arising from any such purchase under ensure appropriate regulatory being to monitor its investments and to iii above.
compliance: exert influence, normally through Board The directors will only consider design and operate facilities taking representation.
making purchases of the Companys into account the efficient use of shares if they believe that it would be Investment appraisals energy and materials: and in the best interests of shareholders Major items of capital expenditure require encourage the adoption of these and would result in an improvement Board approval.
guidelines by contractors acting on in earnings per share: The Board is also responsible for the behalf of the Company.
v Amendments to the Articles of overall strategy of the Group, including Association to bring them up to date acquisitions and related due diligence Suppliers with the phased implementation of requirements.
The Group agrees payment terms with the Companies Act 2006. suppliers when it enters into contracts for Employment policies vi Renewal of the Jardine Lloyd the purchase of goods or services and Thompson Sharesave Option Scheme It is the policy of the Group to provide an seeks to abide by those terms when it is 1997 which expired on 30th October environment in which individual talents satisfied that the supplier has provided 2007.
This is an HMRC approved All can excel.
Employee involvement is the goods or services in accordance with Employee Sharesave Scheme which encouraged with wide share ownership the agreed terms and conditions.
has been operated by the Group in and participation in share option At 31st December 2007 the Company did the UK and in certain overseas schemes.
not have any direct external supplier territories where local legislation creditors.
Employees are kept informed of the permits.
performance of the Group and all matters The Group does not have a standard or affecting them as employees by means of code that deals specifically with the Auditors regular briefings and consultation.
It is proposed that the auditors, The Group is an equal opportunities  LLP, having Donations employer and bases all decisions on signified their willingness to continue in individual ability regardless of race, During the period the Group made office, be reappointed auditors of the religion, gender, age or disability.
No political donations reappointment will be put to the Annual Applications for employment by disabled were made by the Group.
persons will always be fully considered, having regard to their particular aptitudes Annual General Meeting and abilities.
Should employees become By order of the Board The notice convening the Annual General disabled, every effort will be made to David Hickman Meeting to be held on 30th April 2008 at ensure that their employment with the 12 noon at 6 Crutched Friars, London Company Secretary Group continues and, in the event that they are unable to continue to work, that EC3N 2PH is contained in the circular 20th March 2008 accompanying this report.
The special their financial interests are safeguarded.
business comprises the following items: It is the intention of the Group that opportunities for training, career The renewal, within prescribed limits, of: development and promotion of disabled i the authority of the directors to allot persons should, as far as possible, be identical with those for other employees.
securities of the Company up to the available unissued capital: Environmental Policy ii the disapplication of the statutory The Board considers respect for the pre-emption rights: environment to be an integral business iii the authority of the Company to responsibility and good business practice.
purchase its own shares by way of To this end, the following guidelines have market purchases: been issued within the Group, to: iv a waiver of the requirement arising carefully manage waste so as to under Rule 9 of the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers, that Jardine minimise its production where Matheson Holdings Limited, together possible, or suitably dispose of it through recycling schemes: with parties deemed to be acting in concert with it, be required to make a general offer for the Company by Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 33 Directors Report
