Directors Profiles DIRECTORS PROFILES 1 4 Ireland Insurance Broking and the G M T Howe, Chairman, B P Carpenter Group's Employee Benefits businesses Non-Executive Brian Carpenter, 58, joined Jardine until December 2005.
He was Geoffrey Howe, 58, was appointed a Australian Insurance Brokers in 1987. appointed a director and Chief He has been Managing Director of JLT non-executive director in January 2002, Operating Officer of Jardine Lloyd became Joint Deputy Chairman in Australia and New Zealand since 2000 Thompson Group plc on 1st January November 2004 and the Senior and Chief Executive of JLT Asia Pacific 2005.
Independent Director in April 2005. and a member of the Group Executive Committee since May 2005.
He joined He was appointed Group Chief He was appointed Chairman in April the Board in April 2006.
Executive on 1st December 2005, 2006 when he relinquished the standing down as Chief Operating appointments as Senior Independent 5 Officer on that date.
C A Keljik OBE, Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Non-Executive Committee and member of the Audit 3 Committee.
He remains a member of Chris Keljik, 59, was appointed a nonLord Leach, Deputy executive director on 1st November the Nominations Committee.
He is Chairman, Non-Executive 2005 and Chairman of the Chairman of the Nationwide Building Lord Leach of Fairford, Deputy Society and a director of Investec plc.
He was formerly Chairman of Railtrack He is also a member of the Audit and Rodney Leach, 73, was Chairman of Nominations Committees.
He retired as Group plc, a director and group general Jardine Insurance Brokers, latterly JIB a director of Standard Chartered Plc in counsel of Robert Fleming Holdings and Group plc, between 1988 and 1997. managing partner of Clifford Chance.
May 2005 after 29 years, during which He was appointed Deputy Chairman of time he held a number of senior the Company in February 1997. positions working in London, Hong 2 D J Burke, He is Chairman of the Nominations Kong, New York and Singapore in Chief Executive Committee and a member of the corporate finance, treasury and general Dominic Burke, 49, joined Jardine Lloyd Remuneration Committee.
Prior to his retirement, his Thompson in 2000, when the Burke directorships include Jardine Matheson responsibilities at Standard Chartered Ford Group of companies, of which he Holdings, Rothschild Continuation AG included its businesses in Africa, the was Chief Executive and co-founder, and various listed Jardine Matheson Middle East, South Asia, the UK and the became part of JLT.
He is Chairman of Group companies.
A Chartered Accountant, he the Group Executive Committee and is also a non-executive director of was Chief Executive of the UK and Henderson TR Pacific Investment Trust plc, Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC and Millennium & Copthorne Hotels plc.
1 2 3 4 5 24 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 Directors Profiles 6 8 member of the Nominations and S L Keswick, W J N Nabarro Remuneration Committees.
Non-Executive William Nabarro, 52, joined the Group He is Chairman of Yell Group PLC Simon Keswick, 65, was a non-executive in 2003 following a career in merchant and a non-executive director of the banking.
He was appointed Executive director of JIB Group plc between 1988 Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, Swiss and 1997 and was appointed a director Chairman of JLT Employee Benefits in Reinsurance Company Zurich, Pensions of the Company in January 2001.
January 2006 and joined the Board as Insurance Corporation Holdings LLP, and Commercial Director in April 2006 and His other directorships include Jardine a trustee of the Crimestoppers Trust.
He became Chairman of JLTs UK Retail Matheson Holdings Ltd and other was previously Group Chief Executive of Insurance business in April 2007.
He CGNU plc now Aviva plc, a former He is also a non-executive director of is a member of the Audit, Remuneration Chairman of the Board of the ICAP plc and a member of the Strategic and Nominations Committees.
Association of British Insurers and a Advisory Board of SVG, the investment member of the Presidents Committee management business.
7 of the Confederation of British Industry.
N R MacAndrew, Non-Executive 9 J W Rush, 11 Nick MacAndrew, 61, was appointed a V Y A C Wade Finance Director non-executive director on 1st July 2005.
Vyvienne Wade, 46, joined JIB Group in Jim Rush, 47, an Australian Chartered He is Chairman of the Audit Committee 1987 as Group Legal Adviser.
A barrister Accountant, was appointed Finance and a member of the Remuneration and and member of the Inner Temple, she Director of the Group on 1st August Nomination Committees.
He is a nonhas been Group Legal Director of 2006.
He is a member of the Group executive director of Fuller Smith and Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc since Executive Committee.
He joined JLT Turner plc, Wates Group Limited: whose 1997 and is a member of the Group from Jardine Matheson, where he was audit committee he chairs, and F&C Executive Committee.
She was Group Treasurer, having held a number Asset Management plc.
A Chartered appointed a director of Jardine Lloyd of senior management roles within the Accountant, he was previously finance Thompson Group plc in January 2002.
Prior to director of Schroders plc and Chairman She was appointed Chief Executive joining Jardine Matheson, he was with of Save the Children.
Officer of our Latin American operations Price Waterhouse for 12 years.
She is also Chairman of the Insurance 10 R A Scott CBE, Management Business.
Non-Executive Bob Scott, 66, was appointed a nonexecutive director in January 2002 and is Senior Independent Director and a 6 7 8 9 11 10 Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2007 25 Directors Profiles
