7 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Investment Managers Report The financial year under review was a very important one for your Company, which saw a significant restructuring of the Companys assets.
The intention in doing this was to improve the investment opportunity available to our shareholders, and the reconstruction went very smoothly.
We now invest on your behalf two pools of assets, one of which has a Growth bias, and one of which has an Income bias.
Performance We now publish two sets of net asset values NAVs, one for the Growth pool, and one for the Income pool.
I am pleased to be able to report that both sets of assets grew in absolute terms and out-performed their benchmark index.
The Growth NAV out-performed the market, rising by 17.5% net of all costs against a benchmark rise of 12.0%.
The discount also narrowed further, meaning that the share price total return was 19.8%, a significant out-performance of the benchmark which, to remind shareholders, is the FTSE World Europe ex UK Index in Sterling terms.
The Income NAV rose by 16.5% net of all costs against a benchmark rise of 15.7% again, to be clear, the benchmark for this portfolio is the MSCI Europe Net Index in Sterling terms.
The Income shares saw their discount widen a small amount after the launch, meaning that the Income share price total return was 16.2%.
The period over which we are reporting for the Income pool started in August 2006, so it does not yet represent a full year, and is not therefore strictly comparable to the returns for the Growth pool.
Both pools of assets use exactly the same philosophy and process to add value and generate returns for shareholders, exploiting anomalies within the equity market that are at their most marked in the value and growth defined as price Over three years, the Growths NAV on momentum areas of the market.
an annualised basis is up 24.5% and the share price is up 29.1%, against a While this report focuses on returns for the year to March, a year is a very short benchmark return of 21.5%.
Over five time period in investment terms.
Our long-term performance remains satisfactory, years the Growths NAV and share price with the three and five year NAV returns comfortably ahead of the benchmark.
are both up around 13.0% and 14.0% Over three years, the Growths NAV on an annualised basis is up 24.5% and the respectively against a benchmark up share price is up 29.1%, against a benchmark return of 21.5%.
Growths NAV and share price are both up around 13.0% and 14.0% respectively against a benchmark up 9.9%.
This means that we are delivering what we have undertaken to do over all time periods steady out-performance of the Continental European stock market net of all costs.
Over 10 years the picture remains satisfactory: the Growths NAV has grown annually net of all costs by 11.9% and the stock price by 11.5%, against a total European market that has grown annually at 9.4%.
Coincidentally, not only have we out-performed the stock market both in Europe and the UK over this period, but we have also more or less matched the UK housing market.
Attribution analysis see the figures in the box indicates that the major contributors to this performance over the last year came from stock selection and the tactical deployment of the Companys gearing.
Again, this is satisfactory from our point of view as investment managers, as these are the two areas in which we earn our corn.
We have attribution at this level of detail going back eight years, and this is now a sufficient length of time to draw some tentative conclusions.
In effect T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 8 the long-term picture confirms the short-term picture during that 8 year period Growth performance stock selection and the tactical deployment of the Companys gearing have been by attribution far the most important contributors to performance, with such factors as asset for the year to 31st March 2007 allocation and currency effects exerting only a minor influence.
This is consistent 1 Year % with our overall strategy, which is to maximise the amount of risk taken in areas where we believe we can add value stock selection and minimise risk taken in Contributions to Total Returns areas where we do not believe it is possible to add value asset allocation.
In the Benchmark return 12.0 Income portfolio, although it is early days, the initial attribution analysis confirms Allocation effect 2.0 that stock selection is the key ingredient in adding value and out-performing.
Selection effect 5.5 Gearing cash effect 0.7 Market Review Currency effect 0.2 The background to the year under review was that the recovery from the 2003 bear Investment Managers Contribution 4.4 market lows continued, although volatility was slightly higher.
The rise in the oil Portfolio total return 16.4 price paused, and the Euro continued to strengthen against the US dollar.
Interest Fees other expenses 0.9 rates at the long end remained fairly low, but inflation, while still fairly well Performance fee 1.1 contained, drifted up, and in response both the European Central Bank and the Share buybacks 2.2 Residual 0.9 Bank of England raised short rates.
Companies continued to grow their earnings at Other effects 1.1 a satisfactory pace, reaping the benefits both of the economic cycle and of the costNet asset value total return 17.5 cutting measures implemented in previous years.
Impact of decrease in discount 2.3 The key driver for the global economy in the last ten years has been the emergence Share price total return 19.8 of India and China as major economic forces, related in turn to their accession to Source: Xamin Fundamental Data Ltd. the World Trade Organisation.
This in turn has led to an abundance of global liquidity, which has driven up asset prices of every type, including equities, The table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark, of the contributions to total property, corporate and government debt, and raw materials.
global labour pool has been radically expanded, and therefore returns to labour A glossary of terms and definitions is have fallen, while returns to capital which has grown at a much smaller rate have provided on page 70. expanded.
This abundance of global liquidity remained a key driver in the year under review and the local influences in Europe which also helped drive returns on capital higher were the beneficial pressures brought to bear by the single European Income performance market and the single European currency, which have consistently over the last attribution decade put pressure on companies to improve their profitability, and on countries for the period to 31st March 2007 to reduce their cost of production.
% At the country level, we have seen a series of cuts in the rates of corporate tax, the Contributions to Total Returns benefits of which flow more or less straight to us as shareholders: the UK is the Benchmark return 15.7 latest to join this particular party.
The election of Nicolas Sarkozy in France on a Allocation effect 0.5 genuine reform ticket indicates an important change of heart within a country that Selection effect 1.2 seems often to have viewed the EU as a mechanism for protecting French interests.
Gearing cash effect 0.1 Reforms to the German labour market have now been fully implemented, and quite Currency effect 0.2 Investment Managers Contribution 1.4 suddenly Germany has started to generate employment indeed Eurozone unemployment has fallen precipitately in the last year.
The European economy has Portfolio total return 17.1 also grown above trend in the last year, and while this is partly due to the fact that Fees other expenses 0.8 Europe normally prospers late on in the cycle, it also reflects the fact that despite the Performance fee 0.1 Share buybacks 0.6 strength of European currencies, European exports have done well.
Residual 0.3 Portfolios Other effects 0.6 At a stock level our out-performance has been driven by a variety of individual Net asset value total return 16.5 stories.
In the Growth portfolio, we have benefited from overweight positions in Impact of increase in discount 0.3 companies such as Fiat, Salzgitter, SSAB and Vallourec.
Fiat is a classic restructuring Share price total return 16.2 story, driven mainly by the Agnelli familys decision to recruit as the new CEO Source: Xamin Fundamental Data Ltd. Sergio Marchionne, who had successfully turned round the Swiss company The table provides a breakdown, relative to Alusuisse before floating off and managing its Speciality Chemicals division Lonza.
the benchmark, of the contributions to total He was then brought in to turn around the troubled global inspection company return.
Surveillance, so from our point of view as investors, we knew about his excellent A glossary of terms and definitions is track record when he was brought in.
Fiat as a company has a portfolio of attractive provided on page 70.
T H E C O M P A N Y 9 JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Investment Managers Report continued manufacturing assets, which on the car side include Ferrari and Maserati, but also Iveco in light trucks, and CNH, which has the second-highest market share in agricultural equipment world-wide after John Deere.
The profitability of its volume car division, however, has for many years been a drag on the overall company.
Marchionnes efforts quickly bore fruit.
As you know we focus on the best of value and the best of growth when making stock selection decisions.
Fiat had already performed well when we bought into it, making it a growth story, but restructuring remained the catalyst.
In the year under review, although the stock price rose by 76%, earnings estimates rose by 92% source: Bloomberg, so the valuation actually fell.
Vallourec had also exhibited excellent price momentum going into 2006, but the favourable economic cycle meant that they were continuing to receive earnings upgrades, so a catalyst for further out-performance was present indeed in the year under review, earnings estimates rose by 65%.
The driver for this favourable momentum was the development in the oil price over the last four years.
Vallourec supplies tubing to power stations and to oil and gas drilling installations.
The increase in the oil price has driven an increase in oil exploration and production budgets, indeed the number of US drilling rigs doubled between 2002 and 2006.
Vallourec has benefited from this.
Not only does our analysis of these companies focus on the company itself, we also try to find clusters of stocks exhibiting similar characteristics.
Salzgitter falls into this category: tubes are not so important a proportion of its business, but it is still a beneficiary, and the rest of its business comprises more orthodox steel and steel trading operations which benefited from strong end demand and decent price discipline.
Svenska Staal SSAB also benefited from this.
Our process focuses not only on those stocks which we own, but also on those stocks we do not own.
Our decision not to own a stock is always an active decision driven by the inverse of the philosophy that drives what we do own.
Stocks that are expensive, with poor price momentum and where analyst expectations about profit developments are deteriorating, are stocks that we avoid.
In the year under review, for instance, the Growth portfolio remained underweight in SAP, which has historically been one of Europes most successful software and services providers.
In 2006, however, estimates of their profits saw a series of small reductions, which culminated in a profit warning late in the year, due partly to the fact that their product was in transition.
SAP has always commanded a premium valuation, and stocks trading at demanding valuations tend to need the support of continuous good news-flow.
In the Income portfolio we have a much larger number of stocks, all drawn from the higher-yielding and therefore cheaper end of the market, but all exhibiting the kinds of catalyst in their business which will in our view deliver future outperformance.
Examples include Fortis, a Benelux financial services company, benefiting from the growth in savings products and a benign credit cycle.
Since August the launch of the Income share class earnings estimates were upgraded by 11%, but the stock still trades on 10x earnings with a yield of 4.3%.
FL Smidth is a Danish capital goods producer, mainly for the cement industry.
Earnings estimates were upgraded by a staggering 120% so the stock fide-rated from 18x earnings to 9.5x.
Rautaruukki is a Finnish steel producer, so it is benefiting from the so-called super-cycle in commodities and also from improved price discipline in Europe after the Mittal Arcelor deal.
Since August earnings estimates have been upgraded by 47%, but the stock still trades on 11.3x earnings with a yield of 3.7%.
Admiral Group is principally a motor insurance stock which sells through direct channels online and by phone with a variety of brands including Admiral and elephant.
It has been upgraded by 26% since August and yields 3.6%.
T H E C O M P A N Y JPMorgan European Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 10 Within both portfolios, therefore, we have continued to benefit from our exposure to the best of value and the best of growth within Europe.
We do not seek to move aggressively between sectors or countries: we are stock-pickers and we ply our trade by steady adherence to our core belief that companies in the value and growth parts of the spectrum with positive business catalysts will see share price appreciation.
The fundamental objective of the Company has always been capital growth from Europe and we now offer two different strategies for achieving this aim.
We would emphasise that our perspective is long term, but we are confident that the environment for fulfilling this mandate remains positive and we feel that the increased flexibility from the new structure will enhance shareholder choice and value.
Stephen Macklow-Smith Alexander Fitzalan Howard Investment Managers 8th June 2007 T H E C O M P A N Y
