JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 16 Board of Directors Hamish Leslie Melville Chairman A Director since 1996 and Chairman since September 2003.
He is a Managing Director and Chairman of the European Investment Banking Committee at Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited.
He is Chairman of Mithras Investment Trust plc and a director of Persimmon plc.
He is Chairman of Stancroft Trust Ltd and Intersport Switzerland Psc, owner of Mintel International Ltd and a director of Expomedia Group plc and Cluff Gold plc.
Richard Hambro A Director since October 2006.
He is Chairman of JO Hambro Investment Management Limited, a subsidiary of Credit Suisse Private Bank.
He is also Chairman of I Hennig & Co, Newmarket Racecourses Trust, Smiths Holdings Limited, The Money Portal plc, Wiltons St. Jamess Limited and The Joint British Cancer Charities.
Simon Keswick A Director since 1988 and Chairman from 1990 until September 2003.
He is a director of Jardine Matheson Holdings and Jardine Strategic Holdings, and Chairman of The Hong Kong Land Company Ltd, Dairy Farm International Holdings Ltd and Mandarin Oriental International Ltd.
He is also a director of Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc and Jardine Motors Group plc.
He is Chief Executive of Edinburgh Partners Ltd and a Director of Vebnet Holdings plc and Vebnet Ltd.
Previously on the board of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited, Hill Samuel Asset Management International Limited, Waverley General Private Equity Limited and Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Limited.
Charles Peel A Director since October 2005.
A founding director of Peel Hunt and Co. Limited in 1989.
He is a non-executive director of Ingenious Music VCT plc and Artemis Alpha Trust plc and is actively involved with a number of private companies.
Previously held senior positions with Fielding Newson-Smith & Co. and Morgan Grenfell Securities.
He is Chairman of The Daily Mail and General Trust plc and a director of a number of other companies, including Euromoney Institutional Investor plc and Associated Newspaper Trustees Limited.
Ian Russell A Director since January 2007.
He is an advisor to 3i and the Clyde Bergemann Power Group, a Director of Johnson Press Member of the Audit Committee Considered to be independent plc and Chairman of Remploy Ltd.
Previously held senior positions with Scottish Power, Member of the Nomination Committee Tomkins and HSBC.
