JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 4 Investment Managers Report The year to 31st January 2007 continued the trend of recent years, with the UK market again generating positive returns for investors.
Market Background Performance attribution for the year In a pattern that resembled 2005, equity markets got off to a strong start in 2006 to 31st January 2007 with the UK market posting positive returns in February, March and April before a 1 Year market correction in May wiped more than 10% off the off the value of the mid and % small cap market.
The UK market bottomed in June, after which it recovered and Contributions to Total Returns then continued to push higher for the remainder of the year.
The outcome for the Benchmark return 24.3 year ended 31st January 2007 was that the Companys benchmark, the FTSE All Share Allocation effect 0.6 excluding FTSE 100 constituents and investment trusts produced a total return of Selection effect 3.1 24.3%, outperforming the return generated by the FTSE 100 Index of 11.3%.
Gearing cash effect 2.1 Portfolio total return 30.1 The outperformance of mid and smaller sized companies was once again driven by the earnings of these companies outstripping analysts forecasts, prompting positive Fees Expenses 0.6 Share buybacks 0.2 earnings revisions as analysts had to move their estimates higher in response.
The Residual 0.5 UK economy remained robust, delivering its 58th consecutive quarter of GDP Return on Net Assets 30.2 growth.
However, a rise in the inflation rate did prompt the Bank of England to Decrease in discount 2.9 raise interest rates three times from 4.5% to 5.25%.
Return to Shareholders 33.1 Performance Source: Xamin JPMAM AIC Fundamental Data Ltd.
The Companys net asset value total return of 30.2% for the year outperformed The table provides a breakdown, relative to the benchmark index return by 5.9%.
The total return to shareholders was the benchmark, of the contributions to total 33.1%, as the share price discount to net asset value with debt at fair value return.
narrowed from 9.3% to 8.9% during the financial year.
A glossary of terms and definitions is The net asset value outperformance of the benchmark is analysed in the adjacent provided on page 46. table, which shows that the excess return generated was a result of strong stock selection, while both sector allocation and gearing also contributed to the outperformance.
The bar chart below shows the relative contributions to performance for the year for the five best and five worst sectors within the portfolio.
The blue bars to the right show the positive contribution to performance relative to the benchmark index and reflect a combination of both sector weightings and stock selection.
The orange bars to the left show a negative relative contribution.
Year to 31st January 2007 Top 5 0% Travel & Leisure 0.8% 0.7% Technology Hardware & Equipment Industrial Metals 0.6% Software and Computer Services 0.4% General Retailers 0.3% Bottom 5 0.7% Media 0.4% General Financial 0.3% Oil Equipment and Services 0.2% Non Life Insurance 0.2% Food Producers Relative Contribution Source: Russell Mellon Analytical Services.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 5 This shows that the Companys overweight stance in the Travel & Leisure sector was... the excess return generated the largest contributor to performance.
Within this sector, the Company was was a result of strong stock overweight in hotel and pub companies, especially those with freehold property on selection, while both sector the balance sheet that we perceived as being undervalued.
Companies which were allocation and gearing also rich in freehold property assets were re-rated during the year as the market changed contributed to the its perception of how it should value such assets in the face of highly leveraged outperformance.
corporate acquisitions backed by private equity.
A bidding war for fide Vere Hotels started the year with AHG Venice winning a hotly contested process.
Further highlighting the asset backing of the sector was the unsuccessful bid approach to Mitchells & Butlers.
In addition, both Millennium & Copthorne and The Hotel Corporation saw their share prices re-rated, reflecting their asset backing.
The theme of corporate mergers and acquisitions was evident in other sectors, with Industrial Metals providing strong returns driven by the recovering share price of Corus which has now agreed to be acquired by Tata Steel Ltd of India.
Throughout the year under review, the Company maintained an underweight position relative to the benchmark in the Technology sectors, which underperformed, but did make good gains in both CSR Cambridge Silicon Radio and Wolfson, which were sold during the year.
The worst performing sector within the portfolio was Media: holdings in SMG Scottish Media Group and EMI underperformed as both companies disappointed on earnings.
General Financials was also a poor sector for the Company as we sold the holding in the London Stock Exchange before bids from the NASDAQ sent the shares considerably higher.
Activity Throughout the year the gearing level was actively managed within a range of 0% to 15% as market conditions changed during the year.
We started the year with gearing in the low teens, then through March and April reduced it to about 8% as markets had performed very strongly and a number of companies that we owned were promoted into the FTSE 100 due to their outperformance of the benchmark.
These were mainly mining or metal related stocks and included Corus, Vedanta, Lonmin and Drax.
With the market setback in May gearing was reduced to below 5% to minimise losses.
After the fall, valuations became far more compelling as earnings growth was still exceeding analysts expectations.
We therefore moved gearing back up towards 15% in late spring, before moving down towards mid single digits at the end of the year, having reduced a number of asset backed stocks such as Slough Estates, Whitbread and Northumbrian Water after very strong performances.
Two themes within the UK market seem to have risen above others during the year, these being the continuation of mergers and acquisitions and secondly, the re-rating of asset backed companies.
The Company benefited from takeover activity with holdings such as fide Vere, Cambridge Antibody and AWG being acquired during the period and, as mentioned, the re-rating of asset-backed companies led us to take profits in a number of hoteliers, pub companies, utilities and real estate companies.
Within smaller companies, a number of new positions were taken where strong growth characteristics were identified.
Exposure to smaller real estate companies was increased during the year with Rugby Estates, Development Securities, Macau Property, Invista Real Estate, Northern European Properties and Songbird Estates all being added to the portfolio.
Elsewhere, we bought a holding in Acertec and Avingtrans, both industrial metals processing companies, Henry Boot, a construction and development company and Smiths News, the newspaper distribution company.
A number of new positions were opened in larger former FTSE 100 companies where value characteristics were identified, including Schroders, Daily Mail and General Trust and British Energy.
JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 6 Investment Managers Report continued The Company maintained its overweight stance in larger mid sized companies where compelling value opportunities were found, as well as its overweight position in very small companies with attractive new technologies or growth prospects.
This is illustrated in the table below.
Currently the Company holds approximately 160 stocks, 90 of which are mid sized and 70 smaller.
By value, 85% of the portfolio is in mid sized stocks and 15% in smaller stocks, which is close to the broad size split of the benchmark.
Daily Mail and General Trust is a new holding, having been demoted from the FTSE 100 during the year and GKN, Berkeley, Burberry, Amec and Bellway were all held within the portfolio a year ago.
Currently just one holding, Persimmon, is in the FTSE 100 index, having been promoted from the Mid 250.
In all cases, we sell stocks which are promoted into the FTSE 100 within 18 months of promotion, and never let the FTSE 100 holdings in aggregate exceed 5% of the portfolio.
During the year we met or visited more than 250 companies and this remains a key component in our process of evaluating companies.
We believe that properly targeted company meetings can help us to analyse smaller growth companies that are often overlooked by the mainstream, evaluate managements and resolve issues.
Our fundamental analysis of companies is aided by our in-house proprietary screening process which helps us to identify companies that exhibit both the best value and the best growth characteristics.
Outlook The year to 31st January 2007 generated strong returns for shareholders, with small and mid sized companies once again outperforming their larger counterparts.
As in the previous year, earnings growth was higher than expected by leading analysts, who on average had to increase their company earnings forecasts.
As at 31st January 2007 the Companys portfolio had a forward price earnings ratio PER of 14.0x, with earnings forecast to grow by analysts at 12.8% over the next year.
This strong JPMorgan Fleming Mercantile Investment Trust plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 7 earnings growth combined with a reasonable valuation is a platform from which mid and smaller UK companies can deliver another year of positive returns.
12 months Forward Forecast 12 months Forecast Forecast Price Earnings Earnings Forward Dividend Dividend Ratio Growth Yield Growth Cover JPMF Mercantile 14.0x 12.8% 2.7% 9.8% 2.6x FTSE All-Share ex FTSE 100 & investment trusts 15.3x 11.0% 2.5% 9.3% 2.6x FTSE-100 12.1x 7.5% 3.6% 6.7% 2.3x Excluding loss making companies.
Source: UBS Global Research 31st January 2007.
When constructing the portfolio, we are constantly looking for both value and growth opportunities within individual companies and this is reflected in the portfolio aggregates: the portfolio has a lower PER than the benchmark, trading on 14.0x versus 15.3x for the FTSE All Share excluding the FTSE 100 and investment trusts and also exhibits more growth with 12.8% forecast compared with 11.0% for the benchmark.
The Company maintains its largest overweight position in house builders, a sector that we believe offers value and is well poised to continue its outperformance.
We believe there is scope for a further re-rating upwards from the current PERs of 9 11x and that the asset backing in the form of the companies land banks is attractive, together with the strong cash generation characteristics of the companies.
Further, there is the structural argument of undersupply of new housing, with the demographic picture of an ageing population, immigration and fewer people getting married increasing demand.
The portfolio currently also has overweight positions in Real Estate and Media, and underweight sectors include Support Services, Industrial Engineering and Technology.
The UK economy remains robust: it is forecast to grow 2.5% in 2007 and although inflation and interest rates have ticked up in the last 12 months, the UK economic environment provides a stable platform from which companies can drive earnings forward.
This is reflected in the strong forecast earnings growth of 11% for mid and smaller companies, which are more geared into the fortunes of the UK economy than FTSE 100 companies which generate the majority of their earnings overseas.
With this we are confident that the outlook remains positive, as both growth and value opportunities exist within the mid and smaller companies universe and these companies can continue to deliver positive returns to shareholders.
Martin Hudson Jane Lennard Investment Managers 11th April 2007
