24 SUMMARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT Bunzl plc Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement 2007 SUMMARY DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activity and business review Dividends Annual General Meeting The principal activity of the Group is providing An interim dividend of 5.8p was paid in respect The Annual General Meeting will be held at value-added distribution and outsourcing of the year and the directors recommend a final the The Park Suite, The Dorchester, Park Lane, services in the Americas, Europe and dividend of 12.9p, making a total for the year of London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 14 May 2008 Australasia.
Details of the Groups activities, 18.7p.
This compares with 17.0p for the year at 11.00 am.
The notice convening the Meeting developments and performance for the year ended 31 December 2006. is set out in a separate letter from the Chairman and information which fulfils the requirements to shareholders which explains the items of of the Companies Act 1985 relating to the Corporate governance special business.
production of a Business Review are set out in The Company is committed to high standards the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives of corporate governance.
The Company External auditors Review, the Financial Review and the Corporate confirms that it has complied throughout 2007 A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Social Responsibility report on pages 4 to 15 with the provisions of the Combined Code on Annual General Meeting for the re-appointment and 17 to 23 and in the section entitled Corporate Governance.
of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the Company Principal risks and uncertainties set out at a rate of remuneration to be determined in the full Directors Report included within Directors indemnities by the directors.
the Directors Report and Accounts.
As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed P N Hussey Going concern to indemnify the directors and the Company Secretary The directors, having made appropriate Secretary, in addition to other senior executives 25 February 2008 enquiries, consider that the Group has adequate who are directors of subsidiaries of the Company, resources to continue in operational existence to the extent permitted by law and the Articles for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the in respect of all losses arising out of or in directors believe it is appropriate to continue to connection with the execution of their powers, adopt the going concern basis in preparing the duties and responsibilities as a director or officer financial statements.
of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Purchase of own shares Internal control During the year ended 31 December 2007 The directors acknowledge that they have the Company purchased 14,212,090 of its overall responsibility for the Groups system own shares into treasury at an aggregate cost of internal control and for reviewing its including expenses of 100.0 million pursuant effectiveness.
However, such a system is to the shareholder authorities granted at the designed to manage rather than eliminate 2006 and 2007 Annual General Meetings.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives As at 25 February 2008 the Company held and can only provide reasonable and not a total of 23,325,000 shares in treasury.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull Directors guidance the Company has established the Mr D J R Sleath was appointed to the Board procedures necessary to ensure that there is in September 2007 and, being eligible, offers an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating himself for election at the forthcoming Annual and managing significant risks to the Group.
General Meeting in accordance with the The directors confirm that such procedures Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
have been in place for the year ended 31 December 2007 and up to the date Mr P L Larmon and Dr U Wolters retire by of approval of these financial statements rotation at the Annual General Meeting in and have been reviewed during the year.
accordance with the Articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The directors also confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system Biographical details of the current directors of internal control in operation during 2007. are set out on page 16.
Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in the Directors Report and Accounts.
None of the directors was materially interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2007.
