Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 01 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their annual report which the purchase price and availability of products distributed by the includes this Directors Report and the audited financial statements Group can fluctuate from time to time, thereby potentially affecting of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended the results of operations.
The Company endeavours, whenever 31 December 2007.
The Directors Report incorporates by reference, possible, to pass on price increases from its suppliers to its to the extent indicated below, certain information included in the customers and to source its products from a number of different Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement and should be suppliers so that it is not dependent on any one source of supply read in conjunction with that document.
The Company would also be affected if there was a catastrophic failure of its major distribution facilities or Principal activity and business review information systems.
The Company seeks to mitigate against this risk The principal activity of the Group is providing value-added distribution through the use of multi-site facilities with products stocked in more and outsourcing services in the Americas, Europe and Australasia.
than one location and the adoption of detailed back up plans which Details of the Groups activities, developments and performance for the would be implemented in the event of any such failure: year and information which fulfils the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 relating to the production of a Business Review are set out in the international nature of the Companys operations exposes it the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Financial to potential claims as the Group is subject to a broad range of laws Review and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 4 to 15 and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates.
and 17 to 23 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement In addition the Company faces potential claims from customers and in the section below entitled Principal risks and uncertainties.
in relation to the supply of defective products or breaches of their The Company uses a number of key performance indicators to contractual arrangements.
Whilst any litigation has an element measure progress towards its objectives.
These are set out in the of uncertainty, the Company does not presently expect that the form of bar graphs on pages 6, 7, 17 and 23 of the Annual Review outcome of any such claims, either individually or in the aggregate, and Summary Financial Statement.
will have a material adverse effect on the Groups financial condition or results of operations: and Principal risks and uncertainties There are a number of potential risks and uncertainties which could the Companys business is partially dependent on general economic have a material impact on the Companys business, financial condition conditions in the US, the UK, France and other important markets.
The Company has specific policies and A significant deterioration in these conditions could have an adverse procedures which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate effect on the Companys business and results of operations.
The principal risks and uncertainties faced by the the diversity of the Groups operations, the nature of its customer Company include the following: base and its ability to react to market changes provide considerable protection against this risk.
The Companys operations are also the majority of the Groups sales are made and income is earned subject to a variety of other risks and uncertainties relating to trading in US dollars and other foreign currencies.
As a result, movements in numerous foreign countries, including the imposition of any import in exchange rates may have a material translation impact on the or investment restrictions, including tariffs and import quotas or any Companys reported results.
However any significant translation restrictions on the repatriation of earnings and capital, and changes exposure on shareholders equity is limited by borrowing and or in tax regulations and international tax treaties.
The Company using forward foreign exchange contracts in those currencies in endeavours to monitor such matters and keep them under regular which the Group has significant net assets.
The majority of the review, amending its business procedures as appropriate to mitigate Groups transactions are carried out in the functional currency of any such exposures.
the Groups operations and so transaction exposures are limited and exchange rate fluctuations have minimal effect on the quality Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements includes information of earnings: relating to the Company's risk management policies so far as they relate to financial instruments.
the Company operates in highly competitive markets and faces competition from international companies as well as local and Going concern regional companies in the countries in which it operates.
Increased The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that the competition and unanticipated actions by competitors or customers Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence could lead to an adverse effect on results and hinder the Companys for the foreseeable future.
For this reason the directors believe it is growth potential.
The Company seeks to mitigate against this risk by appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing remaining competitive both in terms of price and product offering the financial statements.
and by maintaining high service levels and close contacts with its customers to ensure that their needs and demands are being Dividends met satisfactorily: An interim dividend of 5.8p was paid in respect of the year and the directors recommend a final dividend of 12.9p per share, making a significant portion of the Companys historical growth has been a total for the year of 18.7p 2006: 17.0p.
Dividend details are given achieved through acquisitions of businesses and the Groups growth in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements.
Subject to strategy includes additional acquisitions.
There can be no assurance confirmation by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on that the Company will be able to make acquisitions in the future or 14 May 2008, the final dividend will be paid on 3 July 2008 to those that any acquisitions made will be successful.
However the Company shareholders on the register at the close of business on 9 May 2008. continually reviews acquisition targets and has established processes and procedures with regard to detailed pre-acquisition due diligence and post-acquisition integration.
As a result the Company endeavours to ensure that the anticipated benefits of acquisitions can be realised: 02 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 Share capital lodged, duly stamped, at the offices of the Companys registrars The Company has a single class of share capital which is divided into or such other place as the Board may specify and is accompanied 1 ordinary shares of 32 7p each which rank pari passu in respect by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other of participation and voting rights.
The shares are in registered form, evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
of the transferor to make the transfer: In addition, following the deregistration of the Companys American Depositary Receipts from the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect of only one class of shares: and during 2007, the Company has entered into a Level 1 American Depositary Receipt programme with the Bank of New York Mellon in favour of not more than four transferees.
under which the Companys shares are traded on the over the counter market in the form of American Depositary shares.
In addition, no instrument of transfer shall be registered if the transferor has been served with a disenfranchisement notice as Details of changes to the issued share capital during the year are set defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with out in Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.
information concerning certain interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts, unless the Rights and obligations attaching to shares transfer is shown to the Board to be pursuant to an arms length Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts as defined in the sale.
Registration of a transfer of shares may also be refused in the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and without case of uncertificated shares in the circumstances set out in the prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares, the Company regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Board may decide may resolve by ordinary resolution to issue shares with such rights and to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by restrictions as set out in such resolution.
Subject to the provisions of closing the register of shareholders.
The Board cannot suspend the the Companies Acts and of any resolution of the Company passed registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without gaining pursuant thereto, unissued shares are at the disposal of the Board consent from CREST.
as defined in the Articles and the Board may allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons and on such terms and Restrictions on voting rights conditions and at such times as it thinks fit.
If at any time the share A member shall not be entitled to vote at any general meeting or class capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, the meeting in respect of any shares held by them if any call or other sum rights attached to any class may be varied or abrogated either with the then payable in respect of their shares remains unpaid.
Currently, all written consent of the holders of three-quarters of the issued shares issued shares are fully paid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled of the class excluding treasury shares or by special resolution passed to vote if he has been served with a disenfranchisement notice after at a separate general meeting of such holders.
Subject to the rights failure to provide the Company with information concerning certain attached to any existing shares, rights attached to shares will be interests in the Companys shares required to be provided under the deemed to be varied by the reduction of capital paid up on the shares Companies Acts.
Votes may be exercised in person or by proxy.
The and by the allotment of further shares ranking in priority in respect Articles currently provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of of dividend or capital or which confer on the holders more favourable 48 hours before the relevant meeting, 24 hours before a poll is taken voting rights than the first-mentioned shares, but will not otherwise if such poll is taken more than 48 hours after it was demanded or be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares.
during the meeting at which the poll was demanded if the poll is not taken straightaway but is taken not more than 48 hours after Power to issue and allot shares it was demanded.
The directors are generally and unconditionally authorised under the authority granted at the 2007 Annual General Meeting to allot unissued Bunzl Group Employee Benefit Trust shares in the Company up to a maximum nominal amount of 38.0 Bunzl Employee Trustees Limited is trustee of the Bunzl Group General million.
A further authority was granted to the directors to allot the Employee Benefit Trust the EBT which holds shares in respect Companys shares for cash, up to a maximum nominal amount of of employee share options and awards that have not been exercised approximately 5.5 million, without regard to the pre-emption or vested.
The current position is that the EBT abstains from voting in provisions of the Companies Acts.
No such shares have been issued respect of these shares.
The trustee has agreed to receive a nominal or allotted under these authorities, nor is there any current intention dividend of 0.001p per share on dividend payments on shares held to do so, other than under the Companys employee share schemes.
Details of the shares so held are set out in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements.
These authorities are valid until the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The directors again propose to seek similar Purchase of own shares authorities this year.
At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders gave the Company authority to purchase a maximum of 33,945,000 ordinary shares.
Restrictions on transfer of shares During the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company purchased Dealings in the Companys ordinary shares by its directors, persons 14,212,090 of its own shares nominal value 4.6 million, representing discharging managerial responsibilities, certain employees of the approximately 4.2% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding Company and, in each case, their connected persons, are subject treasury shares at 1 January 2007, at an aggregate cost including to the Companys dealing code which adopts the Model Code of the expenses of 100.0 million.
These shares are held as treasury shares Listing Rules published by the Financial Services Authority.
and were purchased pursuant to the shareholders authority granted at the 2007 Annual General Meeting, which is due to expire at the Certain restrictions, which are customary for a listed company, apply conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and the to transfers of shares in the Company.
The Board may refuse to authority granted at the 2006 Annual General Meeting.
No further register an instrument of transfer of a certificated share unless it is: shares have been purchased between 31 December 2007 and Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED 03 25 February 2008.
The total number of ordinary shares currently held Directors interests in ordinary shares are shown in Note 20 to the in treasury is 23,325,000.
The Company is authorised to buy back consolidated financial statements.
None of the directors was materially a further 23,320,000 of its own shares pursuant to the existing interested in any contract of significance with the Company or any of its shareholders authority.
The directors again propose to seek a similar subsidiary undertakings during or at the end of 2007.
relating to the directors service agreements and their remuneration for the year and details of the directors share options under the Directors Companys share option schemes and awards under the Long Term Directors may be elected by the members in a general meeting or Incentive Plan and Deferred Annual Share Bonus Scheme are set out appointed by the Board.
Under the Articles, the minimum number in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 60. of directors shall be two and there shall be no maximum number.
At every Annual General Meeting of the Company a minimum of one Powers of the directors third of the directors shall retire and, assuming they wish to stand, Subject to the Companys Memorandum of Association, the Articles, offer themselves for re-election.
The directors to retire will be those the Companies Acts and any directions given by the Company by who held office at the two preceding Annual General Meetings and special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the who did not retire at either of them.
If the number of directors so Board who may exercise all powers of the Company.
The Board may, retiring is less than the minimum number required to retire, additional by power of attorney or otherwise, appoint any person or persons to directors up to that number will also retire.
The additional directors be the agent or agents of the Company for such purposes and on such to retire will be determined by those who have been longest in office conditions as the Board determines.
since they were last elected or, if they were elected on the same day, those to retire will be determined by lot.
The Board may also appoint Directors indemnities a person willing to act as a director during the year either to fill a As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which vacancy or as an additional director.
However such appointee shall the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors and the Company only hold office until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of and shall not be taken into account in determining the directors who subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the are to retire by rotation.
At present, for any director proposed for Articles in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the appointment or re-appointment who at the date the meeting is execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a director or convened will have attained the age of 70 years or more, the Board officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
is required under the Articles to give notice of his age in the notice of meeting.
Amendments to the Articles to be put to the 2007 Annual Amendment of Articles General Meeting will remove this requirement following the enactment Any amendments to the Articles may be made in accordance with of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006. the provisions of the Companies Acts by way of special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
The directors propose to make some In addition to any power to remove a director from office conferred amendments to the Articles at the 2008 Annual General Meeting by the Companies Acts, the Company may also by special resolution details of which are set out in a separate letter from the Chairman remove a director from office before the expiration of his period of to shareholders.
Employment policies The office of a director shall also be vacated if: The employment policies of the Group have been developed to meet the needs of its different business areas and the locations in which he ceases to be a director by virtue of any provisions of the they operate worldwide, embodying the principles of equal opportunity.
Companies Acts or pursuant to the Articles or he becomes prohibited The Group has standards of business conduct with which it expects its by law from being a director: employees to comply.
Bunzl encourages involvement of its employees in the performance of the business in which they are employed and he becomes bankrupt or enters into any arrangement aims to achieve a sense of shared commitment.
In addition to a or composition with his creditors generally: quarterly magazine and the Companys intranet, which provide a variety of information on activities and developments within the Group he is or may be suffering from mental ill health and he is either and incorporate interim and annual financial reports, announcements admitted to hospital or a court order is made appointing a person to are periodically circulated to give details of corporate and staff matters exercise powers with respect to his property or affairs: together with a number of subsidiary or business area publications dealing with activities in specific parts of the Group.
he resigns by giving notice to the Company or is asked to resign by all the other directors who are not less than three in number: or It is the Groups policy that disabled applicants should be considered for employment and career development on the basis of their aptitudes he is absent without permission from Board meetings for a period of and abilities.
Employees who become disabled during their working life six months and the Board resolves that his office be vacated.
will be retained in employment wherever possible and given help with rehabilitation and training.
Mr D J R Sleath was appointed to the Board in September 2007 and, being eligible, offers himself for election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles.
All of the other current directors served throughout the year.
Mr P L Larmon and Dr U Wolters retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Biographical details of the current directors are set out on page 16 of the Annual Review and Summary Financial Statement.
04 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Bunzl plc Directors Report and Accounts 2007 Substantial shareholdings Annual General Meeting As at 25 February 2008 the directors had been notified by the The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Park Suite, The following shareholders that they were each interested in 3% or more Dorchester, Park Lane, London W1K 1QA on Wednesday 14 May 2008 of the issued share capital of the Company.
The notifications listed at 11.00 am.
The notice convening the Meeting is set out in a separate below are those which have been most recently received for the letter from the Chairman to shareholders which explains the items of named shareholders.
Date of Number % of issued External auditors Shareholder notification of shares share capital Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: INVESCO plc 22.07.07 49,532,127 15.00 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information Aviva plc 02.11.07 24,956,822 7.65 of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Baillie Gifford & Co 22.01.07 23,363,699 6.88 Legal & General Group Plc 05.11.07 13,110,980 4.01 the director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Newton Investment director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information Management Ltd 14.05.07 10,180,719 3.02 and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Significant agreements The Companys wholly owned subsidiary, Bunzl Finance plc, has a This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance number of bilateral loan facilities with a range of different counterparties, with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. all of which are guaranteed by the Company, are in substantially the same form and are prepayable at the option of the lender in the event A resolution is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General of a change of control of the Company.
A similar change of control Meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the provision in relation to the Company is included in the syndicated bank Company at a rate of remuneration to be determined by the directors.
loan which has been entered into by Bunzl Finance plc and the Company and is also guaranteed by the Company.
P N Hussey Secretary Creditor payment policy 25 February 2008 Group operating companies are responsible for agreeing the terms and conditions under which business transactions with their suppliers are Pages 1 to 4 inclusive consist of a directors report that has been conducted.
It is Group policy that suppliers are made aware of these drawn up and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon terms and that payments to suppliers are made in accordance with applicable English company law and any liability of the directors in them provided that suppliers also comply with all relevant terms and connection with this report shall be subject to the limitations and conditions.
The number of days billings from the Companys suppliers restrictions provided by such law.
outstanding at the end of the financial year was 30 2006: 31.
Donations During 2007, amongst other worldwide charitable donations, the Group contributed 200,000 to UK charities 2006: 200,000.
No contributions were made for political purposes.
