6891 Report 2006-07 1 6 07 17:36 Page 08 LEVERAGE THE FRANCHISE FRONT-END OPPORTUNITIES Through more coordinated use of brand assets and greater integration of our organisation around the globe, Burberry has the opportunity to enhance its responsiveness to consumers and operate more efficiently and effectively.
This potential exists at both the front of the business, as well as in back of house operations.
The front-end comprises everything the consumer sees our products, our marketing imagery, our stores.
Front-end opportunities include: Capitalising on unique positioning: Burberry is uniquely positioned.
No other brand within the democratic segment of the luxury market enjoys a comparable foundation, scale or reach.
Rebalancing the product portfolio: Burberrys critically acclaimed, exclusive runway collection presents the basis for rebalancing our product portfolio.
Its success provides the inspiration, expertise and credentials for growing this select segment while extending its luxury and fashion components to a broader portion of Burberrys core casual product offering.
Reinforcing outerwear heritage and leadership: Outerwear is our merchandising cornerstone the category in which Burberry is top-of-mind among consumers.
We concentrate on innovation in design and merchandising to strengthen our leadership position: new product launches, strategically structured assortments, runway revelations.
09 LEVERAGE THE FRANCHISE 6891 Report 2006-07 1 6 07 17:36 Page 10 LEVERAGE THE FRANCHISE BACK OF HOUSE OPPORTUNITIES The back of house operations comprise the processes, infrastructure and administrative elements that the consumer never sees, required to produce Burberrys alluring front-end.
Historically, Burberrys organisation has been highly decentralised.
Today the Group sees opportunities to streamline and simplify its structure, creating a more effective and efficient model.
Examples include: Consolidating product design in London under Burberrys Creative Director to enhance aesthetic quality and consistency Realigning the many business units in a three-region structure to leverage our global scale Integrating regional and functional teams to leverage isolated islands of expertise around the world Similarly, Burberrys supply chain has been an amalgamation of resources, many small and limited in capability and located across multiple geographies.
The Group is developing a strategy for implementing a single, globally-integrated structure throughout the business.
10 LEVERAGE THE FRANCHISE 6891 Report 2006-07 1 6 07 17:36 Page 12 INTENSIFY NON-APPAREL DEVELOPMENT 13 INTENSIFY NON-APPAREL DEVELOPMENT 6891 Report 2006-07 1 6 07 17:36 Page 14
