qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 22 Directors Report Business Review continued Savings: With-profits Our Business expectations with the need to manage investors with a more cautious attitude Legal & Generals With-profits business risk for customers and shareholders.
Legal & General is well placed is primarily a savings business built to pursue this opportunity.
Our Performance in 2007 around the 30bn of funds invested for In 2007, our With-profits fund achieved In common with the wider pensions With-profits customers within the a good relative performance.
In a more market, with-profits pensions sales have long term fund.
The business includes difficult investment environment, assets benefited from the stimulus created since products predominantly bonds, backing the With-profits participating the introduction of the Pensions endowments and pensions where policies generated a 4.5% return gross Simplification legislation in April 2006. customers receive bonuses as a result of tax and investment charges, compared We believe, however, that much of this of direct participation in surplus profits.
665m in Witheffect has now materialised and therefore It also includes products, typically profits bonuses were paid to customers expect with-profits pensions sales to pensions, where a with-profits 2006: 596m.
On a five-year view, the revert to more normalised levels in 2008. investment option exists, as well as fund has delivered a 77% total return.
annuities resulting from former With regard to our strategy for the assets During 2007 we used our investment with-profits pensions.
in the Legal & General With-profits fund, expertise to take advantage of market we will continue to use our investment Our Strategy opportunities by making some expertise, together with the freedom made With-profits business has become less significant switches between asset possible by our financial strength, to prevalent in the broader UK financial classes.
The investment freedom we have develop market opportunities.
services sector, but its continued growth to do this is made possible by our and strong performance remains financial strength.
strategically important to Legal & General.
In 2007, With-profits Savings APE of A well-performing with-profits business 228m accounted for 17% of UK new contributes to overall new business business APE 2006: 16%, with value growth and, by proactively managing added of 19m, a 46% increase against customers to keep their policies for 2006.
With-profits Annuities generated longer, to the increase in embedded 5m APE with 2m value added 2006: value of the existing book of business.
The Our financial strength enables us to embedded value of the total With-profits take long term investment decisions on business increased by 10% to 864m behalf of with-profits policyholders.
The before the shareholder transfer in the resulting performance supports greater year of 74m.
Appropriate Significant activity this year has centred asset allocation, and a detailed on retaining monies invested in the understanding of the different liabilities With-profits part of Societys long term of the varied policy types within our fund, whether bonds, endowments or fund, enable us to balance customer pensions.
During the year, the basis on which our With-profits fund pays investment management charges to Legal & General Investment Management was adjusted to reflect more closely prevailing market rates.
Outlook 665m There are definite signs of renewed investor interest in with-profits.
Sales of with-profits products in the UK marketplace have been growing in recent years and with the increased levels of volatility being witnessed in investment markets, we believe that With-profits bonuses paid with-profits will remain an attractive fund choice in 2008, especially for those 22 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Positive Customer Experience 23148 p006-027.
Our aim is to make every customer experience with Legal & General a positive one.
Positive for the customer, and positive for us as a Company, too.
John Pollock, Group Executive Director Protection and Annuities View the webcast at: www.
com This means treating the customer fairly, making sure we are responsive to customer needs and operating a reliable infrastructure in terms of administration This is what we mean when we say that every day matters, and one reason why we take the ABIs Customer Initiative and the FSAs Treating Customers Fairly initiative so seriously.
The customer experience should be a positive one for our shareholders, too.
If our service levels encourage customers to hold our products for longer, then that increase in persistency will be reflected in the embedded value of our business.
If we outperform our own assumptions of customer persistency, it benefits our bottom line.
A positive experience with our customers can help us achieve enhanced synergies between product lines and business divisions.
Someone who has been well served, for example, as an ISA customer, will be more likely to look favourably on Legal & General when the time comes to buy other financial products www.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 24 Positive Customer Experience Customer Satisfaction: Legal & General Ranked in Top 10 A customer satisfaction survey featured in Marketing Week ranked Legal & General sixth out of the 35 UK companies which took part.
Legal & General was the top placed financial institution for customer service.
The survey conducted by FDS Comparisat gave Legal & General an Overall Satisfaction score of 8.2 out of 10.
The Overall Satisfaction score included measures of value for money, people, product range, product quality, innovation, trust, loyalty and willingness to recommend.
New Industry Commitment on Protection Claims For protection products it is essential that our customers are confident that claims will get paid should ill-health or tragedy strike.
Over recent years media coverage of claims in the industry being declined due to customers failing to disclose important details of their medical history has undermined some of this confidence.
As the leading provider of protection products, Legal & General has been at the forefront of industry moves to rebuild confidence by working with the Association of British Insurers ABI to issue a new industry agreed commitment on paying protection claims.
Bernie Hickman, Legal & Generals Managing Director of Protection, chaired the ABI committee that devised this new guidance, which will reduce the number of declined claims and ensure that all providers give customers the benefit of the doubt when it comes to medical disclosures.
