qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 27 Distribution Partnerships Legal & General balances distribution of Legal & General has over 20 Bank its products, operating a multi-channel and Building Society partners with strategy which utilises Independent Financial Advisers IFAs, a tied adviser a combined total of over 40 million customer relationships.
We pride network, Bank and Building Society ourselves on our ability to work in close Partners and direct distribution.
Distribution mix varies between partnerships or strategic alliances with other financial institutions.
Individual different products, but in 2007, our partnerships vary in precise scope, but overall distribution mix was: IFAs 74%, Tied Partners 23% and Direct 3%.
relationships can include the sale of financial products by Legal & General Our aim is to maintain diversity in staff within the partner institution, or distribution.
This reduces the risk of tie-ups which facilitate sales of products over-reliance on any single channel and directly to the partners customers.
In most prepares us for potential regulatory cases, we are the sole supplier to the changes affecting the distribution of partner institution, though we do have financial products, such as those some partnerships that are multi-tie based.
envisaged by the FSAs Review of Retail In addition, we operate a large network Distribution.
It also enables rapid of intermediated sole suppliers, many of reaction to changing customer whom are mortgage advisers operating distribution preferences and helps us under the auspices of Legal & General transfer learning between channels.
IFAs During 2007, we continued to prepare In addition to servicing the product ourselves for the launch of a major new requirements of core individual and national IFAs, this component of partnership with Nationwide Building Society, which went live in February 2008. distribution focuses on Employee Benefit Nationwide has 13 million members Consultants for corporate business, and specialists in products including and is represented in 900 locations.
Our work in partnership with other financial pensions and annuities.
Unit trust distributors is a major driver for the sale business is distributed through private client investment managers and of protection, general insurance and savings products, and informs our stockbrokers as well as IFAs.
Bulk broader approach to bancassurance Purchase Annuities are also frequently intermediated through specialist markets, including internationally.
consultants who work with pension funds.
Direct Direct is the smallest of our distribution Legal & General has a partnership with channels accounting for some 3% of fund supermarket Cofunds, and provides APE, reflecting the fact that relatively bond and pension products on the Partners with few of our products are sold direct to Cofunds platform.
This includes the customers on a non-advised basis.
Direct product wrapper and administration, distribution is conducted through both which enables access to a wide variety of core and partner channels, but in both Legal & General investment products cases uses our own resources: call centres, via the Cofunds platform.
Additionally, a branded version of the Cofunds leaflets and promotions, direct mail and 40m website channels.
platform is available to our business partners.
Legal & General is a 25% shareholder in Cofunds.
A further example of the growing use of technology in the advised sector is access to our AdviserCentre technology customer relationships which enables online underwriting.
