qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 26 Directors Report Business Review continued International Our Businesses 156m on an EEV basis.
On an IFRS basis, Our core Risk, Savings and Investment operating profits from our international Management businesses operate in the UK operations were 86m 2006: 75m, an and, selectively, in a number of overseas increase of 15%.
markets, with the main international During the year, we signed a operations located in the United States, 136m memorandum of understanding to set up France and the Netherlands.
a joint venture with two leading Indian Our American protection business is state-owned banks, Bank of Baroda and based on expert mortality risk pricing, Andhra Bank, which between them have underwriting and specialist distribution.
Our French savings business was a Outlook pioneer in France in introducing a EEV operating profit from We expect that the Indian joint venture modern, transparent single-charge unitinternational operations will remain in preparatory phase during linked savings product for high net worth 2008, with launch anticipated in 2009. customers and has built a successful During the coming year we will continue Group Risk business.
In Holland we to pursue other international opportunities have grown competitive high net worth that fit our strategy and meet our criteria.
Our Strategy Our strategy is to pursue growth 1 16m opportunities which help us achieve the long term objective of a diversified and successful Risk, Savings and Investment Management business.
Increasingly, our experience and research suggests that growth opportunities are new business APE from emerging overseas and that in the right overseas businesses circumstances our core competencies are becoming increasingly relevant to these new growth markets.
We only invest, in a measured way, when opportunities meet the strict strategic, operating and financial criteria that we have set ourselves.
Our Performance in 2007 Legal & Generals overseas businesses generated new business of 116m APE in 2007, compared with 105m for the prior year.
Sales volumes grew by 7% in the United States due to more favourable market conditions whereas regulatory and consumer concerns over the market for unit-linked products led to a 7% decline in sales in the Netherlands.
New business APE in France rose by 31% to 42m, while French retail investment business volumes remained flat against the prior year.
Operating profit from our international operations decreased to 136m 2006: 26 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
