qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:57 Page 8 Directors Report Strategic Overview Three Businesses: Risk, Savings Five Strategic Imperatives and Investment Management Five strategic imperatives or principles, which are summarised here, guide our Legal & Generals strategic focus is business.
The application of these principles is reflected in our Key Performance on three broad categories of business: Indicators, which measure the Groups financial success.
We use other indicators Risk, Savings and Investment and achievements to record progress elsewhere.
Some of these, including those Management.
The Business Review pertaining to customers, employees and Corporate Social Responsibility are describes these businesses in more detail, covered in later sections of this Report.
and provides separate commentary on the International segment.
Financial Strength Includes life assurance and other forms We aim to diversify earnings streams Achieving profitable growth for of financial protection for individuals, across, and within, our three core shareholders and security for customers group protection through employers businesses, so as to minimise reliance requires a robust, well-designed capital schemes, individual and bulk purchase on any single area.
We assess markets on structure.
We aim to have the right annuities, and general insurance.
the basis of their potential for profitable amount of capital, of the right type, Risk businesses can require significant growth, our share of market and the deployed in the right places.
Our capital capital commitment and can earn required resource commitment in both strength, which is subject to annual commensurate margins given financial and human capital.
We seek review and rigorous stress testing, is appropriate pricing and scale.
to make best use of our skills across evidenced by our strong credit rating, Legal & Generals strength in these different markets and maximise synergies.
which we regard as a strategic markets is founded on a strong balance differentiator.
High Quality Products, Broad Distribution sheet and the ability to assess, price The creation of a stable stream of high 5.
High Performing Organisation and manage these risks expertly.
quality new business is a key driver of Our employees are a vital asset: they 2.
We believe that this is are strongly committed to the success Enables individuals to accumulate achieved through products which offer of the business, and to an ethical and manage their savings for the demonstrable value to the customer, approach which is focused on doing the medium and long term.
We provide distributor and ourselves.
Central to our right thing for customers, shareholders both with-profits and non profit products.
new business model is the maintenance and colleagues.
Strategically, we seek Our product range includes ISAs and of diversified distribution capability.
to build on our existing cultural strengths, Unit Trusts, investment bonds and We do not wish to be overly dependent to involve all employees in our goal of pensions provided both direct to on any single distributor or distribution continuous improvement to the business, individuals and through their employer.
Building scale in diversified and to enable each employee to Products are structured and priced to markets creates an ability to maintain maximise their personal contribution, provide good value to the saver, and growth as distribution patterns shift.
and that of their team members, to can be bought through a variety of the business.
Legal & Generals success is We recognise that long term relationships underscored by product and investment are at the heart of a long term business.
expertise, financial strength and We work hard to ensure that we develop administrative capability.
relationships with all our customers and 3.
Investment Management distributors on mutually beneficial terms.
Aggregates our customers funds and This means that we ensure that customers those of third party institutions such as are treated fairly and efficiently pension funds, investing them so as to throughout their relationship with us.
By maximise the benefits of our market managing our existing customer business leading scale, specialist skills and well, we can encourage them to stay experience.
We invest on our clients with us and hold our products longer.
This behalf based on their preferred risk greater persistency in turn helps grow the approach, and offer a range of passive embedded value of our business.
and active fund management products.
Legal & General Investment Managements LGIMs position as one of the UKs largest fund managers means we can provide a highly competitive combination of cost and service.
8 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report 23148 p006-027.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:57 Page 9 Principal Risks and Uncertainties There is an ongoing process for Key Performance Indicators KPIs identifying, evaluating and managing KPI Definitions significant risks which is comprehensive EEV Operating Profit and systematic.
Our governance structure Definition: Legal & General provides supplementary financial statements prepared on the European for risk is outlined in Fig 1 on page 10.
Embedded Value EEV basis for long term insurance contracts see Supplementary Financial Statements.
The EEV basis provides an assessment of the value which has been generated by the A significant part of the Groups business during a period.
Operating profit on the EEV basis reports the change in embedded value business involves the acceptance and in a period, but excludes fluctuations from assumed longer term investment return.
A detailed review Purpose: In the Boards opinion, EEV operating profit provides shareholders with a good of the Groups inherent exposures to understanding of the value which is being created on the Groups long term insurance contracts.
market, credit, insurance, liquidity 2007 2006 and operational risks, together with 912m 1,233m the framework for their management and control, is set out at Note 49 to the IFRS Operating Profit Definition: The Groups primary financial statements see Financial Statements are prepared on the Financial Statements.
An overview of the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS basis which all EU listed companies are required to Groups risk management framework is follow.
IFRS operating profit measures the pre-tax result using a smoothed longer term investment given as part of the review of Corporate return.
Any variance between actual and smoothed investment return is reported below operating profit along with the release of the 1996 Sub-fund.
For UK Life and Pensions, the operating profit will Governance Management of Risk on comprise the profits and losses emerging from this business on an IFRS basis, adjusted to include a page 46. longer term investment return on the Society shareholder assets held within the Society Shareholder Capital SSC.
Whilst, at present, the Board considers Purpose: IFRS operating profit gives an insight into the Groups ability to generate cash flows to that there are no immediate risks likely support dividends during a period.
to have a significant impact on the 2007 2006 restated short or long term value of the Group, 658m 1,720m principal risks and uncertainties may be categorised as follows: Return on Embedded Value RoEV Definition: RoEV measures the return earned by shareholders on shareholder capital retained within the Legislation and Regulation business.
RoEV is calculated as EEV operating profit after tax divided by opening EEV shareholders funds.
Confidence in the UK Financial Purpose: RoEV provides a link between performance and balance sheet management and ensures Services Sector that an appropriate balance is maintained.
2007 2006Market and Economic Conditions 8.0% 12.5% Mortality and Catastrophe Risks Future Savings Market Insurance Groups Directive IGD Surplus Definition: The IGD surplus is an FSA regulatory measure which calculates surplus capital within Resources the Group.
IGD surplus is defined as Group regulatory capital employed less the Group regulatory capital requirement.
Surplus capital held within our Society Long Term Fund cannot be included Legislation and Regulation in the IGD definition of capital employed.
The financial services markets in which Purpose: IGD surplus is the Group level regulatory surplus capital measure.
the Group operates are highly regulated, 2007 2006 with regulation defining the overall 4.1bn 2.0bn framework for the design, marketing and distribution of products: the acceptance Total Shareholder Return TSR and administration of business: and the Definition: TSR is a measure used to compare the performance of different companies stocks and shares over time.
It combines the share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total prudential capital that regulated return to the shareholder.
The TSR shown is the change in share price over a three year performance companies should hold.
period, plus the value of reinvested dividends, relative to the performance of all the other companies in the FTSE 100.
Government fiscal policy may also Purpose: TSR measures total return to shareholders over the medium term.
influence the design of products 2007 2006 distributed by the Group and the Legal & General 34% 80% mechanisms for reserving for future FTSE 100 48% 54% liabilities.
Additionally, there is a Performance relative to the FTSE 100 71% 148% continuing growing international dimension and the volume of regulatory Figures extracted from draft unaudited regulatory returns.
and legislative change is increasing.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:57 Page 10 Directors Report Strategic Overview continued The Groups activities and strategies are directly linked to the value of funds causing widespread mortality or morbidity, based upon prevailing legislation and under management.
As such, significant coupled with a reinsurer default, may regulation, with continuous monitoring falls in the value of tracker funds would impact the capital available to the Group.
to ensure that the Group meets its impact earnings for these businesses.
Similarly, a series of extreme weather regulatory obligations.
The potential events coupled with reinsurer default The Group utilises a range of for change is continuously identified may impact earnings to the Group from investments to meet obligations arising and analysed.
Sudden, unanticipated its general insurance business.
from insurance business which it has changes in legislation, or the differing written.
The majority of investment Future Savings Market interpretation and application of assets are in securities traded on A number of Legal & Generals businesses regulation over time, may have a recognised exchanges and property.
are focused on the long term savings and detrimental effect on the Groups Controlled use is also made of financial retirement product markets.
The reasons strategy and profitability both in terms instruments utilising strongly rated customers save and make provision for of the generation of new business and counterparties.
Whilst the Group holds old age are influenced by a number of the retention of in-force books.
capital and performs stress tests for falls factors including government policy, Confidence in the UK Financial in asset values, extreme events in other social conditions and the general economic Services Sector markets over which the Group has no environment.
The Group seeks to The Group has followed a strategy of direct influence, or a failure in market participate actively in debate to highlight offering value-for-money products to its infrastructure may impact asset values or those matters which are key to encouraging customers and continually improving consumers to save and make adequate the ability to value assets fairly, which in customers overall experience of doing turn may impact profitability.
However, consumer business with Legal & General.
Whilst uncertainty in any of the above factors may Mortality and Catastrophe Risks this enables the Group to differentiate have a detrimental effect on these markets.
The Group writes significant levels itself from its competitors, earnings of immediate and deferred annuity Resources and profitability are also influenced by business.
The Group uses its pricing Legal & General has market leading the confidence of the retail investor in capability for longevity risks to ensure expertise in a number of the fields in the financial services sector as a whole, that an appropriate risk premium is which it operates.
The Group actively a number of drivers of which are beyond applied to the business, taking account focuses on retaining the best personnel, the Groups control.
Such factors include of all known risk factors.
However, and ensures that key dependencies do the adverse performance of investment significant unforeseen medical advances not arise, through employee training and markets, actions by regulators within the may result in the requirement to increase development programmes, remuneration sector and shock events such as significant reserves for these lines of business.
market failures, although the Group With regard to the Groups significant However, the sudden unanticipated loss seeks wherever practicable to mitigate portfolio of protection business, whilst of teams of expertise may, in the short the effects of these contagion risks.
the risk of adverse claims experience is term, impact certain segments of fully assessed and reserved for, an event Legal & Generals businesses.
Market and Economic Conditions Legal & General is a significant provider of term assurance and critical illness products.
These products are typically purchased as part of the house buying event or when a property is being Fig 1.
Risk governance Group Board remortgaged.
The Group also provides structure household and buildings insurance.
Whilst the Group is structured to enable Group Risk & Compliance Committee resources to be redirected to other product lines, a downturn in the housing market could impact product volumes Group Investment & Group Insurance Group Capital and short term earnings.
Market Risk Committee Risk Committee Committee Legal & General is also a leading provider of index-tracking funds to both Counterparty Credit Operational Risk pension schemes and retail customers.
Committee Assessment Committee The fees for managing these funds are 10 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Diversified Business 23148 p006-027.
The most important strategic goal for Legal & General is to build our exposure profitably across three distinctive business areas.
Tim Breedon, Group Chief Executive View the webcast at: www.
com Each business presents valuable growth opportunities for Legal & General in its own right.
But it is the combination which really gives us the strong and diversified business model to which we aspire it means exposure to the entire financial life cycle of our customers: from early investment, through family saving, to asset accumulation, to pensionable income.
And it means we can leverage our strengths: in investment, in customer distribution and in administration across a broad range of products and markets For shareholders, I think the message is clear: balance maximises use of our strengths and our resources.
And it creates a coherent link between what we do and what households in the UK, and increasingly overseas, need with respect to their long term financial planning.
That is the strength of our brand: and the strength of our financial proposition.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:57 Page 12 Diversified Business Record BPA Business Fourth quarter Bulk Purchase Annuity BPA Sales set a new record for Legal & General with over 600m single premium wins from companies which have chosen to insure all or part of their pensions with us.
These new style BPA transactions for employers are evidence that a broader market is opening and that it plays to Legal & Generals expertise in pension scheme buyouts and strength in delivering high quality service.
Postcode Annuity Pricing Annuities have traditionally been priced to reflect the likely lifespan of annuitants, based on gender women typically outlive men and age.
However, wide discrepancies exist between different geographical locations, and these have not traditionally been factored into pricing.
Using its huge bank of experience data and statistics, Legal & General has been able to offer better deals for those living in some areas.
The scheme was trialled in autumn 2007, and is now being rolled out more broadly following a good take-up.
As annuity pricing becomes more sophisticated, Legal & General is at the forefront of a more tailored product, offering better value for money for customers.
