qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 42 Directors Report Board of Directors Andrew Palmer, Group Director Finance, Sir Rob Margetts CBE, Chairman, Aged 61.
Tim Breedon, Group Chief Executive, Aged 54.
Rob was appointed as a non-executive Andrew was appointed to the Board in director in June 1996 and Chairman in Tim was promoted to Group Chief Executive in January 2006 from Deputy Group Chief January 1996, having joined Legal & General February 2000.
He is senior non-executive in 1988.
Andrew is a non-executive director director of Anglo American Plc, Chairman Executive.
He joined the Board as Group Director Investments in January 2002, having and Chairman of the Audit Committee for of Ensus Limited and a director of Falck SEGRO Plc, Chairman of the Association of Renewables Plc.
Rob is also a Trustee of the joined Legal & General in 1987.
Tim is also a director of the Association of British Insurers.
British Insurers ABI Financial Regulation and Council for Industry and Higher Education Taxation Committee and is Chairman of the and Chairman of the Energy Technologies Former roles include: Managing Director Index Funds and Director Index Funds.
Former roles include: Chairman of include: Group Director Corporate BOC Group Plc: Chairman of the Natural GRCC, CSR, GCC, GIRC, IMRC Business and Group Director Services.
Environment Research Council and Vice Chairman of ICI Plc.
GRCC, GCC, CCC, GIRC, IMRC, ORAC NC, RC Frances Heaton, Independent Rudy Markham, Independent Dr Ronaldo Schmitz, Independent Non-Executive Director, Aged 63.
Frances was appointed to the Board in July Rudy was appointed to the Board in October Ronaldo was appointed to the Board in 2001.
Rudy is a non-executive director of October 2000.
Ronaldo is also a nondirector of Jupiter Primadona Growth Trust Standard Chartered Plc and is Chair of its executive director of GlaxoSmithKline Plc, Plc and BMT Limited.
Former roles include: Audit and Risk Committee.
He is also a nonRohm & Haas Company, Cabot Corporation non-executive director AWG PLC, member executive director of the Financial Reporting and Sick AG.
Former roles include executive of the Court of Directors of the Bank of Council, Moorelds Eye Hospital NHS director of Deutsche Bank AG.
England: Deputy Chairman of WS Atkins PLC Foundation Trust and United Parcel Service NC, RC and executive director of Lazard Brothers & Inc. Former roles include: Chief Financial Co. Limited.
officer, Director of Strategy and Technology and Treasurer of Unilever Plc: Chair and CEO AC, NC of Unilever Japan, Chair of Unilever Australia.
AC, NC, RC 42 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report 23148 p028-043.
qxd:23148 p028-043 31 3 08 16:40 Page 43 Kate Avery, Group Executive Director John Pollock, Group Executive Director Key to Committee Memberships Wealth Management, Aged 48.
GRCC Group Risk and Compliance Committee Kate was appointed to the Board in January John was appointed to the Board in AC Audit Committee 2001, having joined Legal & General in 1996.
December 2003, having joined CSR Corporate Social Responsibility Committee Kate is a non-executive director of Kelda Legal & General in 1980.
Former roles NC Nominations Committee Group Plc and is a Member of the Association include: Director, UK Operations, Managing RC Remuneration Committee of British Insurers Life Insurance Committee.
Director, Legal & General Asia and various GCC Group Capital Committee Former roles include: Retail Customer Director posts in Customer Services and IT.
CCC Group Counterparty Credit Committee and Director Group Marketing and Direct.
GIRC Group Insurance Risk Committee GRCC, GCC, GIRC Before joining Legal & General, Kate was IMRC Group Investment and Market Risk Managing Director, Barclays Stockbrokers Committee Limited and Managing Director, Barclays Bank ORAC Group Operational Risk Assessment Trust Company Limited.
Committee GRCC and Chair of the EDC EDC Equality and Diversity Committee Henry Staunton, Independent James Strachan, Independent Sir David Walker, Vice Chairman and Non-Executive Director, Aged 59.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Aged 68.
Henry was appointed to the Board in May James was appointed to the Board in 2004.
Henry is also a non-executive director December 2003.
James is also a Member David was appointed to the Board in March of Ladbrokes Plc and Standard Bank Plc.
of the Court of Directors of the Bank of 2002.
Former roles include: Chairman and Former roles include: Finance Director of ITV England, a non-executive director of both Chief Executive of Morgan Stanley Plc and Granada Group Plc: Chairman of Care UK Plc and Welsh Water Limited, a International Limited: executive director Ashtead Group Plc and non-executive visiting fellow at the London School of of the Bank of England: Chairman of the director of EMAP Plc, Independent Television Economics and a Trustee of Somerset House.
London Investment Banking Association: News Limited and Vector Hospitality Plc.
Former roles include: Chairman of the Audit Chairman of the Securities and Investments Commission, Managing Director of Merrill Board and Deputy Chairman of Lloyds Bank.
AC, NC Lynch and Chairman of RNID.
