qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 25 Investment Management Our Business The success of this strategy was the year with 297bn in funds under Legal & General Investment demonstrated in 2007 as LGIM not management 2006: 233bn.
Management LGIM has 297bn of only added significantly to core index LGIMs operating profit for 2007 was funds under management and is one of funds but also grew its Liability Driven 155m on the IFRS basis, an increase the UKs largest asset managers.
LGIMs Investment LDI business to become of 17% on 2006. holdings of UK equities account for a major provider in the UK corporate Outlook around 5% of the total capitalisation pensions market.
LGIMs 2007 new business performance, of the FTSE All-Share index.
LGIM Less than one-quarter of LGIMs assets in particular the new mandates gained manages institutional and retail under management are derived from from Hermes clients, was exceptional.
funds, with the bulk of assets under within Legal & General, but significant We expect a reversion to more normal management coming from pension synergies exist between LGIM and the levels of business in 2008, against a funds and other investing institutions.
These include utilising backdrop of continued uncertainty and More than three-quarters of funds under LGIMs wide range of asset management volatility in asset markets.
However, management are derived from clients capabilities and funds for the retail LGIMs strategy, in particular its phased outside the Legal & General Group, and markets served by the UK Savings expansion into Structured Solutions LDI in total, LGIM manages funds for over business, taking advantage of markets and actively-managed products 3,000 institutional clients.
complementary skillsets to develop is expected to continue to generate pension buyout solutions, and executing LGIMs historic strength has been in additional value beyond the proven effective asset and liability management index tracking, where we are the UKs core business of index fund management.
strategies on behalf of Legal & General clear market leader with 214bn index We expect to realise greater synergies and its policyholders.
between LGIM and the broader LGIM increasingly offers a complementary Our Performance in 2007 Legal & General Group, and to continue range of actively managed products LGIM delivered outstanding to make operational improvements such including active fixed income, active as the implementation of the IRIS performance in 2007.
Gross new funds equity and structured solutions.
During inflows were 53bn, an increase of 155% straight-through processing system for 2007, the creation of LGIMs Chicago pension funds, which will continue to over 2006, itself a record year.
This office established our capability in the success was driven by a combination of refine and improve our client offering US fixed income market.
as the UKs leading institutional exceptionally strong organic growth asset manager.
generating on average 2.5bn of gross Our Strategy new funds per month, plus large LGIMs success in index fund additional inflows of index funds as management provides a stable core of Hermes withdrew from that business low-risk, scalable, value-for-money sector.
As at the end of 2007, LGIM had products and a strong track record of been appointed to manage approximately service delivery for a broad range of 20bn of funds by former clients of clients.
The index fund business model Hermes.
On a net basis, LGIM ended is built around the use of pooled funds.
This pooled approach and the size of LGIM funds the UK Equity Index Fund now exceeds 86bn in size mean economies of scale can be shared with clients.
LGIMs product diversification strategy builds on its client relationships.
297bn Offering structured solutions and actively managed products enables the business to grow and diversify alongside clients, assisting them as their investment requirements change.
The LGIM business model is designed to cope efficiently with complexity, offering a series of building blocks that can be funds under management configured to suit clients needs.
