qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 14 Directors Report Business Review continued Industry and Markets Annuitant Longevity Business Environment: Market Overview the EU Reinsurance Directive.
The Regular review of our assumptions UK financial services markets have conversion reversed, as planned, a is standard practice within grown strongly over the last 10 years, 500m capital inefficiency dating from driven by underlying economic growth, the establishment of LGPL.
In total Legal & General and, whilst the industry a strong housing market and a 283m was added to the embedded and professional debate on the life continuing shift towards individuals value of the Company in 2006 7 expectancy of people who buy annuities providing for their own long term 2007: 112m: 2006: 171m.
continues, we have taken the decision financial security.
Between 1995 and to strengthen our reserves by 214m Modernisation of Long Term Fund Structure 2006, our Risk markets have grown on an IFRS basis to take into account On 31 December 2007, Legal & General by over 200% with Legal & General future longevity risk.
On an EEV basis, implemented changes to the balance taking leading market share in there was a reduction in embedded value sheet structure of Legal & General protection and annuities.
Assurance Society Limited Society as excluding drawdown the market grew part of the capital review programme Investment Strategy Changes by 147% over the same period.
Shareholder assets We have further evolved the investment long term growth has also been reflected held in the 1996 Sub-fund were merged approach for LGPL in 2007.
The new in the investment management sector, with the Shareholder Retained Capital investment strategy for assets underlying with an estimated 3.1 trillion of funds SRC and alternative capital support new business is designed to facilitate now managed in the UK.
close matching of liabilities and greater In addition, the formula determining Growth for a number of long term diversification of the asset portfolio.
distributions to shareholders from the financial products, however, slowed Greater use of derivative instruments non profit part of the Society Long Term from mid-2007.
Affordability concerns as part of the portfolio management has Fund was abolished.
This enabled us to dampened housing market activity, enabled even better risk management transfer 1.7bn of capital out of the long while increased volatility in asset and laid the foundation for significant term fund.
This capital is retained markets and tighter credit conditions diversification of sources of return and within Society.
The new structure allows affected savings and investment markets.
a reduced reliance on UK physical us to deploy capital more flexibly in Global bond markets experienced bonds.
The new investment approach support of future business objectives.
widening credit spreads, lower liquidity 210m was added to the embedded also enables more active management and increased volatility the credit of the assets in the annuity portfolio.
value of the Company in 2007. crunch.
The average credit rating of the Groups bond portfolios remain high, for instance the Annuity Fund continues to enjoy an AArating.
Returns on all the bond portfolios have generally been in line with market expectations.
Competition across the financial services sector remained intense in 2007.
Summary of financial impacts arising from significant events A number of specific developments 2 3 affected individual products.
These are LGPL Conversion LTF Restructure Annuitant Longevity discussed below.
IFRS Operating profit 214 m Regulatory and Political Environment Profit before tax 321m 214 m Legal & Generals business is largely EEV UK-based and regulated by the Financial Profit before tax 156m 5m 269m Services Authority FSA.
FSA regulation Profit after tax 112m 210m 194m applies to most of our operating 1 Capital subsidiaries, including Society, and IGD surplus capital 0.5bn 1.7bn Legal & General Investment Society surplus capital 0.5bn 0.2 bn Management Ltd LGIM.
The FSAs Note: more detail of the impacts is set out in Note 2 of the Financial Statements and Note 14 of the Supplementary responsibilities include ensuring Financial Statements.
financial services firms have proper 1.
Management estimates based on unaudited draft regulatory returns.
systems and controls to manage risk, 2.
maintain sufficient capital and that they 3.
14 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report 23148 p006-027.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 15 Legal & General monitors UK and Tax regime announced in the October Review and the provision of Generic EU regulatory developments closely, Pre-Budget Report.
We made Financial Advice as proposed by the responding in detail to proposals and representations on this subject, as Thoreson Review.
Our position continues to We believe it is important that We engage directly with Government reflect the need for equitable treatment consumer protection is balanced by where relevant and also work with the between different classes of savings a continuing awareness of the costs Association of British Insurers ABI on product, and for a reasonable degree of regulation to the industry and issues affecting the insurance industry of tax certainty for the consumer.
consumers, and of the need for the more broadly.
Legal & General made Outlook industry to retain the flexibility to representations to Government on a Long term fundamentals for UK evolve new products and services.
variety of issues during 2007. financial services remain strong Against a background of increasingly The Government further progressed awareness of increased longevity principles-based regulation, we will and a greater need to take personal its plans for an additional contributory continue to work towards regulatory responsibility for their own long term pensions scheme Personal Accounts, simplification where appropriate for and legislated to establish a Personal welfare continue to prompt customers example in the treatment of basic life to engage with the financial services Account Delivery Authority PADA.
We will also industry, while technological A further Pensions Bill in 2008 will continue to seek to ensure that determine details of auto-enrolled developments assist distribution.
additional burdens are not created Personal Accounts, which are expected as a result of gold-plating European The ongoing evolution of pension to be launched in 2012.
Legal & General Directives where these interact with schemes from Defined Benefit to has had detailed discussions on various existing UK law or regulation.
Defined Contribution will continue aspects of Personal Accounts with the to generate opportunities for After two years in which fiscal Government.
We support widening Legal & General, and we expect further uncertainty and change has had a access to personal pensions, though the growth in Bulk Purchase Annuities as negative effect on business volumes detail of any scheme needs to ensure it a wider range of schemes consider using first through the introduction and focuses on its target market, does not buyouts.
Although we see the A-day then withdrawal of Pension Term dilute good existing provision and is effect easing, pension transfers will Assurance in 2006, then through the not unfairly subsidised to compete remain a significant feature of the market.
proposals for Capital Gains Tax, we with private sector providers.
will continue to support those steps During 2008, we anticipate slower In 2007 the FSA published a which create more equivalence between growth and some reduction in interest Consultation Paper on Retail tax treatment of different products and rates in the UK.
We expect activity in Distribution in Financial Services.
which give the customer greater the housing market to remain subdued, This involved the FSA, industry and certainty about tax outcomes.
with continued volatility in asset consumer representatives looking at markets as the implications of the 2007 ways to improve the distribution of credit upheaval work through the retail investment products.
Legal & General has responded in detail We expect to see continuing competitive to the proposals.
We favour changes pressure in a number of our markets.
which allow a less complex sales process for simple products, delivered to Legal & Generals approach to its business using product and customers through a variety of channels.
distribution diversity to reduce reliance This should broaden access to financial services products whilst ensuring that on any particular segment or channel is 200% designed to mitigate the impact of overconsumers still receive regulatory protection.
competitive pricing in any particular product line.
Tax treatment of long term retail savings and investment products can have a It is our intention to remain closely significant impact on our business.
The engaged with the Government and the growth in risk regulator on Personal Accounts, and principal development in 2007 was the markets since 1995 potential negative impact on investment to play a role in the evolving debates bonds of changes to the Capital Gains around the FSAs Retail Distribution www.
