qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 16 Directors Report Business Review continued Risk Businesses Our Businesses been used by closed pension schemes, We maintain flexibility between Legal & Generals Risk businesses often for companies which have ceased products, responding rapidly to comprise Group and Individual trading.
BPAs now, however, have changing markets.
In individual and Protection, Annuities and General broader application to other companies bulk purchase annuities, the key drivers Insurance GI together with housing and trustees seeking to manage their are our appetite for longevity risk and related business conducted through our pension fund liabilities.
our ability to achieve satisfactory Mortgage Club.
We continuously improve Legal & Generals GI business focuses our mortality models, as shown by our Annuities and GI businesses are founded on the household sector.
We insure the on the assessment of risk, pricing of risk strengthening of annuity assumptions, fabric of properties and their contents while seeking profitable growth, and using a comprehensive statistical but do not provide commercial property, adjust our participation accordingly, framework and the continual analysis of business or motor insurance.
This business particularly in the very price-sensitive changes to underlying risk assumptions.
has synergies with the protection individual annuity market.
In the BPA The Mortgage Club business in turn business as both are frequently bought market, we have historically focused on drives protection and GI by providing when taking out a new mortgage or executing buyouts for smaller schemes, access to customers at a typical point moving house.
which have provided a steadier income when purchases are made.
Some risk Legal & Generals specialist housing stream, though we are now increasingly businesses are capital intensive, business, The Mortgage Club, provides active in the new market for larger requiring a strong and efficient balance the link with lender partners, utilising open schemes.
As a first step to buyout, sheet, and utilise large volumes of the strength of Legal & Generals open schemes are commonly looking to historical and current data.
distribution to source mortgages for our insure pensions in payment, which will The protection business offers cover for clients.
Legal & General provides the generally be shorter duration liabilities individuals and families against financial technology support to deliver the than full buyout.
In practice almost losses arising from defined events such every scheme contemplating buyout will synergies that exist in the housing as death, disability or critical illness.
market between individual protection, seek pricing input from Legal & General Legal & General is the UKs largest as a market leader and we will GI and mortgage sales.
In 2007 over provider of individual protection, with 23bn of mortgage lending was sourced participate where the risk rate of return a market share of over 20%.
offer Group Protection products for Realignment of management in 2006 Our Strategy corporate clients seeking protection for created greater accountability and We aim to maximise the benefits of scale their employees.
In this market we work ownership of business performance and and market leadership to maintain and with employers to intervene rapidly, cost.
This helps us make better decisions, build upon our leading competitive using a range of specialised medical adjusting our expense base in response to position in the Risk businesses.
We services to help employees to recover market changes and achieving competitive continually improve the skills and quickly from illness and injury.
unit costs and better focus.
Efficient technology to select, price and underwrite Our annuity business includes both capital management is important in risks effectively, leveraging expertise in Individual Annuities and Bulk Purchase product manufacture, distribution and Annuities BPAs.
Individual Annuities customer service to add value to new and are bought by people converting a lump existing business.
We use scale to keep sum often money saved in a pension unit costs low and service standards high.
Annuities The quality and extent of our data can offer a flat rate or indexed income enables us to price quickly and for life, and can to a certain extent be accurately and to develop products, like structured to reflect the purchasers 20.1% the new postcode annuity, which depend requirements.
Pricing depends on a for their effectiveness on a statistically number of factors including prevailing robust, but sophisticated and granular interest rates and  approach to pricing.
We have particular assumptions about longevity.
expertise in modelling longevity and in BPAs allow company pension schemes medical underwriting.
The quality of market share to insure the retirement income their our underwriting is very important to members expect in large block us, and we run regular audits to measure individual protection transactions.
Historically, BPAs have this on a risk weighted scoring basis.
16 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report 23148 p006-027.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 17 Risk businesses due to the capital strain As we predicted, Protection new reflects the shorter duration of new from new business, and we seek to make business margins at 9.3% were lower bulk purchase annuities, and the best use of our financial strength.
This was due to market strengthening of longevity assumptions.
Technology is a similarly important pricing leading to a downward General Insurance had a difficult year, component in the business model.
adjustment of the temporarily high reporting an operating loss of 67m In 2007 we invested in technological margins which were a legacy of easing 2006: 9m profit.
The cost of flood improvements in the annuities area, capital requirements under PS 06 14 in related claims in June and July 2007, enabling us to load data more quickly, 2006, the costs of continued investment as well as those relating to storm Kyrill, and in the protection business to provide in our market leading IT platform, and was 84m.
During the year, we took interactive underwriting with many of the withdrawal of Pension Term steps to focus more closely on the our intermediaries.
Legal & General household sector where purchases can reduced administration expenses to The Risk businesses share several often coincide with new mortgages and adjust to slowing sales, and responded synergies with other business areas protection purchasing decisions.
with a number of initiatives to attract within Legal & General.
We seek to Outlook customers, including the easing of work closely across divisions to bring We expect the housing market to remain ongoing duty of disclosure requirements a broad range of Risk, Savings and slow in 2008, but believe that the for protection cover.
Investment Management expertise to protection market still has underlying bear on any particular issue for which Individual Annuities sales grew in 2007 potential as remortgaging activity a holistic approach is appropriate.
as market conditions became more perseveres and protection products favourable and Legal & General increased Our Performance in 2007 continue to be sold on a stand-alone its presence in the market.
New business Total new Risk premiums rose to a new basis.
We expect additional sales growth APE increased by 18% to 93m 2006: high in 2007.
Individual Protection new from our partnership with Nationwide 79m.
Further refinement was business APE of 160m broadly held up Building Society, which came on stream introduced to product pricing, notably despite more difficult housing markets in the first quarter of 2008.
We envisage the introduction of postcode pricing.
market conditions to favour our combination of an established product Bulk Purchase Annuities had a record Group Protection total premiums were set and multi-channel distribution.
We year as the new schemes market opened.
272m and new business APE was 63m remain optimistic about the prospects New business APE was 112m 2006: 2006: 64m.
In an intensely pricefor growth in the individual annuities 103m.
Our traditional market of competitive market Legal & General market as personal pensions bought in smaller schemes from insolvent continued to differentiate itself by the 1980s mature, and we also expect companies was negatively impacted by product quality and to focus on claims continued growth on the new BPA the Governments decision in July to management, which enabled us to market.
Both annuities markets are prevent FAS-eligible schemes from resolve cases more quickly and deliver price sensitive, and our policy is only executing buyouts for a nine month a strong performance particularly in the to compete for profitable new business, period.
This slowed smaller scheme second half of the year.
and large case sizes in BPAs are likely activity, but Legal & General won a to produce earnings volatility quarternumber of large new market schemes on-quarter.
We continue to refine our during the fourth quarter of the year, approach to GI business.
We anticipate driving record new business market price rises for household performance.
Legal & General quotes insurance following last years floods on the majority of BPA schemes, but to lead to greater consumer switching it should be noted that large schemes between providers, and expect this buyouts close only sporadically.
11 2m to benefit companies such as Legal & General historically has a high Legal & General, which has a relatively market share in this sector, though the small existing book of business.
level of our participation is driven by longevity risk appetite and available asset pricing.
Margins for annuity business individual and BPA for the year were 9.1% 2006: BPA new business APE 10.7%.
The decline in margin principally www.
