qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 18 Directors Report Business Review continued Savings: Wealth Management Our Businesses scale savers, mass-affluent and some Legal & Generals Savings Businesses higher net worth markets.
These include consist of Wealth Management and the both advised and non-advised products.
With-profits is We utilise a variety of distribution discussed separately on page 22. channels, with sales being both direct and intermediated, largely through bank The product range within Wealth and building society partners and IFAs.
Management includes pension and We actively adapt to changes in market investment bond products, unit trusts technology, as evidenced by our and Individual Savings Accounts ISAs, partnership with our online platform as well as group pension products sold provider Cofunds, which, as one of the to corporate clients to provide for their UKs leading fund supermarkets, employees.
We sell traditional products provides customers and IFAs with access as well as those designed to be held on to a number of Legal & General products.
We regard the wealth sector as a market In addition, some savings products are with good growth potential for sold to professional clients or institutions.
Legal & General, and an area where we This business, consisting of large single utilise synergies with other parts of the sum transfers of institutional business, Group.
These include those between has volatile new business levels due to pensions and annuities when retirees the transaction size and nature of the convert a pension pot into a lifetime investing party, and is reported separately income, and those which leverage the from core savings.
investment expertise of Legal & General Our Strategy Investment Management LGIM to Our Wealth Management business structure products for the retail savings provides the means for customers to markets.
Customers meanwhile benefit maximise their current and future from the strength of the Legal & General wealth.
It is designed as an efficient, balance sheet and the Companys technology-driven, quality asset established administrative competence.
We are committed to achieving Our Performance in 2007 growth in assets under administration Individual UK non profit pensions new by providing a mix of good value business APE for the year was 253m, investment products, distributed an increase of 22% against the prior year.
through a variety of channels and This equates to 18% of Legal & Generals administered efficiently with a strong total worldwide new business APE.
This onus on customer service and retention.
growth was evident both in individual We utilise a variety of technology and grouped individual corporate client platforms and distribution mechanisms pensions business.
We continued to in our dealings both with customers benefit from an A-day related increase and financial intermediaries, and we in pension transactions in 2007, with encourage greater persistency from individuals taking the opportunity existing customers by enabling them of greater flexibility to improve and to hold or grow their investments in consolidate pension arrangements.
These negative Our strategy recognises the importance to a modern wealth business of a margins are largely due to the regulated nature of charges in this market.
We are comprehensive, balanced product set which meets short to long term needs, increasing the proportion of Self-invested Personal Pensions SIPP sales relative to and which provides flexible investment non profit pensions instruments with varying degrees of basic stakeholder pensions and increasing investment in our systems to enhance APE growth sophistication, suitable for a customer range which includes relatively smallfuture efficiency.
Legal & Generals UK 18 Legal & General Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report Quality Products and Distribution 23148 p006-027.
We believe our customers want access to good value, high quality products which they can buy in a way which is most convenient to them.
Kate Avery, Group Executive Director Wealth Management View the webcast at: www.
com We believe that todays world is epitomised by change, whether that be in our careers or our family lives.
And that means our products need to be more flexible than ever.
We believe very few people now regard their job as being there for life with a generous company pension scheme on retirement.
At the heart of our strategy is providing a choice of how customers wish to purchase our products At the end of the day, we know that our job is to act as a steward of our customers money, making it possible for them to make important financial decisions in the knowledge that they are working with a reliable, secure long term partner.
qxd:23148 p006 027 31 3 08 16:58 Page 20 Quality Products and Distribution First Maturing Share Schemes SIPP Plan for UK FTSE 100 Company GlaxoSmithKline became the first UK FTSE 100 Company to offer employees a group self-invested personal pension SIPP designed to provide self investment of long term employersponsored saving initiatives such as share incentive plans, SAYE share schemes or other approved share arrangements.
The Legal & General plan which sits alongside employees existing pension arrangements also has the potential to provide employees with additional opportunities to save for retirement through bonus sacrifice, a wider range of investment funds, and the significant tax savings offered by SIPPs.
Other large employers are expected to follow suit.
Cofunds Relationship Strengthened Legal & General and Cofunds have extended their distribution relationship to 2013.
This follows the on platform launch of an international bond from Legal & Generals life company in the Republic of Ireland, and a funds only self-invested personal pension broadening the product offering which Cofunds provides to the UK IFA market.
Enabling Rapid Returns to Work Group Protections fast-paced approach to getting customer companies employees fit to return to work after periods of ill-health has shortened periods of absence and reduced claims.
A notable success from our approach of early intervention and expert medical outsourcing has been the reduction in the average employee absence period for mental health problems from 54 to 28 months in companies using our Group Income Protection policies.
This will remain a powerful Almost 96% of With-profits APE is positive driver for total assets under pension-related and this is discussed management and new business volume later in the With-profits section.
growth over the medium term.
We see our distribution strength as a strong Unit Linked Bonds new business APE advantage against this market background.
This year, we expect savings markets to Investment bonds accounted for 17% of remain competitive, but anticipate total worldwide new business growth for a return to more rational pricing, Legal & General 2006: 20%, and as particularly for more sophisticated a company we have a market share of products.
Sales increased by 9% during the outlook for sales of ISAs and shorterfirst nine months of the year, but the term products pending greater consumer impact of tax uncertainty for investors certainty about the broader economy, but following proposals in the Pre-Budget expect to see good growth in individual Report PBR led to our fourth quarter and group SIPP sales.
The outlook for sales being 34% lower than in 2006. investment bonds remains uncertain, due During the year, we broadened the to the changes to Capital Gains Tax rules investment bond product base by announced in the PBR.
launching an International Bond, issued by our newly established Dublin subsidiary, and rolling out our Discounted Gift Scheme for customers with significant inheritance tax liabilities.
Margins for Unit-linked Investment Bonds were 0.8% 2006: 2%.
In an increasingly competitive market, we have used special offers to balance our volume and profit margin objectives.
Having increased investment in our systems and launched our international investment bond, the impact of the PBR on sales in the fourth quarter was clearly disappointing.
Core retail sales of unit trusts and ISAs generated new business APE of 161m in 2007 2006: 123m.
This increase was driven by the expansion of our specialist sales channel.
Institutional unit trust and ISA gross inflows of 1,809m 2006: 5,383m reflect the volatile nature of these sales.
A disproportionate volume of institutional business was written in 2006 as a result of an arrangement with a single large institution.
31% Outlook We expect the UK long term savings market to remain underpinned by supportive demographics, particularly growth in the numbers of High Net core retail investments Worth and mass affluent baby boomer households making provisions for APE growth retirement and long term financial www.
