Corporate Responsibility Summary Report Introduction reputation areas which we believe are As with last year we will be publishing a appropriate and necessary in meeting the separate and more detailed Corporate needs of all of our stakeholders.
Responsibility Report, which will be released prior to the Annual General Meeting.
This Summary of the core Corporate section of the Annual Report is therefore a Responsibility elements condensed summary of the full report.
Our risk-based approach to Corporate Responsibility has proven invaluable in giving We define Corporate Responsibility as follows: our Board and senior management a clearer To commit to and evidence, where possible picture of where we must focus to maintain our high standards of business behaviours both the trust and commitment of our people, corporate and individual, which underpin the shareholders and stakeholders.
Identifying and reputation of our Group and which create and prioritising areas of business risk and defining maintain trust in and loyalty to our Group by all indicators by which to monitor and manage of our stakeholders.
them, has also helped us develop clear programmes of stakeholder engagement In the financial services industry, trust is an including, for example, global employee and essential prerequisite, in our specialised segment customer surveys and workshops on personnel of the industry, in which we are market leaders, safety, climate change and philanthropy.
trust is absolutely fundamental in maintaining long standing customer relationships, establishing The Companies Act 2006 new ones and deepening our relationships with Later this year the Companies Act will introduce our stakeholder base the loyalty of our enhanced requirements.
The current law stakeholders has to be earned.
requires the directors to report on key business activities including employees and environment By thoughtful interaction and engagement to matters.
Under the new Act these requirements ensure that we understand what is expected of are extended to the reputation imperatives of us so that we can respond, adapt and change Corporate Responsibility.
We are confident that in line with stakeholder needs.
our existing strategic approach aligns well with the new requirements.
Our Boards overriding leadership focus is therefore, on our people for it is they who In last years report we described in some detail are trusted with that most critical of assets, each of the elements traditionally considered core our reputation.
This year we have shifted focus slightly concentrating on areas of Our core principles which are articulated in our particular relevance given the nature and scale of Global Ethics Policy, form the foundations of our global business.
These areas include: our Corporate Responsibility Programme and are imbued into our Company.
our people leadership and governance Corporate Responsibility is therefore an customers essential element in our business proposition in communities and philanthropy that it sets out the standards in the key the environment Figure 41: Gender analysis Our Core Values Permanent only Number of employees Business conduct 6,000 Employee integrity 5,000 Operating principles Product and service integrity 4,000 3,000 Reputation 2,000 1,000 Trust 0 2004 2005 2006 2007 Male Female Total With the significant increase in staff numbers following integration of Refco our gender mix has remained constant year on year at 70:30 male:female.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 60 Corporate Responsibility Summary Report Leadership and Governance Live Life Save workshops in association Data gathering and reporting with the Suzy Lamplugh Trust, to train our Clear leadership is regarded as a critical The Group recognises that any firms factor in embedding responsible behaviour employees and their families in managing risk performance on corporate responsibility can and personal safety.
Our CR Committee, only be as good as the data by which it is which reports to the Group Board, is led by monitored and managed.
We have therefore Customers our Group Chairman, Harvey McGrath, with set about improving our data gathering membership including our Deputy Chairman, We launched pilot customer surveys in a capability, particularly to meet the needs of the number of countries, with an initial focus on Stanley Fink, our CEO, Peter Clarke, the Heads new regulatory disclosure.
During the year we of the businesses and Corporate areas.
We Man Investments institutional investors, in established procedures to allow the capture of preparation for an extended programme of believe this level of accountability sends a clear data and analysis processes: introducing greater and powerful message as to the seriousness work in this area.
granularity of data, increasing our ability to report with which we view CR in our business in more detail on all facets of our operations, Procurement and identifying Key Performance Indicators Our reputation rests in part on our business Our complete CR programme, along with to benchmark key risks for both Corporate our carbon neutral initiative will be externally relationships, and how the vendors and Responsibility and Business Review purposes.
suppliers on whom we depend conduct their accredited by The Virtuous Circle Limited and their full report and accreditation will appear in business.
During the year we introduced Community a supply chain Corporate Responsibility our CR Report.
Group charitable donations increased from questionnaire, implemented a procurement $5.9 million to $12.0 million year-on-year, the Code of Practice, and are developing a Our people majority of which was donated to the Man To develop our understanding of the procurement intranet site with a Buying Guide.
A formula for determining charitable giving was introduced motivations and needs of our employees, we launched our global employee survey.
Environment last year and applied for the first time in the We consider that the potentially destabilising financial year ended 31 March 2007.
On a Employees were asked to respond to a series of questions about their own position, their effect of issues such as climate change pre-tax basis, the amount of charitable giving requires us to adopt a thought leadership is determined as follows: departments and the Group overall.
The statements asked for a response graded from position to encourage our industry to play its part in framing appropriate solutions.
2.5% of Asset Managements net strongly agree to strongly disagree.
There was also the ability to add written comments.
performance fee income: plus The Group this year for the first time 0.25% of Asset Managements net The survey received a response rate of 75% with many employees writing an additional successfully offset 100% of its CO2 emissions, management fee income: plus 0.25% of Brokerages net income.
The survey results were very using Gold Standard Certified Emission encouraging and indicated a very strong Reduction credits to achieve and surpass The minimum charitable giving in any year is alignment to the strategic objectives of the carbon neutrality.
We conducted carbon Group and to the inclusive and entrepreneurial workshops in London and Pfffikon for more guaranteed to be no less than 0.5% of Group culture of the Company.
than 200 members of staff, conducted an employee global household carbon footprint Staff matching and GAYE schemes continued During the year we introduced an enhanced survey, and established an intranet-based employee benefits scheme ManFlex, and carbon calculator to provide energy saving tips this year and details of these and our added more flexibility to align to the changing community activity will be included in our and help staff calculate household carbon needs of our employees.
emissions with 50% Group subsidy to any detailed Corporate Responsibility Report.
Figure 42: Employee age profile Figure 43: Length of service Figure 44: CO2 emissions per employee Permanent only Permanent only Number of employees Number of Employees KgCO2 employee 2,000 2,000 5,000 1,800 1,800 4,500 1,600 1,600 4,000 1,400 3,500 1,400 1,200 3,000 1,200 1,000 2,500 1,000 800 2,000 800 1,500 400 600 1000 200 400, 500 200 0 0 20 20-29 30-39 40-49 50-59 60 0 Utilities Air Travel Total 1 year 1-2 3-5 6-10 11-15 15 years Age Years 2006 2006 Male Female Total Male Female 2005 2005 2006 2007 The age profile has remained broadly constant following the Despite the significant number of Refco people reflected in the Although our air travel has increased, the use of green electricity integration of Refco with a small measurable shift from the 30-39 1-2 years category, 30% of our people have more than 5 years has resulted in a significant decrease in our per capita carbon age group to the 20-29 age group.
10% of our people are aged service, with 10% over 10 years, compared with 33% and 12% footprint.
50 or over compared with just under 9% last year.
61 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007
