Corporate Responsibility Summary Report continued Accreditation The approach of the Group has been to To ensure the credibility of the data used in and quantify its Corporate Responsibility activities the efficacy of our Corporate Responsibility to assure and increase the credibility of its Report and Carbon Programme, we appointed programme.
With the onset of statutory nonexternal accreditors for the first time.
financial reporting, we acknowledge our duty to develop methodologies which will ensure that Key themes and strategy the data we report in the Business Review is Our strategy will remain to build on the strong accurate and robust.
This needs to be the case foundations of our continuously developing not only opposite the regulator, but also key Corporate Responsibility Programme.
stakeholders particularly our investors, who need assurance that our activities are beyond A key challenge will be to continue to embed reproach and our analysis and conclusions Corporate Responsibility ever deeper into the robust.
We have a wealth of data to draw on fabric of our business as we move on to, and as we continue to develop our thinking, through, the separation of Man Financial, particularly in the area of business materiality, developing, for example, relevant KPIs for providing our key stakeholders with clear evidence of the ways it adds value to our future reporting purposes.
business and to our relationships with them.
This approach, we believe, both assures further sustainable progress and keeps faith with the We will focus ever more closely on areas identified as presenting the greatest potential core values of Man Group, which have guided our behaviour and helped drive our success risk to the sustainability of our company and its businesses: our people, our customers, for over 200 years see Figures 41 to 46. corporate governance and the environment.
These are also areas where business opportunities lie and where the analysis generated by the Corporate Responsibility Programme can help the Board better understand the potential for growing the business.
The integration of Refco has significantly increased our presence in the US and Asia, diluting the dominance of London and Switzerland while expanding our global reach.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 62 Community Highlights Community Highlights 01 02 04 03 01.
Annual Charity The Judges List for the Man Booker Teenage Cancer Trust was voted by Man International Prize 2007 was announced employees as Man Groups London Annual at Massey College, Toronto in April 2007.
The charity received a donation of 100,000 from the 02.
Man Booker Prize 2007 Man Group plc Charitable Trust and employees The judges for the Man Booker Prize 2007 will endeavour to match the donation with fund 05 06 are Howard Davies Chair, Wendy Cope, raising activities during the year.
Giles Foden, Ruth Scurr and Imogen Stubbs.
England Hockey The Man Group plc Charitable Trust has Man Group agreed the 0.5 million donated 1 million over the next four years sponsorship of England Hockey over the next to TreeHouse the national charity for six years in the run up to 2012. autism education.
Oxford and Cambridge scholarships 07 Man Group sponsored Saracens Rugby The Man Group plc Charitable Trust is funding Football Club for a third season.
a number of scholarships at Oxford and Cambridge universities.
The Man Group International Climate Change Award 09.
Greenhouse Man Group has announced the sponsorship The Man Group plc Charitable Trust is of a major new environmental award designed donating 100,000 per year for three years to to encourage and recognise the achievements Greenhouse Schools Project who use sports made by businesses in addressing climate and arts programmes to teach 11-16 year olds change.
The first award will be made in life and social skills.
England Netball Primary schools in London were invited to take part in a High 5s Netball Festival run by England Netball in partnership with Man Group.
