Chairmans Statement I am pleased to report on what has been another non-executive Deputy Chairman and Group form which will allow shareholders to receive their Chief Executive respectively.
share of the proceeds as either income or capital, excellent year for the Man Group with pre-tax profit up 27% at $1,564 million.
Both Asset at their option.
The distribution will be subject to With regard to the first, we announced on shareholder approval and is expected to take Management and Brokerage have performed strongly, enabling us to achieve our key 30 March 2007 that the Group Board, after place in the fourth quarter of the calendar year.
a thorough review, had concluded that Man financial targets by delivering an increase in underlying earnings per share of 42% and Financial and Man Investments would be best The second significant development on 30 March positioned to maximise future returns and 2007 was Stanley Finks appointment as Deputy a post-tax return on equity of 31%.
growth opportunities by pursuing focused Chairman.
In the seven years of his tenure as Group independent strategies and having appropriate Chief Executive we have seen pre-tax profits grow Reflecting these results and our robust capital position the Board proposes a final dividend individual capital structures.
It is anticipated that from $181 million to $1,564 million: assets under both Man Group and MF Globals overall credit management from $4.7 billion to $61.7 billion: and of 12.7 cents payable at the rate of 6.42 pence per share for a total dividend for the year of rating will be as good as the existing Group the Groups market capitalisation from 1.3 billion ratings.
We therefore intend to separate the to 10.4 billion.
These numbers reflect a series 20.0 cents, an increase of 40%.
Additionally, during the year we bought back 44,019,161 Brokerage business, and believe that significant of remarkable accomplishments which have value will be created for Man Group shareholders both added substantial value for our shareholders shares at a total cost of $375 million under our rolling buyback programme.
Total shareholder from such a transaction.
The separation will be and helped change the shape of the investment effected by an initial public offering on the New management industry.
Many congratulations and return for the year to March 31 2007 was 38%, with an annual compound return of 25% per York Stock Exchange of a majority interest in thanks to Stanley for his outstanding contribution, the Brokerage business and this is intended and indeed to all of his executive team across annum over the last five years.
to take place in the third calendar quarter of the Group who have played a part in this success.
2007, subject to market conditions remaining Congratulations as well to Peter Clarke who starts In Asset Management, the year saw strong inflows and good performance for the industry.
his tenure as Chief Executive at a challenging and exciting time in the development of the Group Man Investments overall sales for the year were a record $15.9 billion, helping drive assets under Man Financial will be renamed MF Global with all of our best wishes for success.
with effect from the separation.
Kevin Davis, management up 24% to $61.7 billion.
Returns for our core investment managers during the currently Managing Director of Man Financial With respect to other Board changes, during will become CEO of MF Global, Chris Smith will the year we saw the departure of Jonathan year were mixed.
Although all contributed to performance fees over the year, the overall become COO and Deputy CEO and Amy Butte Nicholls on 20 July 2006 as a non-executive will be CFO.
The non-executive Chairman will director following his appointment as an level was less than last year, reflecting a lower contribution from AHL.
Overall for the division be Alison Carnwath.
executive director at Old Mutual plc.
We thank him for his contribution during his two pre-tax profit was up 13% to $1.3 billion.
We believe this separation from the Man Group years on the Board.
Effective 31 May 2007, will emphasise MF Globals commitment to we were pleased to welcome Kevin Hayes In Brokerage, Man Financial benefited from the combination of very active markets, a client base specialty brokerage and enhance its position to the Board as Finance Director, and wish as the largest specialty broker in its markets.
We him every success in his new role.
augmented by the fully integrated Refco business and continued strong organic expansion.
Together also believe that having a public trading market for its shares will enable it to offer more attractive Funds under management are currently estimated these developments drove higher volumes and strong growth in profitability with pre-tax profit consideration to potential acquisition targets and to be over $65 billion, up $3.5 billion since the end before exceptional items up 69% year-on-year.
to compensate its employees in a way that more of March, reflecting in particular, strong investment closely aligns their interests with the business.
performance and further sales momentum.
With At the close of the financial year there were two recent positive performance across our core significant developments the announcement of We have committed to distribute the net proceeds managers, and a strong pipeline of forthcoming our intention to separate the businesses, and the of the MF Global offering to our shareholders.
product initiatives, the Board is very confident appointments of Stanley Fink and Peter Clarke as It is expected that this distribution will be in a about the prospects for the coming year.
Harvey McGrath Chairman 05 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Chief Executives Review Our people are our key asset.
Attracting the best talent, motivating them to excel, retaining them and ensuring that they progress in their careers is a key focus of senior management across the Group.
Business Review Chief Executives Review The proposed separation of our Brokerage which actively promote share ownership across track records for environmental investment products for investors.
business is confirmation of the Groups success the business.
in developing market leading businesses and The attraction of our investment products has its focus on building shareholder value.
The Product innovation allows us to develop an separation also provides a unique opportunity extensive and flexible range of investment fuelled strong demand and high levels of sales.
To accommodate these strong asset inflows, for the Group to restate its long-term business products to meet the risk, return, liquidity and strategy.
The Man Group has a tremendous other requirements of our investors worldwide.
we have focused on building out the range and capacity of specialist managers to whom client history of performance, for our fund investors, We have developed a successful business our shareholders and other stakeholders.
model that utilises our ownership or preferred assets can be allocated.
Our strategy is to use our long established reputation in the market to Our continued focus is on driving forward access to a wide range of portfolio managers this success on a balanced and sustainable specialising in alternative investment strategies, attract experienced investment managers, and the Groups strong capital position to acquire, basis to generate continued growth, address to offer investment performance with a low changing markets and create further shareholder correlation to bond and equity benchmarks.
seed and develop managers and products to grow our investment capacity.
The core components of our business This is combined with our portfolio construction model to achieve these objectives are: capabilities and specialist structuring expertise we have the widest array of investment styles, with proven performance track records, available to tailor products which meet investor demands, People local regulatory requirements or tax treatment.
for our institutional investors and distributors.
Product innovation This set of skills continues to be an important Distribution network driver in our ability to maintain margins Our distribution network is supported by the and extend the maturity profile of our funds long-term relationships our sales force has with Investor services Governance and risk management under management, creating significant our distributors and our institutional investors.
Our distributor network covers a wide range of Performance the largest global and strongest regional financial Product innovation is a constant process.
institutions, who sell our product to their clients Our people are our key asset.
Attracting the best talent, motivating them to excel, retaining Through our relationships with distributors for a fee.
The continued trend towards open and direct dialogue with institutional investors, architecture, where financial institutions market them and ensuring that they progress in their careers is a key focus of senior management we understand prevailing investor preferences products from a variety of sources, has provided for risk and return, and can develop new us with enhanced investor access.
Our focus across the Group.
Mans long established presence in alternative investments has enabled products which meet these expectations.
in alternatives means that we do not generally We provide a broad range of guaranteed and compete with our distributors, allowing us to us to assemble a broad and deep range of talented people, with focus and experience.
open-ended products across a large number of develop long-standing and closer relationships.
Our long track record of investment This worldwide distributor network offers us This year we launched a well received global staff survey to capture the thoughts and performance and our focus on quantitative scale, flexibility and efficiency in the distribution analysis allow us to select investment strategies of our products.
motivations of all our people and to develop opportunities for personal advancement and and model product returns with high levels of confidence in expected performance over Our strategy is to continue to grow the number career progression within Man.
We use our own capital in the of distributors and to focus on those distributors search for new sources of return with low with strong franchises, high standards and an Our colleagues in the business have a direct impact on fund performance for our investors correlation to equity and bond benchmarks, international presence.
We also ensure that seeding new managers, products and styles.
we take advantage of regional opportunities and a motivation and focus to create high quality products for investment.
Their direct Recently we have made proprietary investments with local partners to broaden our network.
in climate impact or environmental projects as An expanding network of regional sales offices contribution to shareholder value is given focus through the Groups share programmes part of the process of establishing performance around the world is responsible for servicing 07 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Chief Executives Review continued new markets and maintaining and expanding Governance and risk management are essential to invest our excess capital against returning components of both the investment management it to our shareholders.
This financial flexibility our distributor relationships.
process for our investors and our approach to ensures that we have access to the resources maintaining a high quality sustainable business necessary for long-term growth.
The institutional investor sales team is focused on delivering products to the largest and most for shareholders.
Our corporate reputation is fundamental to our business, and maintaining Performance is the measure of the successful sophisticated professional investors.
Our strategy is to continue to grow this sales force and our corporate integrity is the responsibility execution of our strategy.
As an asset of everyone in the Group.
Underlying our management business focused on alternatives, broaden the product coverage.
These strategies will result in our distribution network creating strategy is a strong focus on governance and where the generation of performance is required requirements for high levels of ethical behaviour to be incremental to the movement of the continued growth in funds under management and breadth of product offering, providing which runs through our businesses.
The underlying market, we are constantly challenged importance of our reputation is highlighted by to outperform.
We are proud of our record revenue growth and creating shareholder value.
the focus that governance and reputational risk of long-term performance for investors across is given within the Risk Management and our products.
This track record has fuelled our Investor services standards of the highest level are essential to support our investors Corporate Responsibility sections of this strong growth in assets under management Report.
Our recent global staff survey and provides the momentum for further growth.
Quality in investor services is instrumental in growing confirmed that staff recognise and respect the value of Mans reputation and the importance Our focus on performance is not only for our our distribution network and ensuring that our global launches have been successful.
of their behaviour in protecting it.
In a product investors, but also for our shareholders.
highly regulated environment we view the The Groups financial results continue to show Through a number of technology enabled solutions we have enhanced the efficiency maintenance of high standards of ethical the successful implementation of our strategy.
conduct and best business practices as a Mans strong financial performance places of distributor processes and the quality of client reporting.
The institutional investor competitive advantage in the market.
We it amongst the top performing FTSE 100 therefore work closely with global regulators companies when measured by revenue experience in particular relies on high standards of performance reporting and risk analysis.
to ensure that our sector operates effectively growth, pre-tax margin, EPS growth, and in the context of the overall financial market.
The Groups dividend has This dialogue with distributors and institutional investors provides us with regular feedback on grown at a compound average growth rate Risk management is an essential competency of 33% per annum and the share price has products and strategies.
This service platform provides us with a competitive advantage and at the portfolio manager, business and Group grown at a compound average growth of 23% level.
Active risk management throughout the per annum, over the last five years.
will be a focus for continued investment.
Group mitigates the risk arising from market, credit, liquidity and reputation risk.
Our strong The proposed IPO of MF Global will allow Service is an essential part of our growth strategy.
Its success is reflected in the quality capital position, both in terms of equity capital us to unlock substantial value, which we have and debt resources, ensures that we have committed to return to our shareholders.
It will of our funds under management as measured by both strong product sales and low financial security across differing cycles and also provide focus on our leading franchise in market conditions.
Twin focus on growth from new investors, and stability in existing investors, overarching strategy is to continue to grow Our strategy is to maintain a degree of excess our business franchise for the benefit of our creates increased funds under management and long-term, sustainable shareholder value.
capital and substantial liquidity resources to give investors, and to leverage our competitive us flexibility both to continue to fund growth, strengths to create substantial shareholder value.
and to operate the business effectively under stress situations.
We actively manage our equity base and carefully evaluate the opportunities Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 08 Business Review Asset Management Asset Management Asset Management in focus products had more favourable returns with hedge fund industry, when measured against RMF recording 7.7%, in line with the HFRI Man Investments is a global leader in the fasttotal investable assets calculated as market growing alternative investments industry with Fund of Funds Composite Index.
capitalisation of all equity markets plus total funds under management of $61.7 billion at debt securities as measured by the Bank for 31 March 2007.
It provides innovative products Business environment International Settlements, have only risen from and tailor-made solutions to a diverse group Historically, investors have had the majority of 0.8% in 1997 to 1.4% in 2006.
This relatively of private and institutional investors worldwide.
their investments in the large traditional asset measured growth reflects the fact that the Through its multi-managers RMF, Glenwood classes of equities, bonds and cash.
However, pool of investable assets has grown dramatically and Man Global Strategies, and through its as investors and their advisers have become in recent years assisted by the increase in single managers AHL, Pemba and Bayswater, more sophisticated, demand has grown for sophistication of global capital markets, of Man Investments has succeeded in developing other asset classes, particularly those with low which the growth of hedge funds represents leadership in hedge funds and has interests in correlations to equities and bonds.
This makes only one of a number of factors.
sense for overall portfolio management and allows investors to improve the risk-adjusted Projections for the hedge fund industry In its core hedge fund asset class, Man returns of their total portfolios.
These other anticipate strong rates of growth at around Investments distributes guaranteed products investment categories include hedge funds, 15% per annum.
The fastest area for growth is and open-ended products to private investors private equity, real estate and other physical projected to be on the institutional side, although through a unique and extensive network of assets such as commodities.
actual inflows are still expected to be split equally around 2,000 global and regional distributors.
between private investor and institutional, given Institutional asset gathering is typically through Man Investments is focused on hedge funds the larger absolute size of the private investor direct relationships and is coordinated through and ultimately we are providing products funds under management.
Man to investors who wish to gain exposure to this Investments track record stretches back area.
We are therefore in competition with other Single manager hedge funds more than two decades and defines the providers of similar hedge fund products.
We The management of hedge funds remains very standard for excellence in an industry whose are also competing with providers of other fragmented.
The 10 largest managers have central goal is to provide diversification away categories of investments given that investors a cumulative market share of around 16% from traditional equity and bond investments.
are seeking to invest their portfolios in a mix and only 9% of hedge funds have more than Man has a powerful global presence, supported of products that will give them attractive risk- $1 billion funds under management.
Likewise, by strong product development and structuring adjusted returns.
the industry remains relatively immature and skills, and an extensive investor service and only some 24% of hedge funds have been in distribution network.
Industry outlook existence for more than seven years.
In this Conditions in the hedge fund industry context, Man Investments stands out with a Man Investments robust market position has continue to be very favourable.
Net inflows track record dating back two decades see allowed it to continue to grow its profits with were $163 billion in the year to March 2007, Figures 2 and 3. profit before tax in the year to 31 March 2007 strongly up from $43 billion in the year to up 13% to $1.3 billion.
Total funds under management Whilst the hedge fund industry continues to backdrop of challenging market conditions for at March 2007 were $1.7 trillion, up 32% on grow rapidly, with a large number of new the performance of our private investor products, the previous year.
entrants joining each year, there is evidence as demonstrated by Man Multi-Strategy that there has been a gradual flight to quality Guaranteed Ltd which was up by only 3.1% Even after allowing for an element of leverage, with the largest managers benefiting at the for the year.
This was principally due to our this still represents a small percentage of total expense of the smaller ones.
The share of total exposure to the managed futures style, with investable assets worldwide.
As can be seen funds under management FUM of the largest AHL being down 4.8%.
The Barclay Group, World Source: Hedge Fund Research Inc.
Source: Hedge Fund Research Inc. Federation of Exchanges and Bank for International Settlements.
Note: Hedge fund market share measured against total investable assets calculated as market capitalisation of all equity markets plus total debt securities as measured by BIS.
Projections for growth of hedge fund assets are estimated as the average of forecasts from Greenwich-Van, Grail Partners, Datamonitor and Financial Research Corp. 09 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued 45% at the end of 2001 to 58% at the end of hedge fund managers.
This segment services seven are subsidiaries of banks and the eighth # 2005.
This implies that the top 100 hedge two discrete markets private investor and is part of the asset manager broker Legg Mason.
funds have grown their average funds under institutional.
The single manager hedge funds These managers owe their size and growth management at a compound annual growth discussed above typically have high minimum to a material degree to the allocation of rate of nearly 30%, from an average $2.6 billion, investment requirements and are generally discretionary assets from within their group up to a current average of $7.1 billion.
not interested in dealing directly with private affiliates.
This trend seems set to continue with investors.
However, private investors tend to a number of fund of funds players having been Our principal single manager product remains have higher return targets whilst favouring acquired by banks in recent years.
And growth AHL which had funds under management more concentrated levels of managers and continues to be very strong for most hedge of $18.5 billion at the end of March 2007. style exposures than institutional investors.
fund of funds whatever their size.
In addition, we have 49 associated single managers sourced through our Man Global Man competes in both segments.
The private Our largest fund of funds manager is RMF, Strategies programme, with another $10.6 billion.
investor segment is covered through Mans which had funds under management of We have this year chosen to highlight as new open-ended products which comprise around $24.2 billion at the end of March 2007, the core managers both Bayswater, a quantitative 15% of our total funds under management.
The bulk of which is sold to institutional investors.
global macro manager from our associated institutional segment represents around 40% In addition, we also have Glenwood $6.4 billion, manager programme and Pemba, a European of Mans total funds under management, but the majority of whose assets come from private credit manager that was formerly part of RMF.
given that we only capture the overlay fund of investors.
The majority of the funds under management funds fee, this institutional segment represents Source: InvestHedge, which ranked largest fund of managed by both AHL and our associated around 20% of the profits of Man Investments.
hedge funds at end December 2006. managers are sold through our Guaranteed Source: Absolute Return magazine, which ranks all Products which are discussed below.
The top 142 fund of hedge funds, which manage managers that hold over $1 billion at January 2007. over $1 billion, collectively managed around some Source: Barclay Group # The largest hedge funds in this segment include $820 billion at 31 December 2006, representing Source: Alpha magazine, which ranks the largest 100 hedge funds at the end of each calendar year.
JPMorgan Asset Management $34.0 billion, an increase of more than 28% compared to the Goldman Sachs $32.5 billion, Bridgewater prior year.
This is in line with the growth of the Associates $30.2 billion, D E Shaw $26.3 overall hedge fund industry at 29% over the same Guaranteed products billion and Farallon Capital $26.2 billion.
The fund of funds industry remains The final and smallest segment of the hedge regard to managed futures to which we have fragmented and there is a view that the mid-sized fund industry is the guaranteed products a deliberate overweight, principally through players will find conditions more challenging going segment, a relatively small niche within the AHL, the total funds under management in forward.
The top 10 managers, with a combined hedge fund industry.
This area also overlaps this style were $170 billion at the end of $263 billion of assets under management, grew with the more generic guaranteed products 2006 and other leading managed futures 37% from the prior year, faster than the broader market to a limited extent.
The latter is players were Campbell & Co with $13.8 billion, fund of hedge funds segment.
essentially dominated by the major banks Graham Capital, $5.2 billion and Crabel Capital who structure products on a wide range of Management, $3.3 billion.
The other largest fund of hedge funds in underlyings of which hedge funds is one of this segment include UBS $43.4 billion, UBP the smaller categories.
Fund of hedge funds $34.6 billion, Legg Mason Permal $28.6 There is a second distinct segment of the billion, HSBC $27.6 billion and Julius Baer hedge fund industry, in addition to single hedge GAM $27.7 billion.
There is only one fund managers, which are the fund of hedge remaining independent fund of funds manager funds managers, who typically earn an overlay in the top 10, other than Man Grosvenor fee for structuring a portfolio of underlying Capital, the tenth largest, with $18.9 billion Multi-Managers Single Managers Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 10 Business Review Asset Management The bulk of their business is focused on equity Man is unusual in the guaranteed products index underlyings with fixed income and, most segment in that we are not only focused on Factor analysis recently, commodities being the most important.
hedge funds but we are also involved in all Recently, a small number of funds have The guaranteed products area as a whole is three parts of the process, not just product been launched by banks which claim to booming, growing by at least 20% to 30% in structuring but also investment management be able to use factor analysis to replicate volumes a year since 2000, according to and distribution.
This allows us to capture a hedge fund returns.
There is an argument bankers in the industry.
Given the over-themuch larger part of the value chain and gives that if these approaches can indeed mimic counter OTC nature of most of the guaranteed rise to a much higher profitability per dollar of the returns of the hedge fund industry as a products market, definitive figures are difficult fund invested.
As a result, the guaranteed whole, this could take sales away from the to obtain.
Sales of guaranteed products for the products segment represents our largest fund of hedge funds industry.
Man has 12 months ended 31 December 2005 were segment generating the majority of our developed a number of these factor estimated to have been around $270 billion, revenues and profits.
models, although to date it has used them with over half of this being within Europe and exclusively for monitoring the performance the rest evenly split between the North America Over the last three years, our three segments of its hedge fund investments, and in this and Asia.
have grown rapidly as shown in Figure 4 below.
regard they could represent potential benchmarks for investors.
Source: BNP Paribas Regulation The barriers to the distribution of hedge fund The money invested in the investable funds Reasons for investing in guaranteed products products onshore remain significant and a is small and they remain relatively new and material proportion of hedge fund sales remain unproven as beta replication does appear Superior returns leverage 31% focused on the offshore market.
In particular, it is an open Capital protection 29% regulators in a number of countries have been question as to what proportion of hedge Diversification 25% gradually introducing legislation to establish fund returns can be obtained via these Tax advantages 8% Other 7% frameworks for onshore hedge fund markets in betas in live trading.
It is also likely that terms of the customers that are able to invest these approaches, should they eventually Source: Structured Products World 2007 in them, their marketing and their taxation.
prove successful, would appeal to a wider universe of institutional investors than Given that hedge funds are a small segment Whilst commentators focus on the issue of currently invest in hedge funds, thus of the guaranteed products market, the majority regulations, often the bigger hurdle to selling increasing the pool of potential investors.
of competitors in this segment are primarily hedge funds onshore is the fiscal treatment.
product structurors, represented by most of It remains common for countries to penalise the major banks.
However, only a very limited hedge funds in comparison to mutual funds in number of the banks, most notably Socit the treatment of unrealised, as well as realised, Gnrale through Lyxor and BNP Paribas, gains although progress is being made here have teams that are specialised in hedge fund too.
However, there is clearly some way to underlyings.
Man is by far the largest player go as regulators seek to develop rules and in this segment with funds under management practices that reflect the size and influence of of $27.6 billion.
To put this in perspective, hedge funds.
Lyxor have some e20 billion of funds under management in guaranteed products, only a small portion of which is in hedge fund underlyings.
Source: Lyxor website Figure 4: Funds under management Institutional Open-ended Guaranteed product $bn CAGR 60 14% 50 25.1 40.7% 40 13% 9.0 14.6% 30 17.0 44.2% 21% 20 6.2 16.1% 27.6 44.7% 10 15.3 39.7% 0 2004 2007 11 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued John Morrison John Morrison began his career in the hedge fund industry in 1986 when he launched Australias first multi-manager hedge fund.
As a pioneer of the industry in the Asia-Pacific region, he has witnessed first-hand the role played by Man Investments in helping turn the worlds fastest-growing asset class into a $2 trillion global business.
I met Stanley Fink for the first time in early 1996, soon after he was appointed CEO of Man Investments, he recalls.
He had a vision for this business that went well beyond what anybody else had at the time, in terms of investment in AHL technology and of structuring innovative products.
Under his leadership Man has grown from a diversified commodity business to be one of the largest hedge fund providers in the world, a remarkable achievement.
Between 1995 and 2004, John headed the fund management business at Australias Ord Minnet Strategic Investments, later to become Man Investments Australia.
In August 2005 he was appointed CEO of Man Investments, where he continues today, based in Man Investments offices in Pfffikon, Switzerland.
At the helm of Man Investments, John has taken the Company to new heights, including an industry record $2.3 billion launch of a public fund.
The Company has set new marks for funds under management and for company profits.
He has built on the entrepreneurial spirit and the innovation evident throughout the long history of Man.
John has invested heavily in client services with the goals of continuing to reduce redemptions and of giving clients the high level of service they expect from a leading asset manager.
We are developing a new open-ended, electronic platform to give our investors the sort of comprehensive service they would receive from a traditional platform, he explains.
It should be just as easy to buy a hedge fund as it is to buy stock, a property trust or an investment trust.
The hedge fund industry, John says, presents a range of challenges with its wider range of products, rapid growth in new fund managers and new markets as well as increased demand for transparency.
He is confident Man Investments will build upon the depth and quality of its management and continue to deliver the performance and product innovation its investors demand.
As a FTSE 100 company we have the banking relationships and the balance sheet to structure new products to ensure we stay at the forefront of innovation and to invest our capital in seeding new managers and strategies that our clients can then benefit from, John says.
Business Review Asset Management In addition, we also have reporting obligations in 12 European countries.
Also, the Commission In North America, progress has been more is currently considering changes to the current mixed.
The USA remains a major investor to other regulators with regard to certain onshore registered products.
The environment framework including making the single market in hedge funds, having historically been work for the end investor this work will include represented by ultra high net worth private in Europe remains complex as national regulators adopt differing approaches.
The Markets in examining the steps that need to be taken to investors and some endowments and, more establish a common private placement regime.
However, the mass Financial Instruments Directive MiFID will see a common regulatory framework for Europes affluent market has not yet taken hold, partly In Asia there has also been a move towards because of cultural reasons due in large part securities markets adopted by all member states from 1 November 2007.
Whilst there allowing hedge funds to market to retail investors.
to a strong equity culture and partly to Hedge funds can now be widely marketed to regulatory and fiscal impediments.
Whilst has been little appetite to create new regulations specifically focused on hedge investors in Australasia, Hong Kong SAR, some progress has been made, for example Japan and Singapore.
In Australia and Japan, in the establishment of Registered Investment fund managers, a number of regulators have focused instead on product regulation.
hedge funds can be marketed to the public Company fund of hedge funds, these have once they have been registered under been structured as low return, low risk vehicles Regulators in several jurisdictions including applicable legislation.
that have more limited appeal to the mass affluent market, particularly in a period of strong France, Germany, Ireland, Luxembourg, Austria, the Netherlands, Switzerland, Italy and, In Japan, the deregulation of investment fund equity returns.
In addition, fiscal impediments distribution back in 1998 appears to have remain: for example, taxes owed on gains even most recently, Spain have allowed onshore hedge funds or fund of hedge funds although stimulated the historically conservative banking if no distributions are made and much of the channels to move into more sophisticated returns being taxed at ordinary income rates.
the fiscal treatment is lagging behind in a number of jurisdictions.
In Hong Kong SAR and Singapore, Some of these impediments are administrative, the regulators have implemented systems that including the need to file multiple state tax permitted retail investors to acquire carefully regulated funds of hedge funds, while public seek to protect investors through minimum returns, where the fund of funds has investments investment levels.
There is also the possibility of in hedge funds domiciled in multiple states, and distribution of single manager hedge funds in a number of jurisdictions is limited to a more elite onshore registration, which we have successfully the need to apply for tax reporting extensions.
Whilst Taiwan Canada has maintained a more open attitude group of wealthy investors.
remains an important hedge fund market, to hedge funds and we are hopeful that our recently there have been some uncertainties recently opened office in Toronto will enable us The UK FSA released a consultation paper in March 2007 proposing the implementation of created by ongoing regulatory changes.
Korea to continue to access this growing market.
remains a market with huge potential for hedge a regulated fund of hedge funds regime which would allow fund of hedge funds products fund sales and we are starting to see some of this potential realised through recent inflows, to be offered to retail investors in the UK.
However, the implementation of this regime with Indonesia and Malaysia having longer term potential.
China and India have a regulatory is subject to satisfactory resolution of the fiscal treatment of such products.
Whilst there do not structure which makes it extremely difficult for appear to be any plans for EU-wide hedge fund us to access their onshore markets, although rules, the EU Prospectus Directive is proving there are some medium-term alternatives helpful in facilitating a common approach to the which we are pursuing.
In the Middle East the distribution of securities or closed-ended funds.
regulatory authorities in Dubai, Bahrain and In the first quarter of 2007, the Man MGS Qatar have all been consulting on their funds Access Index Notes were successfully offered regimes, again with the objective of opening under the Prospectus Directive simultaneously up their onshore markets.
Man Investments has a total of 17 regulatory relationships globally that include: UK Financial Services Authority FSA USA Securities and Exchange Commission SEC Canada Ontario Securities Commission OSC Switzerland Swiss Federal Banking Commission EBK Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission SFC Australia Australian Securities & Investments Commission ASIC 13 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued Investment Analysis London Every month the Investment Analysis department is responsible for producing over 700 reports with details of the performance of all of Man Investments products.
The department is headed by Sarah Mallion, and is split into three teams.
The Performance Analysis team works closely with Mans regional sales teams, responding to investor queries and providing them with everything from product performance analyses to presentation material.
The Performance Reporting team provides commentary and reports on each and every Man Investments product for distribution to institutional and private investors.
The Data & Production team is responsible for supporting the department with material layout and system support capabilities.
By working closely with the sales managers, we can provide a high level of client service to our institutional investors and joint venture partners to help them access the most relevant information to support their investments, says Sarah.
Sarah, who joined Man Investments the week after she graduated from university in 1997, has witnessed first-hand the growth of Man over the past decade.
The department has recently replaced its entire database to bring together all reporting and product performance content onto one system.
Its all about offering our clients the best reporting with the best content in the marketplace, says Sarah.
Business Review Asset Management Investors investors historically would only have invested in standard fund of funds.
However they are Private investors Ultra high net worth private investors have been gradually becoming more adventurous and seeking out more concentrated portfolios and buying offshore hedge funds by way of private banks or through the establishment of family looking for style funds.
Frequently these investors will know more about hedge funds offices for many years alongside endowments.
These investors typically invest directly in the than their distributors and one of Mans objectives has been to work with the hedge fund managers and are not interested in buying fund of funds or guaranteed products.
distributors to improve their knowledge of hedge fund products.
Some of these investors have even developed sufficient expertise over the years to become Mans private investors are truly global and competitors.
Although some of these investors do invest in AHL directly, Man has chosen not cover all the regions.
to target this segment to date as we would rather focus our high quality single manager Figure 5 below shows the funds under Rhino Fund the first guaranteed management split across the different managed futures fund launched product on our guaranteed products.
Historically Man has catered principally to the high net worth or private banking market.
Man Mans proposition to investors is to provide diversification opportunities away from has focused on this segment given its potential for growth.
This market has gradually moved traditional equities and bonds, targeting 10-20% of their portfolios.
Investors are away from the standard fund of hedge funds product.
Instead these investors have been attracted to the conservative product structuring and the long and successful track attracted to focused fund of funds or themed portfolios as well as guaranteed products that record.
Excluding Australasia, we have around 45,000 private investors and the current level offer higher returns and good risk adjusted portfolios.
These products are frequently a of average investment is around $300,000 in each product and investors are typically buyers replacement for equities and typically offer high single digits or low double digits percentage of multiple products see Figure 6. returns.
Investors in this market are happy to take risks so long as they can understand them In addition, we have a distribution operation in Australasia, Man Investments Australia, but remain cautious of single managers.
Their investments are viewed as part of their overall based in Sydney.
They have some 125,000 portfolio management not just as standalone underlying investors with a more typical retail investments.
profile and a current average investment of around $35,000.
However, as investors have grown more sophisticated and the hedge fund industry has matured, mass affluent or mid-market investors have also become important buyers of our products.
These investors might have around $1 million of investments and would typically rely on their distributor for advice.
These Figure 5: Private investor FUM by region Figure 6: Average per investor FY07 $ 450,000 11 10 1 Japan 23% 400,000 1 9 2 Australia NZ 12% 350,000 3 SE Asia 8% 4 Switzerland 15% 8 300,000 5 UK 6% 6 Benelux 6% 7 2 250,000 7 Germany 4% 6 8 Rest of Europe 8% 200,000 3 5 9 Latin America 8% 4 10 North America 4% 150,000 11 Middle East 6% 100,000 50,000 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Average investment per private investor in our quarterly global launches 15 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued Distributor Services Based in Pfffikon, Switzerland, Intermediary Services, or ISE, employs 30 people.
The group provides support and account management services to Mans 2,000 distributors around the globe.
The groups Intermediary Administration team works in close liaison with Mans regional distribution offices and is primarily responsible for the signing up of new distributors and for providing administrative support to existing distributors, while the Intermediary Accounts team oversees the payments of commissions to Mans distributors.
As Mans network of distributors has grown, so too have the responsibilities of the ISE group, says Peter Holmes, Manager of ISE: The growth of Man Investments has been phenomenal.
Growth in the number of products, the number of investments and the number of distributors has cumulatively had an enormous impact on our work in ISE and the value of service we strive to offer.
This year ISE will launch a major enhancement to its administrative systems called the Automated Commissions Payment project, or ACP.
The project, which will be rolled out over a 12-month period, will allow ISE to deliver enhanced support services to its distributor network whilst providing ISE with a tool that is scalable for managing the Companys future growth.
This is a very exciting development for us, says Peter.
The ACP enhancements will provide more accessible, real-time support that benefits our distributor relationships and, ultimately, the thousands of investors that invest in our products every day.
Business Review Asset Management Distribution 1 Bahamas Man Investments sales force has a truly 2 Chicago 3 Toronto global reach with some 300 employees serving 4 New York investors and distributors in over 100 countries 5 Montevideo 6 7 through regional offices and central sales 3 8 2 9 6 Dublin 4 16 support.
This presence has been built up 13 7 London 10 over many years with most of the offices 12 8 Guernsey 1 11 having been established between the mid-80s 9 Switzerland 14 10 Bahrain and the mid-90s.
This has resulted in long-term 11 Dubai relationships and outstanding local knowledge.
12 Hong Kong 13 Tokyo 5 During the year, we opened a new distribution 15 14 Singapore office in Toronto, Canada with a team of 15 Sydney professional staff with significant experience 16 San Francisco in the alternative investments industry.
We continue to see exceptional opportunities in Central operations Regional offices Investment management units Canada, with a rapidly growing appetite for London Investment Bahrain and Dubai Bahamas our brand of products, having already raised management HQ Hong Kong Chicago around $400 million through Canadian asset Switzerland Global relationship London London services, marketing and product Montevideo New York manager BluMont Capital.
Our new operation structuring Switzerland San Francisco will build on this experience and broaden the Dublin Shareholder services Sydney Singapore range of alternative investment products Guernsey Administrative services Tokyo Switzerland available in this market.
Toronto Sydney Man distributes to private investors through a unique and extensive network of around 2,000 global and regional distributors who are responsible in all respects for distribution of the products to end investors.
There is a consciously chosen to upgrade the quality of The distributor network covers all continents correlation between the number of distributors and the level of private investor sales.
Man has our distributor network, to include only those and time zones.
distributors that meet our high standards.
a large pool of potential distributors at different stages of discussion with various parts of our The private investor network includes major By working with high quality distributors we global financial institutions as well as important sales organisation see Figure 7. ensure our investors are receiving good advice, regional players and includes retail and private and working with organisations that understand banks, asset managers, brokers and The size of the distributors has grown along with the corresponding depth of hedge fund their investors needs and, above all, understand professionals see Figure 8. their appetite for risk.
If the distributors are demand that each represents.
The challenge has become not only to sign up new getting this right, they will be placing the right distributors but, as importantly, to continue product with the right investor.
This helps to working to access the full potential inherent ensure not only repeat business but longer in each distributor.
In addition, we have term investors and a correspondingly lower redemption rate.
Figure 7: Private investor sales Figure 8: Distributors by type $m No.
of distributors Annual private investor sales $m 17 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued Man Investments Japan Man Investments has had a presence in Japan stretching back nearly 20 years.
It provides alternative investment products to private investors, pension funds and financial institutions through distributors such as banks, securities brokers, and discretionary investment managers across the region.
As one of Japans largest providers of alternative investment products, Man Investments Japan has witnessed unprecedented growth in recent years, but no more so than among Japanese private investors who are increasingly turning away from traditional cash and bank deposits to investments which promise better yield opportunities.
With more than $13 trillion in financial assets, Japanese households are still relatively unfamiliar with alternative investments, but this is evolving, says Hidehiko Hayashi, President of Man Investment Securities Japan.
Guaranteed investment products like IP-220, which targets high returns while guaranteeing capital, are proving highly popular with Japanese consumers.
Were responding to the needs of Japanese investors who want access to targeted income and guaranteed capital strategies, says Hidehiko.
High-level client service is a key factor in Man Investments Japans success.
The 17-strong team works closely with its distributors, providing extensive marketing and customer support including educational seminars and sales sessions.
Business Review Asset Management Global Distribution Network Sales support The top 25 distributors currently account and highlight sales and training requirements Besides building and maintaining relationships for 41% of our private investor funds under within the partner organisation: with existing and potential distributors, the management and the 25 highest selling High quality printed materials and web-based sales team is responsible for ensuring investors distributors accounted for 39% of the private sales tools that allow our partners access to receive exemplary after-sales service.
This investor sales in the year to 31 March 2007. the very latest thinking on hedge fund combination of global awareness and local investing and portfolio construction by insight enhances Man Investments ability to Many of our larger distributors have some Mans investment managers: and offer unique investment opportunities and hedge fund capabilities, although many have High levels of sales and product training deliver a high level of service to customers.
had mixed success in this specialised area.
for all our sales team members, including Given the regulatory environment and the telephone and videoconferencing, support in increasing sophistication of their clients, Our focus on sales support includes: holding investor seminars from our regional virtually all have now embraced open Established infrastructure and resources sales executives and, where appropriate, architecture to some degree.
They and their available to educate our distributor teams accompanied investor visits.
clients are attracted to Man in particular given on all our products, allowing the distributors its scale, market access and track record.
to focus on what they do best: servicing the Man represents a highly regarded and needs of their clients: focused hedge fund provider that does Strong relationships between our regional not pose a competitive threat outside sales and consulting teams and our hedge fund products.
distributors to identify local investors needs 19 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued Man Investments Australia With over A$6 billion under management across 28 OM-IP funds, Man Investments Australia is one of the leading providers of alternative investment products to private investors in Australasia.
Through an extensive network of independent financial advisers, Man Investments Australia maintains more than 125,000 investors in Australia, New Zealand and South East Asia.
In 2007, Man Investments Australia launched OM-IP 2Eclipse, which combines the performance of Mans AHL Diversified Programme and an RMF portfolio accessing the RMF Asian Opportunities and RMF Commodity Strategies portfolios.
It also launched its first open-ended fund, which provides retail investors with direct access to the AHL Diversified Programme.
The Australian market has become quite sophisticated as a result of 10 years of participation in our guaranteed investments, says Gary Gerstle, Managing Director of Man Investments Australia.
Our investor base is quite varied and looking for ways to diversify their investment portfolios with alternative products.
The Sydney-based team spends much of its time on the road marketing products and is constantly seeking opportunities to talk directly to advisers.
Theres no substitute for face time, says Gary.
It provides a different level of understanding and enables us to explain the Man story.
Weve held some 600 meetings between January and March to discuss OM-IP 2Eclipse.
Business Review Asset Management We believe that customer support is a key Bayswater, Pemba, Glenwood and MGS.
The most significant of these are the UK, As well as targeting clients directly, our sales Benelux, Italy and France where we have raised area for ongoing investment of resource.
We have now established a Marketing and teams also cover the consultants who play an a combined $5 billion to date.
The bulk of the important role, albeit varying by region.
The remaining $3 billion of institutional funds under Client Services unit to pull together all the various components of client service into one team.
As consultants include Mercer, Hewitt Associates management are in Asia, principally Japan, and Watson Wyatt.
with a small amount also in the Middle East part of this, we have also made good progress in our development of systems to enable the and the USA.
During the year, Man commenced the process transfer of investor transaction processing activities to the regional offices.
We are seeking of positioning RMF as our manager for the institutional market in the USA and Canada.
to enhance client service and operational efficiencies through greater use of e-commerce Key hires have been made and a sales office has been set up in New York.
tools as well as expanding the e-application platform to support open-ended products.
Having access to a full spectrum of investment Institutional investors capacity, Man Investments is in a strong position to offer institutional investors a wide Our institutional asset gathering is typically through direct relationships and is coordinated range of solutions to meet their requirements.
The core-satellite approach is a key part of this through dedicated relationship managers.
Institutional sales are resourced through two strategy, whereby investors can gain exposure to a broadly diversified portfolio of hedge funds conduits.
There is a core institutional team that covers both Europe and North America, two through a fund of hedge funds, and then supplement this exposure with other niche of the strongest growth areas.
In addition, our regional offices in Japan, Hong Kong, the strategies such as commodities, Asian opportunities, healthcare or new alternatives.
Middle East and Australia have dedicated staff to serve local institutional investors.
Mans institutional investors comprise a diverse The growth of the institutional business remains group of over 250 major institutions.
The 10 largest clients account for some 49% of funds a key strategic objective for the division.
To achieve this, we continued to expand the under management and include important long-term customers such as Baloise and institutional team to meet growing institutional demand and to service our institutional Gothaer.
The 10 clients accounting for the largest sales totalled some 43% of the investors.
The team currently numbers around 25.
The expansion of the institutional sales institutional sales in the year to 31 March 2007. team has strengthened both client relationship management and client service and helped us Historically, the majority of these have been to achieve record sales this year of $7.3 billion.
Swiss and German based insurance companies and pension funds.
This core area has continued to see good growth and now represents RMF continues to be our main focus on the institutional market and maintains a strong around $17 billion of funds under management.
position in its core European and Japanese In recent years, Man has started to raise markets.
In addition, we are focused on material amounts in other European countries.
strengthening the position in the institutional market of our other core managers: AHL, Figure 9: Institutional investor by type March 2007 5 6 4 1 Pension 36% 2 Insurance 31% 3 Bank 24% 3 4 Family Office 4% 1 5 Asset Manager 3% 6 Other 2% 2 21 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued Man Global Strategies Since 1994 Man Global Strategies MGS has attracted some of the best managers in the industry by using proprietary capital to invest and trial them at an early stage.
Each year, hundreds of start-up funds are sourced through Mans extensive network of global contacts, of which only a handful are selected to be tried and tested as part of a rigorous ongoing due diligence process.
By investing proprietary capital early on we develop a unique, long-term business partnership with the most promising managers, says Alex Lowe, CEO of MGS.
They enjoy the benefits of being associated with a FTSE 100 company while we acquire a unique daily insight into their operations and their performance.
The divisions integrated approach means MGS can monitor and secure meaningful quantities of future capacity for use by Mans clients, often when it is not generally available to other investors.
While more established managers may be made available to investors immediately through the MGS style platform, new managers are often trialled for six to nine months.
The most highly rated managers become eligible for direct allocations and inclusion in MGSs concentrated portfolios.
By the time managers become part of our concentrated portfolios were generally able to make decisions on the back of two years of daily information input, says Alex.
Our managed account system provides us with a greater depth of understanding and focus on which to base our risk management and asset allocation decisions than is typical for a fund of hedge funds investment.
Business Review Asset Management sterreichischer dachfonds award.
06 Products Man has an offsetting underweight in equity long short which is partly a deliberate choice, Man has spent two decades understanding alternative investments award.
investor requirements, identifying opportunities given the higher beta typically associated with geld alternative investments that style.
It is also for cultural reasons: Man and developing leading edge products and Man AHL Diversified plc, tailor-made solutions that cater to the varied having a bias towards process driven winner of the 2007 Geld quantitative strategies whilst equity long short needs of institutional and private investors.
Alternative Investments Our structuring expertise enables us to offer a tend to be more people dependent, stockAward for one, two and picker operations see Figures 10 and 11. broad range of product types.
to responsive and open investor service goes Guaranteed products hand in hand with our provision of products and solutions capable of robust performance.
Man has a long track record of successfully developing and managing guaranteed products Investors are assured of a high level of disclosure of investment performance along based on hedge fund underlyings that dates back to 1996, with the development of the with comprehensive, personalised product reporting.
Whilst Man is ultimately responsible Man-IP 220 family.
Other successful product families have followed, including the Man Multifor delivering the investment performance of RMF Convertibles Europe, these fund products in this role, it should be Strategy, Man AP and, most recently, the Man winner of the Lipper Fund MGS Access families, each of which offers noted that these fund products have Awards Best Fund over independent boards of directors or their different target risk and return ranges over the Five Years for Europe, Switzerland and Germany.
The products typically target equivalent in non-corporate structures and they are run and operated separately to Man medium-term annualised returns in the low double digits to the high-teens, for a volatility Investments.
HEDGE FUNDS REVIEW ranging from high single digits to mid-teens.
European Fund of The impressive risk-adjusted returns targeted are Hedge Funds made feasible through the construction of a Our guaranteed offerings provides principal AWARDS 2006 protection in the form of capital guarantees, blended portfolio of lowly correlated investment Winner styles and advisers.
These typically have a with a fixed life to maturity, monthly liquidity and increased investment exposure.
These Man Global Strategies, material exposure to managed futures as well as winner of the Best a range of other hedge fund styles.
Managed products all have guarantees valid only at the Structured Product House date of the maturity of the fund.
Man has futures have a number of attractive characteristics for Europe in the Hedge that make them suited to their inclusion in a gradually increased the length of these Funds Review European guarantees in recent years from nine years portfolio for a guaranteed product.
They have Fund of Hedge Funds favourable inherent cash utilisation requiring a in 2000 to current launches which have lives of Awards 2006. low cash usage of typically 20% as well as a low over 12 years.
The weighted average remaining correlation to traditional asset classes and other life to maturity of these guaranteed products, hedge fund styles.
Academic studies have taking into account redemptions to date and sterreichischer dachfonds award.
concluded that allocating to managed futures investment performance, was 9.7 years at the 06 allows investors with a portfolio of stocks and end of March 2007 and almost 83% of our RMF Commodity Strategies, bonds to achieve a substantial degree of risk guaranteed products had a life to maturity of winner in Austria for one reduction at limited costs.
Managed futures over five years see Figure 12. year performance at the also have positive skew and do not suffer sterreichischer Dachfonds alternative investments award.
Awards 2006. geld alternative investments Figure 10: Man style composition Figure 11: Industry style composition Figure 12: Guaranteed products maturity profile 6 6 1 83% 1 Equity long short 15% 1 Equity long short 34% 5 5 2 Relative value 18% 2 Relative value 21% 1 3 Event driven 13% 3 Event driven 18% 71% 4 Managed futures 35% 4 Managed futures 10% 4 2 5 Global macro 13% 5 Global macro 10% 6 Other 6% 6 Other 7% 3 4 3 2 5 years 7 years 23 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued Mans guaranteed products are sold for their such as Man RMF Event Driven Strategies which offers exposure to some 30 leading long-term investment potential and, whilst we do offer frequent liquidity, we seek to event driven managers.
Broader style classifications are also available such as Man encourage longer term holders.
To this end, Man, rather than the investor, is typically Arbitrage Strategies which offers exposure to a portfolio of complementary arbitrage strategies.
responsible for paying the sales commission to its distributors thus ensuring that 100% Sector products include Man RMF Commodity Strategies which comprises a portfolio of hedge of the money raised from the investor goes into the product.
However, as a quid pro quo, fund managers focused on base and precious metals, agriculture and livestock, energy and Man sets a redemption fee in the event of early redemption typically covering the first six transportation, power and emissions.
Products with a geographic focus include Man RMF years on a sliding scale.
The most recent products have redemption fees of 4% in the first two years, 3% in years More diversified products include Man RMF Four Seasons Strategies which offers three and four, and 1% in years five and six.
As can be seen in Figure 13 below, Man exposure to five complementary hedge fund style sub-portfolios.
Each sub-portfolio has redemption fees in place with 88% of its $27.6 billion of guaranteed products.
allocates to more than 20 leading managers, making for an overall product portfolio When we put together our guaranteed fund comprising more than 100 leading managers.
In addition, Man offers additional structuring products, we need a high level of liquidity and, most importantly, transparency.
We need that features on some products such as levered versions of existing products, such as the transparency because we perform active risk management over and above the usual risk Man RMF Four Seasons Strategies 2XL.
We are only able to do this because of the extensive range of managers with whom Institutional investor products With regard to institutional investors, Man has we have managed accounts, which provides daily data for over 90% of the funds under one of the industry's largest product ranges.
Man is assisted in this by its almost unrivalled management in our guaranteed products.
These managed accounts segregate our investors access to a diverse range of investment managers along with the structuring expertise assets away from the other money managed by the underlying manager whilst replicating to meet the requirements of institutional investors.
The core-satellite approach is becoming the underlying performance of that manager.
increasingly attractive for institutional investors whereby they supplement a diversified fund of Open-ended products We also offer private investors an extensive funds portfolio with a series of focus funds specific to a sector, region or style.
New focus funds range of open-ended products.
These include niche products based on a particular theme included RMF Emerging Market Opportunities through to fully diversified offerings.
The more and RMF Longer Term Opportunities.
focused products include single strategy products based on a single manager, such as AHL or Bayswater, or a portfolio of managers Figure 13: Early redemption fees % of current FUM of $27.6bn on which early redemption fees continue to be payable % 90 88% 80% 80 70% 70 60 52% 50 40 38% 30 20 10 0 Mar 07 Mar 08 Mar 09 Mar 10 Beyond Mar 11 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 24 Business Review Asset Management Other innovative products included our fourth Switches are accounted for as a redemption and a sale.
Institutional redemptions averaged CDO structure as well as our first Collateralised Fund Obligation CFO.
This innovative product around 15% in FY07, which is in line with the prior year.
type, pioneered by Man Investments, combines Mans leadership in product structuring and Maturities transaction management with a highly diversified RMF portfolio.
The RMF Four Seasons CFO Maturities of $0.3 billion relate to maturities of a number of funds including OM IP Series 3 issued five tranches of debt, and one of equity, at record low spreads for a CFO.
The issue in and Athena Guaranteed Futures.
The Athena Guaranteed Futures roll-over, for example, effect raised money to be managed within the Four Seasons portfolio.
This allowed investors raised around $100 million, substantially in excess of the $28 million of funds under either to gain leveraged exposure to the performance of the Four Seasons portfolio or management at the time of maturity, proving yet again that the maturity of funds is a to buy rated, attractively priced bonds secured by a fund of hedge funds portfolio.
great marketing opportunity to raise new money off the maturity of a product with a Redemptions long track record.
Private investor redemptions are influenced by a number of factors that include the geography Private investor funds maturing over next of the investor, the investment holding period five years and performance.
These figures are particularly Year ending Funds under % of guaranteed impressive when compared to other asset 31 March management at products funds under managers with the average US mutual fund 31 March 2007 management having overall redemption rates of around 23%.
$m 2008 531 2% 2009 970 4% Figure 14 below shows sales and redemptions 2010 483 2% for our private investors as a percentage of 2011 443 2% average funds under management over the 2012 1,898 7% last five years.
As can be seen from the chart, Man has driven its rapid growth rate not just through a strong level of sales but also through a consistently low rate of redemptions.
And the margin between sales and redemptions remains material, driving increased assets under management, and in contrast to the mutual fund industry as a whole that has a relatively small margin as shown in Figure 15.
Institutional redemptions tend to be more variable, principally because the investor base comprises a relatively small number of large customers.
In addition, the figures are affected by switches, where an investor redeems from one fund and invests into another fund.
Figure 14: Sales and redemptions of Figure 15: Sales and redemptions of private investor as % of mean FUM private investor as % of mean FUM % % 60 60 50 50 40 40 30 30 20 20 10 10 0 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 Man private investor sales Mutual fund sales Mutual fund redemptions Man private investor redemptions Source: Mutual fund statistics from Investment Company institute calculated as annual redemption and redemption exchanges from stock funds as a per cent of average total assets at the beginning and ending of period.
Each period is represented by the year to March.
25 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued Results for the year followed by a solid recovery through to early Total sales for the year amounted to a record 2007 before it was caught by the market $15.9 billion with 54% of that relating to reversal at the end of February, leaving it private investors and 46% to institutions.
This showing a negative performance for the year.
compares to total sales of $9.1 billion in the previous year see Figure 16.
RMF had a robust year and its performance was in line with the fund of funds indices.
Total redemptions during the year to MGS affiliated managers had a solid year, 31 March 2007 were $6.6 billion of which private and on a strategy level, directional and investor were $3.3 billion and institutional were arbitrage outperformed comparable industry $3.3 billion.
$3.2 billion in RMF and $0.1 billion in Glenwood.
All our investment managers contributed to the Maturities of $0.3 billion relate to maturities of performance fee income for the year.
However, a number of funds including OM IP Series 3 net performance fees fell overall from the prior and Athena Guaranteed Futures.
Investment year due principally to weak performance at performance contributed $1.1 billion to the AHL.
However, net performance fees being increase in funds under management.
FX and generated by the other managers continued other contributed a positive $1.7 billion, principally to rise in absolute terms reaching $160 million, due to the weakening of the US dollar against which represented 45% of the total performance the Euro, Swiss franc and Australian dollar.
As can be seen from Figure 18, the performance fees generated from these Investment management managers in aggregate are less volatile than those generated by AHL.
The firms investment management is driven by its core investment managers.
These comprise the multi-managers RMF, Glenwood and Man Global Strategies MGS as well as the single RMF offers a broadly diversified fund of hedge managers AHL, Pemba and Bayswater.
Pemba RMF announced a significant upgrade to the website www.
ch is a European credit manager that was formerly funds portfolios and has one of the industrys largest product ranges in order to meet the part of RMF and Bayswater, a quantitative global macro manager, was sourced through specific investment objectives of institutional investors.
This content has been attractive to the MGS associated manager programme.
Central strategic oversight and development of institutional investors and increasingly has been applied to guaranteed and open-ended these managers enable us clearly to position the core managers in the market.
products directed at private investor channels.
This has enabled it constantly to innovate and Returns for our core investment managers develop niche products.
RMF also manages a range of highly diversified convertible bond during the year were mixed as shown in the table on the next page.
funds which have a regional or global focus.
Starting the year at performance fee highs, it earned some good performance fees in April 2006 before encountering a poor summer.
This was Figure 16: Funds under management $bn 70 3.3 1.7 Total 61.7 1.1 1.1 7.3 60 1.7 0.3 2.2 6.9 Total 49.9 50 25.1 40 19.5 9.0 30 9.3 20 27.6 21.1 10 0 March Sales Redemptions Investment Maturities FX March 2006 movement and other 2007 Guaranteed product Open-ended Institutional Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 26 Financial Business Statements Review Asset Management Drawing on established relationships in the Compound annual rate of return alternative investment community, RMFs Year s to 31 March 2007 1 year 3 years 5 years teams are able to access high quality 1 managers and practitioners.
RMF has funds RMF 7.7% 7.3% 8.1% 2 under management of $24.2 billion invested in Glenwood 4.3% 5.8% 4.2% 3 over 300 underlying hedge fund managers, Man Global Strategies 3.1% 5.8% 9.2% 4 of which some 25 were added this year.
AHL Diversified Programme -4.8% 3.6% 11.6% 5 Pemba 11.9% The total pool of managers on whom we 6 Bayswater 13.3% have performed due diligence is around 2,000.
HFRI Fund of Funds Composite Index 8.3% 8.2% 7.8% RMF has one of the industrys largest managed HFRX Investable Global Hedge Fund Index 6.9% 4.8% account platforms covering 48 managers World stocks 10.5% 12.6% 5.6% and approximately one third of hedge fund World bonds 5.2% 4.0% 4.9% assets.
These managed accounts provide full transparency of the investment strategy, Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance may not improved liquidity with no lock-up periods be a guide to future results.
as well as increased control.
1 RMF: represented by RMF Absolute Return Strategies 1 2 Glenwood: Represented by the performance of Glenwood Partners L. P. net of all fees and commissions from Since its establishment in 1992, RMF has 1 January 1987 to 31 December 1995 and Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited from 1 January 1996. developed solid, robust investment processes.
Since 1 January 1996 actual trading results have been adjusted to reflect the current fee structure of Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited.
It should be noted that the fees, leverage and the exact mix of managers have varied It has 116 employees, of whom 26 are analysts over time and as a result performance in any future product advised by Man-Glenwood GmbH will vary.
Investment selection 3 Man Global Strategies: represented by Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Ltd follows a bottom-up process based on a global 4 Represented by the performance of Athena Guaranteed Futures Limited prior to 1 October 1997, actual trading research presence with due diligence analysts results have been adjusted to reflect the current guaranteed public fee structure.
5 located in key financial centres.
RMF follows a Pemba: Represented by RMF Loan Opportunities Class A Units 6 rigorous quantitative approach using proprietary Bayswater: Man Bayswater Macro is represented by the performance of Man Global Quant Alpha Investments Limited with appropriate adjustment for applicable fees from 1 August 2004 to 30 June 2006 net of all fees and by tools and experience gained through 10 years of the actual performance of Man Bayswater Macro Class O from 1 July 2006.
An adjustment has also been made to analysing hedge funds see Figure 19. account for interest earned on any cash not utilised by the investment manager for trading.
The HFR Index over the last four months may be subject to change.
World stocks: Represented by MSCI World Index hedged to US dollar.
World bonds: Represented by Citigroup WGBI World Index hedged to US dollar.
Glenwood is a fund of hedge funds boutique with $6.4 billion in funds under management and 50 employees.
It is known for its rigorously thorough due diligence process.
Glenwoods differentiated bottom-up investment philosophy concentrates on investing with exceptional fund managers and traders.
Style allocation is driven by bottom-up opportunity sets.
Figure 17: MGS products versus the hedge fund indices Figure 18: Performance fees by manager 12 months to 31 March 2007 % PBT $m 18 500 14.0% 13 400 10.6%10.8% 8.6% 8.6% 8.3% 8.0% 8 300 6.9% 6.3% 5.6% 5.6% 5.6% 5.6% 4.4% 3 200 -0.1% -2 100 -2.1% 45% 33% -3.3% 89% -4.4% 29% -7 19% 0 Directional Arbitrage Equity Hedge Managed Futures Long short equities Multi Style FY03 FY04 FY05 FY06 FY07 MGS RMF Glenwood AHL MGS product Non-investable indices Investable indices Source: Man database, Bloomberg and Stark & Co. Inc. 27 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued A portfolio restructuring programme and a four investment management functions that focus on generating higher alpha for the private comprise new manager selection and negotiation investor and US institutional market has resulted of a relationship: manager monitoring and review: in a more volatile performance.
Glenwood is risk management: and portfolio construction.
now a more concentrated portfolio of higher return higher volatility hedge funds operating Profitable hedge funds can deliver strong in fertile investment environments.
performance in their early years.
MGS uses a rigorous selection process to secure the Glenwood will continue to be a major significant benefits of early stage investing for constituent of Mans IP220 guaranteed its investors.
As part of this process, it invests products programme.
It will also look to proprietary capital to trial managers and singles distribute its products, on a selective basis, out the handful of high potential funds that it to other institutional and private investors.
Of the 1,500 new hedge funds created in a typical year, MGS would Glenwood will also aim fully to explore the consider more than 600, conducting an intensive screening process on a sub-section marketing opportunities of specialised products it already offers, which include Glenwood of these to select around 10 to 15 with whom proprietary capital is invested for an initial testing Focus, Glenwood Event & Activist and Glenwood Equity Opportunities see Figure 20. period.
This period typically lasts six to nine months after which typically around two-thirds would be judged suitable for investor assets to be allocated.
As an early investor, MGS negotiates favourable terms that can offer mediumand long-term benefits for clients, Man Global Strategies MGS is a leading provider of multi-strategy hedge fund portfolios such as improved transparency and preferential access to leading managers that may be closed that aims to secure the best managers in the industry by investing at an early stage.
to other investors in later years.
It develops concentrated portfolios targeting above average returns.
In effect, MGS performs Figure 19: Performance of RMF Figure 20: Performance of Glenwood 1 Absolute Return Strategies Portfolio 1 July 1998 to 31 March 2007 1 January 1987 to 31 March 2007 Index value log scale Index value log scale 2,000 7,000 6,000 1,800 5,000 1,600 1,400 4,000 1,200 3,000 1,000 2,000 800 600 1,000 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 1 RMF Absolute Return Strategies 1 87 88 89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 1 World stocks World bonds Glenwood Portfolio World stocks World bonds RMF Absolute World World Glenwood World World 1 1 Return Strategies 1 stocks bonds Portfolio stocks bonds Total return 93.8% 32.8% 59.2% Total return 590.2% 332.9% 313.0% Annualised return 7.9% 3.3% 5.5% Annualised return 10.0% 7.5% 7.3% Annualised volatility 3.9% 14.3% 2.8% Annualised volatility 6.0% 14.0% 3.3% Worst drawdown 7.3% 47.9% 2.7% Worst drawdown 13.7% 47.9% 5.1% 2 2 Sharpe ratio 1.01 0.03 0.56 Sharpe ratio 0.78 0.22 0.60 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide to future results.
1 1 RMF Absolute Return Strategies performance is shown with Represented by the performance of Glenwood Partners L. P. net of dividends reinvested.
all fees and commissions from 1 January 1987 to 31 December 1995 2 Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate and Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Limited from 1 January 1996. currency over the period analysed.
Where an investment has Since 1 January 1996 actual trading results have been adjusted to underperformed the risk-free rate, the Sharpe ratio will be negative.
reflect the current fee structure of Man-Glenwood Multi-Strategy Fund Because the Sharpe ratio is an absolute measure of risk-adjusted Limited.
It should be noted that the fees, leverage and the exact mix return, negative Sharpe ratios are shown as N A, as they can be of managers have varied over time and as a result performance in any misleading.
future product advised by Man-Glenwood GmbH will vary.
2 World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to US dollar.
World bonds: Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate Citigroup WGBI World Index hedged to US dollar.
currency over the period analysed.
Where an investment has underperformed the risk-free rate, the Sharpe ratio will be negative.
Because the Sharpe ratio is an absolute measure of risk-adjusted return, negative Sharpe ratios are shown as N A, as they can be misleading.
World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to US dollar.
World bonds: Citigroup WGBI World Index hedged to US dollar.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 28 Business Review Asset Management A relationship management team maintains strong return objectives.
Whilst it is true that it is necessary to have some volatility in markets for trend close associations with managers through are then blended to develop multi-strategy frequent calls and visits.
This two-way process portfolios capable of delivering risk within a following systems to perform, it does not follow that trend following systems perform best in gives MGS a high level of transparency into the particular range and achieving attractive returns managers operations while the managers within that risk tolerance band.
The optimal markets are gradually rising or falling markets across a benefit from a partnership with a team highly experienced in the global hedge funds arena.
At 31 March 2007, MGS had agreements number of different asset classes.
There are, consequently, periods when markets are less in place with 49 associated managers, a Superior risk management is facilitated by net increase of 4 since the beginning of favourable for trend followers.
So whilst AHL has experienced annualised performance the managed account platform that MGS the year.
Of these managers, 23 were based has implemented that gives daily insight into in London, 20 in the USA and 6 in Asia Pacific.
below its long-term average during the last These managers had $10.6 billion under three years, it has continued its long-term track its underlying manager.
The system allows MGS to use its own risk reporting tools and management with Man at 31 March 2007. record of outperforming the managed futures MGS was established in 1994 and has 48 index as is shown in Figure 22. independent service providers to monitor risk constantly and to review managers performance.
However, as an indication of the depth of resource these 49 external managers This enables the construction and active management of concentrated portfolios which, represent, their combined employees would total over 1,000 see Figure 21. combined with judicious use of leverage, aim to deliver a high return and risk profile for investors.
Segregated managed accounts provide daily data for around 90% of MGS total funds under AHL is a quantitative trading system that management.
Managed accounts also enable MGS to use cash efficiently and to control is primarily directional in nature.
It aims to identify and capitalise on upward and manager and portfolio volatility.
downward price trends of varying intensity and duration.
The investment rules are executed MGS selects and combines managers with complementary performance characteristics within a systematic framework that has demonstrated an impressive long-term track to create style portfolios that have carefully defined risk targets commensurate with their record with low correlation to major asset Figure 21: Performance of Man Figure 22: AHL Diversified Programme compared against Stark 300 Trader index Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Ltd 15 July 2000 to 31 March 2007 for last 3 years Index value log scale Index value US dollar log scale 2,000 1,500 1,800 1,500 1,400 1,400 1,300 1,200 1,200 1,000 1,100 800 1,000 600 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 900 2004 2005 2006 Man Multi-Strategy Guaranteed Ltd 1 World stocks World bonds Man AHL Diversified plc Managed futures Man Multi-Strategy World World Man AHL Managed 1 Guaranteed Ltd stocks bonds Diversified plc futures Total return 86.8% 1.9% 42.4% Total return 36.4% 10.5% Annualised return 9.7% 0.3% 5.4% Annualised return 10.9% 3.4% Annualised volatility 10.0% 13.4% 2.8% Annualised volatility 13.7% 7.0% Worst drawdown 11.1% 47.9% 2.7% Worst drawdown 15.5% 9.7% 1 2 Sharpe ratio 0.66 N A 0.74 Sharpe ratio 0.58 0.02 Date of worst drawdown Jan 04 to Feb 04 to Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of Jul 04 Aug 04 trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide Months to recovery 4 19 to future results.
1 Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate currency over the period analysed.
Where an investment has Source: Man database and Stark & Co. Inc. underperformed the risk-free rate, the Sharpe ratio will be negative.
There is no guarantee of trading performance and past performance is Because the Sharpe ratio is an absolute measure of risk-adjusted not necessarily a guide to future results.
1 return, negative Sharpe ratios are shown as N A, as they can be Man AHL Diversified plc is valued weekly: however, for comparative misleading.
purposes, statistics have been calculated using the last weekly World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to US dollar.
World bonds: valuation for each month.
2 Citigroup WGBI World Index hedged to US dollar.
Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate currency over the period analysed.
Managed futures: Stark 300 Trader Index.
Please note that the Stark 300 Trader index data over the past 4 months may be subject to change.
29 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Asset Management continued The competitive advantage of AHL lies in its enabled our traders to focus on efficiently working larger orders in the market, which is long-term track record.
Throughout its two decades, AHL has had a consistent and stable where their strengths lie.
Electronic trades are of growing importance and currently make up investment framework along with a strong focus on risk control.
This has been over 30% of tickets, though with the bias very much towards smaller orders, this falls to supplemented by a research ethos that supports continual enhancements and around 6-7% of notional value.
Electronic trading has been particularly successful in OTC refinements underpinned by a robust, risk-averse trading and implementation currencies, where our system is able to poll more brokers for quotes than is possible for a infrastructure that includes a strict change control process.
AHL has a team of around human trader, leading to improved pricing.
A key objective of the investment infrastructure 50 people focused on investment research, development and infrastructure.
The continuity is to minimise the slippage or cost of trading.
This slippage is the difference between the of the investment team helps sustain research and development initiatives aimed at extending sample price that the computer received and on the basis of which issued a trading note the range and versatility of the investment model as well as refining the investment and the actual execution price.
This slippage is monitored closely and has been kept constant process.
This is backed up by trading and implementation infrastructure.
over the years despite the increase in funds managed by AHL.
It is in estimating the potential Capital is deployed across a full range of increase in this slippage that is key to modelling our current capacity when viewed as how much sectors and markets including currencies, fixed income, equities and commodities.
Currently, additional funds we would be comfortable to take on over a 12-18 month horizon.
Such AHL trades some 210 different trading instruments, principally futures and forwards modelling is based on assumptions as to various inputs such as the rate of growth of the contracts, of which 45 were added in the last 12 months.
The most important characteristic underlying futures and OTC currency markets, the evolution of new liquid instruments to trade, for inclusion of a market are its underlying liquidity and efficiency.
The actual weightings and ongoing research initiatives to add new trading models and programmes.
We believe are dependent on the ongoing research of our investment specialists as well as the level of we have sufficient capacity to comfortably grow volatility of the instruments at any given point in time see Figure 23.
Figure 24: Performance of AHL 1 Diversified Programme Trading takes place 24 hours a day on a 20 December 1990 to 31 March 2007 rotational eight-hour shift structure, with Index value log scale relationships with some 90 different brokers 15,000 13,000 and business awarded on performance.
11,000 9,000 The successful introduction of our proprietary 7,000 electronic trading platform over the last two 5,000 years has enabled us to trade more frequently 3,000 and in smaller clip sizes.
This in turn has increased our responsiveness to price moves 1,000 and reduced our market impact.
It has also 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 1 AHL Diversified Programme World stocks World bonds Figure 23: AHL Diversification by markets AHL Diversified World World 1 Programme stocks bonds Total return 1125.4% 225.8% 217.4% Annualised return 16.6% 7.5% 7.3% 7 1 Currencies 24.7% Annualised volatility 16.4% 12.9% 3.0% 6 1 2 Bonds 20.7% Worst drawdown 21.1% 47.9% 5.1% 5 3 Energies 18.2% 2 Sharpe ratio 9.75 0.29 0.93 4 Stock indices 14.7% 5 Interest rates 8.9% Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
There is no guarantee of 6 Metals 7.5% trading performance and past performance is not necessarily a guide 7 Agriculturals 5.3% to future results.
4 1 AHL Diversified Programme: represented by the performance of 2 Athena Guaranteed Futures Limited prior to 1 October 1997, actual trading results have been adjusted to reflect the current guaranteed 3 public fee structure.
2 Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate currency over the period analysed.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 30 Business Review Asset Management our assets both in our main programme as selection, portfolio diversification and active inefficiencies that arise from behavioural and structural differences across countries.
The well as our new institutional programme see portfolio management.
A large team of Figure 24. specialised analysts, quantitative experts and most significant source of return is mean reversion market prices returning to their sophisticated in-house systems provide added structural support see Figure 25 equilibrium or fair value.
Bayswater was founded in May 2004 with seed capital arranged by MGS and significant Pemba was originally established in 1998 as investment from the principals of Bayswater.
The principals all have extensive experience the European Leveraged Finance Team of Bayswater is a fundamentally driven quantitative RMF.
The rebranded business was made global macro manager with funds under in the quantitative global macro strategy and have conducted research, portfolio and risk independent of RMF in March 2007 in management of $543 million.
The strategy is recognition of its highly successful performance based on the philosophy that markets are management as an investment team for over 10 years see Figure 26. and to promote growth.
The new business generally priced efficiently over the long-term had $2.0 billion in assets under management but short-term deviations from fair value do exist and can be captured.
The proprietary at the end of March 2007 in four collateralised debt obligations and an open-ended loan model, built by Bayswaters principals, uses fundamental economic data to evaluate and fund platform dealing in senior secured loans.
It also has two SICAV mutual funds investing identify mispricings in G10 equity and G7 bond and currency markets.
All funds relate to European credit.
Its disciplined, transparent and The investment process is systematic, repeatable investment process is based on fundamental bottom-up credit research and is proprietary and non-discretionary using economic and financial data to evaluate relative designed to optimise returns and avoid losses.
Pemba takes a conservative approach to risk.
The forwardlooking model looks to take advantage of It implements this through judicious credit 1 1 Figure 25: Performance of Pemba Figure 26: Performance of Bayswater 30 November 2005 to 31 March 2007 1 August 2004 to 31 March 2007 Index value log scale Index value log scale 1,250 1,600 1,500 1,200 1,400 1,150 1,300 1,100 1,200 1,100 1,050 1,000 1,000 2005 2006 2007 2006 2007 1 Man Bayswater Macro RMF European Loan Opportunities Class A Units World stocks World bonds World stocks World bonds RMF European Loan Opportunities World World Man Bayswater World World 1 Class A Units stocks bonds Macro stocks bonds Total return 15.4% 19.6% 5.1% Total return 42.1% 45.5% 13.7% Annualised return 11.3% 14.3% 3.8% Annualised return 14.1% 15.1% 4.9% Annualised volatility 1.8% 6.7% 2.4% Annualised volatility 7.4% 7.0% 2.3% Worst drawdown 0.3% 4.6% 1.5% Worst drawdown 3.8% 4.6% 1.5% 2 2 Sharpe ratio 4.31 1.26 N A Sharpe ratio 1.27 1.46 0.28 Source: Man database and Bloomberg.
1 1 Pemba is represented by the performance of RMF European Loan Man Bayswater Macro is represented by the performance of opportunities Class A Units.
Man Global Quant Alpha Investments Limited with appropriate 2 Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate adjustment for applicable fees from 1 August 2004 to 30 June 2006 currency over the period analysed.
Where an investment has net of all fees and by the actual performance of Man Bayswater underperformed the risk-free rate, the Sharpe ratio will be negative.
An adjustment has also been Because the Sharpe ratio is an absolute measure of risk-adjusted made to account for interest earned on any cash not utilised by the return, negative Sharpe ratios are shown as N A, as they can be investment manager for trading.
Sharpe ratio is calculated using the risk-free rate in the appropriate World stocks: MSCI World Index hedged to US dollar.
World bonds: currency over the period analysed.
Where an investment has Citigroup WGBI World Index hedged to US dollar.
underperformed the risk-free rate, the Sharpe ratio will be negative.
31 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Brokerage MF Global is the leading broker of exchange-listed futures and options in the world.
Business Review Brokerage Separation of the Business Overview of the Business The Group Board, after a thorough review MF Global is the leading broker of exchangein conjunction with their financial advisers, listed futures and options in the world.
It has concluded that Man Financial and Man provides execution and clearing services for Investments would be best positioned to exchange-traded and over-the-counter, or maximise future returns and growth OTC, derivative products, as well as for nonopportunities by pursuing focused independent derivative foreign exchange products and strategies and having appropriate individual securities in the cash market.
Therefore, the Board of provides its clients with access to many Man Group intends to separate its Brokerage of the largest and fastest growing financial business, Man Financial, subject inter alia to markets throughout the world.
The Board also believes that significant value will be created for Man MF Globals business is based on a diversified Group shareholders from a separation.
yet fully integrated model that allows it to offer a variety of derivative and cash products across We believe this offering and the separation a broad range of trading markets through from Man Group will emphasise Man Financials multiple distribution channels.
This diversified commitment to specialty brokerage and yet integrated model positions MF Global as enhance its position as the largest specialty a centralised provider of brokerage services broker in our markets.
We also believe that across multiple products, trading markets and having a public trading market for its shares will regions.
We believe there is a strong market enable it to offer more attractive consideration to trend toward diversified trading activities, in potential acquisition targets and to compensate which clients seek access to multiple trading its employees in a way that more closely aligns alternatives to implement their trading their interests with the business.
We believe MF Global is well positioned to profit from this trend because it Man Financial, our Brokerage business, will provides its clients with a central point of entry be renamed MF Global with effect from the into a wide range of diverse trading alternatives separation.
Kevin Davis, currently Managing and enable them to bridge the gaps between Director of Man Financial will become CEO complementary products, trading markets of MF Global, Chris Smith will become COO and regions.
We believe that MF Globals ability and Deputy CEO and Amy Butte will be CFO.
to provide access to a wide range of trading The non-executive Chairman will be Alison alternatives, as well as clearing services, distinguishes it from most of its principal Carnwath.
competitors, provides diversity and stability to its business and enables it to adapt quickly The proposed separation will be effected by an initial public offering on the New York Stock to changing market conditions and client needs see Figure 27.
Exchange of a majority interest in MF Global and is intended to take place in the third calendar quarter of 2007, subject to market conditions remaining favourable.
Figure 27: MF Globals Business Products Services Clients Exchange-traded derivatives Agency execution Institutional clients OTC-traded derivatives Matched-principal execution Asset managers hedge funds Cash securities currencies Clearing Professional traders Private clients Markets Regions Interest rates Europe Equity-related products North America Foreign exchange Asia Pacific Energy Metals Agricultural commodities other 33 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Brokerage continued Strategy Continue to provide value-added Globals operations in markets that are brokerage services complementary to its markets for listed futures We believe MF Global has significant opportunities to expand its business in future In recent years, many of the worlds major and options.
As a specialty broker focused on exchanges have aggressively sought to build both the listed and OTC derivatives markets, years.
It is intended to take advantage of these opportunities and build upon the trading volume by providing market participants as well as cash markets, around the world, we with greater access to their trading facilities.
believe that MF Global is well positioned to help business competitive strengths by pursuing the following strategies: The execution process has become simpler, its clients bridge the gap between complementary more direct and less costly.
In some cases, markets and diversify its trading activities, Benefit from continued industry growth this trend has led to the disintermediation of particularly by executing complex correlated passive brokers who focus primarily on voice trades in multiple markets.
The global derivatives sector of our industry has experienced rapid growth in recent years execution simply receiving client orders by telephone and routing them to an exchange for Continue to diversify MF Globals based on the volume of exchange-traded derivatives and the outstanding notional amount a fee and clients have begun to bypass these service offerings brokers and execute their trades online.
MF Global will continue to diversify its client of OTC derivatives.
According to the Bank for International Settlements, global turnover, or base, the services it offers to clients and the We believe that these developments provide trading markets and geographic regions in trading volume, in exchange-traded derivative contracts increased from approximately 4.5 billion opportunities for brokers like MF Global, that which it provides services.
MF Global intends can offer their clients more value-added services to expand its business and the markets in for the 12-month period ended 31 December 2001 to approximately 11.9 billion for the than passive brokers and the exchanges do.
which it operates by introducing new products, MF Global offers its clients efficient access, becoming a member of additional exchanges 12-month period ended 31 December 2006, representing a compound annual growth rate both electronically and telephonically, to more and offering new combinations of existing products, trading markets and regions than products to enable its clients to execute of 21.6% and the global notional amounts outstanding for OTC derivatives increased at any one exchange, coupled with deep internal more sophisticated trading strategies in liquidity in many of its trading markets.
a compound annual growth rate of 30.1% per annum between 31 December 2001 and Moreover, because it provides both execution and clearing services, it is less vulnerable to Pursue opportunities for enhanced 31 December 2006 see Figures 28, 29, and 30. competitive pressures affecting the market operating margins for execution services alone.
We believe that, MF Global intends to pursue opportunities We believe that the trends driving this growth such as globalisation, the migration to because of MF Globals competitive strengths, for enhanced operating margins by increasing its business can benefit from growing trading the volume of trades it executes or clears electronic markets, increased asset allocations to derivative products by institutions, hedge volumes and can gain market share from and expanding its business model to include brokers that do not offer clients the value-added additional products, trading markets and regions, funds and other asset managers, the move to commercially oriented business practices at services it does.
both through internal growth and acquisitions, and thereby benefit from economies of scale.
exchanges and market convergence are continuing and provide MF Global with Capitalise on market convergence MF Global also believes it can increase its We believe that the current trend in our industry profitability by offering more sophisticated and opportunities to increase its revenue from execution services.
We also expect that, if toward market convergence that is, an complex product combinations, particularly in exchange trading volumes rise, demand for increasing demand for diversified trading across the OTC derivatives markets where trades clearing services will also grow.
As a major complementary markets, such as listed and typically are more complex and yield higher clearing firm in its trading markets, we believe OTC derivatives and non-derivative cash execution profit margins than trades involving MF Global is well positioned to meet rising products when coupled with the current exchange-listed products.
growth in trading volumes in listed derivatives, provides a significant opportunity to expand MF Figure 28: Contract volumes in exchangeFigure 29: Contract volumes in exchangeFigure 30: Global notional amounts outstanding for OTC derivatives by traded derivatives by market traded derivatives by region trading market bn $ trillions bn $415.2 14.0 400 14.0 11.9 350 12.0 12.0 11.9 $297.7 10.1 10.0 300 10.0 10.1 $257.9 8.8 8.8 250 8.0 8.1 8.0 8.1 $197.2 6.0 200 6.0 6.1 6.1 $141.7 4.0 150 4.0 4.5 4.5 $111.2 2.0 2.0 100 0.0 50 0.0 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Market CAGR Market CAGR Market CAGR Interest Rate 20% North America 25% Foreign Exchange 19% Currency 34% Europe 15% Interest Rate 30% Equity Index 24% Asia Pacific 25% Equity-Linked 32% Commodity 23% Other identified Non-US 18% Commodity 63% Single Equity 18% Total 22% Credit Default Swaps NM Total 22% Unallocated 23% Represents the compound annual growth rate in trading volume of Total 30% exchange-traded derivatives contracts.
Represents the compound annual growth rate in trading volume of exchange-traded derivatives contracts.
Represents the compound annual growth rate global notional amounts for OTC derivatives.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 34 Business Review Brokerage Expand in new geographic regions the range of trading alternatives it offers and legally defined business or financial events.
to achieve cost-effective earnings growth.
In addition, USFE and International Securities MF Global operates its business on a global basis and is committed to participating in We believe that becoming a public company Exchange Holdings Inc. ISE recently and being able to offer its securities as established a multi-year strategic marketing developing markets, such as those in the Asia Pacific region.
Its goals in developing consideration will enhance MF Globals ability alliance to co-market several new cash-settled to make acquisitions in the future.
futures contracts based on International regions are two-fold: to give local clients access to global markets and to give its global clients Securities Exchanges proprietary indices.
Investment in USFE USFE currently plans to begin introducing the access to the local markets in those developing regions.
For example, it has established In October 2006, Man Group acquired a first of these new products for trading in the third controlling interest in the United States Futures quarter of 2007.
USFE currently operates at a operations in Australia, India, Singapore, Hong Kong and Dubai through which it provides Exchange USFE, a Chicago-based electronic loss and is expected to do so for the near-term.
futures exchange, which was formerly known clients in Asia with access to derivative and other products globally.
Its presence in those as Eurex US.
In connection with the separation Performance Measurement and transaction, Man Group will transfer a direct areas also enables it to provide our clients in Diversity Europe and North America with access to local ownership interest of 48.1% in USFE to MF Primary services Global, and Man Group will retain an ownership markets in those areas.
MF Global provides three primary types of interest of approximately 17%.
Eurex AG will services to its clients: agency execution services, hold approximately 28% and other shareholders MF Global believes there will be substantial matched-principal execution services and additional growth opportunities in several will hold the remaining ownership interest.
It is able to provide these Deutsche Brse Systems will continue to operate countries in the Asia Pacific region if local services to clients either as a bundled package regulations are eased, although we do not the trading platform and the corresponding both execution and clearing or separately communications network, and the Clearing know whether or how quickly that may occur execution, but not clearing or vice versa, in any particular country.
In China, for example, Corporation will continue to provide clearing depending upon its clients needs.
USFE has agreed not to list access to the domestic markets is restricted and outflows of investment capital are not for trading certain non-retail products based on Shown in Figure 31 below is the estimated European issuers, currencies or indices.
MF Globals Asia Pacific percentage of its revenues, derived from operations accounted for approximately 8.6% each of these services for the year ended USFEs strategy is to develop an array of of its revenues for the year ended 31 March 31 March 2007.
2007, net of interest and transaction-based innovative listed derivative products that are tailored to meet the investment needs of private expenses, and it is anticipated that this Primary products percentage will rise over the long-term.
clients, hedge funds and other asset managers MF Global provides its clients with three primary and institutions.
USFE intends to market types of products: exchange-traded derivatives, Pursue acquisitions its products through global distribution OTC derivatives and cash products.
USFEs new products are While MF Global has successfully expanded all of the foreign currency products it provides its business organically, by applying its specialty expected to include index products, retailits clients as cash products.
It provides these brokerage expertise to an expanding range oriented contracts including foreign exchange services through dedicated broker teams of trading alternatives, it has also achieved and options contracts and products attractive focused on particular trading markets.
to hedge fund clients and other clients.
The first We have taken a selective approach to of these new products are binary event futures Shown in Figure 32 is the estimated acquisitions.
MF Global intends to continue contracts that USFE launched in April 2007. percentage of its revenues, derived from to expand its client base and brokerage These contracts, which have been self-certified each of our products for the year ended capabilities by pursuing acquisitions in a to the Commodities Futures Trading Commission, 31 March 2007. disciplined and flexible way both to broaden will trade based on the outcome of specific, Figure 31: Estimated revenues by service Figure 32: Estimated revenues by March 2007 product March 2007 4 1 Clearing commissions 25% 1 1 Cash products 17% 5 1 2 Matched principal 2 OTC-traded derivatives execution and other 13% principal transactions 16% 3 Exchange-traded 2 3 Agency execution 24% derivatives 64% 4 Other 6% 4 Corporate interest and 5 Clearing interest 29% other 6% 4 2 3 3 35 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Brokerage continued Exchange-traded derivatives The table left sets forth several of the major exchange, with the remainder attributable to a mix of commodities, including metals, energy MF Global executes client trades in exchangederivatives exchanges in North America and traded derivatives, both on an agency and, in Europe and two exchanges in the Asia Pacific and agricultural and other.
These allocations are based to a substantial extent on some markets outside the United States, on a region and, for each exchange, provides MF matched-principal basis, and then, if acting as Globals rankings for the three months ended management estimates and may not be indicative of the future mix of business.
a clearing broker, clears the orders for our 31 March 2007, based on information provided clients and their counterparties.
The principal by the respective exchanges on a monthly basis.
trading markets for which it executes and clears exchange-traded derivatives include OTC derivatives Primary geographic regions MF Global executes trades for clients located interest rate products, equities and commodities.
MF Global provides execution services on both The products that generate the largest trading an agency and a matched-principal basis for a in three principal geographic regions: Europe, North America and the Asia Pacific region.
volumes for the business include futures and wide array of OTC derivatives, including options linked to interest rates, equities, energy forwards, options, swaps and other derivative Its operations in each region are organised to service the institutions, hedge funds and other and metals.
products, subject to applicable laws and Ranking for the regulations.
It also has the capability to design asset managers, professional traders and three months ended 1 private clients located in that region.
In most OTC derivative products that can be tailored to 31 March 2007 meet its clients individual investment needs regions in which it operates, it executes trades Europe: involving a wide range of products on a number subject to applicable laws and regulations.
2 3 Eurex First of trading markets.
The acquisition of the Refco 4 3 Euronext.
Liffe First assets enhanced its presence in North A 3,5 5,6 Cash products merica ICE Futures First Third MF Global executes and clears trades for a by strengthening its US operations and North America: 7 broad array of cash products, including listed establishing a presence in Canada.
In addition, Chicago Board of Trade First 7 equity securities, debt securities i. e. nonthe acquisition established its presence in India Chicago Mercantile Exchange First 6 Commodity Exchange Inc. First derivative securities and foreign exchange and enhanced its presence in Singapore and 6 New York Mercantile Exchange First products on both an agency and a matched Taiwan.
There are a number of countries in 3 Asia Pacific : principal basis.
The cash product trades it which it does not currently maintain offices Singapore Exchange Ltd Third executes involve 1 listed equities, 2 US but conducts a significant amount of business.
Sydney Futures Exchange Fourth Treasury securities and corporate bonds traded For example, based on information gathered in the OTC markets, and 3 OTC foreign by MF Global Management with respect to 1 Based upon simple average of monthly rankings for the exchange contracts and spot transactions.
participants in that industry, MF Global believes three months ended 31 March 2007, where quarterly that, despite the fact that it does not have an rankings are not provided by the exchange.
2 Primary trading markets office in China, it is a leading provider of financial Based upon interest rate derivatives only.
3 Based upon executed business, including executed and MF Global executes and clears its products in a risk management products to the Chinese cleared business and executed-only business.
Its primary trading markets metals industry.
It services these clients through 4 Based upon Euronext London, excluding Bclear OTC include interest rate products, equities, foreign its offices in London, Hong Kong and Sydney.
exchange, energy, metals and agricultural or 5 Estimated based upon rankings for ICE Brent Crude other commodities.
Futures, ICE Gasoil Futures, ICE WTI Crude Futures products, which an aggregate represented 98% of all volume on ICE over the same period.
For the year ended 31 March 2007, we estimate 6 Based upon cleared business, including executed and that almost 30% of our revenues is attributable cleared business and cleared-only business.
to interest rate products, approximately 30% 7 Non-member business only.
Based upon executed is attributable to equity-related products, business, including executed and cleared business approximately 10% is attributable to foreign and executed-only business.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 36 Business Review Brokerage Because the central aim of MF Globals products for all types of clients and potential clients.
We believe that receiving order flow integrated business model is to provide each of its clients with brokerage services that from a diverse client base helps it provide efficient execution across a broad range of encompass any and all combinations of its products and trading markets, it seeks to products, trading markets and regions.
It currently provides service to over 130,000 develop its business in each geographic region by providing local clients access to global client accounts that have been active in the last 12 months, including a diverse group of markets and providing global clients access to the local markets.
For example, it is focused institutions, hedge funds and other asset managers, professional traders and private on increasing the number of clients in the Asia Pacific region for whom it can execute and clients worldwide.
clear trades in Europe or North America as well as the Asia Pacific region and providing its For the year ended 31 March 2007, we estimate that approximately 40% of clients in Europe and North America with increased access to the exchanges in the our revenues is attributable to institutions, approximately 20% is attributable to Asia Pacific region.
hedge funds and other asset managers, approximately 20% is attributable Shown in Figure 33 is the percentage of its revenues derived from each of these to private clients, with the remainder attributable to a mix of professional traders geographic regions for the year ended 31 March 2007. and other clients.
Analysis of financial results in the year Primary clients A commentary on the income statement and As MF Globals business has expanded into balance sheet of our Brokerage business is new trading markets, it has broadened its client given in the Financial and Risk Management base both through internal development of Review, which follows this Review.
execution and clearing services targeted at different clients and through acquisitions.
It does not manage its business according to specific types of clients, but rather regards its client base as a whole, thus enables it to provide access to derivatives and cash Figure 33: Estimated revenues by region 3 1 North America 41% 2 Europe 50% 3 Rest of World 9% 1 2 Represents primarily the Asia Pacific region 37 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Diluted underlying earnings per share has grown by 42% over the last year and by 34% compound per annum over the last five years.
Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review This Review provides details of the Groups Given the Groups core financial objective This repurchasing activity was earnings of maintaining a high post-tax return on equity, capital position and how we manage our enhancing, resulting in a 0.3% accretion to capital, the financial performance of the it is not the Groups policy to hold excess diluted underlying earnings per share and a capital for protracted periods.
Accordingly, Groups businesses during the year, analysed 0.7% accretion to diluted earnings per share between our continuing operations and the Group manages its distribution policy and on total operations in 2007 on a full year basis.
capital structure over time to target a prudent discontinued operations, and an assessment of In addition, the Company set up an irrevocable, that performance against our financial objectives.
balance between equity and various forms of non-discretionary programme to purchase debt capital available in the capital markets.
It includes a detailed analysis of the results, shares for cancellation on its own behalf, expenses and margins of our businesses, during the close period, which commenced Distribution policy together with a commentary on the balance on 1 April 2007 and ended on 30 May 2007 sheet and cash flows.
The way in which the The Groups policy is to grow the level of with acquisitions effected within certain pre-set dividend in US dollar terms, whilst maintaining Group manages, monitors and quantifies the parameters.
364,000 shares were repurchased risks inherent in its businesses is set out in the cover of at least two times underlying earnings under this programme at an average cost that is earnings excluding performance fees.
Risk Management section that follows this of 5.57 per share.
At 31 March 2007 the Financial section.
The total dividend for the year has grown Groups cumulative post-tax performance fees by 40% from last year in US dollar terms.
available for future share repurchases amounted Capital and capital management This years dividend is covered 2.7 times by to $271 million.
underlying earnings and 3.4 times by total Approach The Groups capital management framework earnings.
The Group declares its dividends WACC in US dollars but will continue to pay the is intended to ensure that it maintains sufficient The Groups estimated weighted average capital to: dividends in sterling, except where private post-tax cost of capital WACC is 12.1%.
overseas shareholders have elected to receive meet regulatory requirements at all times: This figure is based on a cost of equity of support business growth and the Groups dividends via the Transcontinental Automated 12.6% using CAPM and assuming a beta Payments Service TAPS.
distribution policies: of 1.44 source: Bloomberg and a post-tax achieve an appropriate credit rating for the cost of debt of 5.3%.
With a post-tax return The Group also earns substantial performance on equity of 30.9% for the year, the Groups Group: enable the Group to access sufficient fees in addition to underlying earnings, and it shareholders are seeing a return of two and remains the Boards long-term strategy to use half times the Groups cost of capital.
Over the committed funding to meet stressed liquidity requirements: and an amount of up to the Groups post-tax previous five years returns have varied between performance fee income in the repurchase of two and a half and five times the Groups absorb unexpected losses that might arise from the current and projected risk profile of its own shares where to do so is earnings WACC, with Mans beta and the level of the businesses, including credit, market, enhancing to shareholders.
This share performance fee income in the year being operational and business risks.
repurchasing will take place in the market on a the main cause for variation.
continuing basis from year-to-year rather than This framework is supplemented by a risk being confined within the accounting periods assessment which quantifies the capital during which performance fees are earned.
requirements of the Groups business activities.
During the year 44,019,161 ordinary shares The Groups risk appetite includes targets were repurchased and cancelled at a total cost designed to maintain an appropriate surplus of 197 million $375 million, giving an average over the minimum perceived as necessary to cost of 4.46 per share more details are given meet the above objectives.
in the Directors Report on page 66.
39 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review continued Regulatory capital In the table below, the Group Financial Resources material shareholdings from their total of their The Group is subject to minimum capital Requirement represents the minimum amount of requirements set by various regulators of its qualifying Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital.
Financial Resources regulatory capital that the worldwide businesses.
The Financial Services Group must hold on a consolidated basis in Authority FSA supervises the Group on a Tier 3 capital brings together shorter term debt order to meet the capital adequacy requirements capital and least permanent reserves, and may consolidated basis and the Group submits of the FSA.
This capital is intended to be available returns to the FSA on its capital adequacy.
only be used to meet the regulatory capital to absorb unexpected losses and is calculated requirements arising from market risk in the Various subsidiaries within each of Brokerage in accordance with standard regulatory formulae and Asset Management are directly regulated trading book.
Man Groups Tier 3 capital that relate primarily to credit and market risk.
consists of the unaudited post-tax profits by the FSA or supervisors in other countries, which set and monitor their capital adequacy.
Within Tier 1 capital, share capital and reserves includes: $396 million relating to the excess The FSA has divided its definition of capital, into Groups regulatory capital position of retained earnings over shareholder categories, or tiers, reflecting different degrees distributions and share repurchases in 2007 Unaudited Audited of permanence of the capital, its ability to and $332 million relating to the issue of shares 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 absorb losses, where it ranks in the event of on the partial conversion of the Groups $m$m winding up and whether there are any fixed exchangeable bonds in July 2006.
Share capital and reserves 3,330 2,788 costs, i. e. obligations to pay interest or Less goodwill and other intangibles: dividends.
This increase more than offsets the increased Asset Management 1,405 1,320 deduction for goodwill and other intangibles.
Brokerage 294 236 Tier 1 capital is the highest ranking form The increase in intangibles predominantly Available Tier 1 Group capital 1,631 1,232 of capital, comprising items of permanent relates to a $52 million increase in unamortised Tier 2 capital - subordinated debt 610 610 capital which have no fixed cost such sales commissions and $51 million to an Tier 2 capital - revaluation reserves 120 70 as the Groups fully paid-up share capital, increase in goodwill, the majority relating Own funds 2,361 1,912 reserves excluding revaluation reserves to the Groups acquisition of USFE.
Tier 3 capital and other deductions and audited retained earnings.
From this the interim trading book profits less other deductions: FSA requires firms to deduct their intangible Tier 2 capital is largely unchanged since the Asset Management 193 17 assets and some other less significant items.
The increase in other deductions in Brokerage 117 5 Asset Management to $193 million relates to Group Financial Resources 2,285 1,900 Tier 2 capital includes the longer term forms material holding deductions.
The increase in Less Financial Resources Requirement of debt capital, which may carry a fixed cost, Tier 3 interim trading book profits in Brokerage including liquidity adjustments : and reserves of a less permanent nature.
is largely the result of recognising significant Asset Management 432 377 Tier 2 is subdivided to distinguish between: exceptional integration costs in Brokerage in Brokerage 1,163 1,023 undated forms of capital including revaluation March 2006.
Group Financial Resources Requirement 1,595 1,400 reserves which fall into Upper Tier 2 Net excess of Group capital 690 500 dated forms of capital such as the Groups subordinated debt which fall in Lower Tier 2.
Excludes retained profits for the second half of the financial year as these were unaudited as at 31 March.
The extent to which items falling within Tier 2 may qualify as capital is restricted.
In aggregate, it may not exceed Tier 1 capital net of deductions, and the Lower Tier 2 component must not exceed 50% of the same measure.
Firms have to deduct certain Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 40 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Asset Managements regulatory capital 99.9% to provide a better reflection of the GENPRU introduced changes to the Groups target credit rating.
definition of financial resources with effect requirements increased mainly as a result of increased proprietary investment in fund from 1 January 2007.
There are, however, At 31 March 2007 the Group estimated transitional arrangements in 2007 which allow products for seeding, liquidity and other purposes.
The rise in Brokerages requirements that its economic capital requirement the Group to remain on the FSAs previous was $765 million 2006: $675 million.
The rules to determine minimum regulatory capital is the result of business growth.
composition of this capital requirement by risk requirements until 1 January 2008.
The Group type and business is shown in Figures 34 and will be adopting the Standardised Approach for The Group is also required to maintain adequate resources to ensure that there is no 35 below.
calculating its credit and operational risk capital requirements from that date.
Quantitative significant risk that it cannot meet its liabilities as they fall due i. e. to address liquidity risk.
The financial resources available to the Group to modelling shows that the regulatory capital meet its economic capital requirement comprise requirement is likely to increase, principally as While additional amounts of regulatory capital are required in respect of less liquid assets, shareholders equity net of goodwill and the a result of the introduction of the new category reserves in the Employee Trust schemes.
This relating to operational risk.
However, current holding capital does not form the principal element of the Groups approach to liquidity differs from the regulatory measure of financial forecasts indicate that the Group will continue, resources in that it: including in various stressed scenarios, to have risk management.
Rather this is based on the Groups ability to access committed financing excludes debt capital, but includes unaudited capital surplus to regulatory requirements when second half after tax profits, the new rules take effect in 2008. facilities, as detailed in the Available liquidity section of the Risk Management review.
net of the proposed final dividend: and gives full value to capitalised sales commissions Impact of the intended separation Economic capital which are deducted in full from regulatory of Brokerage financial resources as an intangible asset.
On 30 March 2007, the Board announced its Economic capital is a statistical risk methodology that estimates the amount intention to separate Brokerage by way of an The Group estimated that its surplus economic initial public offering on the New York Stock of capital the Group needs to absorb very severe unexpected losses.
It is calculated capital at 31 March 2007 was $1.7 billion Exchange in the third calendar quarter of 2007.
The directors have concluded that Asset to a confidence level consistent with the Groups minimum target credit rating for credit, Management and Brokerage would be best Future developments positioned to maximise future returns and market, operational and business risks, and takes account of the diversification benefits In June 2004 the Basel Committee on Banking growth opportunities by pursuing focused Supervision issued a new capital adequacy independent strategies and having appropriate within and between risk categories and the businesses.
framework referred to as Basel II, which is individual capital structures.
In the financial intended to replace the existing framework statements, Brokerage has been classified as Economic capital provides a consistent metric for determining regulatory capital.
In Europe, a discontinued operation which, together with Basel II is implemented via the CRD, which the separate analysis of the income statement which enables the aggregation and comparison of risk between risk types and businesses.
It applies to credit institutions and investment and balance sheet of continuing and discontinued firms, and which came into force on 1 January operations in this review, will allow readers a does, however, involve a number of assumptions and judgements and we continually enhance 2007.
In the UK, the CRD is embodied in the better understanding of the results and financial FSAs GENPRU and BIPRU rules which are position of the continuing business.
Economic capital may, therefore, change as a result of incorporated in its Prudential Sourcebook.
changes in the underlying risks or due to improvements in our methodology for measuring them.
During 2007 we amended our confidence level to a more conservative Figure 34: Economic capital at March 2007 Figure 35: Economic and regulatory capital 31 March 2007 99.9% Confidence interval, 1 year horizon 2007 $m $m 2006 Capitalised Sales 450 2,500 Commissions i. e. FEL Total Economic Capital 400 2007 $765 million H2 retained earnings Tier 2 2,000 350 net of dividend and tax & 2006 $675 million 300 Tier 3 1,500 250 Net Net 200 1,000 Tier 1 Tier 1 150 100 500 50 0 0 Operational Credit Market Brokerage Asset Regulatory Economic Regulatory Economic Regulatory Economic Management Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital Capital By Risk Type By Business Financial Resources Capital Requirement Capital Surplus 41 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review continued In this review, the table showing the Groups Note 9 to the financial statements.
Underlying per annum and the General Financials sector earnings per share are lower than total earnings average return of 12% compound per annum.
regulatory capital position separately identifies the Brokerage elements, suggesting that post per share but we target the former measure when reviewing results because it does not Summary of results separation the Group will have significant regulatory capital headroom.
When the include performance fee income which, Profit before tax on total operations was up although valuable to shareholders, introduces 27% to $1,564 million.
Excluding exceptional separation takes place, the Board will inform shareholders on the implications for capital volatility when looking at year-on-year items, pre-tax profits increased 19% in the year comparisons.
Long-term it is appropriate for to $1,558 million.
the Group to be judged on growth in diluted earnings per share on total operations, including Profit before tax on continuing operations Achievement of financial objectives The Board believes that long-term shareholder performance fees the statutory measure.
This comprises This measure has grown by 34% compound an increase of 34% in underlying pre-tax profit value will be achieved through continued delivery of significant growth in underlying per annum over the last five years, although net management fee income in year to because of the decrease in performance fees $943 million and a decrease of 20% in net earnings per share and the maintenance of high levels of post-tax return on equity.
For this earned, it has grown to a lesser extent in the performance fee income to $358 million.
year, up 25% on last year see Figure 36. reason these two measures continue to be the basis for the Groups financial objectives and Profit before tax and exceptional items on As well as seeking growth that is profitable and discontinued operations Brokerage was up are also the performance criteria used for the Groups long-term incentive schemes.
The sustainable, our second financial objective is to 69% to $257 million.
Exceptional items resulted target an efficient capital structure so as to in a net pre-tax gain of $6 million.
Group has achieved these objectives in the current year, as it has in each year since they maintain high levels of post-tax return on equity whilst retaining a strong Group balance sheet.
The Groups profit before tax is analysed in the were set in March 2000. table below: 2007 2006 The Groups post-tax return on equity for the Diluted underlying earnings per share has $m $m grown by 42% over the last year and by 34% year was 30.9%.
This compares to 33.5% last Asset Management net management year.
The decrease results from a lower level of compound per annum over the last five years.
fee income 943 704 Underlying earnings represent net management performance fees earned in 2007 and by a high Asset Management net level of retained earnings increasing the equity fee income from Asset Management plus performance fee income 358 450 Brokerage net income.
This measure excludes base see Figure 37.
Total continuing operations 1,301 1,154 Brokerage before USFE Refco the net performance fee income from Asset losses and exceptional items 264 173 Management and exceptional items.
Returns to shareholders Brokerage USFE losses in 2007 7 Total shareholder return is measured as the Brokerage Refco losses in 2006 21 Diluted underlying earnings per share from change in the value of a share plus the value of Brokerage exceptional items 6 70 the dividends paid, assuming that the dividends continuing operations have grown by 37% Total discontinued operations 263 82 over last year.
This represents net management are reinvested in the Companys shares on the Group profit before tax 1,564 1,236 day on which they were paid.
On this basis, fee income from Asset Management excluding exceptional items there were no exceptional the Group returned 38% during the year, compared to the FTSE 100 return of 9% and items in 2007 and a $20 million tax credit in Income statement the prior year.
a return of 19% from our industry sector In order to analyse the performance of the General Financials.
Over the last five years the Groups two principal businesses, the Groups A full reconciliation of underlying earnings and Groups return to shareholders has averaged income statement is analysed separately between underlying earnings per share to their 25% compound per annum, compared to the continuing operations Asset Management corresponding statutory figures is shown in FTSE 100 average return of 7% compound and discontinued operations Brokerage.
The 2005 to 2007 figures are on an presented under UK GAAP.
The 2005 to 2007 figures are on an IFRS basis.
Restating years 2003 and 2004 on an IFRS basis IFRS basis, although the fair value gain on the conversion option would not give rise to any significant differences.
component of the exchangeable bonds is excluded in 2005.
All other exceptional items arising in each year are included.
Restating years 2003 and 2004 on a similar IFRS basis would not give rise to any significant differences.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 42 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Following the announcement on 30 March performance fees, together with brokerage Net management fee income includes the fee income described above less all sales 2007 of the Boards intention to separate the and other fees, each based on net asset Brokerage business by way of an initial public values of the fund products.
These include risk commissions payable, finance costs and all overheads not allocated to performance fees.
Net offering on the New York Stock Exchange of transfer fees on guaranteed products, liquidity a majority interest in the third calendar quarter or cash management fees and valuation and performance fee income includes the fee income detailed above less those overheads allocated to of 2007, Brokerage has been classified as a registrar fees.
Cost of sales relate to upfront discontinued operation in accordance with and trail sales commissions and have increased performance fees, which almost entirely relate to employee performance compensation.
IFRS 5 Non-current assets held for sale and by 23%, reflecting the continued high level of discontinued operations.
This requires that the sales in recent years.
This charge was split In 2007, the net management fee income FUM results of Brokerage be included as a single 37%:63% between the amortisation of upfront line including any disposal costs incurred in commission and trail commission, broadly in margin was 2.3% for private investor products, which is slightly higher than 2006, and 0.8% for 2007 and any appropriate adjustments to the line with the ratio in the prior year.
allocation of head office costs in the Group institutional products, which is in line with 2006.
The performance fee FUM margin reflects the income statement below profit on ordinary Other operating income mainly comprises activities after taxation, with a corresponding gains on seeding investments in some of the underlying performance of the fund products during each accounting period.
Performance re-presentation of the prior year.
Hence in the fund products, gains on redemption-bridging analysis of the Group income statement below, activities both reported in performance fee fees from institutional fund products tend to be lower as these products target lower returns continuing operations are analysed separately income and due diligence fees.
Other operating from discontinued operations.
losses mainly comprise some small losses on and lower volatility.
seeding investments in some of the fund Asset Management products reported in performance fee income, In the income statement table on this page, continuing operations 2007 2006 Year to 31 March 207 $m $m income from associates and JVs is the some administration costs of the fund entities borne by the Group, losses on sale of fixed contribution from financial interests in Affiliated Revenue 2,114 1,851 Managers and include both established Cost of sales 335 273 assets and foreign exchange losses.
Other operating income 75 65 Administrative expenses have increased by 19% managers, such as BlueCrest, and new Other operating losses 26 29 from $533 million in the comparative period to managers.
BlueCrest contributed $40 million Total operating income 1,828 1,614 $632 million.
Of this amount, $289 million 46% to net management fee income in the year.
Administrative expenses 632 533 are variable overheads, relating to employee Operating profit 1,196 1,081 discretionary bonus payments.
The increase Net finance income of $61 million arises on Associates and JVs 44 33 in administrative expenses in the period results cash balances and margins on loans to funds Net finance income 61 40 from a $57 million increase in discretionary in Asset Management, partly offset by interest Profit before tax 1,301 1,154 bonus payments with the remainder from expense on long-term debt to finance Taxation 191 194 the investment in staff recruitment and acquisitions and working capital requirements.
Profit for the financial year 1,110 960 infrastructure to support the growth of the business.
Administrative expenses comprise Brokerage operating income, costs and 35% of total operating income.
This operating margins Asset Management operating income, costs and margins margin is in line with that in recent years.
As discussed above, Brokerage has been classified as a discontinued operation in Asset Management revenues have increased by 14% over last year, reflecting the increase The table overleaf shows an analysis of net accordance with IFRS 5 and the comparative management fee income and net performance period re-presented accordingly.
As a in management fees derived from higher levels of funds under management, partially offset fee income over the last five years together with consequence, income and costs including the margin ratio, as a percentage of average central recharges and allocations have only by lower performance fees.
Such revenues relate principally to management fees and funds under management FUM in each period.
been attributed to the discontinued operation 43 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review continued to the extent that they will be eliminated at Asset Management margins 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 the time the operation is disposed of.
Applying Net management fee income $m 943 704 594 459 280 this principle has had the effect of decreasing Management fees FUM 1.6% 1.6% 1.5% 1.4% 1.3% the pre-tax profit of Brokerage by $4 million Net performance fee income $m : in both 2006 and in 2007.
There is an equal First half of year 221 166 31 55 54 and opposite impact on net management fee Second half of year 137 284 88 181 124 income in Asset Management.
Full year 358 450 119 236 178 Performance fees FUM 0.6% 1.0% 0.3% 0.7% 0.9% Brokerage discontinued operations In the above table the figures for 2003 and 2004 are as they were presented under UK GAAP.
Restating years 2003 and 2004 on an IFRS basis would not give rise to any significant differences.
Revenue 2,392 1,537 Cost of sales 1,445 912 Other operating gains 4 12 the rise in US interest rates in the year and an administrative expenses, $62 million relates Other operating losses 3 increase in customer funds compared to the to variable employee compensation.
Total operating income 948 637 comparative period.
Administrative expenses 704 490 The table below shows an analysis of the Operating profit 244 147 Cost of sales increased 58% and relate to administrative expenses margins in Brokerage, Associates and JVs 2 fees charged by the exchanges, fees paid excluding the exceptional items.
The administrative Net finance income 11 5 to other brokers, rebates to introductory expenses income margin increased in 2006 as Profit before tax and exceptional items 257 152 brokers and commissions paid to internal a result of the operating income in the acquired Exceptional items 6 70 producer teams.
There is no fixed element Refco businesses not covering overheads.
In Profit before tax on total operations 263 82 of these commissions: they are all based 2007, the benefits of the Refco integration have Taxation 89 28 on sales volumes or profit contributions.
resulted in the administrative expenses income Profit for the financial year 174 54 margin improving significantly although the effect Other operating gains comprise gains on selling of this has been partly offset by the adverse In Brokerage, revenue arises from those some surplus exchange memberships and impact of the change in the US dollar sterling businesses where Man Financial acts as other operating losses and some small foreign exchange rate applied to the significant sterling intermediary and also from those businesses exchange losses.
expenses of Brokerages London operations.
where it acts as a matched principal broker, such as foreign exchange, securities, metals and Administrative expenses in Brokerage have Net finance income of $11 million arises energy trading.
Income earned on customer increased 44% from $490 million in the on non-segregated cash balances and balances, which are held off balance sheet, is comparative period to $704 million.
Of the investments in Brokerage, partly offset by included within the revenue line as it is deemed that such income is akin to an administration fee.
Brokerage margins 2007 2006 2005 2004 2003 Net operating income plus net interest income $m 959 642 529 481 335 The increase in revenue over the comparative Administrative expenses $m 704 490 381 361 260 period was 56%, reflecting the integration of Administrative expenses income margin 73.4% 76.3% 72.0% 75.1% 77.6% the acquired Refco assets and the continued recruitment of other producer teams, growth In the above table the figures for 2003 and 2004 are as they were presented under UK GAAP.
The 2005 to 2007 in market share and the benefits of active figures are on an IFRS basis.
Profitability was also enhanced by Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 44 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review interest expense on long-term debt to finance Brokerage exceptional items 2007 2006 principally relates to two items: the Group $m$m pays a higher tax rate on performance fee acquisitions and working capital requirements.
Refco integration costs 12 70 income than on management fee income Termination costs of the defined and the performance fee income element As shown in the table to the right, the net benefit pension schemes in the US 18 exceptional items for the year resulted in as a proportion of the total fee income has Costs relating to the IPO of MF Global 35 decreased in the year: and a number of a $6 million gain $6 million loss net of tax.
Gain on sale of NYMEX seats 53 outstanding issues were agreed with the Gain on settlement of Refco contract 18 UK and Swiss tax authorities during the year As disclosed in the 2006 Annual Report, further Net exceptional gain loss 6 70 exceptional Refco integration costs amounting resulting in a release of some tax accruals.
The effective rate on total profit before tax is to $12 million were incurred in the first half of the financial year ended 31 March 2007.
The decrease in the tax rate for continuing operations is offset by the costs relate to the amortisation of retention With effect from 1 October 2006, Man Group payments to administrative staff, which have acquired a controlling interest in the United increased proportion of more highly taxed profits in Brokerage.
been spread over the core integration period States Futures Exchange USFE, a Chicagoof seven months following the Refco acquisition based electronic futures exchange, which was The growth in the Groups profitability has in November 2005. formerly known as Eurex US, for a purchase price of $23 million in cash plus $3 million of resulted in a significant increase in earnings per share in the year.
Full details of earnings per The termination cost of the two US defined acquisition costs.
In addition, the Group made benefit pension schemes amounted to a capital injection of $35 million into USFE.
share are given in Note 9 to the financial statements.
USFE will offer new products targeted at buyside customers such as hedge funds and retail Cash flow Up to 31 March 2007, $35 million of professional investors, sectors in which Man has significant fees have been incurred, directly relating to the expertise and market exposure.
The goal is to IFRS requires that the Group cash flow statement reflects the cash flows of the Group, intended separation of the Brokerage business expand the volume in listed derivatives by by means of an initial public offering on the broadening the range of exchange traded including the discontinued operation.
Hence, the analysis of the Group cash flows overleaf New York Stock Exchange.
products to new and existing user groups, rather than competing with established futures includes Brokerage, albeit with some disclosure of the impact of Brokerage on the Groups During the year Brokerage sold some of its exchanges.
In connection with the separation surplus NYMEX seats, following the listing of transaction, Man Group will allocate a direct cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities in the year.
NYMEX, realising a gain of $53 million.
ownership interest of 48.1% in USFE to MF Global, and Man Group will retain an ownership Net Group cash inflow for the year was In March 2007, Brokerage reached a settlement interest of approximately 17%.
Man Groups in relation to an exclusivity contract acquired remaining holding will be classified as an $1,011 million, before shareholder distributions, with the purchase of the Refco assets.
As a available for sale financial asset.
driven off strong cash generation from operating result of the settlement, Brokerage received profit.
The statutory cash flow statement, which income of $28 million and incurred direct costs Tax is presented in a different format, is given in the of $10 million.
The contract was deemed to The tax charge for the year amounts to financial statements.
have negligible value at the time of acquisition $280 million 2006: $222 million.
The effective and there were no indications that this position tax rate for continuing operations is 14.7% had materially changed in the 12 months post 2006: 16.8%.
The bulk of the Groups profits acquisition, when provisional fair values of is earned in Switzerland and the UK and the current effective tax rate is consistent with this acquired assets can be amended in accordance with IFRS 3. profit mix.
The decrease in the rate in the year 45 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review continued Cash flows in the year $m In the cash flow table on the left, Other Prior to the sale of Brokerage, the Group Operating profit pre amortisation and depreciation 1,698 intends to inject capital into Brokerage to includes net interest received of $69 million, Increase in working capital 81 which is more than offset by a net purchase increase its net assets to $1.2 billion, to ensure Taxation paid 202 that it has an appropriate capital structure to cost of own shares by the Employee Trusts of Net capital expenditure and financial investment 321 $106 million and other minor net cash outflow function as a stand alone business.
Applying the Other 83 Groups capital allocation model gives a capital adjustments of $46 million.
Cash inflow for the year before shareholder allocation to Asset Management of $2.1 billion.
distributions 1,011 In the table, the implied Groups excess capital In 2007, Brokerage contributed a cash inflow Dividends paid 306 of $79 million from operating activities, a cash of approximately $0.9 billion after allowing for Share repurchases 375 the proposed Brokerage capital injection and a inflow of $203 million from investing activities Cash inflow for the year 330 and a cash inflow of $48 million from financing Group capital reserve has been allocated in the Cash inflow from shares issued 42 Asset Management figures.
Hence Brokerage recorded a net Cash inflow from net movements in borrowings 250 cash inflow of $330 million in the year to Increase in cash, net of bank overdrafts, in the year 622 The growth in the futures and stock lending 31 March 2007. businesses in Brokerage has the effect of increasing both current assets and shortBalance sheet The increase in working capital relates principally The Groups balance sheet remains strong.
In addition, to a $210 million increase in investments in there has been a $210 million increase At 31 March 2007, shareholders equity was fund products in Asset Management.
Retained earnings in investments in fund products in Asset relates to seeding investments, investments added $603 million to equity in the year, after Management.
The continued success of to aid short-term rebalancing of the funds and deducting dividends of $306 million and the the loans to funds externalisation programme to short-term redemption bridging activities.
consideration paid of $375 million, plus in the year has resulted in loans to funds Partly offsetting this, loans to funds have $100 million provided for the maximum decreasing by $19 million to $400 million at decreased by $19 million.
The movement in possible repurchase under the close period the year-end, despite the high level of sales Brokerages working capital from the prior year agreement, for the repurchase and cancellation in the year.
The programme to externalise is not significant.
The partial conversion of the loans to funds is discussed in the External Groups exchangeable bonds added a further financing initiatives section in the Risk Net capital expenditure and financial investment $249 million.
At 31 March 2007 the Group had Management review.
comprise: net additions to the capitalised a net cash position of $1,832 million 2006: net amount of upfront sales commissions and cash position of $1,301 million.
Contingent liabilities other intangibles of $197 million: net payments Man Financial Inc. a US subsidiary of the of $41 million from purchases, less disposals, To give more transparency to the Group's Group, was served on 8 May 2006 with a of non-current investments: consideration paid balance sheet, a segmental balance sheet Complaint by the receiver for Philadelphia to acquire USFE and another small acquisition by business is shown on the next page.
The Alternate Asset Fund PAAF and associated of $38 million: and the remainder largely relating Group balance sheet in the financial statements entities.
PAAF investors incurred trading losses to expenditure on tangible fixed assets, mainly shows the Brokerage assets and liabilities on as a result of alleged wrongdoing by a trading office refurbishment and IT systems.
two lines, being: assets of a disposal group manager of PAAF.
Man Financial acted as one held for sale and liabilities of a disposal group of the brokers to PAAF, executing and clearing held for sale.
trading instructions given by PAAF, and as such does not consider that it is responsible for the losses suffered by PAAF investors.
Accordingly, Man Financial will vigorously defend the proceedings brought against it.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 46 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Group balance sheet at 31 March 2007 Asset Management Brokerage Group In addition, the Commodity Futures Trading Continuing Discontinued Total Commission CFTC, the applicable US operations operation $m$m$m regulatory agency, is conducting an Non-current Assets investigation into the PAAF losses and Man Property and equipment 46 44 90 Financial has been cooperating with the CFTC Goodwill 785 103 888 in the provision of information and testimony Other intangible assets 429 191 620 about the trading activities it carried out on Associates JVs 258 12 270 behalf of PAAF.
This investigation has not yet Other investments 189 484 673 been concluded.
It continues to be the case Deferred income tax assets 72 12 84 that these matters are not expected to have Non-current receivables 40 264 304 a material financial impact on the Man Group.
Total non-current assets 1,819 1,110 2,929 Accounting standards and policies Current Assets The Board and the Audit and Risk Committee Loans to funds 400 400 regularly review and update where appropriate Trade and other receivables 442 32,097 32,539 the Groups accounting policies and disclosures.
Current tax assets 1 3 4 The Groups principal accounting policies are Derivative financial assets 15 15 detailed in the financial statements on pages Short-term investments 655 15,094 15,749 83 to 90.
The preparation of financial statements Cash and cash equivalents 1,571 1,858 3,429 Inter-divisional balance 1,424 1,424 in accordance with IFRS requires the use of Total Current Assets 4,508 47,628 52,136 certain critical accounting assumptions.
It also requires management to exercise its judgement Non-current Liabilities in the process of applying the Groups Long-term borrowings 1,100 1,100 accounting policies.
The areas requiring a Trade and other payables 518 518 higher degree of judgement, or complexity, Deferred tax liabilities 18 62 80 or areas where assumptions and estimates Pension obligations 21 21 are significant to the consolidated financial Derivative financial liabilities 9 9 statements are in: the classification of Other creditors 2 9 11 Brokerage as a discontinued operation: Total non-current liabilities 1,150 589 1,739 goodwill and other intangible assets: customer balances: the fund entities of which the Group Current Liabilities is the investment manager: the exchangeable Trade and other payables 476 47,474 47,950 bonds issued by the Group: and taxation.
These Derivative financial liabilities 6 6 i tems are discussed in Section A of the Groups Bank loans and overdrafts 489 8 497 principal accounting policies note on page 83.
Taxation 286 24 310 Total current liabilities 1,257 47,506 48,763 Net Assets 3,920 643 4,563 47 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk Management Introduction Risk identification delegated authority set out by the Board.
The principle of individual accountability and Risk is inherent in the Groups business and Assessing the potential impact on the Group activities.
Our ability to identify, assess, monitor of internal and external factors that might give responsibility within a disciplined approach to risk management is an important feature of and manage each type of risk to which the rise to a direct or indirect loss or demand for Group is exposed is an important factor in our liquidity.
financial soundness, performance, reputation and future success.
Risk measurement Independent and objective assessment and Using a range of methodologies including monitoring of risk is provided by various risk The sections below describe our approach economic capital, value-at-risk, risk of worst control functions at Group level and within loss, stress testing, scenario analysis and Asset Management and Brokerage.
These risk to risk management.
The first section is applicable to all risks and covers the Groups risk qualitative assessment and judgement to control functions include the Group Risk assess the potential impact and likelihood of department, risk management professionals governance structure, risk management process and its risk appetite.
The second section explains the identified risks arising on both an embedded within each business, Legal and independent and aggregate basis.
Compliance departments in each business, the way in which Man categorises risks and principal factors that drive each type of risk faced Group Corporate Responsibility and Internal Risk monitoring and reporting Audit.
Close attention is paid to the formal by the Group and the measurement and processes for mitigation of these risks.
The final Monitoring and reporting on the Groups risk segregation of duties within business units and profile against its risk appetite, exposures there are independent reporting lines for the section discusses future developments in risk management.
against limits, losses and other risk related key risk, compliance and finance functions.
incidents, compliance issues and the In addition, the processes which turn a risk There are seven key elements in the Groups effectiveness of the Groups internal controls.
decision into a concluded transaction verification, confirmation, reconciliation, risk management process: Risk mitigation valuation, payment and settlement are carried Taking informed decisions on the nature and out by functions that are distinct from those Risk governance Setting risk policies, delegated authorities and extent of risk to retain and on the appropriate which make the risk decision.
The key internal control environment needed to responsibilities of core functions in this regard limits consistent with the risk strategy.
Establishing clear functional responsibilities, manage risk.
are explained in more detail in the sections that follow.
reporting lines and committee structures for the management of risk.
Risk governance Responsibility for the overall framework of risk In addition to individual responsibilities for risk Ensuring appropriate skills and resources are applied to risk management.
governance and management lies with the management there is a structure of committees Board.
The Board is responsible for determining that, under authority delegated from the Board, Risk strategy and appetite risk strategy, setting the Groups risk appetite have formal responsibility for and powers in and ensuring that risk is monitored and relation to defined aspects of risk management.
Setting the overall direction and objectives for risk management.
It is also responsible for These are illustrated in the chart, which also establishing a clearly defined risk management shows their key responsibilities in relation to risks Risk infrastructure structure with distinct roles and responsibilities.
Establishing and continually refining the necessary infrastructure to support the risk Within that structure business managers are Risk appetite accountable for all the risks assumed within management process including systems, Risk appetite is the amount and type of risk data, tools, management information and their areas of responsibility and for the that the Group regards as appropriate for it to execution of appropriate risk management external disclosure.
accept in order to fulfil its business objectives.
discipline within the framework of policy and The Board regularly reviews and sets this in the Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 48 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review form of nine risk appetite statements, which it sets in the context of the Groups capacity Risk governance structure to bear risk and the requirements of various stakeholders, including those constraints set Group Board Audit and Risk Committee Defines risk frameworks Consider adequacy and by the regulatory framework.
Sets risk appetite and overall policy effectiveness of the Group Risk Corporate Responsibility Committee and strategy Management and internal Consideration of major strategic CR Approves risk appetite control framework The risk appetite statements, which are issues, including reputational and Responsible for effective system of operational risk incidents internal controls summarised below, provide the benchmark against which the Groups risk profile is reported to the Board, Audit and Risk Committee ARCom and Group Risk Asset Management Brokerage Committee GRC.
Risk appetite also forms the basis for the calibration and setting of the delegated authorities and financial limits for all Management Committee Group Risk Committee Executive Committee Ensures application of Reviews Group Risk profile Ensures application of aspects of market, credit and liquidity risk.
Group Risk governance, Reviews capital and Group Risk governance, culture and principles in liquidity adequacy culture and principles Asset Management Reviews risk methodologies in Brokerage Develops independent and policy Develops independent The Groups nine risk appetite statements strategy within context Determines actions in strategy within context address both quantitative and qualitative of Group Risk appetite relation to risk strategy, of Group Risk appetite Responsible for internal profile and controls Responsible for internal aspects of risk taking.
Although measurement controls within Approves risk decisions controls within Brokerage Asset Management with its delegated authority of risk is essential, it is impossible to quantify some risks with any accuracy and numbers alone cannot show all aspects of risk.
Qualitative judgements, therefore, are also a critical component of the Groups risk appetite Risk Committees Risk Committees and related monitoring and control processes.
Risk Committee Risk Committee Reviews Divisional Risk Profile Reviews Divisional Risk Profile The quantitative risk appetite statements address: Reviews Key Risk Indications, losses Reviews Key Risk Indications, losses and other incidents including regulatory issues and other incidents including regulatory issues maximum tolerance for unexpected loss Reviews Internal Audit plans and reports and Reviews Internal Audit plans and reports and economic capital at 95% confidence level : status of management actions relating thereto status of management actions relating thereto minimum credit rating, measured by Product Supervisory Committee Credit Committee minimum capital surplus over economic Reviews financial, operational and reputational Approves limits for customers and capital required at 99.9% confidence level: risks in approval of investment products and counterparties within its delegated authority related financing and third-party service Monitors adequacy of collateral held in respect minimum regulatory capital surplus: provider relationships of customer positions earnings volatility tolerance: and ability of the Group to meet peak stressed Supervisory Investment Committee Direction and delegation of authority liquidity requirements without recourse to Monitors risks associated with fund allocations and proprietary investments Challenge and oversight anything other than committed financing facilities or free cash balances to a confidence level of 99%.
49 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk Management continued The qualitative risk appetite statements Asset Management specific stress scenarios as part of the address: Strategic and business risks in Asset planning process.
regulatory risk: Management include: reputation risk: persistent poor performance affecting the In the course of Mans continuous and detailed operational risks in the execution of business alternative investments sector generally or the monitoring of industry, competitive and regulatory plans: and specific funds managed by Man: themes, we do not see any current indications risk related decision making, especially in regulatory change which significantly impacts that our business is not well adapted to the relation to new business opportunities.
the attraction of alternative investments for business environment in which we compete.
either private or institutional investors: The fundamental downside strategic and The Groups medium-term plan is also reviewed an inability to access capacity in underlying business risks as broadly defined above have by the Board and GRC and subjected to investment management content: not impacted our business during the period sensitivity analysis to assess its impact on the concentration or over-dependence on too under review.
The Group also reviews the need risk appetite metrics.
few business relationships, either in terms of to hold economic capital to cover the risk that, distribution channels or after-sales product at a 99.9% confidence interval, the Groups Risk categorisation service provision: and revenues are insufficient to cover its costs The Group categorises risks as shown in the margin pressure due to market consolidation excluding the effect of any possible losses chart below.
or entry of a dominant new competitor, resulting from any of the other risk categories.
particularly in the fund of funds business.
Since a Group loss did not arise in any of the Reputational Risk can result from events in any scenarios of extreme shocks that were modelled, category and is measured through the business it is not considered necessary to hold capital These scenarios may singly or in combination risk model.
This result is due to the reduce new sales and product margin levels, Group's low cost: income ratio of 35%.
and also increase redemption rates on existing Strategic and business risks products.
These are the risks that the Groups profitability The Board is responsible for determining the may be eroded by changes in the business long-term strategy and the markets in which Risks at Group level include: environment or by failures in its choice of the Group will operate.
Its strategic planning the consequences of a failed or poorly strategy or execution of strategy.
They are process includes qualitative and quantitative executed acquisition: inherent to Mans business model and how well assessments of the risks inherent in the increases in the effective corporate tax rate: this is adapted to the business environment in divisional medium-term plans and downside a prolonged fall in the value of the US dollar, stress tests to ensure that adequate capital and which we compete.
Strategic risk is distinguished the currency in which most of the Groups from business risk in that it includes risks that liquidity would be available in the event of any revenues arise, against either sterling or, of the strategic risks crystallising.
Regular are considered to arise over a longer timeframe to a lesser extent, the Swiss franc: and and, should they arise, to be long lasting and reports are provided by management to the losing key people or teams resulting in the Asset Management Executive Committee or fundamental in their effect whereas business erosion of corporate knowledge or capability risk is considered to be more of a cyclical Board and to the Group Board on the Groups that is not readily replaceable.
progress in respect of key strategies, plans and phenomenon.
Both risks would be manifested by an unexpected decline in revenues which any initiatives to mitigate specific strategic risks.
The principal strategic and business risks could not be offset by a corresponding referred to above, and the underlying drivers reduction in costs.
They also include the Monthly financial reporting to the Board of such risks, are monitored by management includes comparison against budget and reputation impact on the business model of and regularly discussed at Divisional and Group events arising in the other risk categories.
forecasts for the full financial year, together Boards.
The potential impact of these risks with a review of key performance indicators on the Groups earnings is modelled through including monitoring of the cost to income Risk categorisation Strategic Risk Business Risk Operational Risk Credit Risk Market Risk Liquidity Risk Reputational Risk can result from events in any category and is measured through the business risk model Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 50 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review ratio and commentary by the CEO of Asset Reputation risk necessarily requires a diminishing client franchise due to either somewhat different approach from other Management.
Any material capital or nondisintermediation by exchanges or other budgeted expenditure requires approval by the risks.
The Corporate Responsibility team competitors applying innovations in addresses key business risks in the Summary Board, as do significant acquisitions, which are technology: also subject to due diligence by the Groups Corporate Responsibility section of this Annual competitive pressure resulting in an adverse Report and in our full Corporate Responsibility corporate finance team and review by the GRC.
change in the economic terms of incentive Report, which will be issued shortly before the structures offered to retain producer teams AGM in July 2007.
Key business risks of Business risk is mitigated by the diversification or the network of introducing brokers: and of the revenue stream within Asset Management people, customers and the environment are macro-economic changes such as a fall analysed and reported against key performance between the private investor and institutional in interest rates, which would reduce the segments and across several fund styles and indicators.
The Corporate Responsibility income earned on balances held on behalf Report, which reflects our risk based approach also to the extent that the costs of the Group of customers.
are variable with respect to revenues.
The to corporate responsibility, is also available via our website.
Our Corporate Responsibility bonus pool, which in 2007 amounted to 46% Mitigation of these risks is provided by the of total operating expenses in Asset Management Manual and Ethical Policy are also publicly diversification of the Brokerage revenue stream available on our website.
More detailed policies 2006: 46%, is directly proportional to an between many financial products and across agreed internal measure of profit and so address issues such as our responsibilities to many geographical regions.
These risks are our people, investors and customers, sales and provides this element of mitigation.
also managed according to the same principles trading practices, new products, potential and with similar processes to those referred to conflicts of interest, money laundering, know Since revenues are principally in US dollars, above for Asset Management.
Brokerage appropriate hedges, using mainly forward your customer requirements, whistle-blowing hedges part of its portfolio against the risk of and confidentiality and privacy.
These policies foreign exchange contracts, are put in place falling interest rates.
After taking into account for the following year in accordance with and procedures are reviewed frequently the effects of hedging, it is estimated that a 1% to ensure that they remain consistent with criteria approved by the Board to fund nondecline in interest rates reduces Brokerage dollar expenses that can be forecast with our high standards and meet or exceed revenues by approximately $10 million.
Operational risk The Group aims to ensure that appropriate Our reputation is a key component of our ability Operational risk is the risk that the Group to achieve our strategic objectives.
In common structures are in place to protect the interests of suffers a loss directly or indirectly from investors in the funds managed by the Group with other financial services businesses, our inadequate or failed internal processes, people, success depends not only on the effective and regulatory compliance is a major focus systems or external events.
It is inherent in all across the Group in terms of business practice, management of the risks outlined above, but the Groups business and support activities, also on maintaining our reputation among culture and employee awareness.
and comprises a large number of disparate many stakeholders our staff, shareholders, risks including losses resulting from events investors in funds, distributors, lenders, Brokerage such as human error, IT failures, fraud, legal Strategic and business risks within Brokerage regulators, key business partners and the risk and external threats.
It does not include general public for the way in which we result from its exposure to the risk of volume or the indirect consequence for the Groups margin pressure for reasons that include: conduct our business.
The Groups activities reputation and any losses resulting from this, are also subject to supervision by market a general decline in volumes in the markets which are treated, for capital purposes, as a regulators in many countries and the Group and products in which Man offers execution component of business risk.
is lead-regulated on a worldwide basis by the and clearing services: FSA in the UK.
margin pressure due to market conditions or competitor actions: 51 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk Management continued Asset Management Risk Committee together with reports relating integrity and robustness of its IT systems and significant resource is devoted to protecting Losses can arise from: to any operational losses or significant near process failures involving, for example, misses experienced in the business.
the resilience of these systems.
This includes formal business continuity plans and appropriate breaches of investment mandate, prospectus errors, valuation, financial accounting or Although operational losses in Asset Management remote data back-up and disaster recovery facilities for each of Mans key locations to modelling errors: during 2007 were less than $1 million, our software or hardware failure, project risk approach is not designed to eliminate operational ensure the rapid recovery of business critical systems and functions in the event of in relation to critical IT developments and risk, but rather to identify the areas in which it breakdowns of information security: might arise and to contain it within acceptable disruption at any key location.
Business continuity arrangements are regularly updated compliance failure from, for example, limits through the application of effective mis-selling: controls.
The Group continually looks to and tested to ensure their effectiveness.
internal or external fraud: improve its internal controls.
Chief Operating people-related issues such as inadequate Officers of the business units within Asset The system of internal control is subject to regular review by Internal Audit, based on an resources, skills or departure of key Management have a particular responsibility in personnel or employee-related litigation: this regard and have played a prominent role audit programme approved annually by the during the year in initiatives to strengthen risk ARCom.
The programme is focused on the legal risks due, for example, to inadequate contractual documentation: and management across a range of areas including businesses and processes that are most through the redesign and further automation of significant in terms of the Groups risk profile external events leading to the loss of a critical site or a failure by a major third party provider critical processes.
Ultimately, the management and where there are key controls on which of operational risk is dependent on the high the Group relies to contain that profile.
importance that we attach to the integrity of the prioritisation of work is influenced by any recent internal control environment and the application losses or incidents experienced by the Group The Group has developed a scenario approach to address, at a high level, the potential effect of sound management judgement.
or in comparable areas by third parties and by any significant changes in markets, geographic of low frequency high impact events and the amount of capital the Group should prudently Key components in the operational risk locations, products and business processes or framework applied across the Group include major new initiatives or projects.
hold to cover these risks.
The scenarios, which are regularly refined and updated, are based the principle that prime responsibility for its management lies with the line management of Within Asset Management a structure of on management judgement, supported and validated by relevant external loss information each business area and function.
This includes investment committees is responsible for the design of appropriate processes and determining, monitoring and overseeing and any internal loss or near miss experience, trends in key risk indicators and the findings controls, reporting of key risk indicators and internal and external investment management the investigation of losses, operational incidents processes and compliance with investment from internal and external audits.
At a more detailed level, Internal Audit discusses with and errors referred to above.
In addition, a separate is also given to segregation of duties in the function is responsible for the independent divisional risk managers the risks and the effectiveness of controls within their areas of business units.
In addition, the Board has valuation of, or review of, third party valuations established a clear organisation and reporting of fund products.
Specialist risk teams within responsibility.
Internal Audits assessment of these risks and controls provides independent structure, with business units operating under each content engine conduct rigorous due clearly defined policies and within written levels diligence and ongoing monitoring of third-party assurance of the more granular information on which the scenarios are based.
of delegated authority, including requirements managers of funds included within our fund of to report losses and near misses to a fund products.
Compliance with local regulatory Management is responsible for preparing and standard Group template and to escalate and legal requirements and appropriate Group issues to the appropriate function or committee.
policies and standards is monitored by the reviewing key risk indicators.
These are discussed at monthly meetings of the Asset Management The Groups processes are dependent on the divisional compliance team.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 52 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Asset Management maintains a programme of Trade execution errors are the most frequent Credit risk Credit risk is the possibility that the Group may independent validation that its processes and cause of operational risk losses in Brokerage.
controls have operated as defined and Such losses amounted to $13.0 million suffer a loss from the failure of counterparties, customers, borrowers or issuers to meet their required.
This includes use of SAS 70 in 2007 2006: $10.6 million.
The use of taped certification and other reviews by third-party customer lines, rapid confirmation of customer financial obligations to the Group, including failing to meet them in a timely manner.
It experts in relation to the processes that are orders and real-time reconciliation of positions critical to providing services to the funds.
with exchanges has ensured that these errors includes the risks that the Group may suffer a loss as a result of guarantees issued or remain a very low percentage of revenues.
The Group has also purchased insurance cover commitments given to third parties, as a result of settlement failure or because of country risk.
from a number of third party insurers for both Brokerage also incurred costs of $31.2 million physical and business interruption risks, as well 2006: $13.6 million relating to settlement of The direct taking of credit risk in order to earn a return is not a central feature of the Groups as various financial and liability insurances.
legal claims including related legal costs, but The Group maintains and continues to develop before any insurance recoveries and regulatory business: rather credit risk generally arises as a result of activities that support the Groups insurance programmes to respond to its fines.
Brokerage remains subject to a legal identified operational risk profile.
The approach claim from the receiver of Philadelphia Alternate business model.
is designed to maximise breadth of cover and Asset Fund PAAF and associated entities and certainty of response in respect of key third party the increase in costs relates largely to the Asset Management In Asset Management the Group is exposed liabilities as well as proprietary asset, business defence of this claim.
This is discussed further interruption and personnel-related exposures.
in the Contingent liabilities section of the to credit risk mainly in respect of its lending to funds and indirect risk in respect of contingent Financial Review.
Brokerage exposures to third-party lenders to the funds, which are explained further below.
Losses can arise from: The operational risks within Brokerage are process failures involving, for example, the managed using the same principles outlined External financing of funds is usually sought credit and collateral management or above for Asset Management.
The integration settlement processes or errors made in of the business acquired from Refco was from major financial counterparties in various structured forms including OTC contracts.
placing customer orders on the market: completed by summer 2006 and their systems, software or hardware failure, project risk in including financial systems such as the general The Group, however, also provides short-term loans, predominantly on an uncommitted basis, relation to critical IT developments and ledger, are on common platforms with the breakdowns of information security: existing businesses within Brokerage.
Brokerage to certain composite fund products principally for the following purposes: compliance failure from, for example, a has also commenced a major programme of breakdown in anti-money laundering work that will extend over several years to to provide bridging finance where investors controls: ensure that its internal controls over financial are offered an enhanced liquidity service and fraud from internal or external sources or information match best practice and will be the Group holds shares in funds for the period capable of meeting Sarbanes-Oxley from rogue trader activity: between making the redemption payment to people-related issues such as inadequate requirements by May 2009.
In addition, the investor and receiving payment from the Brokerage has continued to strengthen the resources, skills or departure of key manager of the underlying funds: personnel or employee-related litigation: compliance functions in its key locations and to as part of the regular rebalancing of fund of expand its disaster recovery facilities to ensure legal risks due to, for example, inadequate hedge fund products where funding is contractual documentation: and they remain adequate for the increased provided to bridge a timing mismatch between headcount following the acquisition of various external events leading to the loss of a critical making payments to increase holdings in site or a failure by a major provider of businesses from Refco in 2006. some underlying hedge fund investments outsourced services.
and the receipt of redemption proceeds from exiting underlying hedge fund investments: 53 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk Management continued to provide leverage to funds that has not credit risk and arises from the possibility that a redeemed since the fide-gearing process was been provided by external parties, typically financial transaction or obligor will fail to initiated.
The Group has never incurred any in the early stages of a fund life or in respect complete according to its anticipated terms as credit losses on loans made to funds.
of small funds where it is more difficult or not a result of political or economic failure, action or cost effective to obtain external financing: and embargo imposed on or by a specific country.
The same risk monitoring and controls apply for some funds to meet margin calls where equally to those fund products which borrow cash is not available in the fund and without Credit exposures at 31 March were as follows externally and these support the Group's the fund having to sell assets or close all amounts in millions of US dollars : contingent exposures under first risk of loss positions.
2007 2006 Bank deposits 1,406 783 In prior years the Group granted, in a few Empyrean Re manages credit default risk Loans to funds 400 419 instances, small first risk of loss guarantees to by actively monitoring the creditworthiness CFO tranches 18 19 external providers of financing for funds.
There of the underlying obligors and maintaining Other 8 6 exposure within limits.
Another important risk were no first risk of loss guarantees remaining at Total 1,832 1,227 31 March 2007 2006: $18 million.
mitigant is the liaison with the primary trade credit insurer that has the ability to reduce or External financing to fund products has in The Groups aggregate lending to funds and mitigate exposure covered by the insurance policy should the credit rating of an underlying several instances been provided in the form of the amount it lends to an individual fund are a collateralised fund obligation CFO.
Where subject to limits approved under delegated obligor deteriorate.
The portfolio risk is modelled taking into account each reinsurance treaty this form of financing has been used, Man has authorities from the Board.
The individual limits agreed to make and retain an investment in the are lower than the regulatory limits on single structure including deductibles, limits and reinstatements using a proprietary quantitative mezzanine debt tranches of the CFOs.
The large exposures with which the Group must Group is exposed to a risk of loss on these comply.
The risk exposure is modelled model.
Capital market transactions are undertaken to maintain the portfolio within investments although the high level of equity extensively before any credit is extended to a typically 30%, which is subordinated to these fund and the Groups lending is predominantly a risk-based limit.
investments, makes the likelihood of any loss repayable on demand.
The GRC establishes limits for aggregate stressed exposure to countries in accordance Leverage is monitored daily for these different Empyrean Re, a subsidiary in Asset fund products and a review is triggered if levels with delegated authority limits set by the Board.
Management, writes short-term excess of loss approach certain pre-defined multiples of reinsurance retrocession treaties for certain prevailing trading company net asset value or The Groups credit risk management processes are subject to regular review by trade credit insurers and reinsurers.
These multiples are derived from Re is exposed to credit risk in the event that computer supported models that calculate Internal Audit.
losses resulting from defaults by the underlying proprietary risk indicators, similar to value at risk, obligors in each reinsurance retrocession treaty which provide an estimate of risk, based on the exceed the deductible under that treaty and to positions held and margin exposures, sector the extent that the loss is not otherwise hedged investments, extreme association between by Empyrean Re or exceeds the limit on claims manager returns and individual, or typical, payable under the treaty.
This fide-gearing process has been triggered in eight funds where The Group is also exposed to counterparty risk the Group has been the provider of leverage with respect to deposits placed with various since the process began in 1996.
Country risk is a particular form of funds have either re-geared or have been Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 54 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Brokerage to assess the potential or stressed value of risk.
Most customers are required to cover such exposures and these are used as an input initial and variation margins with cash.
Client Brokerage is primarily an intermediary and matched principal business offering execution into its evaluation of credit risk in its economic activity levels are monitored daily to ensure capital methodology credit exposures are maintained in accordance and trading services, mostly in exchangetraded products.
For execution-only customers, with agreed risk limits.
Daily and, if required, Brokerage had, at 31 March 2007, granted intra-day margin calls are made on clients to the credit risk arising is that of collection of commissions receivable after invoicing.
The credit lines to customers which amounted reflect market movements affecting client to $1,070 million 2006: $929 million.
Stress testing is performed to credit risk for cleared customers is in paying variation margin to the exchanges before 31 March 2007, $688 million 2006: $660 evaluate the effect of potential market million of this amount related to initial margin movements on customer positions and may receiving it from customers.
Most customers are required to cover initial and variation margins that customers were not required to cover with result in customers being asked to reduce cash collateral and the remainder related to positions.
The division reserves the right to with cash and must pay any margin deficits within 24 hours.
In line with market practices, credit lines given for variation margin.
Utilisation liquidate any customer position immediately in of these lines at 31 March 2007 amounted to the event of a failure to meet a margin call.
Brokerage provides unsecured credit lines to some customers for initial and variation margin.
$305 million 2006: $661 million, of which $237 million 2006: $622 million related to initial Credit lines to Brokerage customers are Brokerage is also exposed to the risk of default margin.
In addition, customers owed Brokerage, approved by the Brokerage Division Credit largely in respect of margin calls and Committee or GRC in accordance with by counterparties in respect of positions held with these counterparties.
These are mainly commissions receivable for execution business, delegated authority limits set by the Board.
a further $58 million at 31 March 2007 2006: All credit lines are reviewed at least annually.
exchanges, clearing houses and highly-rated and internationally recognised banks as $102 million.
Counterparty exposures are typically with major illustrated in Figures 38 and 39.
The risks include both pre-settlement and settlement risk.
Brokerage has experienced only small losses exchanges or highly-rated and internationally from credit risk including write offs and recognised banks.
Many of these exposures Pre-settlement risk is the possibility that, should a counterparty default on its obligations under a the movement in the provision for doubtful are subject to netting agreements which receivables of $4.0 million in 2007 2006: reduce the net exposure to the Group.
Limits derivative contract, the Group could incur a loss when it covers the resulting open position $4.6 million.
for counterparty exposures are based on the creditworthiness of the counterparty and are because the market price has moved against the Group.
Settlement risk is the possibility that Brokerage monitors both current exposures, subject to approval by either the Brokerage computed by reference to the mark-to-market Division Credit Committee or GRC in the Group may pay a counterparty, such as a bank in a foreign exchange transaction, and fail value of positions, and potential futures accordance with delegated authority limits set to receive the corresponding settlement in turn.
exposures, computed by reference to stressed by the Board.
The credit risk is diversified values based largely on modelling of the effect between customers and counterparties across of extreme market movements on these values.
The amounts owing to Brokerage by customers and counterparties are largely in respect of instruments such as futures and In Brokerage, a key control to mitigate credit The majority of customers and counterparties options whose value changes as market prices risk on cleared business is the initial margin are based in OECD countries.
For such derivative contracts, the paid by customers as a deposit before they credit risk does not depend just on the current can commence trading.
Brokerage uses value of the contract, but also on the potential software to test the adequacy of initial margins value of the exposure net of any margin held and, where appropriate, sets margin as collateral at any point during the life of the requirements at higher levels than those contract.
The Group uses a stochastic model requested by the exchanges to minimise credit Figure 38: Stressed exposures by Figure 39: Stressed exposures by type external credit rating 31 March 2007 31 March 2007 5 1 1 AAor better 55% 1 Exchanges Clearing 2 4 2 Ato A 15% Houses 3% 4 3 BBBto BBB 1% 2 Funds 15% 4 Less than BB or 3 Banks 65% No Rating 29% 4 Corporate 14% 1 5 Other 3% 3 2 3 55 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk Management continued Market risk appropriate action is taken if the risk deviates The Groups net assets are exposed to the from predetermined tolerance bands.
Market risk is the possibility that the Group may effect of movements in the exchange rate suffer a loss resulting from the fluctuations in the between the US dollar and other currencies to Proprietary investments in fund products at values of, or income from, proprietary assets or the extent that the Group has net assets or liabilities.
It includes losses on those assets or 31 March 2007 amounted in aggregate to liabilities in currencies other than the US dollar.
$837 million 2006: $509 million, including liabilities arising from fluctuations in interest The effect of exchange rate variation on rates and exchange rates.
The Group does not $24 million resulting from the provision of revenues and expenses is considered a enhanced liquidity to investors 2006: $13 million.
take market risk for the purpose of earning a business risk and is discussed further above.
return on that risk as a central feature of its Note 11 a to the financial statements shows Figure 40 shows the monthly net profit or loss overall business model: rather this risk arises exposures that give rise to net currency as an indirect consequence of supporting other on current proprietary investments during 2007. gains and losses recognised in the income The gains and losses from current proprietary activities in its business.
As that note shows, unmatched investments are included within Asset net assets are not significant.
Management net performance fee income and Asset Management Asset Management is exposed to market risk in 2007 a net gain of $27 million was recorded The Groups earnings are also potentially 2006: $36 million.
on its proprietary investments in various fund exposed to the effect of movements in interest products.
These include seed capital provided rates to the extent that there is a mismatch Asset Management is also exposed on a to a new manager, where Man purchases between floating rate deposits and other shares in a fund before selling them to thirdcontingent basis to market risk arising from investments and fixed rate borrowings.
However, committed purchase agreements CPAs which party investors or redeeming them at a later it is the Groups policy to hedge this risk and, date, typically holding the investment for a enable some of its fund products to provide after taking into account interest rate swaps, enhanced liquidity to investors.
CPAs allow period between six and twelve months.
there was little net exposure to interest rate Proprietary holdings are also taken in these fund products to sell investments to Man movements in either 2006 or 2007 other than at the prevailing market price if they cannot established funds in order to test a new model, the exposure in Brokerage referred to below.
market or instruments, revised software or immediately be redeemed.
If Man cannot dispose of the investments immediately, they changes in investment processes before Brokerage exposing third-party investor money to these become a proprietary holding and the Group is In most markets Brokerage acts as an exposed to market risk on them until such time changes.
For certain funds, Asset Management intermediary, resulting in limited market risk to will also buy shares from investors between the as they can be sold to a third-party or the Group.
The exceptions are positions in redeemed.
The maximum period for which foreign exchange, fixed income, metals and funds quarterly dealing dates, and will hold these shares until they can be sold to a thirdMan might have to hold investments purchased energy markets where Brokerage acts as 1 under a CPA is typically 4 2 principal and where there may be time delays party investor or transferred into another months from product structure or redeemed.
This enhanced purchase to redemption.
between opening and closing a position.
The liquidity service is discretionary and does not, majority of these positions are only intra-day, therefore, constitute market-making.
In the past, CPAs were also put in place with although the business may also maintain small positions overnight in these markets.
Brokerage some external financing providers, particularly Limits are placed on proprietary investments where they took underlying investments as is also exposed to market risk where there is a in funds, both at the level of the individual fund difference in maturity date of otherwise collateral for their lending.
Most of these and in aggregate.
These limits are set in agreements have now been cancelled and matched positions in metals and in its OTC accordance with delegated authorities derivatives business where positions may not be these terms are no longer offered to lenders approved by the Board.
A series of risk any new CPA in support of lending would perfectly hedged.
measures relating to these investments is require GRC approval.
reviewed regularly usually weekly and Figure 40: Distribution of monthly gains losses from current proprietary investments Frequency 5 4 3 2 1 0 Monthly gain loss $ 4 m - $ 2 m $ 2 m - $ 0 m $0m - $2m $2m - $4m $4m - $6m $6m - $8m $8m - $10m 2006 1 2 1 2 2 4 0 2007 3 2 1 2 1 1 2 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 56 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Tight limits are also imposed on the net central finance subsidiary companies, which movements, extreme levels of net redemptions on-lend to other subsidiaries in the businesses.
in Asset Management, substantial increases in positions that can remain open at the end of each day in Brokerage in the products traded margin levels at exchanges and a major settlement failure.
as principal such as the metals, foreign Asset Management exchange, fixed income and energy markets.
Within Asset Management the principal usage of liquidity is by the funds themselves.
While the The parameters of the scenarios are Monthly stop losses are applied where potential losses are considered material.
The stop loss is majority of this funding is provided by external determined through a combination of statistical parties, the Group also provides some of the analysis and the application of e monitored daily and, if triggered, the relevant xperienced limit on net positions is either reduced or credit used by the funds, as explained in the judgement to provide what is felt to be a Credit risk section above.
cancelled for the remainder of the month.
prudent view of what could happen in the relatively remote circumstances defined by the Brokerage Value-at-risk VaR is an estimate of the scenarios.
The analysis also considers the time potential loss in value of these principal In ordinary circumstances Brokerage is selfperiod over which and the time zone in which financing with the inflows of initial margin and positions due to adverse market movements the liquidity demands might arise as well as the over a defined time horizon with a specified variation margin received from customers and currency and geographic location.
These are counterparties capable of meeting the outflows confidence level.
Using an historical simulation compared with the availability of funding from approach, the one day VaR for these positions of margin payments to exchanges and other the Groups committed bank lines and the free counterparties.
In stress scenarios Brokerage was $1.3 million at a 95% confidence level on cash balances that would be available to the 31 March 2007. may find it necessary to utilise the Groups Group in the event of a severe liquidity stress.
bank facilities to meet exceptional cash Brokerage is also exposed to interest rate outflows.
These would typically result from a On the basis of these parameters, the analysis situation in which there has been a settlement variation in respect of balances held on behalf shows that the Group can meet the required of customers.
In this respect, an increase in failure in respect of a large transaction or in liquidity under any of the stress scenarios with circumstances where there have been very short-term interest rates is beneficial to the a confidence level of 99% solely from its earnings of the business.
This is considered a large movements in market prices and there is committed bank facilities and free cash a requirement to pay significant amounts of component of business risk and is discussed balances.
The Group can meet modelled further above.
margin before an equivalent amount has been liquidity requirements to higher levels of collected from customers.
They could also confidence than 99% if it chooses to use some Liquidity risk arise from a much greater drawdown of credit of the other mitigants that are available and are lines by those customers to whom Brokerage This is the risk that the Group, even if it has under its complete control.
These are adequate capital resources, does not have has granted credit.
discussed further in the section on 'Risk sufficient financial resources that can be used to mitigation' below.
Since the tenor of external enable it to meet its obligations as they fall due, Risk measurement loans to funds is typically shorter than the term Liquidity risk is assessed by means of stress or can secure them only at excessive cost.
to maturity of the related funds, the Group has testing and scenario analysis.
The effect of considered the possibility that it may not be each of the factors referred to above which Group funding and liquidity risk is managed able to roll over or find alternative providers of centrally.
The Group finances its operations drive the level of funding that the Group might such funding in time in the event that one or be called on to provide to the businesses is more providers of this funding did not wish to from the cash flow generated by its operations, bank borrowings on both a committed and considered against the background of six renew.
On the basis of the maturity profile of scenarios.
The scenarios, which were the external loans, the number of competing uncommitted basis and through finance obtained from the wider capital markets.
developed by Group Risk in conjunction with providers of such funding and, ultimately, since Substantially all of the Groups borrowings are the businesses and approved by the GRC, the Group is under no obligation to replace via Man Group plc the Company or its two include the effect of major adverse market external funding with loans of its own, the 57 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Risk Management continued Board is confident that this does not result in diverse markets and providers and with a range unacceptable liquidity risk.
This is to ensure a stable flow of financing and to provide protection in the event Risk mitigation of market disruption.
The liquidity risk management framework and significant related policies are reviewed and The amount of the potential liquidity requirement approved by the GRC, Board and ARCom and is assessed through the scenario process these bodies are informed monthly about the discussed above.
Group Treasury is Groups current and prospective liquidity responsible for securing the appropriate conditions.
They are also responsible for funding to meet this requirement.
approving settlement limits for individual counterparties under delegated authorities The Group also has a contingency funding plan approved by the Board.
in place under which a Funding and Liquidity Taskforce would meet in circumstances of The short-term tactical management of liquidity extreme liquidity stress to consider the actions takes place largely within the businesses, which that the Group should take to manage its also provide Group Treasury with forecasts of funding requirements.
These actions could their likely future cash flows and any requirements include the recall of loans to funds which are, for funding from the Groups central facilities.
substantially, discretionary facilities repayable to the Group on demand.
The plan was tested The Groups overall approach is to provide during the year using a hypothetical scenario involving substantial redemptions.
The test was sufficient liquidity to be able to meet, from its available facilities and free cash balances under used to confirm the effectiveness of the contingency funding plan and also to identify stressed scenarios, the planned requirements of the business to a 99% confidence level.
and address any operational issues with its implementation.
More extreme liquidity stresses are to be met from other mechanisms under the Groups control.
The guiding principle is to ensure that funding both directly to the Group and to the funds managed by the Group is obtained from The following table summarises the Groups available facilities drawn and undrawn by maturity as at 31 March 2007 based on final expected maturity.
Less than After Maturity by period Total 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years 5 years $m $m $m $m $m Short-term bank debt 433 433 Long-term bank debt 2,325 2,325 Exchangeable Bond 506 506 Senior Private Placement 300 45 145 60.5 49.5 Subordinated Private Placement 210 160 50 Subordinated FRN 400 400 Total facilities 4,174 984 2,630 510.5 49.5 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 58 Business Review Financial and Risk Management Review Available liquidity The Group also has $610 million of The Group now seeks to obtain external subordinated debt which qualifies as Tier 2 At 31 March 2007 the Group had total facilities funding without the requirement to provide any of $4.17 billion 2006: $4.41 billion of which capital for regulatory capital purposes.
This is CPA to the third-party banks.
At 31 March comprised a $400 million US dollar denominated $2.56 billion 2006: $2.67 billion was unused.
2007 the CPAs in place in respect of thirdThe bank credit facilities total $2.76 billion of subordinated FRN issued in September 2005 party loans to funds amounted to $0.2 billion by Man Group plc and a total of $210 million which 89% are committed.
subordinated Private Placements issued in March 2004 and August 2005.
All of these The tenor of the Groups debt has changed over Ratings the past year with the passage of time, 23.5% new financings have 10 year final maturities The Groups long-term senior debt ratings are with a call option at year 5.
The Group also has of our debt now has a maturity of less than Afrom Fitch Ratings and Baa1 from Moodys, one year compared to 11% last year.
If the uncommitted bilateral facilities of $190 million both with stable outlooks.
During the year both 2006: $334 million.
These facilities are all on separation of Brokerage proceeds as intended Fitch and Moodys reaffirmed their ratings.
The then both Asset Management and Brokerage broadly similar terms to the main syndicated Group aims to maintain a rating of at least facility and are renewed annually.
will refinance their debt facilities.
A refinancing of BBB Baa1 over the long-term.
the Groups syndicated facility in 2007 will once External financing initiatives more extend the maturity profile.
There is an element of leverage in many of the private investor product structures and also in At 31 March 2007 $2.075 billion of the syndicated facility was unused 2006: some of the products provided to institutional investors.
The Group continues to arrange $2.275 billion.
This facility expires in June 2009.
There are no circumstances under for provision of this requirement from external providers on behalf of these fund entities.
which we would expect this facility would not be available for use.
The more temporary bridging funding requirements of fund entities are typically During the year 38% of the Groups 400 provided by the Group.
million seven year Exchangeable Bonds were converted, following an offer by the Group to At 31 March 2007 the funds had borrowings from the Group totalling $0.4 billion 2006: pay a fixed cash sum to bondholders.
The cost of the cash incentive offer amounted $0.4 billion, a further $0.7 billion from two collateralised fund obligations 2006: $0.7 billion to $12 million, which has been expensed within the finance expense line of the income and borrowings totalling $11.3 billion from statement.
The reduced amount of the bond of 25 banks 2006: $8.1 billion.
The Group, as a 248 million has a coupon of 3.75% and can matter of policy, now seeks to pre-arrange the be called by the Group from its fifth anniversary funding requirements for the private investor in November 2007 in certain circumstances.
fund products, thus avoiding the need for the Its final maturity is in 2009.
Group to provide the initial funding for funds shortly after launch.
The Group also has $300 million of senior debt by way of a private placement in the US, which has a series of maturities as shown in the table opposite.
59 Man Group plc Annual Report 2007
