PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Annual report 2007 Directors report The Directors present the Directors Report and the Results and dividends audited financial statements for the year ended During the year the Group made a profit after tax 31 December 2007. of $41.6 million 2006: $128.4 million.
The Company did not pay an interim dividend during the year ended Principal activities and business review 31 December 2007 and, for the reasons set out in the The Group is the worlds leading listed online gaming Chairmans Statement contained in this Annual Report, company, operating PartyPoker, PartyCasino, the Board is not recommending the payment of a final PartyBingo, PartyGammon, PartyBets, Gamebookers, dividend in respect of 2007.
Governance Governance EmpirePoker and a number of other established 106 gaming sites.
Companies in the Group maintain Corporate governance and the Combined Code gaming licences granted by the Government of With the exception of the relevant provisions in the Gibraltar, Alderney Gambling Control Commission Companies Act 1930, Gibraltar does not have a system and Kahnawake Gaming Commission.
The Group of corporate governance equivalent to that found in is headquartered in and operates from Gibraltar.
The Company, however, applies the principles The Company and a majority of its subsidiaries are set out in the Combined Code on Corporate registered under The Companies Taxation and Governance annexed to the Listing Rules the Code.
Concessions Act as exempt companies for Gibraltar tax purposes.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2007, the Company has complied fully with the Codes principles On 29 December 2006 the Group announced the except, as detailed below, in respect of the Chairmans acquisition of several leading online gaming websites initial fixed term of service, the membership of the Audit and certain assets from Empire Online Limited EOL Committee until 13 December 2007, the membership and Intercontinental Online Gaming Limited IOG of the Remuneration Committee from 4 May to in consideration for PartyGaming issuing 115,193,842 10 May 2007 and the performance-related elements new Shares.
The acquisition of the assets from EOL and of Executive Director remuneration and executive IOG completed on 19 January 2007. share options being offered at a discount.
A detailed review of the Groups business and prospects are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 16 to 19 and the Chief Executives Business Review on pages 20 to 27 of this document.
The Directors Date of Date of last Date of Director Age Position Committees appointment re-appointment resignation Michael 57 Non-Executive Chairman of the 31 May 2005 24 June 2005 Jackson Chairman Nominations Committee and member of the Ethics Committee appointed 31 May 2005 and Remuneration Committee appointed 23 February 2007 Mitch Garber 43 Chief Executive Member of the Nominations 19 April 2006 10 May 2007 Officer Committee appointed 4 May 2006 Martin Weigold 42 Group Finance 4 April 2005 4 May 2006 Director PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Date of Date of last Date of Director Age Position Committees appointment re-appointment resignation Rod Perry 62 Senior Chairman of the 31 May 2005 10 May 2007 Independent Remuneration Committee Non-Executive appointed 31 May 2005 Director and Chairman since 10 May 2007, member of the Ethics Committee appointed 31 May 2005 and Chairman Governance until 10 May 2007, Audit 107 Committee appointed on 31 December 2006 and served as Chairman from then until 13 December 2007 and Nominations Committee appointed on 31 May 2005.
Lars Berg 59 Independent Until 4 May 2007 a member 31 May 2005 4 May 2006 4 May 2007 Non-Executive of the Audit, Nominations Director and Ethics Committees appointed 31 May 2005.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee from 31 December 2006 until 4 May 2007.
Tim Bristow 52 Independent A member of the Audit, 4 May 2007 Non-Executive Remuneration and Director Nominations Committees and Chairman of the Ethics Committee appointed 10 May 2007 Stephen Box 57 Independent Chairman of the Audit 13 December Non-Executive Committee and a member 2007 Director of the Remuneration and Nominations Committees appointed 13 December 2007 John Davy 52 Non-Executive A member of the 13 December Director Nominations and Ethics 2007 Committees appointed 13 December 2007 Emilio Gomez 58 Non-Executive A member of the Ethics 13 December Director Committee appointed 2007 13 December 2007 Lord Moonie 61 Independent A member of the Audit, 13 December Non-Executive Remuneration, Nominations 2007 Director and Ethics Committees appointed 13 December 2007 Age on date of resignation PartyGaming Plc PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Annual report 2007 Directors report Biographical details of the current Directors are set out budgets and forecasts, the convening of Shareholder under the Board of Directors section of the Annual meetings, capital expenditure over certain limits, Report on pages 104 to 105 of this document.
restructuring of the Group, changes of share capital, approval of new loan facilities, dividend policy, In accordance with the Code, the Company is headed acquisitions and disposals.
by an effective Board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
The Board provides The Board and its Committees met throughout 2007 entrepreneurial leadership of the Company whilst and details of the number of meetings and attendance ensuring that a framework of prudent and effective records are set out in the table below.
The Chairman Governance Governance controls exists in order to assess and manage risk.
has also met with the Non-Executive Directors without 108 the Executive Directors present during the year ended The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of 31 December 2007.
Led by the Senior Independent matters reserved to the Board, setting out which issues Director, the Non-Executive Directors met in 2007 must be referred to the Board for decision.
Examples of without the Chairman present.
topics covered by the schedule are long-term strategy, Total number of meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2007 and the number of meetings attended of the maximum number that each Director was entitled to attend Audit Ethics Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 7 5 3 7 5 Michael Jackson 7 7 n a 3 3 6 7 5 5 Mitch Garber 7 7 n a n a 7 7 n a Martin Weigold 7 7 n a n a n a n a Rod Perry 7 7 5 5 3 3 7 7 5 5 1 Tim Bristow 5 53 32 2 4 4 3 3 2 Stephen Box 1 10 0n a 0 0 0 0 2 John Davy 1 1n a0 0 0 0 n a 2 Emilio Gomez 1 1n a0 0 n a n a 2 Lord Moonie 1 10 00 0 0 0 0 0 3 Lars Berg 2 22 21 1 3 3 2 2 1 Tim Bristow was appointed as a Director of the Company on 4 May 2007.
2 Lord Moonie, Stephen Box, John Davy and Emilio Gomez were appointed as Directors of the Company on 13 December 2007.
3 Lars Berg resigned as a Director of the Company on 4 May 2007.
Board independence Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into at the time of the Companys IPO in June 2005 by, The Code recommends that at least half the members amongst others, PartyGaming, Ruth Parasol, Russell of a Board excluding the Chairman should be NonDeLeon and Anurag Dikshit, provided that while Ruth Executive Directors who are independent in character Parasol and Russell DeLeon collectively maintain an and judgement and free from relationships or interest in 15% or more of PartyGamings issued share circumstances which are likely to affect, or could capital, they are entitled to nominate an individual for appear to affect, their judgement.
Throughout 2007 appointment as a Non-Executive Director to the and to date the Company has complied with PartyGaming Board.
Under the same agreement, this recommendation.
Anurag Dikshit is similarly entitled to nominate one Independent Non-independent individual for appointment as a Non-Executive Director Rod Perry Mitch Garber to the PartyGaming Board provided he maintains an Lars Berg Tim Bristow Martin Weigold interest in 15% or more of PartyGamings issued share Stephen Box John Davy capital.
During 2007, Ruth Parasol and Russell DeLeon, Lord Moonie Emilio Gomez who together retain an interest in 28.43% of PartyGamings issued share capital, nominated John Davy to act as their representative on the Board whilst Anurag Dikshit, who retains an interest in 27.66% of PartyGamings issued share capital, nominated PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Emilio Gomez as his representative on the Board.
Performance evaluation Owing to the background behind their appointments, The Directors have undertaken a formal and rigorous neither John Davy nor Emilio Gomez can be regarded evaluation of their performance for the year ended as being independent.
31 December 2007, utilising the services of a third-party Rod Perry is the Senior Independent Director and is corporate governance consultancy.
The evaluation available to Shareholders if they have concerns that has focused on the effectiveness of the Chairman, it has not been possible, or it would be inappropriate Non-Executive Directors, the Board and its Committees to resolve using the normal channels of Chairman, and has been conducted using a confidential Governance Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director.
The results have been reviewed by the Chairman and discussed with individual Directors, 109 The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer except that the performance of the Chairman has been reviewed by the Non-Executive Directors, led by In accordance with the Code, the roles of Chairman the Senior Independent Director, without the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not exercised by the being present.
The different responsibilities of both roles have been clearly set out by the Board in a Nominations Committee and Board appointments schedule of responsibilities of the Chairman and the and re-appointments Chief Executive Officer.
The Board has adopted a formal, rigorous and Board information and professional development transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The Board has appointed The Chairman oversees, with the assistance of the a Nominations Committee to lead the process of Company Secretary, the process of ensuring that appointment and make recommendations to the all Directors receive timely and accurate information Board.
During 2007 Michael Jackson chaired the in order to enable them to perform their duties.
Nominations Committee and Mitch Garber and Rod Management provides detailed information ahead Perry were members.
Lars Berg was a member of the of each Board or Committee meeting and additional Nominations Committee until 4 May 2007, when he information or updates between meetings, when stepped down as a Director and was replaced on the deemed necessary.
Each Executive Director is readily Nominations Committee by Tim Bristow on 10 May 2007. available to the Non-Executive Directors if the latter Following their appointments on 13 December 2007, should need clarification or amplification on any Stephen Box, Lord Moonie and John Davy were information provided.
All the Directors have access appointed members of the Nominations Committee.
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, In recruiting for the positions of Chairman, Executive who is responsible to the Board for ensuring Board Director or independent Non-Executive Director, the procedures are complied with and advising the Board, Nominations Committee will normally engage the through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
services of an external search consultancy to assist with The Board has also adopted a procedure for a Director the recruitment process.
The Nominations Committee to seek independent professional advice at the has adopted terms of reference, approved by the expense of the Company where they judge it necessary Board that are available on the Companys website: to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
html Committee of the Board also has authority under its terms of reference to obtain outside legal or other The Articles require a Director to retire at the first independent professional advice if the Committee AGM following their appointment and to seek reconsiders it necessary in order to perform its duties.
Consequently Stephen Box, John Davy, Emilio Gomez and Lord Moonie will Each new Director receives a full induction on joining each retire and seek re-appointment as a Director at the Board and major Shareholders are offered the the 2008 AGM.
Although Tim Bristow was appointed opportunity to meet new Non-Executive Directors.
before the Companys Annual General Meeting on The Chairman ensures that all Directors continually 4 May 2007 2007 AGM, his appointment occurred update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the after the 2007 AGM notice was dispatched to Company to fulfil their roles on the Board and Board Shareholders and therefore, in accordance with the Committees via reports and information collated by Articles, he retired as a Director at the conclusion of management, the Company Secretary and the the 2007 AGM.
He was re-appointed a Director at a Companys advisers.
Board meeting immediately following the 2007 AGM and retires and seeks re-appointment as a Director at the 2008 AGM.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Directors report The Articles dictate that at every AGM one-third of the Audit Committee remaining Directors or, if their number is not three or a The Board is required by the Code to establish formal multiple of three, the number nearest to one-third shall and transparent arrangements for considering how retire from office: but if any Director has at the start of it should apply the required financial reporting and the AGM been in office for three years or more since his internal control principles and for maintaining an last re-appointment, he shall retire at that AGM.
Michael appropriate relationship with the Companys joint Jackson was last re-appointed on 24 June 2005 and auditors, BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Orion Limited.
therefore he will also retire at the 2008 AGM and seek The Board has done this by appointing an Audit re-appointment.
Governance Committee, whose terms of reference, approved by the The Nominations Committee has reviewed these Board, are available on the Companys website: 110 re-appointments and on the basis of experience, www.
html performance, skills and commitment demonstrated, has In accordance with its duties, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that all the Directors be remade recommendations to the Board on the appointed.
The Board has considered and agrees with appointment, for approval by Shareholders, of the this recommendation and is therefore recommending external auditors and also approved their remuneration to Shareholders that they re-appoint Michael Jackson and approved their terms of engagement.
The Audit Stephen Box, Tim Bristow, John Davy, Emilio Gomez Committee also established a policy regarding the and Lord Moonie as Directors at the 2008 AGM.
appointment of the auditors to perform non-audit The letters of appointment for each of the Nonservices for the Group, over and above the external Executive Directors do not specify a fixed term of audit and keeps this under ongoing review.
The Board has resolved, however, that confident that the objectivity and independence if any Non-Executive Director remains in office for a of the external auditors are not impaired as a result period of six years, having satisfied annual performance of this further work.
evaluations and been re-appointed by Shareholders During the year ended 31 December 2007, the at an AGM at least twice, then that Non-Executive members of the Audit Committee were Rod Perry, Directors re-appointment will be subject to a rigorous Lars Berg until his departure on 4 May 2007, Tim Bristow review by the Nominations Committee and the appointed on 10 May 2007, Stephen Box and Lord Board, both bodies taking into account the need to Moonie both appointed on 13 December 2007. maintain an active and progressive Board.
The Board Rod Perry chaired the Audit Committee until does not expect that any Non-Executive Director will 13 December 2007 when Stephen Box became serve for a period greater than nine years.
Both Rod Perry and Stephen Box have The Code recommends that notice or contract periods recent and relevant financial experience.
All members for Directors should be set at one year or less.
Michael were or are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Jackson has an appointment letter governing the terms The Code recommends that a minimum of three of his appointment as Chairman from Admission under independent Directors excluding the Chairman which he was appointed for an initial term until of the Board should serve on the Audit Committee.
The appointment can be terminated From 1 January 2007 to 13 December 2007 the by the Company giving 12 months notice to Michael Company did not have three independent Jackson to expire at any time on or after 21 March 2008.
Directors excluding the Chairman of the Board Therefore, between 1 January 2007 and 21 March 2007 and consequently could not comply with this of the 2007 financial year the Company was not recommendation during that period.
From compliant with the Code.
The Board is satisfied that 13 December 2007, following the appointment the length of Michael Jacksons initial fixed term of Stephen Box and Lord Moonie to the Audit was necessary to secure his services as Chairman.
Committee, the Company has complied with From 22 March 2007 the Company has been compliant the Codes recommendation.
with the Codes recommendation in relation to the notice periods of Directors.
The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors and the service agreements for the Executive Directors will be available for inspection 30 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 The Audit Committee is authorised to investigate any PartyGamings internal auditors have performed matter pertaining to the Companys management of internal audits of offices and departments within the risk and internal controls, the integrity of the financial business to assess whether adequate internal controls reporting and engagement of the external auditors and are in place to protect the Group, its employees and in doing so may seek any information it requires from Shareholders.
The internal audit reports are presented any employee of the Company and all employees to the Audit Committee and the Head of Internal Audit are expected to co-operate.
meets regularly with the Audit Committee Chairman, to whom he has direct access, and the Audit Committee.
During the year to 31 December 2007, the Audit Committee met five times.
In doing so it monitored In accordance with the guidance contained in the Governance the integrity of the Companys full year results Turnbull Report, the Board, with the assistance of the 111 announcement and the annual report for the year Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of ended 31 December 2006, the 2007 half year financial the effectiveness of the internal system of control, and statement and the pre-close trading statement.
is satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
In 2008, the Audit Committee has met once to review The Company has adopted a formal whistleblowing and recommend the approval of the full year results procedure by which employees can, in confidence, announcement and the annual report for the year raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters ended 31 December 2007.
At the Audit Committees of financial reporting or other matters.
This procedure meetings the members met with management and is set out in the PartyGaming Employee Handbook with the internal and external auditors to review the and has been reviewed by both the Audit and Ethics effectiveness of internal controls and business risk Committees.
Both Committees are satisfied that management.
The Audit Committee also met privately arrangements are in place for the proportionate and with the external auditors, without management independent investigation of such matters and for representatives present.
Through these meetings and appropriate follow-up action.
review process the Audit Committee has satisfied itself that proper and satisfactory internal control systems The Company has Directors and officers liability remain in place to identify and contain business risks insurance and prospectus indemnity cover in place.
and that the integrity of the Companys financial reporting is sound.
External Auditors During the year ended 31 December 2007, BDO Stoy Risk management and effective internal controls Hayward LLP was appointed under an engagement PartyGaming maintains a robust system of internal letter to act as auditors to enable the Company to control for the purpose of safeguarding Shareholders meet its obligations to prepare financial statements in investment and the Companys assets.
At least annually accordance with the Listing Rules.
For the purposes of the Board conducts a review of the effectiveness of filing the Company financial statements in Gibraltar, the Groups system of internal controls, covering all BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Orion Limited formerly material controls, including financial, operational and BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Limited have compliance controls and risk management systems.
been appointed to act as auditors, allowing an audit PartyGamings system of internal control reduces the report to be issued under section 10 of the Gibraltar probability that business risks might impede the Companies Accounts Act 1999.
The Audit Committee Company in achieving its objectives, but it cannot has reviewed the re-appointment of BDO Stoy Hayward eliminate these risks and can therefore provide only LLP and BDO Orion Limited as auditors.
The Audit reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material Committee recommends and the Board agrees with misstatement or loss.
the re-appointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Orion Limited as auditors and therefore an ordinary The Company has established an Internal Audit resolution to this effect is being proposed at the AGM department, which also carries out the Companys resolution 3 together with an ordinary resolution risk management monitoring.
During the year, authorising the Directors to set the auditors management have identified the risks attaching to the remuneration resolution 4. business and, on an ongoing basis, efforts are being taken to mitigate these risks.
Throughout the year PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Directors report Financial reporting and going concern corporate and social responsibility CSR, the Board has appointed an Ethics Committee, despite there The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced being no requirement to do so under the Code.
and comprehensive assessment of the Company and The members of the Committee during the year were in performing this duty has sought to set out clearly Rod Perry who was also the Chairman until 10 May in the Annual Report the Companys performance 2007, Michael Jackson, Lars Berg until his resignation in 2007 and its future prospects.
In addition, the Board from the Board on 4 May 2007, Tim Bristow appointed is obliged to report on whether the business is a going Chairman of the Committee on 10 May 2007, Lord concern.
The Directors have reviewed the Groups Moonie, John Davy and Emilio Gomez the latter Governance budget and strategy and consider that the Company three Directors appointed on 13 December 2007. has adequate resources to continue operating for the 112 The purpose of the Ethics Committee is to oversee foreseeable future and therefore it is appropriate to the CSR framework adopted by the Group, monitoring continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing that adequate policies are in place to deal with the Annual Report.
stakeholder risks, just as the Audit Committee reviews whether the Company has satisfactory internal Remuneration Committee controls in place to address the financial risks faced The Board has appointed a Remuneration Committee by the business.
In particular, the Ethics Committee to deal with matters regarding the remuneration of focuses on the Companys approach to responsible the Chairman of the Board, Executive Directors, the gaming, the fairness of the gaming platforms and Company Secretary and certain senior management.
rules, gaming licence compliance, charitable donations The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is a and the Companys impact on the environment.
matter for the Executive Directors.
The terms of The terms of reference for the Ethics Committee reference for the Remuneration Committee are are available on the Companys website: available on the Companys website: www.
ht The Group Finance Director has executive responsibility ml.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, Lars Berg for CSR matters.
The Ethics Committee met three times chaired the Remuneration Committee until he stepped during the year ended 31 December 2007.
Further down from the Board on 4 May 2007, Rod Perry then details regarding the Groups approach to CSR-related became Chairman on 10 May 2007 and the other issues is contained in the Our Values section of this members are Michael Jackson appointed 23 February Annual Report on pages 88 to 101.
2007, Tim Bristow appointed on 10 May 2007, Employees Lord Moonie and Stephen Box both appointed on Our employees are critical to the future success of the 13 December 2007.
In accordance with the Code, Group.
Without their dedication, professionalism and all members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
drive the Group would be unable to serve its customers For a brief period from 4 May 2007, when Lars Berg needs and achieve its objectives.
At the time of the IPO, resigned and before Tim Bristow was appointed to the founder Shareholders of the Company recognised the Remuneration Committee on 10 May 2007, the this and wanted to ensure that employees shared in the Remuneration Committee only had two members success of the business.
To this end the PartyGaming Plc when the Code recommends three.
The Remuneration Share Option Plan was established and, on Admission, Report prepared by the Remuneration Committee is set the Company allotted 224 million Shares to the out on pages 116 to 124 of the Annual Report and Employee Trust to satisfy the future exercise of share discloses the remuneration policy of this Company and options under the Share Option Plans and otherwise for the remuneration of the Directors.
The Remuneration the general purposes of the Employee Trust.
A further 40 Report sets out why the Company does not comply fully million Shares were gifted to the Employee Trust in 2006 with the Codes requirement that performance-related by founder Shareholders of the Company.
In addition, elements of remuneration should form a significant the Company implemented three further share plans proportion of the total remuneration package of during 2007, the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share the Executive Directors.
In addition, the Remuneration Option Plan, the PartyGaming Plc Performance Share Report also explains why the Company does not Plan and the PartyGaming Plc All-Employee Option comply with the Codes recommendation that Plan.
Information about the Companys long-term executive options are not offered at a discount.
incentive plans is contained in the Remuneration Corporate and social responsibility Report.
Further details regarding the Groups employee policies are set out in the Our Values section of the Ethics Committee Annual Report.
In recognition of the value of our The Board believes that the way in which the Group employees, the Chief Executive Officer is the Director behaves and interacts with its stakeholders is key who reports on and takes responsibility on the Board to the Groups long-term success and development.
for the Groups employees and associated policies.
Reflecting the importance the Company places on PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Customer and creditor payment policy Of the Shares in issue, as at 29 February 2008 110,034,128 The Group is committed to prompt payment of Shares were held in the Companys employee benefit customer cashout requests and maintains adequate trust, the PartyGaming Plc Shares Trust the Employee cash reserves to cover customer cashouts and Trust.
The trustee of the Employee Trust has waived all balances.
Normally payments will be made to dividend and voting rights in respect of Shares held by customers within seven days of a customer instruction.
the Employee Trust to satisfy the future exercise of share In the case of other creditors, it is the Groups policy to options.
This waiver only subsists while the Shares are agree terms at the outset of a transaction and ensure held in the Employee Trust.
The Shares are transferred compliance with such agreed terms.
In the event that out of the Employee Trust upon exercise of share options Governance an invoice is contested then the Group tells the supplier under certain Share Plans.
113 without delay and seeks to settle the dispute quickly.
Further information regarding the Companys Charitable and political donations Shares and Depositary Interests are set out in the For the year ended 31 December 2007 the Group ''Shareholder Information section on pages 171 to 173 of this document.
made donations of US$184,270 2006: US$750,080 to charitable organisations.
The Group has not Significant shareholders made any contributions to any political parties.
Set out below is a list of shareholdings disclosed to the More information on the Groups charitable policy Company in accordance with the Gibraltar Disclosure is set out in the Our Values section.
of Interests in Shares Act 1998, the Articles, Deed Poll and the Listing Rules.
Share capital and shareholders Ordinary Share capital shares The Company has an authorised share capital of currently Percentage Percentage 75,000 divided into 5,000,000,000 ordinary shares of held as at of issued of total 29 February share voting 0.0015 pence each Shares.
At the year-end the 5 Shareholder 2008 capital rights Company had in issue and admitted to the Official List and to trading on the London Stock Exchange Crystal Ventures 1 4,115,193,842 Shares.
Limited 1,138,085,333 27.66 28.42 Cheam Directors As securities issued by non-UK companies cannot 2 Limited 584,986,667 14.22 14.61 be held or transferred through the CREST paperless Cheam Directors settlement system, the Company has put in place 3 Limited 584,986,667 14.22 14.61 arrangements for a depositary to hold the Shares and Orbis Holdings issue dematerialised depositary interests Depositary 4 Limited 205,809,299 5.00 5.07 Interests representing the underlying Shares which are 5 Employee Trust 110,034,128 2.67 held on trust for the holders of the Depositary Interests.
1 A company owned indirectly by Anurag Dikshit, On 10 June 2005 the Directors were authorised to allot a Principal Shareholder.
further Shares up to an aggregate nominal amount 2 Cheam Directors Limited holds Shares on bare trust for Stinson of 15,000 1,000,000,000 Shares.
This authority expires Ridge Limited, a company wholly-owned by Russell DeLeon, on 10 June 2010.
Following an allotment of 115,193,842 a Principal Shareholder.
Shares on 19 January 2007 in respect of the acquisition 3 Cheam Directors Limited holds Shares on bare trust for Emerald of certain business assets from EOL and IOG, the Bay Limited, a company wholly-owned by Ruth Parasol, Directors retain authority until 10 June 2010 to allot a Principal Shareholder.
The Directors are also 4 Orbis Holdings Limited informed the Company of its holding empowered until 10 June 2010, pursuant to Articles 22 on 13 November 2007.
202,637,764 Shares of the total holding to 25, to allot Shares for cash, pursuant to the above had voting rights and the above disclosure is based on the authority, as if pre-emption rights did not apply to the notification lodged with the Company.
allotment, provided that such authority be limited to 5 As at 29 February 2008, PartyGaming had a total of 4,115,193,842 i the allotment of equity securities in connection with Shares in issue.
Each Share carries the right to one vote, with a rights issue, open offer or any other pre-emptive offer the exception of Shares held by the Employee Trust, which in favour of ordinary Shareholders, but subject to such has waived the voting rights in respect of the Shares it holds.
exclusions as may be necessary to deal with fractional Consequently as at 29 February 2008 the total number of Shares entitlements, or legal or practical problems under any with voting rights was 4,005,159,714. laws, or requirements of any regulatory body in any jurisdiction: and ii the allotment otherwise pursuant to i above of equity securities for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 3,000 200,000,000 Shares.
This authority has yet to be utilised.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Directors report As described above, the Principal Shareholders entered Directors share interests into a Relationship Agreement with the Company The beneficial interests of the Directors in office dated 14 June 2005.
This agreement contains provisions at 31 December 2007 in the issued share capital concerning the disposal by the Principal Shareholders of the Company are set out in the table below: of their Shares.
If any Principal Shareholder proposes to Ordinary Ordinary Ordinary effect any sale, transfer or other disposal of any Shares shares shares shares a Disposal : 5 March 31 December 1 January 2008 2007 2007 i such Principal Shareholder undertakes to provide Governance Chairman the Company with as much notice as is reasonably Michael Jackson 600,000 600,000 600,000 114 practicable but in any event not less than 10 business days prior notice of the proposed Disposal: Executive Directors Mitch Garber 8,750,000 8,750,000 4,083,331 ii conduct such Disposal having such regard as is Martin Weigold 684,448 684,448 684,448 reasonable to the Companys desire to ensure an orderly market for its Shares: Non-Executive Directors iii where, prior to 31 December 2010, any such Rod Perry 50,862 50,862 50,862 Disposal would be reasonably likely to cause the 1 Tim Bristow 80,000 80,000 Company to lose its status as a Gibraltar Tax Exempt 2 Stephen Box 200,000 200,000 Company, provide the Company with not less than 2 John Davy 12 months prior notice of the proposed Disposal, 2 Emilio Gomez provided that A no such Disposal shall take place 2 Lord Moonie within two years of Admission 30 June 2007 and B these obligations shall not apply if the result of the 1 Appointed on 4 May 2007 Disposal would be to expose the Group to an 2 Appointed on 13 December 2007 effective rate of Gibraltar taxation of less than 10%: Mitch Garber and Martin Weigold also have further and interests in the Companys share capital through iv give notice to the other Principal Shareholders the options they have been granted under the of his or her intention to make a Disposal.
PartyGaming Plc Share Option Plan, the PartyGaming Plc Executive Share Option Plan and the PartyGaming Relations with Shareholders Plc Performance Share Plan, details of which are set The Board recognises the need for a productive out in the Remuneration Report on pages 116 to 124. dialogue with Shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives.
As described above, Annual General Meeting Ruth Parasol, Russell DeLeon and Anurag Dikshit, who in aggregate hold 56.1% of PartyGamings issued The Companys AGM will be held on Thursday share capital, are represented on the Board via their 15 May 2008 at the Caleta Hotel, Catalan Bay, Gibraltar nominees.
In addition, the Chairman, Chief Executive at 5.00 p. m. The Company is incorporated, managed Officer and Group Finance Director assisted by the and controlled in Gibraltar and therefore the AGM Investor Relations Director, meet with institutional is required to be held in Gibraltar.
The AGM notice is Shareholders on a regular basis.
The Senior Independent printed later in this document and has been dispatched Director can be contacted via the Companys more than 20 working days before the AGM.
The AGM registered office in the event that any Shareholder provides a valuable opportunity for Shareholders, wishes to raise an issue which it would be inappropriate particularly private individuals, to meet the Board.
to raise with the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Saving any unforeseen circumstances, all the Directors Group Finance Director.
will be present at the 2008 AGM and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Ethics Committees will be available to answer questions relating to their Committees.
Information on attending and voting at the AGM is set out in the Shareholder Information section of the Annual Report.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Each item of business is proposed in a separate Resolutions 5 to 10 To re-appoint certain Directors resolution at the AGM and the vote will be undertaken ordinary resolutions by poll rather than simply by a show of hands in Resolutions 5 to 10 deal with the re-appointment of accordance with best practice.
Following the AGM the Michael Jackson, Stephen Box, Tim Bristow, John Davy, voting results will be announced via a regulatory news Emilio Gomez and Lord Moonie respectively.
service to the London Stock Exchange and posted In accordance with the Articles, these Directors must on the Companys website.
The business of the meeting retire at the AGM and stand for re-appointment.
Details is set out in the AGM notice, but set out below is a of each Directors background and experience are set summary of and rationale for each resolution.
out in the Board of Directors section.
For the reasons Governance set out in this Directors report, the Board believes that Resolution 1 To receive the annual accounts 115 it is in the best interests of the Company to re-appoint ordinary resolution these individuals as Directors.
The Directors are required by Section 178 1 of the Gibraltar Companies Act 1930 to present the annual Resolution 11 Share buyback authority accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 to special resolution Shareholders to formally receive them.
This gives In certain circumstances, it may be advantageous for Shareholders the opportunity to raise any questions the Company to purchase its own Shares and resolution about the 2007 accounts and accompanying reports 11 seeks authority from Shareholders to do so.
resolution specifies the maximum number of Shares that may be acquired 10% of the Companys issued Resolution 2 To approve the Remuneration Report ordinary share capital and the maximum and minimum ordinary resolution prices at which they may be bought.
The Remuneration Report sets out the remuneration policy of the Company and is prepared and laid before Any Shares purchased in this way will, unless the Shareholders for approval in accordance with best Directors determine that they are to be held as treasury practice.
The vote is advisory and does not affect shares, be cancelled and the number of Shares in issue the remuneration of the Directors in the year ended will be reduced accordingly.
Shares held in treasury will 31 December 2007. not automatically be cancelled and will not be taken into account in future calculations of earnings per share Resolution 3 To re-appoint the auditors unless they are subsequently resold or transferred out ordinary resolution of treasury.
The Directors will only purchase such Shares The Company is required to appoint an auditor at each after taking into account the effects on earnings per general meeting at which accounts are laid before the share and the benefit for Shareholders.
Company, to hold office until the conclusion of the next such meeting.
The Directors are recommending the reBy order of the Board of Directors appointment of BDO Stoy Hayward LLP and BDO Orion Limited formerly BDO Fidecs Chartered Accountants Robert Hoskin Limited as auditors of the Company.
Company Secretary Resolution 4 To authorise the Directors to set the 5 March 2008 auditors remuneration ordinary resolution The resolution authorises the Directors to set the remuneration payable to the auditors, in accordance with best practice.
As explained in the Corporate Governance section, the Audit Committee is tasked with reviewing the auditors remuneration and making a recommendation to the Board.
