PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Energy consumption Our values We aim to keep our already low electricity consumption to a minimum by taking steps Shareholders and other to ensure that: providers of capital Business review air conditioning and other electrical 101 systems are turned off outside of normal office hours: Providing regular updates energy efficient light sources, which are fitted in many of our offices, are and open access to senior introduced across all of our facilities: and management ensures our computers, monitors and other electrical providers of capital remain equipment are switched off outside fully informed of key of working hours.
Travel We use email, video conferencing and telephone conference facilities to reduce travel by our employees between office locations.
This not only saves money but lessens the damage to the environment.
We do not have a company car scheme and we encourage employees to use public transport where practicable.
Investors, financial analysts and other GoodCorporation findings providers of capital need to have a clear Cultural differences regarding the understanding of our business from an perceived importance of the environment operational and values standpoint.
Besides are now being addressed and whilst the the regular contact through financial Group overall was found to have good announcements, we actively engage in policies in place, not all locations were communication programmes with these implementing those policies effectively.
stakeholder to keep them abreast of continual changes to the financial, structural, legislative and regulatory makeup of the online gaming industry.
This includes a carefully planned programme of face-to-face meetings, conferences, conference calls and in March 2007 we held the Groups first investor day in Gibraltar.
As well as receiving a series of focused presentations on different aspects of the Groups operations, invited analysts and investors were also able to meet senior management from across the Group and discuss issues affecting our performance.
The day was well received and similar events are planned for the future.
GoodCorporation findings The Group appears to be managing its shareholder relationships well, but maintaining a regular dialogue remains just as important as the quality and frequency of published materials.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Business review 102 A world of knowledge... PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Customer service Business review 103 Offering games in a different language is only part of the story.
Our customer service teams are also now offering support in a number of different languages.... at your fingertips
