PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Our approach Our values We have a wide range of stakeholders, each of whom has differing views and Responsibility demands as to how PartyGaming should Business review conduct its business activities.
88 As the breadth and number of our stakeholders continues to grow, so the spotlight and demands on our business PartyGaming doesnt just pay and our industry intensifies.
lip service to the concept of Attaining high standards and being corporate responsibility: it is professional and ethical is not an option: a core part of our strategy.
it is a must do if we are to achieve our We engage regularly with our long-term objectives.
The potential penalty for letting something slip is very real and stakeholders to improve our potentially very large.
work processes and corporate Responsibility is more than just risk reputation, minimise risks management.
We believe that a positive and ultimately seek to deliver and proactive approach can reap superior returns for investors.
superior long-term returns for our shareholders by attracting respect from stakeholders, all of whom can enhance our business reputation and help to create future opportunities.
New in 2007 Managing our responsibilities We have controls and processes in A number of initiatives are now up and running place to manage relationships with our across the Group including: stakeholders, a process that involves A series of Ace Behaviours that form the basis everyone in our business from the Board of of a structured recruitment and development Directors down to the newest recruit.
programme for all staff An online training module for responsible gaming for all staff Health and Safety OHSAS 18001 and Environmental Management Systems ISO 14000 standards A pro bono scheme in both Gibraltar and London allowing employees to spend time on good causes A new enterprise resource planning tool that has greatly improved supplier management procedures The Groups first investor day for analysts and investors was held in Gibraltar A further review of business practices by Good Corporation PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Executive responsibility for corporate and GoodCorporation review social responsibility resides with Martin Towards the end of 2007, we re-engaged Weigold, Group Finance Director, with CSR GoodCorporation, an independent issues overseen by the Ethics Committee, accreditation organisation, to conduct Business review which is chaired by Tim Bristow who a review and assessment of our business 89 became a Non-Executive Director in 2007. practices and policies and, in particular, those that may affect our main Ethics Committee stakeholders.
GoodCorporation provided The Ethics Committee is responsible for us with a written report covering our reviewing policies put in place by the key stakeholders, including employees, executive to manage relationships with customers, suppliers, affiliates, shareholders stakeholders and protect us from any and local communities as well as external issues that could materially affect the environment.
Besides confirming the presence and The committee also considers the effectiveness of strong policies and adequacy of our CSR policies, proposals working practices across these areas, and procedures relating to: GoodCorporation also sought to identify responsible gaming, including prevention any areas of weakness or where policies of underage or problem gambling: were ineffective.
compliance for gaming licenses: GoodCorporation found that overall the Group had the required policies anti-money laundering: and procedures to manage its key fairness and integrity of gaming systems: stakeholder groups.
Whilst there were areas for improvement, these were focused privacy and data protection: on our processes and procedures at our employment matters relating to codes newly opened or acquired operations of conduct and health and safety: and we are now taking steps to address these items.
charitable donations and investment in the local community: The following pages in this section detail our approach to managing our our suppliers and service providers: and responsibilities, upholding our values and our impact on the environment.
living up to stakeholders expectations.
In this Annual Report we highlight some of those issues raised by GoodCorporation that may need to be addressed.
Age verification Our real money sites are strictly for adults only.
Wherever practicable, the Group employs third-party databases to verify the age and identity of all of our real money players.
