PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 The future success of PartyGaming owes Our values much to what we have done, are doing and propose to do with regards to operating Suppliers to the highest possible standards internally Business review and externally with our major suppliers.
97 However, rather than viewing them as suppliers, we believe that long-term business alliances is a better description of Suppliers, whether old or new, our general approach.
represent potential risks for We are choosy about who we do business any business.
We endeavour with because we do not want to compromise our reputation.
We have a to mitigate these risks by policy that governs the selection and final seeking to encourage approval of vendors that is overlaid with a responsible behaviour from protocol that governs the management of our suppliers and sharing with our business relationships.
them our own standards and Before companies can work with us, we look to benchmark them against a range values we cannot afford to of criteria that seeks to assess their financial gamble with our reputation.
strength, their own approach to quality, ethics and value: and whether they can keep pace with the fast-moving online gaming industry and continually sharpen our competitive edge.
GoodCorporation findings As a Group we have made great strides in 2007 in improving the risk management of our supply chain.
However, we can do more and particularly in those locations that are relatively new to the Group.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Making direct financial contributions as Our values well as encouraging staff to spend their own and the Companys time working on Charity and community charitable, community and environmental Business review projects is important for our business 98 over the long-term.
We recognise our responsibility to provide help at local and international levels and also value Putting something back into its importance as an influence on the personal and professional development the local community where benefits of our employees.
we operate and providing Separately, we believe that we have a financial assistance for worthy responsibility to ensure that help is available causes is important for our to those people who may be in the throes business over the long term.
of, or have already developed problems associated with gambling.
Our main support in this area has been through financial donations to a number of UK-based specialist organisations: the Responsibility in Gambling Trust, GamCare and Gordon House.
Additionally, we contribute to a broader range of deserving charities.
In 2007, our donations were again towards the top end of our target range of between 0.20% and 0.25% of annual EBITDA and were spread across a range of charities.
All of our employees are encouraged to organise one-off events throughout the year, raising money for charities of their choice.
In the UK, employees can also elect to give money every month to charities of their choice through a tax effective Payroll Giving scheme.
We support employee involvement in charities by at least matching the amount they raise, be it through pushing their bodies to the limits in marathons and triathlons or through organising fun events that help to put a smile on the faces of the recipients of individual or team endeavours.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Our staff get involved in a variety of good Some of the charities we supported in 2007 causes.
They have undertaken fund raising included: projects for breast cancer research, the Responsibility in Gambling Trust, GamCare Royal British Legion Poppy Appeal and and Gordon House Business review even spent time on conservation projects 99 at the Wildlife Heritage Foundation Big Cat Coram Charity for Disadvantaged Children Sanctuary in the UK.
They have also helped Downside Fisher Club for Socially to build arboreal pathways for howler Excluded Children monkeys in Central America to help overcome damage caused by Royal British Legion Poppy Appeal deforestation.
Gibraltar Botanic Gardens Local community activities around our Monkey Bridge Project in Costa Rica headquarters in Gibraltar have involved sponsoring the arts and sports projects Gibraltar Athletics Team as well as improving the environment.
Prostate Cancer Research Our employees in India have raised money, provided clothing and sponsored Disadvantaged Children in India education for disadvantaged children.
GoodCorporation findings Whilst both Gibraltar and London were taking an active role locally, some of the more recent additions to the Group locations were yet to engage with the local community as commercial pressures had prevented them from doing so.
It is planned that this will be addressed in 2008.
