PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 The global gaming market Our markets Gambling is one of the worlds oldest pastimes and is popular across the globe.
Whilst there are only a limited number of Business review sources that seek to estimate gaming 54 revenues on a global basis, Global Betting and Gaming Consultants GBGC puts the global gaming markets gross gaming The online gaming sector is yield for 2007 at $328.5 billion, up from $309.6 billion in 2006.
Within that total, a relatively small but rapidly online gaming, including online lotteries, is growing part of the global estimated to represent just 5% of the total, gaming market.
To put the or $15.0 billion, compared with $14.5 billion Groups performance in in 2006 which also represented approximately 5% of the total.
context we examine the scale and dynamics of the global Online gaming as a % of total gaming market, the global gaming revenue online gaming sector and the All Gambling land-based and online gross gaming yield Percentage online RH scale three key market segments $bn % as far as the Group is 400 10 concerned: online poker, casino and sports betting.
Source: GBGC online casino revenue 15% p. a.
The global online gaming sector online sports betting revenue 11% p. a. Whilst online gaming is a relatively new Poker market structure sites that continue to and small segment of the global gaming take bets from customers located in the US market, it has grown rapidly over the last have grown at the expense of companies 3 few years and is expected to continue to that comply with the UIGEA expand over the next five years.
The nature Outside the US, Europe is expected to remain of the internet means that geographical the largest single online gaming market 4 boundaries do not apply and online estimated to be 59% of the total in 2012 gaming customers can access sites from almost anywhere in the world.
As with other For further details of developments in 2007, go to Review of 2007 on page 32. forms of eCommerce, increased availability and take up of broadband services throughout the world in recent years has been a major influence on the growth in online gaming.
Other key 1 Projected compound annual growth rate in gross gaming yield excluding yield generated from players located in influences include the popularity of gaming the US Source: GBGC January 2008. generally and the reinvestment of high 2 Including sports betting, poker, bingo and casino but excluding skill-based gaming and lotteries Source: financial returns by online gaming GBGC January 2008. companies in marketing and promoting 3 Source: PokerSiteScout.
com 4 Source: GBGC January 2008. their services across the globe.
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008E 2009E 2010E 2011E 2012E PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 The recognition by governments of the The continued expansion and take up of importance of eCommerce, together broadband across the world is expected with the continued deregulation of to continue to have a positive influence telecoms industries and the growth in the on the growth in global online gaming Business review popularity of cable as a medium, has revenues.
Increasingly, gaming is 55 resulted in an impressive expansion of both recognised as being a mainstream leisure the number of broadband households as pursuit for adults to enjoy in a variety of well as broadband penetration.
Similar different ways and online gaming is developments in other territories should becoming one of the most popular provide further impetus for broadband formats.
Whilst the enactment of the UIGEA penetration around the world.
in October 2006 had an immediate, but it would seem temporary, impact on the size The chart below shows that many countries of the online gaming market in the US, it are expected to experience substantial has had little, if any impact on the overall growth in the number of broadband growth prospects for the online gaming households over the next five years.
This bodes well not just for eCommerce generally but also online gaming.
Geographic split 5 In 2007, the online gaming sector outside the US is estimated to have been worth Number of broadband households in 2007 approximately $7.4 billion versus $6.3 billion Australia 4.0m Germany 15.0m Spain 6.6m in the previous year, an annual increase Brazil 8.1m Italy 11.0m South Korea 14.0m 6 Canada 9.4m Japan 27.5m UK 14.5m of over 17%.
China 65.0m Netherlands 5.4m France 14.5m Russia 5.0m Over the next few years, online gaming 100% outside the US is expected to continue to be one of the fastest growing segments of the overall gaming market, reaching 80% $13.9 billion by 2012, implying a CAGR of 14%.
Including the US, the CAGR falls to 9%.
A number of legislative bills to legalise 60% and regulate online gaming are being considered in the US Congress and GBGC continues to believe that the US will eventually move to a regulated and 40% licensed regime for online gaming within the next few years.
This is expected to provide a further stimulus for growth.
20% Given the relatively low barriers to entry and access to a growing global market, 0% 20% 40% 60% the online gaming sector has attracted Estimated CAGR 2007 2011 a large number of operators creating a Source:  Global Entertainment and Media Outlook 20072011 highly competitive business environment.
com, an independent casino and gaming directory, listed over 2,000 online gaming sites that were then open for business.
5 Including sports betting, poker, bingo and casino but excluding skill-based gaming and lotteries Source: GBGC January 2008.
2007 broadband penetration PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Product split Our markets The online gaming sector, excluding online lotteries most of which are owned or controlled by government sponsored Business review entities rather than private sector 56 companies, has a number of distinct segments.
Currently, the largest segment is online sports betting, which in 2007, However, whilst the barriers to entry excluding the US, was estimated to have appear to be low, the barriers to delivering represented approximately 45% of total long-term success in such a dynamic and online gross gaming yield, followed competitive market are much higher.
As a by online casinos 26% and poker 20%.
result, the leading companies in the online Historically, the most important segment gaming market have remained the same for PartyGaming has been poker although, for several years with only a few operators as can be seen from the 2007 results, having achieved real critical mass on a casino and sports betting are an global scale.
The enactment of the UIGEA increasingly significant part of the did result in a structural shift in the online Groups success and are expected to poker market with market share passing to continue to grow further in both relative privately-owned companies that chose and absolute terms.
to continue to take bets from customers located in the US.
However, the major companies operating in the market have Global online gaming gross gaming yield not really changed for several years.
by product $bn This is covered in more detail under Betting including Casino Lotteries exchanges Online poker market structure below.
Bingo Skill-based and other gaming Poker Whilst the US has historically been the 30 largest single gaming market, the enactment of the UIGEA has had a major 25 impact on the geographic split of revenues 20 by territory.
In 2006, the US is estimated to have represented approximately 48% of 15 7 global online gaming revenues.
In 2007, GBGC believes that this had fallen to 36%, 10 reflecting the withdrawal from the US market by a number of companies, 5 including PartyGaming, together with the 0 much more rapid growth in other territories such as Europe.
That said, it remains the Source: GBGC largest single online gaming market with an estimated $4.2 billion of gross gaming 7 yield in 2007.
1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008E 2009E 2010E 2011E 2012E PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Online poker online poker in 2007 if the US is excluded Poker is one of the worlds most popular from this figure the total falls to $1.5 billion card games.
Whilst the exact origin of an indication that despite the enactment poker remains a point of debate, what is of the UIGEA, the online poker market in Business review not in doubt is that it has been around in the US is still a large and valuable market.
57 various forms for decades, if not centuries.
This represents an increase of 107% compared with the $1.4 billion that was The popularity of poker has increased estimated to have been generated substantially in recent years due to several in 2004.
Whilst poker remains smaller in factors, including the televising of high absolute terms than sports betting and value tournaments such as the World Series casino, it has been one of the online of Poker WSOP and the World Poker Tour.
gaming sectors fastest growing segments The high financial prizes that can be won in recent years.
The shifting regulatory and in these tournaments has seen poker legislative landscape around the world become one of the most valuable means that predicting future growth rates professional games in the world.
Whilst it is expected that the of the WSOP in 2007 was Jerry Yang who historic hyper rates of growth seen in online won over $8 million and in 2006 Jamie Gold poker since 2000 will continue to trend to won $12 million.
To put these figures in more modest levels, excluding the US, context, as at 24 December 2007, the GBGC estimates that the online poker Association of Tennis Professionals listed segment will still grow at a CAGR of over Roger Federer as having won the highest 16% per annum between 2007 and 2012, amount of prize money in 2007 with compared with 163% per annum between 8 $10 million while Tiger Woods was the 2003 and 2006. leading golfer in the PGA with total 9 tournament earnings of almost $11 million.
As well as large prize tournaments, many of which are widely broadcast on television channels around the world, the growth in the popularity of poker has also been fuelled by the strong growth in online poker in many countries and also by the investment by many land-based casino operators in large poker rooms.
10 According to The Economist, there are an estimated 60-80m regular [poker] players in America and perhaps 80-100m elsewhere.
The continued growth in broadband penetration and the popularity of the internet as a gaming medium have combined to deliver strong growth in the Poker number of people playing poker online, the total amount wagered and the In 2007 over $19 billion was wagered total amount of revenue captured by on the Groups poker sites implying an online operators.
GBGC estimates that average rake of 1.78% of total amount approximately $2.9 billion of global gross gambled 2006:1.36%.
gaming yield was generated from 8 Source: ATP.
9 Source: Professional Golfers Association Tour.
10A big deal The Economist, 22 December 2007.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 In 2007, PokerStars and Full Tilt Poker Our markets have remained the Groups two largest competitors in terms of peak players playing cash games.
Both of these sites Business review continued to accept bets from US players 58 following the enactment of the UIGEA.
Marketing expertise Being able to attract Success in online poker and retain players is critical for long-term The historic high rates of growth and high success.
Whilst historically, television margins in online poker initially attracted a advertising has proven to be one of the large number of online poker operators into most effective routes for attracting new the market.
However, the Group believes players, restrictions on television advertising that long-term success requires a number for online gaming in certain territories of important attributes: requires operators to develop other marketing channels as well as invest Player liquidity players want to be able in new, alternative and innovative to find games offering the stakes they want marketing strategies.
to play for and with plenty of other players to make it interesting.
Player liquidity is Quality of product Having attracted therefore an important factor in attracting a player to the site, being able to offer a and retaining customers.
It also means quality product is also important.
However, that operators with the greatest player software needs to be constantly updated liquidity are able to offer a wider variety and improved in order to maintain players of tournaments with larger cash prizes.
interest through the addition of new games The Groups decision to stop taking and features, to keep pace with changing deposits and real money wagers from US consumer tastes and to stay ahead of players on 13 October 2006 resulted in a the competition.
material reduction in player liquidity on Payment processing expertise People PartyPoker.
com, the Groups flagship poker want to be able to deposit and withdraw site.
The subsequent migration of a number funds quickly and safely.
This instils trust of non-US players to sites that continued to and confidence and is a vital part of the accept players from the US and therefore overall player experience.
By making a were able to offer greater player liquidity, number of different options available, an also had an impact.
However, the Group operator can cater for players differing has been successful in rebuilding its player payment needs as well as ensure that liquidity and maintaining a large market payment processing options remain share, thereby retaining its appeal as one competitively priced.
of the most popular online poker sites.
Excellent customer service If a customer encounters a problem or has a query with the service being provided, the online consumer of today expects to be able to contact someone at a personal level, either via email or phone to address the issue in a timely way.
The global nature of the online gaming market means that being able to provide 24-hour support in a variety of different languages is becoming increasingly important.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Online poker market structure Market share The global nature of the online gaming PokerStars 26% market means that obtaining accurate Full Tilt Poker 12% market share data on any individual PartyPoker 12% Business review segment is difficult.
However, on the basis of iPoker Network 10% 59 published data from PokerSiteScout.
com, Ongame Network 8% an independent source of online poker Everest 6% UltimateBet 3% player traffic data, the Group has been AbsolutePoker 3% able to assemble data on the average Svenska Spel 3% numbers of daily players across each of the Others 17% major online poker sites.
This looks at the numbers of players playing cash games Source: Pokersitescout.
com Based on average daily players for the week to only and ignores tournaments.
It also does 29 December 2007 not analyse the value of each of the players.
However, on this basis and using data for the week to 29 December 2007, the market shares of the major players are as shown in the chart opposite.
Whilst this data is of limited value because of the reasons highlighted above, the Group believes that it is a useful proxy for the overall structure of the online poker market.
Online casino Online casinos were the starting point for Hidden treasure some of the very first online gaming sites, with the first site believed to have been Our new Shipwreck slot is one of our opened in 1996.
By 2000, the global gross most recent additions to PartyCasino.
gaming yield from online casinos was estimated to have been approximately $0.6 billion.
Since then, global gross gaming yield from online casinos has grown strongly, reaching an estimated $3.2 billion in 2007, implying a compound annual growth rate of 28% since 2000.
Excluding the US, the online casino market is estimated by GBGC to have been worth $1.9 billion in 2007 and that it will continue to grow strongly at approximately 15% per annum until 2012 when the total gross gaming yield in online casino, excluding the US, is estimated to be worth approximately $3.8 billion.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Both the nature of the casino product Our markets and the highly fragmented nature of the online casino segment means that the Group has been unable to obtain any Business review meaningful market share data for the 60 online casino segment.
Online sports betting Success in online casino Sports betting is probably one of the The major difference between online worlds oldest pastimes, having been casino and online poker is that in casino enjoyed for centuries if not millennia.
customers play against the house Along with many other forms of whereas in poker, backgammon and other eCommerce, the scale of online sports peer-to-peer games, they play against betting has been building for several years.
In other words, in casino the According to GBGC, in 2007 the global house takes principal risk and earns a online sports betting market was estimated statistical gross margin on the amount to be worth approximately $4.8 billion, wagered whereas in peer-to-peer games 11 implying a CAGR since 2000 of 19%.
the operator simply charges a commission, Excluding the US, which despite the legal often referred to as the rake.
difficulties of operating online is still believed to be the largest online sports Player liquidity betting market in the world, GBGC As a result, while player liquidity in casino estimates that the size of the online is not such an important issue, it is helpful sports betting market was approximately in generating large jackpot prizes and $3.4 billion in 2007 an increase of providing confidence to players regarding approximately 17% over 2006.
It predicts the integrity of the site and that they will that, in the absence of any material receive their money if they win a large changes in the regulatory environment this prize.
With player liquidity being much less will increase to approximately $5.6 billion of an issue, there are many more online by 2012, implying a CAGR of 11%.
In terms casino sites than any other form of online of geographic markets, according to gaming site.
As at March 2008 12 Google, the biggest number of historical CasinoCity.
com listed over 700 online searches including the word bet was casino sites, representing over a third of the Greece, followed by Romania and then total online gaming sites that it monitors.
The popularity of different sports by Other success factors territory also impacts the mix of sports that Success in online casino requires similar attract wagers.
In the UK, horse racing and attributes for those in poker: expertise in football are particularly popular whereas marketing, payments and customer in other parts of Continental Europe service as well as having a quality product.
football and tennis are among the most Games in online casinos include slots, popular events.
roulette, blackjack and video poker.
The outcome for each of these games of chance is determined by a random number generator and in accordance with the games rules.
Operator revenues are determined by the total amount wagered on each game, the statistical gross margin of each game and on the mix of games played.
As the house is taking principal risk, it is possible to lose money in casino.
However, as long as players keep playing, the house edge means that overall the house always wins.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Live betting, where punters can make bets during a sporting event is an increasingly popular betting product.
Whilst the margins on live betting are lower than traditional Business review betting, it is still attractive as a product for 61 bookmakers because it makes for a much more exciting betting experience and this tends to increase betting volume by encouraging the customer to stay on Sports betting the site.
Spread betting on sports and financial The Group now offers live betting on markets is an increasingly popular variant up to 40 sporting events per day including cricket, soccer, tennis, of conventional sports betting.
This involves volleyball, snooker... and many more.
the bookmaker providing a two-way price, buy or sell, on either the outcome of a sporting event such as the final score or the winning margin.
Relative to the price offered, the customer in effect bets that the score will either be higher or lower than that offered by the bookmaker.
The same principle holds for financial spread betting.
In this case, a customer can bet on upward or downward movement of financial indices like the Dow Jones or FTSE indices, on the movement of currencies or even individual financial instruments, including shares.
Operators make their money from the spread the difference between the bid and offer price multiplied by the total value of bets placed.
Success in online sports betting As the operator is taking principal risk by offering odds on a range of sporting events, player liquidity is not as important as it is in online poker.
That said, the larger the number of bets placed on a single event, the greater the spread of risk and the greater the prospect that the operator, or bookmakers, will make a profit on the event.
Success requires customers, a broad range of products to bet on and excellent bookmakers that are able to price odds effectively and generate positive gross win on the amount wagered.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Business review 62 The king of disco... PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Brand licensing Business review 63 Alliance Paramount Entertainment Method Our games, their brands, our media Brands Saturday Night Fever, Top Gun, The Godfather and Mission:Impossible This is a unique way to entertain and engage players with our brands.
The film titles themes of adventure, fun and intrigue are a natural fit for online gaming.
Sandi Isaacs, Senior Vice President of Interactive for Paramount Pictures Digital Entertainment or skys the limit
