PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 PartyPoker remains the Groups biggest Our business single brand and poker is the largest product.
However, both casino and sports Products and brands betting have grown rapidly and improved Business review the balance of the Groups earnings 64 profile.
We aim to continue this process in 2008, reducing the Groups dependence on poker, continuing to grow casino and PartyGaming owns and sports betting as well as developing new profitable revenue streams through new operates some of the worlds games, features and products.
biggest online gaming The Groups shared wallet and single brands including PartyPoker, customer account allow customers PartyCasino and PartyBets.
to move seamlessly across all of the A single integrated operating Party-branded products without the platform allows customers need for separate logins or deposits.
Customers can play any Party-branded to access all games through game once they have registered and a single player account.
made a deposit into their unique player account.
Having already developed a broad range of games on our integrated Party-branded New in 2007 systems platform, available in a number of different languages, during 2007 we Acquisitions from EOL and IOG completed enabled customers to manage and Launch of multi-currency now in pounds deposit funds in pounds sterling and euros sterling and euros as well as US dollars as well as US dollars.
Improved casino software new slots, Poker refreshed roulette Poker is the Groups largest business No download versions of bingo and segment and PartyPoker continues to be casino launched our most successful brand.
In 2007, poker Continued expansion of multi-lingual represented 64% of Continuing revenue capabilities and 56% of Continuing Clean EBITDA.
Marketing launch of PartyBets The growth in poker revenues remains impressive despite both the impact of the Creation of white label games for ITV UIGEA on non-US revenues in late 2006 and Addition of horse racing to PartyBets our withdrawal from certain geographic markets in 2007.
For further details of developments in 2007, go to Review of 2007 on page 32.
Poker quarterly revenue $m 2005 2006 2007 80 60 40 20 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 With the acquisition of the gaming assets The amount of rake taken on any particular and brands of Empire Online Limited game on PartyPoker varies depending EOL as well as those of Intercontinental on the size of the pot on the table.
As the Online Gaming Limited IOG at the amount taken in rake is subject to a cap, Business review beginning of 2007, the Group now offers with a maximum rake on any single game 65 poker under a variety of brands although of $5 for high limit tables, the rake in PartyPoker.
com percentage terms declines as the pot size are the two most significant sources increases in value.
Tournaments How online poker works Tournaments work in a very different way to The mechanics of online poker are ring games.
Instead of playing with real quite simple.
The Group facilitates the money, players buy-in to the tournament game through its free to download or and in return receive chips which they no-download versions of its software and then use to play against each other.
acts as the host for customers wanting to With a fixed number of chips available in play poker against each other.
In return, any tournament, players are progressively we simply charge players a fee, or rake, knocked out until the winning player for every hand of real money poker they emerges with all of the chips.
The winning play where the pot is greater than $0.1 player, and usually those in second and and where the hand reaches the flop.
third places, receives a prize, normally There are a variety of different types of in cash.
Revenue generated by any poker to play as well as different player tournament varies depending on the size formats: players can compete as part of a of the buy-in and the number of players knockout competition or tournament, or participating.
The Group offers a range of they can choose to play on individual different tournaments with various prize tables, known as ring or cash games.
levels for single-table tournaments as well as multi-table tournaments.
Ring games Ring games are the most popular format and have consistently generated between 70% and 80% of the Groups poker revenues.
In 2007, ring games represented 70% 2006: 76% of Continuing gross poker revenues.
Texas Hold em is the most popular game by far, representing approximately 94% of total poker revenues in 2007 2006: 90%.
The next most popular versions of poker are Omaha High and 7-card stud.
Whilst each game has its own set of rules, they are all variants New revenue streams on the core game of poker with players competing against each other for the total amount wagered for any particular hand In 2007, fixed odds horserace betting the pot, minus the commission or rake was added to the PartyGaming which is paid to the operator.
Provided under the terms of a licensing agreement with Sporting Index, the Group now offers customers opportunities to place a variety of bets on different racing events.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 $146.7 million 2006: $51.0 million and Our business Continuing Clean EBITDA of $43.6 million 2006: $15.9 million.
Products and brands PartyCasino is the Groups most popular Business review 66 casino brand by far but other brands include CasinoKing and CasinoLasVegas.
Each casino offers a variety of different Backgammon games and in aggregate the Group has Following the effective closure of a over 50 different casino games including number of online gaming markets, blackjack, roulette, video poker and a including Turkey where backgammon is variety of different slot machines.
As well particularly popular, the prospects for as these traditional online casino games, revenue growth from PartyGammon.
com, the Group also offers virtual horse and the Groups online backgammon site, were virtual dog racing as well as multi-player substantially reduced.
Also included within casino is also operates with a rake structure on PartyBingo.
com, which offers a variety of games played between the Groups online bingo games as well as three-reel customers, its revenues are now recorded slots and video poker.
As poker and backgammon Rather than playing against each other are peer-to-peer games that require as in poker, casino players bet against player liquidity, all players need to play in the house.
The outcome of each game is the same currency and so both of these determined by randomly generated results, games are only available in US dollars.
which are regularly and independently To the extent that players want to hold audited by third-parties to verify their their customer balances in currencies other fairness.
As player liquidity is not generally than US dollars, if they wish to play poker required for casino games save for bingo or backgammon, they are required to and progressive jackpot games, players convert sufficient funds in to US dollars are able to play in US dollars, pounds before they can play although they can sterling or euros.
then take amounts to and from the table at the same exchange rate.
Casino Casino In 2007, the Groups casino product was substantially improved through a series of software upgrades, the addition of a Bonus rates in casino tend to be much number of new slot machines and the higher than poker or sports betting integration of the acquisitions from EOL because the rates of play and player yields are higher.
In 2007 total customer and IOG.
Casino is the Groups second bonuses and PartyPoints represented largest business segment and in 2007 23% of gross casino revenue.
it generated Continuing revenue of Casino quarterly revenue $m 2005 2006 2007 50 40 30 20 10 0 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Sports betting Customer bonuses and PartyPoints Betting on sports is the most recent addition Customer bonuses are an important to the Groups portfolio of games following feature of the online gaming market.
the acquisition of Gamebookers in the Under International Financial Reporting Business review third quarter of 2006 and the subsequent Standards, certain customer bonuses and 67 launch of PartyBets on the Groups reward points are required to be netted integrated Party-branded systems platform.
from revenue rather than treated as an Having made only a small contribution in expense.
Total customer bonuses and 2006, in the year to 31 December 2007 PartyPoints earned through the Groups sports betting generated $16.1 million of loyalty programme, as a proportion of Continuing revenue 2006: $5.6 million and gross revenue across all products, have $3.4 million of Continuing Clean EBITDA increased from 9.4% of gross revenue in 2006: loss of $1.6 million.
Part of this increase year-on-year was due to the introduction of a new PartyPoints scheme during 2007.
It is expected that as a proportion of gross Sports betting revenue, bonuses and PartyPoints will return to levels seen in previous periods Soccer is the most popular sport during the first half of 2008.
Bonus rates amongst the Groups sports betting vary by product and tend to be much customers, representing over 50% higher in casino.
Bonuses in sports betting of stakes bet during 2007. represent free bets.
New for 2008 During 2008 the Group will be adding a number of new games to the product portfolio including branded slot machines such as Saturday Night Fever, Top Gun, The Godfather and Mission:Impossible.
Now run as a single book, both PartyBets and Gamebookers offer odds, including live betting, on a variety of sporting events around the world, in a variety of different languages.
Since the formal marketing launch of PartyBets in 2007, there has been a substantial uplift in the number of new player sign-ups, active players and the volume of bets being placed on PartyBets.
The gross win percentage has also improved.
As with casino games, customers place bets against the house and revenue or gross win represents stakes placed, less winnings paid out.
As the Group takes principal risk, it is possible that the Group can lose money in sports betting.
PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Business review 68 Heads... PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 New games Business review 69 Whilst we continue to develop new games in-house, we also now license games from third-parties.
In 2007 we formed an alliance with Sporting Index and added horse racing to our suite of Sports Betting products.... or tails
