PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Board of Directors Michael Jackson 57 Mitch Garber 43 Non-Executive Chief Executive Officer Chairman Governance 104 Michael Jackson became Chairman of PartyGaming Mitch Garber joined PartyGaming as Chief Executive in May 2005.
He is also the founder and Chairman of Officer in April 2006.
Before then, he was simultaneously Elderstreet Investments Limited, the venture capital Chairman of FireOne Group plc, the AIM-listed and investment company, and is a Director and payment processing company and Executive Vice investor in a number of other quoted and unquoted President of Optimal Group Inc. the Nasdaq-listed companies.
Michael holds an MA in law from payments and services company.
He is a graduate Cambridge University and qualified as a chartered of McGill University in Montreal and of the University accountant with Coopers & Lybrand.
of Ottawa and is a qualified attorney.
Martin Weigold 42 Tim Bristow 52 Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Martin Weigold joined the Group in January 2005.
Tim Bristow became an independent Non-Executive Prior to joining, Martin was the Chief Financial Officer Director of PartyGaming in May 2007.
Since 2001 Tim of Jetix Europe NV for five years from its flotation on has been Chief Executive Officer of Gibtelecom Ltd, Euronext in 1999.
Other posts have included Vice Gibraltars primary telecommunications provider.
He is President of Finance of Walt Disney Television a chartered accountant and also holds directorships International.
Martin holds a BSc in economics and with AquaGib Ltd, owned by Northumbrian Water accounting from Bristol University and is a member of Group Plc, and the Gibraltar Electricity Authority.
the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England Tim was formerly the Financial and Development and Wales.
Secretary of Gibraltar and previously a Director at the National Audit Office, London.
Key to Committees Audit Committee member Remuneration Committee member Nominations Committee member Ethics Committee member indicates Chairman of the Committee PartyGaming Plc Annual report 2007 Rod Perry 62 Lord Moonie 61 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Rod Perry became a Non-Executive Director of Lord Moonie became an independent PartyGaming in May 2005.
He is the Boards Senior Non-Executive Director of PartyGaming in December Independent Non-Executive Director.
Before being made a Life Peer, he was Member previously been an Executive Director at 3i Group plc, of Parliament for Kirkcaldy from 1987 to April 2005.
Governance latterly responsible for venture capital investment He held the position of Under Secretary for State at 105 activities worldwide.
He joined 3i in 1985 as an the Ministry of Defence between January 2000 and industrial adviser and joined the Executive Committee June 2003.
Before becoming an MP, he was a of 3i in 1997.
He retired from the 3i board in July 2005. consultant in the National Health Service, a senior medical adviser and clinical pharmacologist in the pharmaceutical industry Stephen Box 57 John Davy 52 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Stephen Box joined the Group in December 2007 as John Davy became a Non-Executive Director in an independent Non-Executive Director.
He has created and built a series qualified chartered accountant and worked for of successful businesses during the last 25 years.
Coopers & Lybrand for more than 25 years, of which John co-owned and developed Jongleurs Comedy he spent 15 years as a corporate finance partner.
He Clubs before selling the UK franchise in August 2000. is a Non-Executive Director and the audit committee He remains Non-Executive Chairman of Jongleurs chairman of Michael Page International, Thames Comedy Limited, a diversified leisure business with Water Utilities and Wales & West Utilities and is a interests in television and corporate hospitality, and is member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
chairman of Mentor Inns LLP and Lombard Asset From August 1997 to October 2002 he was Finance Management Ltd. Director of National Grid, a FTSE 100 company.
Emilio Gomez 58 Non-Executive Director Emilio Gomez became a Non-Executive Director in December 2007.
He is a chartered certified accountant and was joint senior partner of Baker Tilly Gibraltar until he retired in June 2007.
Other roles have included being the senior partner at KPMG Gibraltar, Chairman of the Gibraltar Insurance Association, and President of the Gibraltar Society of Chartered and Certified Accountancy Bodies.
He is currently Chairman of the Gibraltar Finance Centre Council.
