Board of Directors Richard Lapthorne was appointed Chairman in January 2003.
Richard N From 1999 to May 2003 Richard was Chairman of Amersham plc Lapthorne now GE Healthcare having joined its Board as a Non-executive Director in 1988.
He was Finance Director of British Aerospace plc Chairman from July 1992 and then Vice Chairman from April 1998 until his retirement in September 1999.
Richard is Non-executive Chairman of Morse plc and the New Look Group, a Non-executive Director of Calibre Audio Library and Tommys The Baby Charity and H M The Queens trustee at The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.
Tony Rice was appointed Joint Group Managing Director, Central Tony Rice and Finance Director on 30 March 2006, having previously been a Non-executive Director.
Tony was Chief Executive of Tunstall Joint Group Holdings Ltd, from March 2002 until its sale in September 2005 Managing Director, and he continues as a Non-executive Director of that company.
Central and Finance Prior to Tunstall, Tony was Group Treasurer and then Group MD, Director Commercial Aircraft division of British Aerospace plc.
Tony is a trustee of Help the Aged and was Non-executive Director of British Mediterranean Airways up to its acquisition by bmi in February 2007.
Harris Jones was appointed Joint Group Managing Director and Harris Jones Chief Executive of International business on 1 April 2006 having previously been Executive Director of the International business Joint Group since November 2004.
Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Harris Managing Director was CEO of T-Mobile UK following its acquisition by Deutsche and Chief Executive Telekom and has prior experience as a senior executive with International Omnipoint Communications and Sprint Spectrum, a precursor to Sprint PCS.
Harris is a Non-executive Director of Caracal, Inc. USA.
John Pluthero was appointed Joint Group Managing Director John Pluthero and Chairman of Europe, Asia & US formerly UK on 1 April 2006 having previously been Executive Director of that business.
From Joint Group September 2002 until the acquisition by Cable & Wireless on Managing Director 11 November 2005, John was Chief Executive of Energis.
Previously, and Chairman he was founder and CEO of Freeserve now part of Orange UK, Europe, Asia & US leading it to its flotation.
Prior to this, John held various strategy and operations positions within the Dixons Group.
John is a Director of Merville Ltd. George Battersby was appointed Executive Director of Human George Battersby Resources in July 2004.
Immediately prior to joining Cable & Wireless, he was Group Human Resources Director and a member Executive Director, of the Board of Amersham plc now GE Healthcare.
George is Human Resources a Non-executive Director of Hogg Robinson Group plc where he is also chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
30 A Denotes membership of Audit Committee N Denotes membership of Nominations Committee R Denotes membership of Remuneration Committee ANR Clive Butler was appointed as a Non-executive Director in May Clive Butler 2005 and became the nominated Senior Independent Director Non-executive on 1 July 2006.
Clive is a member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Prior to joining Cable & Wireless, Clive Director: Senior was Corporate Development Director at Unilever having served Independent on the main board since 1992.
During that period he also undertook Director the roles of Personnel Director and Category Director for the Home and Personal Care division.
Clive joined Unilever in 1970 and worked in a variety of marketing and general management roles prior to his retirement in 2005.
ANR Kate Nealon was appointed as a Non-executive Director in January Kate Nealon 2005 and became Chair of the Remuneration Committee and a Non-executive member of the Nominations Committee on 1 April 2006.
She is also a member of the Audit Committee.
Kate was Group Head of Legal Director: Chair of and Compliance at Standard Chartered plc until 2004 having the Remuneration previously practised international banking and regulatory law in Committee New York.
Kate is a Non-executive Director of HBOS plc and Shire plc, a senior associate of the Judge Business School at Cambridge University and a member of the Advisory Council of the Institute of Business Ethics.
ANR Kasper Rorsted was appointed as a Non-executive Director in Kasper Rorsted May 2003 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Non-executive member of the Nominations Committee on 30 March 2006.
He is also a member of the Remuneration Committee.
Kasper is Deputy Director: Chairman of the Management Board and Executive Vice President Chairman of the Human Resources & Infrastructure Services at Henkel KGaA.
Prior Audit Committee to joining Henkel in April 2005, Kasper was Senior Vice President and General Manager, EMEA for Hewlett Packard and held various senior management positions with Compaq.
Kasper is a Nonexecutive Director of Ecolab, Inc. USA.
AR Agns Touraine was appointed as a Non-executive Director in Agns Touraine January 2005 and is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Non-executive Committees.
Based in France, Agns is Managing Partner of Act III Consultants having previously been Chairman and CEO of Vivendi Director Universal Publishing.
She has held various senior executive positions with the Lagardre Group and began her career with McKinsey.
Agns is a Board member of Fondation fide France and was appointed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of SAIP Libration, the French newspaper, on 18 February 2007.
AR Simon Ball was appointed as a Non-executive Director on 1 May Simon Ball 2006 and is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Simon is Group Finance Director for 3i Group plc, and has served Non-executive on its main Board since April 2005.
Prior to this, Simon held a series Director of senior finance and operational roles over 15 years at Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and Robert Fleming Group and, for two years, served as Director General, Finance for the UK Governments Department for Constitutional Affairs.
