International overview We are market We aim to offer leaders in nearly our customers all of our markets: attractive products offering mobile, and a superior broadband and customer fixed line services.
Offering mobile, broadband and fixed line services Total mobile customers to residential and business customers, were the 31 March leading provider of telecommunications services to small and medium-sized markets.
2006 3,485,000 We operate in 33 countries with principal operations in the Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and the Islands portfolio.
We are the market leader 2007 5,033,000 in 20 out of 24 mobile markets and in all 26 of our broadband markets.
Total broadband customers Our business today 31 March Were a company to be reckoned with in nearly all our markets, we are the leading and incumbent 2006 288,000 telecommunications provider.
Operating in 33 countries across five continents we span 2007 401,000 eight regions: Jamaica, Barbados, North Caribbean, East Caribbean, Panama, Macau, Monaco and Islands.
Islands comprise operations in the Channel Islands, Isle of Man Includes subsidiaries and joint ventures and excludes Batelco for ease of comparison.
and the Indian, Atlantic and Pacific Oceans.
We operate through 25 subsidiaries and eight joint ventures.
Our mobile business in Panama competes with one of the Our ownership of these companies is varied some are largest mobile operators in the world and were winning.
wholly owned and others are partly owned with the public, Our mobile revenues grew by 24% compared with 2005 06. the local government or other corporate partners.
Similarly broadband revenue grew by 31%.
We are the only full service company in most of our markets, The turnaround in Jamaica is a great achievement, given providing mobile, broadband, domestic and international that our market share fell following liberalisation of the fixed line services to residential and business customers.
In 2006 07, we saw mobile revenues grow Due to the diversity of our markets in terms of size, by 24% in a highly competitive environment.
Our broadband geography and culture, we treat each business individually revenues grew by even more at 93%.
All of which is a reward by tailoring our services to the relevant market but with for the effort and imagination of the local management, who the benefit of our scale and global network.
have worked hard to recapture lost ground.
Were putting the lessons learned here to good use in our other markets.
In our small and medium-sized markets, the services we deliver and, as importantly, the way we deliver them Were looking to our business in Macau to achieve significant growth in revenues and profits.
Macaus economy is dynamic make a real difference.
And not just to our residential and business customers they also help governments and growing rapidly, fuelled by the gaming industry.
As youd expect, the mobile market is highly competitive but were drive economic change.
confident that our service model, supported by the requisite We aspire to be the telecoms provider of choice wherever investment, will win.
In 2006 07, mobile revenue was up we operate.
So, were building a dynamic organisation 16% while revenues from our enterprise segment were that ensures our customers benefit from the new services, 9% higher.
expertise and efficiencies achieved since market liberalisation.
Based on our network platform in Guernsey, weve launched Talking of change, we are running with an ambitious agenda our mobile service in Jersey, branded Sure, and well be to engage our employees better.
Because of the direct launching in the Isle of Man in the summer.
The latter two correlation between our people, the results they achieve and businesses are at an early stage of their development but the quality of the services we offer.
were confident that as they mature they will be a source For the good of our customers, theres a shared purpose of revenue and profit growth.
to be the best we can be, as we improve processes, remove In short, theres a real feeling of building momentum.
duplication and focus on creating enhanced and more resilient services.
Collectively, were working as a team better than ever before.
In a nutshell, were prepared not just to meet competition in our markets, but to beat it.
As such, weve made significant progress over the past year particularly in Panama, Jamaica, Macau and Barbados.
09 Business review International overview We aim to be the We treat telecoms provider each business of choice in all our individually while markets.
taking advantage of our global reach.
Our strategy Our market We aim to be the telecoms provider of choice in all of Right now, our industry is changing more rapidly than ever.
Ten years ago, 90% of all calls were fixed-to-fixed and How?
By offering our customers attractive products the remainder were to car phones.
Today, fixed-to-fixed and services using high quality networks and a superior represents less than 20% of all calls whilst mobile-to-mobile customer experience.
The increase in broadband usage provides a platform for new services such as VoIP, video calls We offer high quality products as standard.
for at least 8Mbps capability for broadband and to complete the already well advanced process of replacing legacy mobile Across our markets, we face broadly the same issues.
technologies with Global Service for Mobile GSM.
We New technologies are driving down the price of existing already have our own Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP offerings.
At the same time, liberalisation has seen new solutions that are proving popular with customers.
entrants seeking to challenge our position, driving price erosion as they compete aggressively.
Additionally, we are Our pricing and payment plans are easy to understand, with dealing with continuing developments in regulatory and options to suit different customer needs including prepay, government policy.
post pay, per second billing and international calling cards.
We also ensure that we offer our customers quick and easy As a full-service provider, we can flex our business model ways to access our services with a variety of distribution to take advantage of market trends.
We see mobile, already channels including online, through our retail shops and from our single largest revenue segment, continuing to increase street vendors.
Our GSM mobile customer numbers in Panama increased this year to more than one million, while In an increasingly competitive environment, developing a range of initiatives in Jamaica saw our mobile customer brands that have local resonance is key to our commercial numbers rise by 47%.
These two examples serve to highlight strategy.
Alongside our Cable & Wireless brand, we have a that pulling all the elements together improved network mix of local brands such as CTM in Macau, Monaco Telecom coverage, keener pricing and targeted marketing spend and Dhiraagu in the Maldives.
do produce the desired results.
Our customers deserve the best technology and network Liberalisation has fuelled competition, so today were facing so thats what we deliver along with 24 7 proactive new challenges and new opportunities.
With 93% of our network monitoring to anticipate and fix any issues.
And revenues generated in competitive markets, were investing where the usual network options arent available, we offer our in enhanced service propositions throughout our product customers alternatives including VoIP over Wimax technology.
portfolio and further developing our Cable & Wireless and Its vital that we tailor our operations to local needs and have local brands.
Its essential that theres a level competitive them led by local management teams.
This, coupled with the playing field, both for existing operators and new entrants.
benefits of our global connectivity, means that were able to Consequently, we work closely with local regulators to compete both efficiently and effectively.
ensure fair and efficient regulation.
In addition, by streamlining our business processes, getting There are significant growth opportunities in a number of rid of duplication and sharing best practice, we can benefit our markets fuelled by tourism, gaming, financial services from portfolio efficiencies.
For example, we have implemented and infrastructure investment.
Macau, for example, a central mobile network performance management system has overtaken Las Vegas to become the worlds largest to monitor network and marketing performance.
We have a gaming centre, with casino revenue expected to double common billing platform in 26 markets that supports both to US$11.6 billion by 2010. prepaid and post paid billing.
Panama is our single largest market by revenue.
Here a In terms of further expansion, we intend to make selective US$5.25 billion investment to expand the capacity of the acquisitions in growing, small to medium-sized markets Panama canal has been announced with work set to start where we can be the market leader, a full service provider in 2008.
This massive investment will enhance Panamas and have management control.
Of particular interest to service-based economy and the worlds second-largest us, where feasible, is growing our economic interest in our free trade zone home to some 2,000 companies.
existing subsidiaries and joint ventures something were Our markets in the Caribbean and the Indian Ocean are actively trying to achieve.
a magnet for tourists, financial services and, to a lesser We continue to invest in our most crucial asset our people extent, the gaming industry, affording us further growth through development programmes, on-line training and opportunities.
Were investing in our mobile networks as tailored courses.
So as people build their careers with us, well as broadband infrastructure and have seen strong we actively support their developmental needs along the revenue increases as a result.
A new MPLS network is way effectively resulting in better service for our customers.
being deployed across the region to provide our business customers, which include HSBC, Scotia Bank, Shell and 10 Plans to expand We help bridge 93% of our Macau has the Panama canal the digital divide revenues are overtaken Las should continue in the communities generated in Vegas as the to drive further we serve.
Chevron, with increased bandwidth and a wide range of Our corporate and social responsibility products: for example, managed services, hosting and Communities disaster recovery.
As a leading international communications company, we recognise the positive role we can play in programmes Risks to our future success that help bridge the digital divide and improve Information We believe that we have all the necessary licences and Communications Technology ICT development in concessions needed to operate our business but from communities we serve.
ICT and modern telecoms are vital time to time some of them come up for renewal.
We manage elements on every economic change agenda and we are this risk by maintaining regular dialogue and building proud of the positive contribution that our initiatives bring relationships with governments and regulators.
For example, to our markets.
our fixed line concession in Macau expires in 2011 and is These initiatives range from our well-established charitable scheduled for review in 2007.
Were working with the Macau foundations, which we continue to expand often with the Government and regulatory body to develop a regulatory help of our people through to youth and culture framework that enables ongoing stability and investment development programmes.
Were also implementing a Digital Macau investment programme to demonstrate our longHeres a snapshot of some of what weve been up to: term commitment to Macau.
In Jamaica, weve given more than 1,000 computers and Theres a risk that our joint ventures may underperform.
free broadband connections to 108 schools.
And, in the Without management control, we arent always able to wider Caribbean, weve established the CaribSurf Junior influence performance.
We approach this by having regular Cyber Club ensuring 6 to 18-year olds can surf the dialogue with key stakeholders, active engagement with Internet safely.
these companies, operational involvement where practicable In Barbados, during the ICC Cricket World Cup held and gaining management control where possible.
in spring 2007, which we sponsored, we invited 250 students to the Kensington Oval in Bridgetown as part In parts of Asia and the Caribbean, natural disasters and of our active development of sporting excellence.
severe weather such as hurricanes pose a risk.
To address In Panama, weve committed donations of US$1 million this risk, we have in place robust disaster preparation and per year until July 2009 to enable the establishment of business continuity plans: contingency equipment and the Panama Digital Alphabetisation Fund.
In its first year, suppliers: monitoring: strong network resilience and the Foundation installed 150 VSAT antennas and satellite insurance cover.
Internet connections, plus nearly 3,700 wireless Foreign exchange fluctuations are a feature of our business computers in rural schools.
particularly of the US dollar.
About 70% of Internationals In Macau, CTM has donated 100 refurbished computers EBITDA is US dollar denominated or pegged.
While we and 200 free Internet connections to members of the manage the foreign exchange exposure on remittances Macau Mentally-disabled Families Association and the from International businesses to Central, it is not possible Macau Deaf Association.
to hedge the reported value of our non-sterling earnings.
In the Seychelles, we are providing a free broadband We do not hedge the sterling value of overseas assets.
service for three years to all primary, secondary and post-secondary schools, working in partnership with Wherever we operate and particularly in litigious markets the Ministry of Education.
such as Panama litigation could adversely affect our profitability and reputation.
As youd expect, if and when Environment, health and safety this happens, we defend our position robustly using the No matter where we are, were committed to minimising full range of legal resources available.
the environmental impact of our business activities and Finding and keeping good people is key to our strategy.
the health, safety and welfare of all our people is paramount.
In Macau, the growth of the gaming industry is putting Our Chief Security Officer is responsible for the overall considerable strain on the local labour market, while in the governance of health, safety and the environment HSE, Caribbean, the challenge is in being able to restructure our conducting audits and co-ordinating all HSE improvements business to meet local market needs.
We manage this risk and best practice and ensuring we maintain a comprehensive by actively engaging with our people and employee bodies set of HSE standards and procedures across all with regular surveys, feedback and forums.
