Directors report The Directors present their Annual Report to Directors shareholders, together with the audited financial The names and biographical details of the present Directors statements, for the year ended 31 March 2007. are set out on pages 30 to 31.
With the exception of Simon Ball, who was appointed on 1 May 2006, all these Directors Principal activities, business review and results were in office throughout the year.
Our principal activities are detailed on page 4 to 5.
The During the year, the following Directors resigned from the Board seeks, through this Annual Report, including the Board: Francesco Caio and Lord Robertson of Port Ellen Chairmans Statement and the Business Review section on 1 April 2006, Charles Herlinger on 31 May 2006, Graham that precede this report pages 6 to 28, to present a Howe on 30 June 2006 and both Bernard Gray and Rob balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups Rowley on 21 July 2006. activities, position and prospects.
Each of these sections is incorporated by reference into this Directors report.
Richard Lapthorne will retire by rotation at the 2007 AGM in accordance with article 90 of the Companys articles of The Groups results for the financial year are shown in association and will offer himself for re-appointment.
In the consolidated income statement on page 51. order to phase the re-election of Directors, it is also proposed that Clive Butler and Harris Jones seek re-appointment at Dividends the 2007 AGM, notwithstanding the fact that they are not The Directors recommend a final dividend of 4.15 pence yet due for re-election.
per ordinary share payable on 10 August 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of business on The interests of the Directors and their immediate families 15 June 2007.
An interim dividend of 1.7 pence was paid in the shares of Cable and Wireless plc, along with details on 19 January 2007, which makes a total of 5.85 pence of Directors share options, are contained in the Directors per ordinary share for the financial year.
remuneration report set out on pages 38 to 47.
At no time during the year did any of the Directors have Share capital and treasury shares a material interest in any significant contract with the The authorised and called-up share capital of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Company, together with details of the shares allotted during the year, are shown in note 34 of the consolidated The Company has granted an indemnity in favour of its financial statements.
The Company did not purchase any Directors against personal financial exposure that they treasury shares during the year.
At 31 March 2007, a total may incur in the course of their professional duties.
of 74.95 million ordinary shares were held representing This is a qualifying third party indemnity provision for the 3% of called up share capital.
purpose of the Companies Act 1985.
Companys shareholders Charitable and political donations As at 23 May 2007, we have been notified of the following During the year ended 31 March 2007, the Group gave 1.4 shareholdings of 3% or more in the issued share capital million 2005 06 2.5 million to charitable organisations.
of the Company: More information about our support of the communities in which the Group operates is set out on pages 11 and 19.
Number of 1 2 shares held Holding The Group does not make political donations and has Newton Investment Management no intention of making donations to what are generally Limited 232,850,500 9.759% regarded as political parties within the European Union.
Standard Life Group 128,131,040 5.370% As a precautionary measure and in the light of the wide definitions of European Union political organisations in The The Trustees of BT Pension Scheme 119,145,642 4.993% Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 the Barclays PLC 81,173,078 3.402% Act, a resolution to permit the Company to make political donations and incur political expenditure was passed at the Legal & General Investment 2004 AGM.
The purpose of the resolution was to ensure Management Limited 80,313,877 3.366% that the Company did not unintentionally breach the Act.
Orbis Investment Management Limited 77,298,739 3.240% A resolution to renew this authority will be proposed at the 2007 AGM.
Lloyds TSB Group Plc 72,789,364 3.051% UBS AG 72,129,979 3.023% Supplier payment policy We agree payment terms with suppliers when we enter into 1 As notified to the Company.
2 The denominator for these calculations is 2,386,223,073 being the total number of purchase contracts and we seek to abide fairly by these voting rights in the Company as at 23 May 2007. agreed terms.
32 The average number of days between the invoice date The Groups key internal control and monitoring procedures and the date of payment by the Company calculated by include the following: reference to the amount owed to suppliers at the year end Financial reporting: Each year, an annual budget is agreed as a proportion of the amount invoiced by suppliers during and approved by the Board.
Then at each Board meeting, the year was 79 days 2005 06 79 days.
monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and, when appropriate, revised forecasts.
Employees Cable & Wireless employment policies comply with local Investment appraisal: We have clearly defined policies requirements and meet relevant standards on employment for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets of disabled people.
Full and fair consideration is given to and detailed appraisal processes for such expenditure.
disabled applicants for employment, training, and career Monitoring systems: We monitor our internal controls development is encouraged on the basis of aptitude and through a programme of internal audits.
It is the policy of the Company to retain employees Audit function reports to the Audit Committee on its who become disabled whilst in its service and to provide examination and evaluation of the effectiveness and specialist training where appropriate.
adequacy of our systems of internal control.
Annual General Meeting AGM Financial controls: We have dedicated resource to embed The AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday 20 July 2007 at processes and controls across our businesses.
We operate The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, a number of additional self-assessment exercises, which Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
Details of the resolutions to include monthly certification of compliance with key be proposed at the AGM are given in the Notice of Meeting.
financial controls and an annual controls self-assessment: the latter exercise requires management to assess the Auditor effectiveness of its fundamental operating controls over Resolutions to reappoint KPMG Audit Plc as our external all aspects of its operations, in addition to the other auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its financial controls covered by our Financial Controls Toolkit.
remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
The results of this exercise are utilised by Internal Audit in planning its work for the forthcoming year.
Internal control and risk management Our Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal Effectiveness of internal control control and for reviewing its effectiveness on an ongoing The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of internal control basis.
The Groups system of internal control is designed to systems in operation during the financial year in accordance manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve with the revised Turnbull guidance, through the processes set business objectives and can only provide reasonable, but out above which have been in place for the year under review not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The concept of reasonable assurance recognises appropriate, necessary action has been or is being taken that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the to remedy any failings and weaknesses determined to be expected benefits.
significant from the review of the system of internal control.
The Group operates a risk management process, under The responsibility for internal control procedures within which each business unit identifies the key risks to their associates and joint ventures rests with the senior plans, their likelihood and impact and the actions being management of these operations.
We monitor our taken to manage those risks.
Consolidated risk registers investments and exert our influence through Board for International and Europe, Asia & US are reviewed by representation.
their respective Operating Boards and these risk registers, together with a Central risk register, are presented to the Going concern Audit Committee on a rolling 12-month basis.
The principal After reviewing budgets and other longer term plans, the risks identified by the business are set out on pages 11, 18 to Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group 19 and 28. and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this The Groups Executive Directors also report to the Board, reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in on behalf of management, significant changes in the Groups preparing the financial statements.
business and the external environment in which it operates.
In addition, they provide the Board with monthly financial By order of the Board information, which includes key risk and performance indicators.
Nick Cooper Company Secretary 23 May 2007 33 Governance
