The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review This trend particularly helped medium sized companies and the Economic Background FTSE 100 Index returns lagged the return on the mid cap FTSE 250 The UK economic background was relatively benign during 2006.
The mid cap index has now outperformed the GDP Growth was solid, with latest estimates around 2.7%, despite FTSE 100 Index in 7 of the last 8 financial years, delivering an concerns over the impact on consumer spending of rising utility average outperformance of around 10% per annum over that period.
bills, council taxes and mortgage costs.
At the sector level, performances were widely dispersed, led by From a low base, the ination rate rose steadily, prompting the Bank industrial metals, which saw a bid for the steel company Corus, of Englands Monetary Policy Committee to raise interest rates telecoms, real estate, food retail and utilities.
Common threads twice in August and November from 4.5% to 5% and then again in running through several of these sectors were asset backing and January 2007 to 5.25%.
Although the Consumer Price Index CPI stable cashows.
Shares benefited from new legislation allowing tax reached an estimated 3.0% in 2006, the adjusted core CPI efficient property vehicles REITs and speculation of takeover remained just below the Banks 2% target rate.
falling sharply towards the end of the period and oil prices below their high point, inationary pressures seemed to be subsiding.
The worst performing sectors included oil and gas producers, with widely publicised issues at BP and Royal Dutch Shell, technology, House price appreciation recovered during the year from mid to pharmaceuticals and certain industrial sectors.
The other two large high single digits, providing some support to consumer confidence sectors, banks and mining, performed close to the index overall.
which had been impacted by rising bills and high levels of indebtedness.
Overall consumer spending remained resilient, despite Investment Performance an increasing minority of people getting into financial difficulties, as Investment Performance was well ahead of the FTSE 100 Index.
witnessed by rising bankruptcies and Individual Voluntary The portfolio benefited from a number of takeover approaches, Arrangements.
Jobs data was mixed with modestly rising including AWG, AB Ports and Scottish Power along with unemployment counteracted by rising total employment, boosted by speculation driving other shares.
Other big contributors included BT immigration.
which rose over 50% as investors reacted enthusiastically to an improving operating performance in a tough industry.
Slough Estates Overall therefore the UK economic background was supportive performed well in a buoyant property sector.
Smiths Group, a without being exceptionally strong.
Overseas, continental European diversied engineering and medical company, benefited from the economies saw some pick up in growth from modest levels whilst announcement of two deals with General Electric to sell its the US was robust apart from well publicised problems in the aerospace business and to put its rapidly growing detection division housing and auto industries.
Asian economies continued to grow into a joint venture.
strongly adding to the global demand picture.
Several of the medium sized company holdings also performed well, Company profits growth was generally healthy, supported by the notably Premier Foods and RHM which agreed a merger near the economic conditions.
There were good dividend increases across year end, Provident Financial, National Express and Britvic.
the market with several special payments as companies passed on high levels of cashow to their shareholders.
These payments also Portfolio Changes reected a move to make companies balance sheets more efficient Several themes have driven many of the investment decisions by taking on more debt.
As noted in the interim report, many of the largest companies traded at depressed levels during the year, offering high Market Trends and growing dividend yields combined with strong nances, healthy The stock market produced a double digit total return over the cashows and low valuations.
We took advantage of depressed twelve months to 31 January 2007, with the FTSE 100 Index up share prices to make significant additions to Royal Dutch Shell, BP, 11.3% and the FTSE Higher Yield Index up 11.2%.
Strong gains GlaxoSmithKline and Vodafone amongst others.
early in the year were completely lost in May and June as the market responded to a worldwide ight to quality.
Higher risk We also took advantage of the modest valuations being ascribed to assets such as commodities, emerging market debt and equities in many higher growth industries, with purchases including Reed general fell furthest.
However by late June the market had regained Elsevier, Emap and Reuters in the media sector, Xansa, a small its poise and thereafter made steady gains until the period end.
company in the IT services sector, and Smiths Group.
The market benefited from a large number of takeovers, fuelled by We made a number of opportunistic medium sized company increased corporate confidence, strong company balance sheets, the investments, purchasing high yielding shares such as transport high availability of cheap debt and private equity funds keen to company National Express, Britvic, the soft drinks manufacturer, invest money after record fund raisings.
and Marshalls, a UK building products company.
6 The Merchants Trust PLC Investment Managers Review Portfolio positioning in commodity related sectors and companies Future Policy was an important consideration as commodity prices were volatile Recent interest rate increases will feed through to mortgage costs and in many cases traded well above historic levels.
We took some putting pressure on consumer expenditure.
How far the Bank of profits in mining companies as share price appreciation pushed England raises interest rates depends upon the path of ination in dividend yields down to unattractive levels for a high income the months ahead.
If rates only rise modestly from here, we expect portfolio.
We also purchased Centrica, the owner of British Gas, consumers and the overall economy to continue to be resilient.
where profitability had been squeezed by the inability to pass on However further significant rate rises could lead to more of a high gas prices to consumers.
We anticipated a benefit as gas prices slowdown.
reverted to more normal levels.
In a similar vein we purchased Rexam, a beverage can manufacturer, which was suffering from The corporate sector is well positioned for further growth in profits high aluminium prices which should ultimately either subside or be and dividends although the economic environment and foreign passed through to customers.
We took some profits on Scottish exchange rates, notably the US dollar, will have a strong influence.
Power, a beneciary of high electricity prices, when it was bid for by We are particularly focused on the US economy which has a major the Spanish utility Iberdrola.
bearing on global trade and financial markets.
The revaluation of asset backed and infrastructure companies Whilst market valuations are still reasonable in aggregate, there is a provided opportunities for profit taking among real estate companies large gap between the valuations of the largest companies which and utilities.
Sales included Land Securities, United Utilities and look attractive and mid and small sized companies which are more BAA.
Average dividend yields are no longer as supportive as they were with a historic yield of 3.0% on the FTSE at the year end In the Summer we disposed of several investments that had compared with ten year government bond yields and base rates at exposure to the US housing market on concerns over a potential 5.0% and 5.25% respectively.
Housebuilders Wimpey and Taylor Woodrow were sold along with engineering company Tomkins.
Takeovers also took We continue to favour the larger companies offering better yields, certain stocks out of the portfolio as mentioned above.
robust balance sheets and strong cashows.
Elsewhere we see selected opportunities, notably in certain higher growth sectors that are modestly valued.
