The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Business Review is addressed only to shareholders as a body, capital through a policy of investing mainly in higher yielding UK and no liability can be admitted by the Directors to any other parties FTSE 100 companies.
The Companys investment performance is in connection therewith.
The purpose of the Business Review is assessed by comparison with other investment trusts within the UK limited to its statutory purpose, namely to assist shareholders in Growth and Income sector.
In addition, it is benchmarked against assessing the Companys strategies and the potential for these the FTSE 100 Index, reecting the emphasis within the portfolio, as strategies to succeed.
Any forward-looking statements contained in well as the FTSE 350 Higher Yield Index, reecting the Companys the Business Review reect the knowledge and information higher yield objective.
available to the Directors at the date the Business Review was prepared.
The Business Review will not be updated during the next The Company pays quarterly dividends and the Board has a policy financial year, but any forward-looking statements contained in the of making these progressive from year to year, in keeping with the Business Review will be considered in the preparation of the next Companys stated objective to provide an above average level of years Annual Report.
The dividend has increased every year for the past twenty five years and details of historic dividend payments are set out on page 5. Business Review Business and Status of the Company Performance The Company is an investment company as dened in Section 266 In the year to 31 January 2007 the Company produced an NAV of the Companies Act 1985. capital return to shareholders of 12.6%.
This compares with the return on the Companys benchmark index of 7.7%.
In the previous The Company carries on business as an investment trust and was year the returns were 21.2% and 18.7% respectively.
At 31 January approved by HM Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in 2007 the value of the Companys investment portfolio was accordance with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes 695.8m.
The Investment Managers review on pages 6 to 7 Act 1988 for the year ended 31 January 2006.
In the opinion of the includes a review of developments during the year as well as Directors, the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so information on investment activity within the Companys portfolio.
that it should continue to qualify.
The Company will continue to seek approval under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Key Performance Indicators KPIs Taxes Act 1988 each year.
The Company is not a close company for The Board uses certain financial KPIs to monitor and assess the taxation purposes.
The principal KPIs are: Regulatory Environment Performance against the benchmark index The Company is listed on the London Stock Exchange and is The Companys performance is benchmarked against the FTSE 100 subject to UK company law, financial reporting standards, listing Index.
This is the most important KPI by which performance is rules, tax law and its own Articles of Association.
annual and interim accounts published under these rules, the Company announces net asset values per share on a daily basis for Performance against the Companys peers the information of investors.
It provides more detailed information The Board also monitors the Companys performance with reference on a monthly basis to the Association of Investment Companies, of to its investment trust peer group.
which the Company is a member, in order for brokers and investors to compare its performance with its peer group.
The Board of Performance Attribution Directors is charged with ensuring that the Company complies with The performance attribution is considered at each Board Meeting its own objectives as well as these rules.
The Board has appointed and enables the Directors to judge how the Company achieved its RCM UK Limited to carry out investment management, performance relative to the benchmark index and to see the impact accounting, secretarial and administration services on behalf of the on the Companys relative performance of factors including stock Company.
The Company has no employees or premises of its own.
A Performance Attribution Analysis for the year ended 31 January 2007 is given on page 3.
Investment Objective and Policies The Companys objective is to provide an above average level of income and income growth together with long term growth of 15 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Invested Discount to net asset value NAV The Board has a share buy back programme which has a role to funds at 31 January 2007 had a value of 695,769,971 2006 621,948,270 before deducting net liabilities of play in minimising the volatility of movements in the discount and in enhancing the NAV for existing shareholders as shares are bought 106,935,296 2006 107,235,074. back at a discount.
In the year to 31 January 2007 the shares traded between a premium of 0.5% and a discount of 2.47% with debt at Principal Risks and Uncertainties With the assistance of the Managers the Board has drawn up a risk fair value.
matrix which identies the key risks to the Company.
These key risks fall broadly under the following categories: Total expense ratio TER The most significant expense for the Company is the cost of the Investment Activity and Strategy management fee and the costs of interest on the Companys borrowings.
Other expenses include the costs of investment An inappropriate investment strategy, e. g. asset allocation or the level of gearing, may lead to under-performance against the transactions, directors fees and insurance, professional advice and regulatory fees and the costs of production of the reports to Companys benchmark index and peer group companies, and also in the Companys shares trading on a wider discount.
The TER is calculated by dividing operating expenses by total assets less current liabilities, that is, the Companys manages these risks by diversication of investments through its investment restrictions and guidelines which are monitored and on management fee and all other operating expenses including tax relief, where allowable, but excluding interest payments as a which the Board receives reports.
RCM UK Limited RCM UK provides the Directors with management information including percentage of average assets over the year.
performance data and reports and shareholder analyses.
The Board monitors the implementation and results of the investment process with the investment managers, who attend all board meetings, and Revenue reviews data which show risk factors and how they affect the The return attributable to Ordinary Shareholders for the year portfolio.
The Board reviews investment strategy at each board amounted to 22,854,005 2006 19,853,959. meeting.
Earnings per ordinary dividend amounted to 22.17p.
The first and second interim dividends of 4.9p and 4.9p respectively have been Portfolio and Market paid during the year.
Since the year end the third interim dividend Market risk arises from uncertainty about the future prices of the of 5.1p has been paid.
The final proposed dividend of 5.1p is Companys investments.
This is commented on in Financial Risk payable on 16 May 2007.
In accordance with FRS 21 Events after Management on page 13.
The Board monitors the implementation the Balance Sheet Date, the third and final dividends are not and results of the investment process with the investment managers.
recognised as liabilities within the accounts.
Accounting, Legal and Regulatory Historical Record In order to qualify as an investment trust the Company must The distribution of total assets is shown on page 10, and the comply with Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act historical record of the Companys revenue, capital and invested 1988 Section 842, and details are given above under the funds over the past ten years is shown on page 5.
Graphs appear on heading Business of the Company.
A breach of Section 842 could page 12 showing the performance on a total return basis over the result in the Company losing investment trust status and, as a past ten years of the Net Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary consequence, gains in the Companys portfolio would be subject to Shares against the Companys benchmark indices, the growth in net Capital Gains Tax.
The Section 842 criteria are monitored by RCM ordinary distributions made by the Company against the Retail Price UK and results are reported to the Board at each Board Meeting.
Index, and the Companys discount to Net Asset Value over the The Company must comply with the provisions of the Companies same period.
Act 1985, and the Companies Act 2006 as it becomes enacted Companies Acts, and, as the Companys shares are listed on the Invested Funds London Stock Exchange, the Company must comply with the UK Sales of investments during the year resulted in net gains based on Listing Authoritys Listing Rules and Disclosure Rules UKLA historical costs of 53,443,663 2006 36,622,105.
A breach of the Companies Acts could result in the contained in the Finance Act 1980 exempt approved Investment Company and or the Directors being ned or the subject of 16 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report criminal proceedings.
Breach of the UKLA Rules could result in the Share Capital suspension of the Companys shares which would in turn lead to a Details of the Companys share capital are set out in Note 11 on breach of Section 842.
The Board relies on its company secretary page 40. and its professional advisers to ensure compliance with the Companies Acts and UKLA Rules.
Payment Policy It is the Companys payment policy for the forthcoming financial Corporate Governance and Shareholder Relations year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is Details of the Companys compliance with Corporate Governance no consistent policy as to the terms used.
In general, the Company best practice, including information on relations with shareholders, agrees with its suppliers the terms on which business will take place are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 22 to 25. and it is our policy to abide by these terms.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end 2006 nil.
Operational Disruption to, or failure of, RCM UK s accounting, dealing or Donations and Subscriptions payment systems or the custodians records may prevent accurate There were no charitable donations and subscriptions in respect of reporting and monitoring of the Companys financial position.
No political donations were made during the RCM UK Limited has transferred operational functions, principally year.
relating to trade processing and investment administration, to The Bank of New York London Branch.
Details of how the Board Corporate Governance monitors the services provided by RCM UK and other suppliers The Corporate Governance statement is set out on pages 22 to 25. and the key elements designed to provide effective internal control are included within the Internal Control section of the Corporate Directors Fees Governance report on page 23.
A report on the Directors remuneration is set out on page 26.
Financial Final Dividend The financial risks to the Company are disclosed in Note 18. on Subject to the final dividend being approved by shareholders at the page 43 to 44.
Annual General Meeting, payment will be made on 16 May 2007 to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business Future Development on 13 April 2007 at the rate of 5.1p per Ordinary Share.
Further The future development of the Company is dependent on the details are provided in Note 6 on page 36. success of the Companys investment strategy against the economic environment and market developments.
The investment manager discusses his view of the outlook for the Companys portfolio in his report beginning on page 6.
Net Asset Value The Net Asset Value of the Ordinary Shares of 25p at the year end was 567.5p as compared with a value of 504.1p at 31 January 2006.
The Company has been given authority by its shareholders to buy back shares for cancellation which, in the right circumstances, could be used by the Board to enhance shareholder value and help to reduce the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares currently trade.
No shares have been bought back since 2001, however, to enable the Company to respond to changes of circumstances, a resolution to renew the authority to purchase shares for cancellation is to be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and the full text is set out in the Notice of Meeting on page 45.
17 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The current Directors and their beneficial interests in the share capital Substantial Shareholdings of the Company as at 31 January 2007 and 2006 or at the date of In accordance with Section 198 of the Companies Act 1985 and the appointment to the Board are listed below: Disclosure of Interests in Shares Amendment No.
2 Ordinary Shares of 25p Regulations 1993, as at the date of this report, the Company has 2007 2006 been advised of the following substantial share interests in its Sir John Banham 2,000 2,000 preference stock and ordinary share capital: R. A. Bareld 2,343 2,259 3.65% Cumulative Preference Stock: Sir Bob Reid 5,000 5,000 P. S. &.
J M. Allen 185,582 15.75% J. M. Sassoon 35,600 35,600 Prudential plc 176,000 14.9% : P. J. Scott Plummer 1,000 1,000 Ecclesiastical Insurance Ofce plc 134,690 11.4% : H. A. Stevenson 25,000 25,000 F&C Asset Management plc 60,000 5.1% D. J. Edwards 50,000 4.2% Since the year end, Mr R. A. Bareld has acquired a further J. Y. Miller 36,000 3.0% 19 Ordinary Shares due to reinvestment of income in a share plan.
Ordinary Shares: Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Group Limited No contracts of signicance in which Directors are deemed to have 4,524,860 4.36% been interested have subsisted during the year under review.
Legal & General Group PLC 3,427,541 3.3% Contracts of service are not entered into with the Directors, who Directors and Management hold ofce in accordance with the Articles of Association.
All Directors listed below served throughout the financial year under review.
Management Contract and Management Fee The management contract with RCM UK Limited RCM The Directors retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2006 0.35% of the value are Sir John Banham, Sir Bob Reid and Joe Scott Plummer.
Sir John of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of current Banham will be retiring after the AGM in May.
Sir Bob Reid and Joe liabilities, short term loans under one year and any funds within the Scott Plummer each offers himself for re-election and both have the portfolio managed by RCM.
The management contract is terminable full support of the Board in doing so.
at one years notice 2006 one year.
The Board considers Sir Bob Reid and Joe Scott Plummer to be The Managers performance under the contract and the contract independent, notwithstanding their length of service, and continues terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management to be of the view that their extensive experience and active Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the Directors knowledge of industry and financial services are of great benefit to not employed by the management company in the past five years the Board.
and therefore includes the entire Board.
During the year, the committee met the Manager to review the current investment The Board confirms that, since the year end, the performances of framework, including the Trusts performance, marketing activity Sir Bob Reid and Joe Scott Plummer have been subject to a formal and total expense ratio.
evaluation, and that each continues to be effective in, and to demonstrate commitment to, his role.
The committee also reviewed the terms of the management contract and considered the level of the management fee, which it James Sassoon, having been appointed to the Board during the year, found to be appropriate.
The committee was satisfied with its retires in accordance with the Articles of Association and offers review and believes that the continuing appointment of the himself for election.
Managers is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Biographical details of the Directors are on page 14.
18 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Manager has discretion to exercise voting rights at the meeting Annual General Meeting of companies in which the Company is invested, and will usually do Purchase of Own Shares so.
However, in cases of takeover, merger or other offer involving a The Board is proposing that the Company should be given renewed corporate client of the Managers or any of its associated companies authority to purchase Ordinary Shares in the market for the voting rights may only be exercised with the approval of at least cancellation.
The Board believes that such purchases in the market one independent Director of the Company.
Similar approval must be at appropriate times and prices would be a suitable method of sought in the case of any investment transactions in such companies enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would make either a or underwriting participations involving the securities of corporate single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions clients of the Managers or any of its associated companies.
The are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benets to shareholders Managers do not have any discretion over any securities of and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board.
Dresdner Bank AG or its subsidiaries that may be held by the Company.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares, this will enhance net asset value for the The Company has entered into an annual agreement with Allianz remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would Global Investors to operate the Investment Trust Share Plan.
The only be made at prices below net asset value, with the purchases to be cost to the Company for the year ending 31 January 2007 is funded from the realised capital profits of the Company which are 65,453 excluding VAT 2006 197,462 excluding VAT.
The fee currently in excess of 400 million.
The rules of the UK Listing relates to generic costs and is partially calculated on a usage and Authority Listing Rules limit the price which may be paid by the market capitalisation basis.
Company to 105% of the average middle-market quotation for an Ordinary Share on the five business days immediately preceding the Individual Savings Accounts PEPs date of the relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will be The affairs of the Company are conducted in such a way as to meet 25p per Ordinary Share being the nominal value.
Overall, this the requirement of a qualifying investment trust to Personal Equity proposed share buy-back authority, if used, should help to reduce the Plans and the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares currently is the intention to continue to do so.
Directors and Ofcers Liability Insurance The Board considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders The Company maintained Directors and ofcers liability insurance for the Company to be able to make such purchases as and when it during the year.
considers the timing to be most favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
Based on an analysis of the Ordinary Share register at 2 April 2007 2006 1 April.
19 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to Whilst it is anticipated that allotments under this authority will redeem or purchase its own shares out of capital profits.
Under the normally be to the Allianz Global Investors Investment Trust Share Listing Rules, the maximum number of shares which a listed Plan, the resolution allows for allotments of new shares at the company may purchase through the market pursuant to a general discretion of the Directors and is not limited only to this Plan.
The authority such as this is equivalent to 14.99% of its issued share Directors confirm that no allotment of new shares will be made capital.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its renewed unless the lowest market offer price of the Ordinary Shares is at authority to make such purchases to 15,553,605 Ordinary Shares, least at a premium to net asset value, valuing debt at market value.
representing 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided that there Auditors is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General 2007.
Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors for the ensuing year.
A resolution to authorise the Directors to The authority will last until the Annual General Meeting of the determine the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at the Company to be held in 2008 or the expiry of 18 months from the Annual General Meeting.
date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The By Order of the Board authority will be subject to renewal by shareholders at subsequent K. J.
Secretary 4 April 2007 Allotment of New Shares and Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Approval is sought for the renewal of the Directors authority to allot relevant securities, in accordance with Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985, up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 8,646,656, representing approximately 33% of the existing Ordinary Share capital.
This authority would expire five years from the date of renewal, if not previously revoked or varied.
A resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 9 May 2006 to authorise the Directors to allot the unissued Ordinary Share capital for cash.
The authority is renewable annually and expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2007.
A Special Resolution is therefore proposed under special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further year.
The power to allot new Ordinary Shares for cash, other than pro rata to existing shareholders, is limited to the aggregate nominal amount of 1,296,998 Ordinary Share capital, being approximately five per cent of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of this report, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 14 May 2007.
20 The Merchants Trust PLC Statement of Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records the accounts in accordance with applicable law and United that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
Company law position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the requires the Directors to prepare accounts for each financial year accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud preparing these accounts, the Directors are required to: and other irregularities.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them The accounts are published on www.
co. uk, consistently: which is a website maintained by the Companys Investment Managers, RCM UK Limited.
The Directors are responsible for the make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information prudent: included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the state whether applicable accounting standards have been accounts may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the accounts: prepare the accounts on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
