The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Mr H. A. Stevenson Chairman Sir Bob Reid Born September 1942 joined the Board in September 1999.
Born May 1934 joined the Board in January 1995.
He was Formerly Chairman of Mercury Asset Management Group plc, he is formerly Deputy Governor of the Bank of Scotland, Chairman of Chairman of Equitas Limited, Chairman of Standard Life Shell UK, British Rail, London Electricity plc and Sears PLC.
He is Investments, a Director of Standard Life plc, a Non-Executive Senior Non-Executive Director of HBOS plc.
Director of the Financial Services Authority and a member of the Mr J. M. Sassoon Chairman of the Audit Committee from Investment Committee of the Wellcome Trust.
September 2006 Sir John Banham Born September 1955 joined the Board in July 2006.
He is Born August 1940 joined the Board in August 1992.
Formerly The Chancellors Representative for Promotion of the City at Controller of the Audit Commission and Director General of the HM Treasury.
From 2002 to 2006 he was Managing Director of Confederation of British Industry, Chairman of Tarmac plc, HM Treasurys Finance and Industry Directorate and a Member of Kingsher plc and until August 2005 he was Chairman of the Treasury Board.
Prior to that he had worked at UBS Warburg Whitbread PLC.
He is Chairman of Johnson Matthey PLC and since 1987 where he held a number of positions, latterly Vice Spacelabs Healthcare Inc.
He is also the Senior Non-Executive Chairman, Investment Banking.
Director of Amvescap Plc and of Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals Inc. Mr P. J. Scott Plummer Senior Independent Director and Sir John will be retiring from the Board at the conclusion of the Chairman of the Audit Committee until September 2006 forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Born August 1943 is a Chartered Accountant and joined the Mr R. A. Bareld Board in May 1997.
He is a Director of Buccleuch Estates Limited.
Born April 1947 joined the Board in May 1999.
Formerly Chief He was until November 2005 Chairman of Martin Currie Limited.
Investment Manager of Standard Life Assurance Company, he is a He was formally a Director of Martin Currie Portfolio Investment Director of The Baillie Gifford Japan Trust PLC, JPMorgan Fleming Trust PLC and Candover Investments PLC.
Overseas Investment Trust PLC, The Edinburgh Investment Trust All the above Directors are non-executive and independent of the PLC, Standard Life Investments Property Income Trust Limited, Manager.
Umbro PLC and other companies.
He is a member of The Public Oversight Board.
