Directors Anthony W Lea Colin A M Buchan Chairman Aged 53, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He was Aged 59, was appointed to the Board in July 2005.
He is a Global Head of Equities at UBS Warburg before his non-executive director of BSI Group.
He was the finance retirement in March 2001.
He is non-executive vice chairman director of Anglo American plc in London from 1999 to 2005, of Standard Life Investments Holdings Limited and a nonone of the worlds leading mining and natural resources executive director of Standard Life plc, Standard Life companies.
He was also a non-executive director of Investments Limited, National Westminster Bank plc, The AngloGold Ashanti Limited, the worlds second largest gold Royal Bank of Scotland plc, The Royal Bank of Scotland producer, and fide Beers Investments SA.
Group plc, The Fettes Foundation and The Royal Scottish National Orchestra.
Ian C S Barby Aged 63, was appointed to the Board in December 2003.
He Gordon H Sage is non-executive chairman of Ecofin Water & Power Aged 60, was appointed to the Board in July 2001.
He was an Opportunities plc and INVESCO Perpetual UK Smaller executive director of Rio Tinto plc until his retirement in 2001 Companies Investment Trust plc, and a non-executive and was deputy chairman of ERM Holdings Limited, an director of Pantheon International Participations PLC, environmental consulting concern, until retiring in October Schroder Income Growth Fund PLC and SR Europe 2006.
He is a director of Balfour Beatty plc.
He was managing director of Merrill Lynch Investment Managers now BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited Investment Trusts division until June 2003.
Oliver A G Baring Aged 63, was appointed to the Board in November 2004.
He is executive chairman of Mwana Africa PLC and holds non executive chairmanships of Ridge Mining plc formerly Cluff Mining plc and First Africa Group Holdings Limited, as well as directorships in Robert Fox Limited, Tilley International plc, Ferrexpo plc and is a council member of the Sentient Group, a private equity mining fund.
All the Directors are non-executive.
Independent Director and a member of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee.
18 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
