Directors Report The Directors present the annual report and financial It is intended that the Group will normally be fully invested, statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings which means at least 90% will be invested in stocks, shares for the year ended 31 December 2007. and physical metals.
However, if such investments are deemed to be overvalued, or if the Investment Manager finds Business Review it difficult to identify attractively priced opportunities for Principal activity and business review investment, then up to 25% of the portfolio may be held in The Company carries on business as an investment trust.
Its cash or cash equivalents.
Risk is spread by investing in a principal activity is portfolio investment and that of its number of holdings, many of which themselves are trading subsidiary, World Mining Investment Company diversified companies.
The Group may also occasionally utilise derivative instruments such as options, futures and contracts, if it is Status of the Company deemed that these will, at a particular time or for a In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has conducted particular period, enhance the performance of the Group in its affairs during the year under review, and subsequently, so the pursuit of its objectives.
It is the Boards policy that the as to qualify as an investment trust for the purposes of aggregate exposure to such derivatives does not exceed 10% section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 of the gross assets of the Group.
Details of derivatives activity ICTA.
The last accounting period for which the Company is given in the Investment Managers Report on pages 10 has been treated as approved as an investment trust by HM and 11.
Revenue & Customs HMRC was for the year ended 31 December 2006.
It is the Companys intention to continue to Although investments are principally in companies listed on seek approval under section 842 of ICTA.
recognised stock exchanges, the Company may invest up to 10% of its gross assets in unquoted securities.
As at The Company is an investment company and can take 31 December 2007, the Company did not hold any unquoted advantage of section 265 of the Companies Act 1985 investments.
The Company is also permitted to enter into which allows an investment company to disregard losses stock lending arrangements.
on the capital account when paying dividends out of the revenue account.
It is the Boards current policy that the Company will not invest in any holding that would represent more than 10% of The Company is not a close company within the meaning of its gross assets at the time of acquisition.
In addition, while the provisions of ICTA.
the Company may hold shares in other listed investment The Companys shares are eligible for inclusion in the stocks companies including investment trusts, the Board has and shares component of an Individual Savings Account.
agreed that the Company will not invest more than 15% of its gross assets in other UK listed investment companies.
Continuation of the Company The Groups accounts are maintained in sterling.
Although As agreed by shareholders in 1998, an ordinary resolution for many investments are denominated and quoted in currencies the continuance of the Company is proposed at each Annual other than sterling, the Group does not intend to employ a General Meeting.
hedging policy against fluctuations in exchange rates.
Investment policy Information regarding the Companys investment exposures The Companys investment policy is to provide a diversified is contained within the ten largest investments on pages 12 investment in quoted mining and metal securities worldwide, and 13, the investments listing on pages 14 to 16, and actively managed with the objective of maximising total portfolio analysis on page 17.
Up to 10% of the gross assets of the Company and investment risk and activity throughout the year can be found its trading subsidiary, World Mining Investment Company in the Investment Managers Report.
Limited the Group, may be invested in physical metals.
No material change will be made to the investment policy Gearing without shareholder approval.
The Investment Manager believes that tactical use of gearing can add value from time to time.
This gearing is typically in Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 19 Directors Report continued the form of an overdraft or short term loan facility, which can 2007 2006 be repaid at any time.
1 Net asset value undiluted 804.13p 516.07p 1 Net asset value diluted 752.28p 503.23p The level and benefit of gearing is discussed and agreed with Share price 655.00p 444.00p 1 the Board regularly.
The Investment Manager generally aims Discount to net asset value 12.9% 11.8% Revenue earnings to be fully invested and it is anticipated that gearing will not per share basic 8.25p 8.78p exceed 15% of the Groups net assets.
At the balance sheet 2 Total expense ratio 1.1% 1.0% date, gearing stood at 0.04% of shareholders funds.
Calculated in accordance with AIC guidelines.
Discount calculated on diluted NAV.
Operating expenses excluding interest as a % of average daily shareholders funds.
Performance The Board monitors the above KPIs at each meeting.
In the year to 31 December 2007, the Companys undiluted Additionally, it regularly reviews a number of indices and net asset value per share increased by 57.1% compared with ratios to understand the impact on the Companys relative a rise in the HSBC Global Mining Index of 54.4% and the performance of the various components such as asset Companys share price increased by 49.0% all percentages allocation and stock selection.
calculated in sterling terms with income and warrant proceeds reinvested.
The Directors recognise that it is in the long term interests of shareholders that shares do not trade at a significant The Investment Managers Report on pages 5 to 11 includes discount to their prevailing net asset value.
During the year a review of the main developments during the year, the shares traded at a discount to NAV of between 5.7% and together with information on investment activity within the 15.1%, ending the year at 12.9%.
To enable the Board to take Companys portfolio.
action to deal with any overhang or shortage in the market, it seeks approval from shareholders each year to buy back Results and dividends and issue shares.
The Board continues to be mindful of The consolidated profit for the year was 471,058,000 2006: the discount and during the year bought back 14,442,800 205,293,000 of which 13,391,000 2006: 14,782,000 is shares representing 8.6% of the issued share capital.
The results for the Group are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 34.
Principal risks The Directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of The key risks faced by the Company are set out below.
The 3.00p per share and have also declared a special dividend of Board regularly reviews and agrees policies for managing 2.50p per share in respect of the year ended 31 December each risk, as summarised below.
The dividends will Performance risk The Board is responsible for deciding be paid on 17 April 2008 to shareholders on the register of the investment strategy to fulfil the Companys objectives members at close of business on 22 February 2008.
The cost and monitoring the performance of the Investment of the dividends amount to 8,674,000.
An inappropriate strategy may lead to underperformance against the benchmark index.
To Derivative transactions manage this risk the Investment Manager provides an Details of the Groups derivative transactions are given in the explanation of significant stock selection decisions and Investment Managers Report on pages 10 and 11 and in note the rationale for the composition of the investment 19 on pages 49 to 56. portfolio.
The Board monitors and mandates an adequate spread of investments, in order to minimise the risks Key performance indicators associated with particular countries or factors specific to At each Board meeting, the Directors consider a number of particular sectors, based on the diversification performance measures to assess the Companys success in requirements inherent in the Companys investment achieving its objectives.
Amongst others, the key policy.
The Board also receives and reviews regular performance indicators KPIs used to measure the reports showing an analysis of the Companys progress and performance of the Company over time and performance against the HSBC Global Mining Index and which are comparable to those reported by other investment trusts are set out as follows.
20 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc other similar indices, including the performance of major good performance and the loss by the management of companies in the sector.
key staff could affect investment returns.
The Investment Manager has training and development programs in Income dividend risk The amount of dividends and place for its employees and its recruitment and future dividend growth will depend on the Companys remuneration packages are developed in order to retain underlying portfolio.
Any change in the tax treatment of key staff.
the dividends or interest received by the Company Financial risks The Companys investment activities including as a result of withholding taxes or exchange expose it to a variety of financial risks that include market controls imposed by jurisdictions in which the Company risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity risk invests may reduce the level of dividends received by and credit risk.
In addition, it should be noted that the shareholders.
The Board monitors this risk through the location of the companies in which the Company invests receipt of detailed income forecasts and considers the and shares of companies in the mining sector can prove level of income at each meeting.
to be more volatile and therefore present a greater Regulatory risk The Company operates as an degree of risk.
Unquoted investments in the Companys investment trust in accordance with section 842 of the portfolio are also subject to additional liquidity risk.
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
As such the Further details are disclosed in note 19 on pages 49 to 56, Company is exempt from capital gains tax on the sale of together with a summary of the policies for managing its investments.
The Investment Manager monitors these risks.
investment movements, the level and type of forecast income and expenditure and the amount of proposed Future prospects dividends to ensure that the provisions of section 842 are The Boards main focus is to maximise total returns.
The not breached and the results are reported to the Board.
future performance of the Company is much dependent upon the success of the investment strategy and, to a large Operational risk Like most other investment trust degree, on the performance of financial markets.
The companies, the Company has no employees.
The outlook for the Company in the next twelve months is Company therefore relies upon the services provided by discussed in the Investment Managers Report on page 11. third parties and is dependent on the control systems of the Investment Manager and the Companys service Investment management and administration providers.
The security, for example, of the Companys BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited assets, dealing procedures, accounting records and BlackRock provides management services to the maintenance of regulatory and legal requirements, Company under a contract terminable on six months notice.
depend on the effective operation of these systems.
These BlackRock receives an annual management fee of 1.25% of are regularly tested and monitored and an internal control gross assets.
The value of any investment in BlackRock report, which includes an assessment of risks together managed funds is excluded when calculating the with procedures to mitigate such risks, is prepared by the management fee.
Investment Manager and reviewed by the Audit & Management Engagement Committee twice a year.
The No penalty on termination of the investment management custodian, The Bank of New York Europe Limited contract would be payable by the Company in the event that BNYE, a subsidiary of the Bank of New York Mellon six months written notice is given to BlackRock.
There are and the Investment Manager also produce annual FRAG no provisions relating to payment of fees in lieu of notice.
reports to be replaced by AAF 01 06 and SAS 70 for the BlackRock acted as the secretary and administrator of the 2008 reporting process which are reviewed by their Company throughout the year.
BlackRock receives an annual respective auditors and give assurance regarding the fee of 0.05% of gross assets.
BNYE is the custodian of the Companys assets.
The BNYE Resource risk The quality of the investment fee is payable at rates depending on the number of trades management team employed by BlackRock Investment effected and location of securities held.
The custodian Management UK Limited is a crucial factor in delivering agreement is subject to six months notice by either party.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 21 Directors Report continued Appointment of the Investment Manager Directors The Board considers the arrangements for the provision of The Directors of the Company on 31 December 2007, all of investment management services to the Company on an whom held office throughout the year under review and their ongoing basis and a formal review is conducted annually.
The interests in the ordinary shares and warrants of the Board believes that the continuing appointment of the Company at the beginning and end of the financial year, are Investment Manager, on the terms disclosed on page 21, is shown in the table below.
in the interests of all shareholders.
1 January 2007 31 December 2007 As part of the annual review the Board considered the quality Ordinary Ordinary Shares Warrants Shares Warrants and continuity of the personnel assigned to handle the A W Lea 5,000 1,000 5,000 1,000 Companys affairs, the investment process and the results I C S Barby 5,000 76,000 5,000 76,000 achieved to date.
The specialist nature of the Companys O A G Baring investment remit is, in the Boards view, best served by the C A M Buchan 20,000 4,000 20,000 4,000 Natural Resources team at BlackRock, who have a proven G H Sage 10,000 2,000 10,000 2,000 track record in successfully investing in the mining sector.
All of the holdings of the Directors are beneficial.
Since the Voting policy financial year end, Mr Barby has disposed of 56,000 warrants.
The exercise of voting rights attached to the Companys The Directors retiring by rotation are Mr Baring and Mr Sage, portfolio has been delegated to the Investment Manager.
who offer themselves for re-election.
Both Directors have The Investment Managers voting policy states: considerable knowledge of the mining sector worldwide, as well as wider commercial experience.
Accordingly, their we will vote in favour of proposals which we expect to re-election is recommended to shareholders.
enhance shareholder value and on routine issues where we are generally supportive of a companys management: None of the Directors has a service contract with the Company.
we will vote against proposals which we believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests: in Directors indemnity these situations we would normally have raised our In addition to Directors and Officers liability insurance concerns with management in advance: cover, the Companys Articles of Association provide, subject we will abstain on proposals which we feel unable to to the provisions of applicable UK legislation, an indemnity support but believe it would be against our clients for Directors in respect of costs incurred in the defence of interests to oppose publicly: and any proceedings brought against them by third parties arising out of their positions as Directors, in which they are in all situations the economic interests of our clients will acquitted or judgement is given in their favour.
has entered into Deeds of Indemnity with Directors individually which are available for inspection at the Going concern registered office of the Company and will be available at the The financial statements of the Company have been Annual General Meeting.
prepared on a going concern basis.
The Directors consider this is the appropriate basis as the continuation vote, being Directors Remuneration Report an annual event, is considered to be a routine item, and the The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 25 majority of the Companys assets are readily realisable.
An ordinary resolution to approve this report will be Company is able to meet all of its liabilities from its assets put to members at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
and the ongoing expenses are 1.1% of the net assets.
Substantial share interests Share capital As at 1 February 2008, the Company had received notification Details of the Companys share capital are given in note 16 on in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency page 47.
22 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc Rule 5.1.
2 R of the following interests in 3% or more of the The latest authority to purchase ordinary shares for voting rights attaching to the Companys issued share capital.
cancellation was granted to the Directors on 22 March 2007 and expires on 21 September 2008.
The Directors are Holding % proposing that their authority to buy back shares be renewed Barclays PLC 9,534,712 6.1 at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited 9,378,560 5.9 The main objective of any buy back is to enhance the net Legal & General Group PLC 7,536,878 4.8 asset value per share of the remaining shares and to reduce Rensburg Sheppards Investment the absolute level and volatility of any discount to net asset Management Limited 6,998,565 4.4 Lazard Asset Management LLC 6,275,332 4.0 value at which shares may trade.
Although the Investment Newton Investment Manager initiates the buy backs, the policy and parameters Management Ltd 4,724,598 3.0 are set by the Board and reviewed at regular intervals.
The 4.6% held on behalf of discretionary clients and 1.3% held on behalf of non-discretionary Company intends to raise the cash needed to finance the clients and staff.
0.4% held on behalf of clients.
purchase of ordinary shares either by selling securities in the Companys portfolio or by short term borrowing.
Donations Treasury shares The Company made no political or charitable donations The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury during the year.
Shares Regulations allow companies to hold shares acquired by market purchase as treasury shares, rather than Payment of suppliers having to cancel them.
Up to 10% of the issued shares may It is the policy of the Company and its subsidiaries to settle be held in treasury and may be subsequently cancelled or all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and sold for cash in the market.
This would give the Company the conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
ability to reissue shares quickly and cost efficiently, thereby Suppliers of goods and services are generally paid within improving liquidity and providing the Company with 30 days of the date of any invoice.
The Company has no additional flexibility in the management of its capital base.
The Board currently intends only to authorise the sale of Warrants shares from treasury at prices at or above the prevailing net In March 2006, shareholders were issued with bonus asset value per share plus costs of the relevant sale.
This warrants on the basis of one warrant for every five shares should result in a positive overall effect on shareholders if held, exercisable over a three year period.
3,844,373 shares are bought back at a discount and then sold at a price warrants were exercised on 28 February 2007 at a price of at or above the net asset value per share plus costs of the 439p per share.
The remaining 29,814,855 warrants are relevant sale.
exercisable at a price of 478p per share if exercised on In the interests of all shareholders, the Board will continue 29 February 2008 or at a price of 565p per share if exercised to keep the matter of treasury shares under review.
Annual General Meeting Share repurchases Resolutions relating to the following items of special During the year the Company repurchased and subsequently business will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual placed in treasury 14,442,800 ordinary shares of 5p each, General Meeting.
representing 8.6% of the called-up share capital at the beginning of the year, for a total consideration of Resolution 8 Continuation of the Company as an 80,787,000.
Additionally, a total of 98,490,586 ordinary investment trust shares had been purchased and cancelled prior to October The resolution to be proposed will seek shareholders 2002.
At 31 December 2007, the Companys issued share authority that the Company shall continue in being as an capital was 172,143,279 ordinary shares including shares investment trust.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 23 Directors Report continued Resolution 9 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Audit information By law, Directors require specific authority from The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this shareholders before allotting new shares or selling shares Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, out of treasury for cash without first offering them to existing there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys shareholders in proportion to their holdings.
Auditor is unaware: and that each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to Resolution 9 empowers the Directors to allot new shares for make themselves aware of any relevant audit information cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware of treasury, otherwise than to existing shareholders on a prothat information.
rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 430,358 which is equivalent to 8,607,163 ordinary shares of 5p each Auditor and 5% of the Companys issued ordinary share capital.
The Auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated its willingness Unless renewed, this authority will expire on 9 October 2009. to continue in office and resolutions proposing its reappointment and authorising the Directors to determine its Resolution 10 Authority to buy back shares remuneration for the ensuing year will be submitted at the The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the Annual General Meeting.
authority granted to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its own shares.
By order of the Board Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited the maximum price which can be paid is 5% above the Secretary average of the market values of the ordinary shares for the 14 February 2008 five business days before the purchase is made, the price of the last independent trade, and the highest current independent bid.
In addition, shares will only be repurchased at prices below the net asset value per share, which should have the effect of increasing the net asset value per share for the remaining shareholders.
In making purchases, the Company will deal only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors are seeking authority to purchase up to a maximum of 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Such authority will expire on 9 October 2009.
24 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc
