Investment Managers Report Portfolio performance HSBC Global Mining Index MSCI World Index The Company has enjoyed another highly satisfactory second half performance and finished the year with the shares only 600 7.0% below the all-time high of 706.00p achieved in 500 November.
This good performance in 2007 represents the 400 seventh consecutive year of growth in net asset value NAV.
300 During the year under review, the Companys undiluted NAV 200 and share price both with income and warrant proceeds reinvested rose by 57.1% and 49.0% respectively.
In capital 100 only terms the NAV rose by 55.8% and the share price by 0 47.5%.
These figures compare with the HSBC Global Mining Dec 99 Dec 00 Dec 01 Dec 02 Dec 03 Dec 04 Dec 05 Dec 06 Dec 07 Index sterling terms which rose by 51.1% capital only and % change in sterling terms, 54.4% with income reinvested.
The theoretical effect of Index year ended 31 December 2007 diluting the NAV to allow for exercise of the warrants would MSCI World Index 5.3% have reduced the NAV by 51.85p per share at the end of FTSE 100 Index 3.8% December to 752.28p.
HSBC Global Mining Index 51.1% Gold sub index 17.7% Base metals sub index 57.6% Mining share overview Diversified mining sub index 66.8% The world economic backdrop was positive in early 2007 and, Gold bullion 29.6% despite investor gloom, economic growth matched the 2006 MG Base Metals Index 11.2% level at about 5%.
Many commentators expect the rate of Source: Datastream growth to slow in 2008 and BlackRocks house view is about 4%.
The key factor behind the slowdown, especially in the The favourable moves in commodities and mining shares second half of the year, was the so-called credit crunch were at various times given a tail wind by a weaker trend to which adversely affected the availability of finance globally the dollar which buckled under the weight of sustained and triggered a further downwards shift in the US housing negative sentiment.
Dollar-bears were encouraged by market.
Offsetting this to some degree was a loosening of several factors including the high trade deficit, the slowing monetary policy following September with the Federal economy, incipient inflationary pressure and growing signs Reserve cutting interest rates after 17 successive rises from that sovereign wealth might find better uses of capital other July 2004.
Despite weakness in the developed economies, than purchases of US treasury bonds.
other parts of the world continued to grow strongly and Favourable commodity prices, a good demand backdrop and contagion has been limited thus far.
Consequently, the weakening dollar all helped to create an environment in commodity demand remained firm and with supply again which mining analysts had to once again upgrade their constrained, prices for most metals achieved new highs at forecasts, especially in the early part of the year.
However, various times during the year.
As a result, while most people the rate of upgrade slowed in comparison to 2006 and for will remember 2007 as a year of poor portfolio returns, some companies, especially those in Australia and Canada, investors in the mining, commodities and resources the strength of local currencies coupled with rising costs sectors have enjoyed a vintage year.
The comparison undid many of the benefits of higher metals prices.
The fact between mining shares and world equities can be seen in the that share price growth on the whole exceeded earnings chart that follows which highlights about seven years of growth, particularly for the base metals companies, meant sustained outperformance, albeit with some short lived that the mining sector enjoyed a positive re-rating, violent reversals.
reversing the fide-rating which occurred in 2006.
We were not surprised by this positive re-rating which we predicted in last years Annual Report.
Nowhere was the re-rating more powerful than in China where the combination of a strong local stock market and high commodity prices saw some Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 5 Investment Managers Report continued spectacular share price performances.
We took advantage of unable or unwilling to participate in the consolidation frenzy: this to take profits, most notably in China Shenhua Energy two notable exceptions are Alcoa and Anglo American.
which at its peak enjoyed a market capitalisation larger than While the year as a whole was again positive, we should not BHP Billiton.
forget that this is and will always be a volatile sector.
We saw Despite this upward re-rating, the sector remained relatively episodic changes in sentiment which led to violent attractively priced and we saw little let-up in the pace of movements in the markets.
Of the two largest in 2007, the corporate battles.
Two stand out during the year: firstly the first came as usual in the first quarter and resulted in a 12% battle for Alcan initiated by Alcoa and eventually won by Rio setback in dollar terms.
The second and more powerful Tinto and secondly the as yet unresolved clash between BHP setback came amidst the credit crunch and it saw the mining Billiton and Rio Tinto.
This latter battle may well change the sector fall by 23% between mid July and mid August.
We have landscape of the global mining industry and spark off learned that the best way of dealing with violent weakness in another round of consolidation later in 2008. the market is to repay the borrowings in the portfolio and to write near dated put options covering those stocks with the Merger and acquisition M&A activity continues to look best cash flow prospects and therefore downside support.
attractive to companies, as the industry is finding it difficult That way we can exploit both our gearing potential and our to secure access to high quality ore reserves through willingness to buy shares at even cheaper prices than those exploration drilling.
Furthermore, new projects around the prevailing at the time we write the contracts.
Similarly, if world continue to be plagued by severe delays to share price rises exceed our expectations then writing call construction time, lack of availability of skills equipment and options becomes attractive.
For example, in 2007 the positive rapidly escalating capital costs.
For example, re-rating of Vale formerly CVRD has taken its weight in the Teck Novagolds Galore Creek copper-gold project in the portfolio to nearly 15%, the maximum permissible level for Canadian arctic saw capital projections jump from about an investment trust company.
Selling call options against our US$1.8 billion in the October 2006 feasibility study to nearly Vale position has generated significant revenue for the US$5 billion in the follow up study a year later.
In 2007, option writing and sub underwriting say, the project has now been shelved.
Similarly, Nikanor generated 4.1 million of income for the Group.
saw the refurbishment cost of the Kov copper deposit in the Democratic Republic of Congo DRC jump by over a third As always, a particular focus of the portfolio has been on from US$1.3 billion to US$1.8 billion, necessitating a those companies that are best placed to benefit from the corporate restructuring.
Some companies clearly believe changing shape of global demand.
We try to ensure that the that acquisitions are a good way to grow without exposing the largest portfolio investments are in companies which business to such risks.
In the gold sector, M&A has also produce the metals and minerals that are nearest to being in been driven by an acute shortage of ore reserves after many global shortage.
In 2007, these were commodities such as years of underinvestment.
iron ore, nickel, fertilizers and precious metals.
Our top ten holdings produce a combination of these materials, and this Although for the most part 2007s industry trends were strategy together with the factors mentioned above has again inherited from 2006, the exception to this was perhaps the helped generate good returns in 2007. declining importance of the capital management programmes.
In 2006, most of the larger companies enjoyed The table that follows shows the price moves in US dollar market conditions so strong that cash flow far surpassed terms of some of the metals and minerals that are most capital requirements, resulting in lazy balance sheets.
While important to the Companys portfolio.
Not surprisingly, the some companies allowed cash to pile up, others chose to favourable pricing environment showed through in some distribute it in the form of higher dividends, special dividends good earnings numbers for the leading companies in the and share buy backs.
In 2007, following on from the elevated mining industry.
Despite mounting pressure on production M&A activity, much of which involved cash transactions, costs, many of the companies in the portfolio will have again companies needed cash flow to repair balance sheet achieved record earnings for the year.
The buy backs and special dividends petered out and, as we entered 2008, the only significant buy back programmes are coming from companies that were either 6 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc Despite the positive tone to the gold market, investment in % change gold shares has not been a feature of the portfolio strategy Price year ended % change 31 December 31 December average for some years and we have been right to remain 2007 2007 2007 2006 underweight.
The main reason for our caution is that the Gold US$ troy oz 836.15 31.8 15.3 sector continues to be plagued by a painfully slow earnings Platinum US$ troy oz 1,529 36.9 14.3 recovery.
Costs rose nearly as fast as revenues in 2007 and Nickel US$ tonne 26,375 22.9 53.6 most companies are also suffering the challenge of ore Copper US$ tonne 6,714 6.8 6.0 reserve replacement.
As a result, the economics of the gold Aluminium US$ tonne 2,357 17.3 2.8 sector remain insufficiently attractive in comparison with Zinc US$ tonne 2,385 44.9 0.5 other parts of the mining industry.
Furthermore, several Uranium US$ lb 90 25.0 107.8 companies are still living with the legacy of their disastrous Potash US$ tonne 257 44.4 15.0 hedging policies, and those companies which bit the bullet Iron ore lump and repurchased the contracts are paying a heavy price.
We US$ tonne 102.7 n a 9.5 are therefore still awaiting a sensible opportunity to Coking coal hard significantly rebuild gold exposure within the portfolio from US$ tonne 95 n a 15.2 todays low levels of 5.9% 6.9% at the end of 2006.
Thermal coal US$ tonne 55.5 n a 5.7 Of the gold equities in the portfolio only Minas Buenaventura Source: Datastream provided a meaningful contribution, nearly doubling in sterling terms over the year.
This good performance restored Gold and precious commodities Buenaventura as a top ten holding in the portfolio.
The South Looking at the year as a whole, gold equities continued their African gold shares, Gold Fields and Harmony Gold Mining significant underperformance compared to the rest of the were disappointing and to varying degrees badly affected by mining sector and also underperformed gold itself, which either operating difficulties or management weaknesses.
We rose by a further 32% year on year.
Towards the end of 2007 disposed of the holding in Newmont Mining in view of its poor gold tested its all-time high of US$850 oz, which at the time production outlook.
of writing has now been surpassed.
This represents one of Like gold, platinum had a good year, rising by over one third the best ever years for gold since the 1970s and should, in our in price and reached an all-time high of about US$1,540 oz.
view, have sparked off a much bigger jump in gold equities The strength stems from some major constraints on the than 17%.
supply-side coupled with buoyant autocatalyst demand and Golds good performance was most impressive during the the launch of the ETF.
South African supply has been second half of the year once it became clear how treacherous particularly impacted by the slow rate of mine expansions the capital markets were in the wake of the credit crisis.
This together with an even greater focus on safety in the mines.
stimulated a rush for so called safe havens of which gold is The situation has been more recently exacerbated by one.
However, the foundations for this rally were in any case increased shortages in power.
These factors have kept the quite solid.
Global mine output has been stagnant or falling market very tight and prone to price spikes.
The situation is since 2001 due to a lack of exploration success while likely to be even tighter in 2008 as new pollution regulations jewellery demand seems to have become less sensitive to take effect and the requirement for diesel catalysts comes the fluctuating price.
Investment demand for gold as into force.
The Companys portfolio currently holds five South measured by the success of the Exchange Traded Funds African platinum equities: Impala Platinum 4.1% of the ETFs has surged and there has been no let-up of demand portfolio, Lonmin 1.7%, Aquarius Platinum 1.2%, Ridge for commodities as a diversifying asset class.
With global Mining 0.4% and Anglo Platinum 0.3% and the earnings political turmoil an ever present factor and real interest rates outlook for these businesses seems very bright if we are falling it is hard to see why there should be a sudden reversal proved correct in our view of price trends: we believe that of these established patterns that are now nearly a US$2,000 per ounce is a medium term possibility.
Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 7 Investment Managers Report continued The only silver play in the portfolio is the Mexican miner strong run in 2007 starting the year at US284c lb and Industrias Penoles 2.4% of the portfolio which was again a finishing at just over 300c lb for a year on year gain of just star performer, posting a gain of 126% in sterling terms.
This is a very good price for copper mining companies and the copper miners in the portfolio generally The diamond market was rather dull again in 2007 although performed well, especially Freeport McMoran Copper which rough prices did start to pick up in the second half of the year.
used the high prices to dramatically shorten the debt Our largest diamond equity holding remains Harry Winston repayment schedule it took on to buy Phelps Dodge.
The key Diamond Corp. 1.3% of the portfolio, formerly known as to coppers resilience has been the perennial supply Aber Diamonds, and which owns a 40% stake in the Diavik disruptions strikes plus earthquakes which have mine in Canada with Rio Tinto holding 60%.
Our other main confounded the analysts predictions of copper market investment is Gem Diamonds 1.4% of the portfolio which surpluses.
It is also worth noting that the new supply from carried out a successful initial public offering IPO early the DRC, which some commentators were expecting to in 2007. become a reality as early as next year, is unlikely to make a material difference until 2010 due to infrastructure Base metals constraints and title issues.
Some of the copper companies Base metals had a curates egg of a year good in parts.
also benefited from a continuation of high by-product Some spectacular price strength early in the year, molybdenum prices which averaged US$30 lb during the underpinned by growth in Chinas demand, gave way to price year, far higher than most people expected.
weakness in the second half as investors began to second guess the impact of US economic slowdown.
Overall the MG With earnings growth slowing, copper shares enjoyed some Base Metals Index fell by just under 10% during the year.
It is expansion of price earnings multiples and performed quite worth noting though that inventories in London Metal well albeit with volatility.
The largest copper equity position is Exchange LME warehouses remain quite low reflecting still First Quantum Minerals 3.4% of the portfolio, despite broadly balanced supply and demand trends.
This means some profit taking.
First Quantum had a good year with the that we remain in an environment where any supply shares rising by 57% in sterling terms.
The company has now disruptions will tend to spark off price spikes and several successfully commissioned the new Frontier copper project LME metals reached all-time highs during 2007.
While the just over the border with Zambia in the DRC.
Towards the end spot market index fell somewhat in the second half of the of the year the company announced that it had acquired a year it is interesting that futures prices for some base metals 17% stake in Equinox Minerals, a company that has nearly proved to be more resilient.
This reflects both the potential completed the development of the Lumwana copper mine in for supply disruption as well as the rising cost pressures in Zambia.
Equinox Minerals 1.3% of the portfolio was the best the industry.
performing copper share in the portfolio this year rising by 235% in sterling terms.
Nickel was perhaps the most spectacular of the base metals in 2007 spiking to an all time high of US$54,150 tonne, Another solid performer was once again Oxiana 1.1% of the equivalent to US$24.50 lb.
This is fourteen times higher than portfolio which rose by 20% in sterling terms.
Oxianas big the low point of US$3,722 tonne in late 1998.
Nickel challenge this year is the development of the Prominent Hill benefited from strong stainless demand early in the year and copper-gold mine in South Australia, one of the countrys short covering by producers who sold forward at low levels largest base metals projects.
During the year we took and then suffered production problems.
Delays to our profits and sold out of four copper holdings: commissioning of new capacity again plagued the market.
Jiangxi Copper, Southern Peru Copper, Ivanhoe Mines and The high price provoked substitution and new supply which Amerigo Resources.
Despite this, copper continues to be an made us wary of nickel producing equities which now important part of the portfolio at 9.8% 12.2% at the end comprise only a small part of the portfolio although from of 2006. time to time during the year we traded individual positions, In previous reports we have indicated a growing interest in notably Jubilee Nickel that was bid for by Xstrata.
We have proved to be too bullish too Despite the best efforts of leading analysts, who seem to be soon.
Chinese aluminium demand growth, whilst very always talking the price downwards, copper continued its strong, has struggled to match the even more impressive 8 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc expansion of domestic production.
This has weighed heavily results being enjoyed by that company.
After its volatile year on the market and the metal price is trading not far above the we would expect 2008 to be a year of consolidation for the marginal cost of production.
Our major aluminium uranium market.
holdings are Alcoa 4.4% of the portfolio and Alumina 1.8% With oil and gas prices rising in the second half of the year and they have not made a significant contribution to portfolio crude reaching a new high close to US$100 bbl coal returns this year.
Alcoa is in the midst of an important became the fuel of choice for utilities, underpinning restructuring having sold its stake in Chalco at a huge profit prices.
This sparked off a good price recovery for shares such and its packaging and consumer business.
These sales have as Peabody Energy 1.2% of the portfolio up by 60% in raised gross proceeds of US$4.7 billion much of which will be sterling terms.
Shenhua Coal, Chinas largest coal company, deployed in a share buy back programme which might did very well and we sold the holding on valuation grounds ultimately see 25% of the shares retired.
We continue to despite its excellent business outlook.
As we enter 2008 the persevere with these holdings and aluminium now makes up thermal coal market continues to look good.
We initiated a 6.3% of the portfolio 6.5% at the end of 2006. position in Indo Tambangraya Megah 0.1% of the portfolio, Zinc and lead proved to be very volatile in 2007 although the Indonesias third largest thermal coal producer, and in two sister metals bifurcated in the second half with lead January 2008 also took a position in Bumi Resources, charging to a new all time high and zinc collapsing to finish Indonesias largest coal producer and the worlds second the year as the worst performing of the base metals.
Given largest thermal coal exporter.
this weaker trend to zinc our holding in Zinifex suffered, but The best performing coal stock in the portfolio proved to be it did continue to distribute strong dividends.
Zinifex gained a Riversdale Mining, a company that is helping to develop the new CEO in 2007, Andrew Michelmore, the ex CEO of WMC substantial coal reserves in Mozambique.
Given his background it would not be a surprise small position 1.4% of the portfolio, the shares rose by to see Zinifex embark on a diversification strategy and it more than 400% in sterling terms over the year.
recently announced a bid for the Australian nickel miner Allegiance.
In October, Zinifex spun out its smelting assets Diversified mining companies and industrial into a new company Nyrstar 1.0% of the portfolio.
We commodities believe that under focused management Nyrstar has the In the Annual Report last year we commented on the potential to unlock significant value.
lacklustre performance of the large UK listed diversified Zinc equities are quite rare in the global stock market and mining companies and noted that their achievements and could become rarer towards the end of 2007 Bumi earnings growth had been virtually unnoticed by the stock Resources announced a hostile bid for Herald Resources market.
Only Xstrata contributed meaningfully to our portfolio 0.7% of the portfolio.
Herald is developing the Dairi zinc returns in 2006.
This year the big diversified companies deposit in Indonesia.
Subsequent to the year end we have played catch up, delivering some exceptionally strong share disposed of the holding.
Best performer was Rio Tinto 12.2% of the portfolio which rose by over 95% in sterling terms over Energy commodities the year and was the second largest single contributor to the Uranium was buoyant in 2007, rising from US$72 lb at the Companys portfolio.
The reason for this was the strong start of the year to US$90 lb at the end and spiking underlying value-creation coupled with BHP Billitons as high as US$138 lb in June.
The price rise was a result of unwanted 3 for 1 share offer tabled in November.
It is not generally good underlying supply demand fundamentals possible to predict the outcome of the merger proposal at this coupled with the supply-side shock that arose from the stage but if it were to be consummated then we would need flooding of Camecos Cigar Lake mine in Canada.
During the to make some adjustments to the portfolio as the combined year we restructured the portfolio holdings somewhat, holding would be too large at over 18% of the portfolio.
taking our profits in Cameco, Denison Mines and Energy Subsequent to the year end we have taken advantage of Resources of Australia.
We also reduced the holding in the Chinalco Alcoa market raid to trim back our holding in Uranium Participation.
We increased the holding in UEX Rio Tinto.
0.7% of the portfolio reflecting the spectacular exploration Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 9 Investment Managers Report continued The largest contributor to the Companys total returns was diversified mining stocks.
This proved to be correct as Vale formerly CVRD, 14.7% of the portfolio.
In 2007 the Xstrata rose by only 39% during the year.
Vale obviously has benefited Anglo Americans new CEO, Cynthia Carroll, set about greatly from the sustained strength of the iron ore price and re-tuning the companys corporate strategy by retiring some seems set to benefit even more in 2008.
However, the roots senior executives and stepping up the companys to the strong share price growth of 2007 lie in 2006 when Vale participation in M&A deals.
Nonetheless, Anglos biggest won the contested takeover battle for Inco, thereby becoming transactions during the year were still disposals, selling a much more diversified from both a geographic and chunk of AngloGold Ashanti and distributing the Mondi commodity basis.
The acquisition was funded with debt and business.
Although it does not make a good fit with a mining Vales gearing therefore increased significantly.
Given the portfolio we have kept the Mondi holding 0.7% of the strength of commodity markets in 2007, this gearing helped portfolio for the moment as we believe that, despite a to enhance shareholder returns.
lacklustre post listing share price performance, the In 2006, Vedanta Resources 2.7% of the portfolio spoilt what management team can unlock value now that they have the would have otherwise been a very good year by announcing business contained in a separate company.
Another factor that its Indian-quoted operating company, Sterlite which has helped Anglo Americans share price has been the Industries, would issue shares in order to fund additional persistent rumours that it might fall victim to a corporate business opportunities in India.
In the event this share issue predator.
Anglo makes up 3.1% of the portfolio.
was much delayed and finally came in June at a very Because we stayed bullish on zinc rather too long, the large attractive price.
We participated in this issue and have built a portfolio position in Teck Cominco 2.8% hurt the portfolio holding equivalent to 2.1% of the portfolio.
Many investors in somewhat, especially in the second half of the year.
Teck was the market dislike Vedanta Sterlites management style and also hurt by coking coal and the firmer Canadian dollar.
Our view though is that Despite bidding for Aur Resources, Tecks balance sheet the group is one of the only direct ways for our portfolio to remains strong.
benefit from the huge growth potential of the Indian market.
Vedanta has a good track record of implementing capital Our most disappointing industrial minerals holding was once projects on time and within budget, a rarity in the current again Iluka Resources, the titanium mineral and zircon infrastructure marketplace.
Despite a dominant market position and excellent exploration results, the stock BHP Billiton 6.1% of the portfolio had another excellent continued to languish as the company grappled with rising year and achieved record earnings and cash flow.
The costs and delays capital cost overruns at its major projects.
company has a near perfect product mix for this commodity Given the climate for M&A activity we have been amazed that cycle and was able to take advantage of stronger iron ore, this stock is still listed on the stock market.
BHP Billiton has led the way in demonstrating commitment to shareholder value by A new area of the portfolio in 2006 was fertilizer stocks which returning huge amounts of cash through a stock buy back are benefiting from the upsurge in grain prices and demand.
and dividends, although this will now be put on hold pending In 2007 we built this up somewhat and now have three the outcome of its proposal for a merger with Rio Tinto.
holdings: Potash Corp, Mosaic and Agrium.
In aggregate Regardless of the outcome though BHP Billiton should have these three holdings comprise 2.4% of the portfolio.
a good year in 2008 with the iron ore price expected to be up Another new holding in 2007 was Eurasian Natural Resources by at least 25% and the much delayed oil projects in the Gulf which held its IPO in December.
ENRC is a Kazakh based of Mexico finally ramping up production.
BHP finished the company with important assets in ferrochrome, iron ore and year up by 65% in sterling terms, a figure which would alumina.
It comprises 0.9% of the portfolio.
doubtless have been larger but for the merger uncertainty.
In early 2007 we disposed of the entire holding in Xstrata on Derivatives activity the grounds that its outperformance was unsustainably The Group sometimes holds positions in derivatives strong and that there were better opportunities in the other contracts, with virtually all of the activity focused on selling either puts or calls in order to generate option premium 10 Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust plc income.
These positions, which are small in comparison with other large mining groups.
Already it has been disclosed that the size of the Group, usually have the effect of obliging us to Vale has initiated talks with Xstrata with a view to a merger.
buy or sell stock or futures at levels we believe are attractive.
Big looks like it is going to be beautiful in the coming years.
The volatility of the market during 2007 provided some good We expect to see a continuation of the uptrend in gold and opportunities for successful option writing.
Mine supply is likely to remain constrained while end of December, most of the positions had matured or investment demand has grown and net Central Bank sales expired and the only outstanding contracts covered of gold may even be on a declining path.
This is a good Antofagasta, Xstrata, Peabody, Alcoa and Fording Canadian environment for precious metals especially as many Coal Trust.
commentators expect further weakness in the dollar.
Gearing Our portfolio strategy at the start of 2008 is summarised At 31 December 2007, the Company was utilising just as follows.
0.5 million of its 40 million overdraft facility.
Net gearing is Fully invested portfolio.
Continuing emphasis on equivalent to 0.04% of net asset value.
Gearing, which can be companies with strong cash flow and the potential to lift drawn down or repaid at any time, is used in the portfolio to returns to shareholders through higher dividends and take tactical advantage of market volatility and opportunities.
This strategy has been the backbone of The Company also has a 60 million loan facility which has the portfolio for the past several years.
Outlook and strategy for 2008 Increase in precious metals exposure.
2008 has started with a mixed bag of commodity price moves.
The trend in base metals has been sideways or downwards Trading opportunities for fertilizer companies.
whilst precious metals have been setting new records and Option writing taking advantage of the innate volatility of look like they will do very well this year.
Bulk commodities too the sector.
are likely to have an excellent 2008.
This suggests that the big diversified mining companies will have another very Tactical use of gearing.
satisfactory year in terms of earnings and cashflow while In last years Annual Report we were not brave enough to some of the pure play base metals stocks might struggle as predict that returns in 2007 would be as good as the very their positive earnings momentum dissipates.
Stock selection strong out-turn of 2006, although we anticipated that they can be expected to be increasingly important this year.
In 2008 there is Although China and India remain the most important perhaps even more scepticism surrounding markets and the demand-side factor in the natural resources industry, it is year has got off to a rocky start.
We are again going to the sluggish US economy that is most important to market express cautious optimism and believe that with a shortage sentiment at the moment.
Although the Federal Reserve is of earnings growth in world stockmarkets the mining sector now easing monetary policy, analysts remain concerned should at the very least continue its outperformance.
about the implications of the credit crunch and the possible Graham Birch & Evy Hambro economic weakness ahead.
We believe that weakness in the BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited US may dent, but not derail, the world economy.
Global 14 February 2008 growth is likely to muddle through at around 4% but below the 5% of 2007.
Uncertainty about global growth in markets has already contributed to some extreme volatility in January.
Corporate activity could be the most memorable feature of 2008.
A merger between Rio Tinto and BHP Billiton would change the landscape of the mining industry and would surely force some hard thinking in the boardrooms of the Annual Report and Accounts 31 December 2007 11
