qxd 1 3 08 22:20 Page 10 Items covered in this section: Confectionery 12 Americas Beverages 18 Group structure 20 Risk factors 21 Forward-looking statements 24 References to the Group, Cadbury Schweppes, Confectionery, through an active acquisition and disposal programme, which and Americas Beverages throughout this document are improved its participation in its chosen markets and strengthened defined as follows: its competitive position.
Developments in Confectionery The Group and Cadbury Schweppes mean the current group The acquisition of Adams for US$4.2 billion in 2003 was a which is the Confectionery and the Americas Beverages significant step-change in the Groups participation in the businesses.
global confectionery market, both by category and by geography.
Through Adams, the Group nearly doubled its Where we refer to Confectionery we mean the four global confectionery market share to 10% and has become the Confectionery operating regions: Britain, Ireland, Middle East global number two company in gum with a 27% market share, and Africa BIMA : Europe: Americas Confectionery: Asia and nearly doubled its global candy market share to 7%.
Pacific an integrated confectionery and beverages business Source: Euromonitor 2006.
By geography, Adams significantly and the Central functions, which collectively, will be the increased the Groups presence in markets in North and South Cadbury plc group as it will exist following the demerger America, Europe and Asia, and resulted in higher growth in effective date.
Where we refer to confectionery we mean the emerging markets representing around 30% of the three confectionery categories, chocolate, gum and candy.
Americas Beverages is the non-alcoholic beverage business in Following the Adams acquisition, the Group focused in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, which will become confectionery on: Dr Pepper Snapple Group, Inc. or DPS following the demerger.
integrating the Adams business: improving capabilities and commercial execution to Cadbury Schweppes plc increase revenue growth: Introduction further strengthening its confectionery platform through The Groups current principal businesses are confectionery and selected bolt-on acquisitions: and non-alcoholic beverages.
The Group has the largest share of reducing costs through its Fuel for Growth programme the global confectionery market with broad participation to improve margins and allow investment behind across its three categories of chocolate, gum and candy and by growth initiatives.
In beverages, it has a strong regional presence in North America and Australia.
The Adams integration was completed one year ahead of schedule in 2005, with the business outperforming the Origins acquisition plan.
This was primarily due to the strength of the Our origins date back to the founding of Schweppes, a mineral Groups performance in major gum markets such as the US, water business, by Jacob Schweppes in 1783, and the opening and in the roll-out of Adams products and technologies across of a shop which sold cocoa products by John Cadbury in 1824. the Group, such as in France under the Hollywood brand The two businesses were merged in 1969 to create Cadbury and in Northern Europe and Russia under the Stimorol and Schweppes.
In the last 25 years, Cadbury Schweppes has significantly changed Since the Adams acquisition, the Group has also invested in a its geographic and product participation in the confectionery and small number of targeted bolt-on acquisitions in fasterbeverages markets, mainly through a programme of business growing, emerging markets and in brands with strong growth purchases and sales.
In 1997, the Group adopted its Managing for potential.
The total investment has been approximately 500 Value philosophy with the aim of delivering superior returns for million, with acquisitions including: Green & Blacks, the UK its shareowners.
The Group subsequently made disciplined capital premium chocolate brand: Kent and Intergum, the leading allocation decisions focused on the two growing and profitable candy and gum businesses respectively in Turkey: Dan Products, markets of confectionery and beverages, and refined its portfolio 10 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 15:45 Page 11 the leading gum business in South Africa: Kandia-Excelent, the Recent developments second largest confectionery company in Romania and Sansei On 9 June 2007, the Group unveiled a new confectionery Foods Co. Ltd, a Japanese functional candy company.
At the strategy, Vision Into Action, which is explained in greater detail same time, a number of small, low growth and non-core in the Confectionery section below.
brands and businesses have been sold.
Operations As a result of the investment in growth initiatives, the Groups Market share information, except where otherwise indicated, organic confectionery revenue growth increased from an is sourced from the latest available information from Nielsen, average of 23% per annum between 1996 and 2002 to an Euromonitor, Beverage Digest or IRI.
average of 6% per annum between 2003 and 2007.
In 2007 the Group generated revenues of approximately Developments in beverages 8 billion.
The revenues from confectionery accounted for 59% In beverages, the group has significantly reduced its geographic with 5% coming from Australia beverages and the remaining participation while strengthening its position in a small number 36% coming from Americas Beverages.
of retained markets to strengthen these businesses.
The charts below show the relative size of the regions In the US, from the 1980s onwards, the Groups beverages excluding the central costs in 2007 : presence was developed from its Schweppes base through acquisition to form a balanced portfolio of strong carbonated FY 2007 Revenue by Region and non-carbonated brands.
In the late 1990s, the Group began to strengthen its US route to market with the creation of its bottling joint venture latterly Dr Pepper Seven Up BIMA 20% Europe 11% Bottling Group in 1998, which subsequently accelerated the Americas Confectionery 17% consolidation of the independent bottling sector through the Asia Pacific 16% acquisitions of several independent bottling companies.
Americas Beverages 36% At the same time, the Group sold its beverages businesses in markets where it believed it did not have a sustainable competitive advantage.
Disposals included: the Groups 51% stake in Coca-Cola & Schweppes Beverages 1997, the Groups beverages brands in approximately 160 markets 1999, and the Groups remaining European and South African beverages businesses 2006.
1 FY 2007 Underlying Profit from Operations by Region In the Americas, the North American operations of Dr Pepper Seven Up, Motts and Snapple were merged under a single management organisation in late 2003.
This enabled BIMA 14% the business to derive significant cost savings and leverage its Europe 8% scale with customers and suppliers across its portfolio of Americas Confectionery 20% carbonated and non-carbonated soft drinks.
Asia Pacific 13% Americas Beverages 45% By concentrating resources on a selection of advantaged brands and by focusing on innovation and market place execution under this new structure, Americas Beverages performed well.
In 2006 and 2007, a further step was taken in securing the sustainability of this performance by the acquisition and integration of a number of bottling companies to strengthen the Groups beverages route to market in the US.
1 Excludes Central Proposed demerger In March 2007, the Group announced that each of the Confectionery and Americas Beverages businesses had the appropriate platforms to deliver enhanced shareowner returns from being focused, stand-alone businesses.
On 10 October 2007, the Group announced that it had decided to focus on a demerger of its Americas Beverages business through a listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
The business will be renamed Dr Pepper Snapple Group Inc.
The Confectionery Group will retain a beverages business in Australia, which in 2007 accounted for approximately 8% of Confectionery revenue.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 11 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 15:50 Page 12 Description of business continued Confectionery: Emerging Market Annual Growth 20012006 Confectionery Global confectionery market 12% Confectionery operates in the global confectionery market.
The market is large, growing and has attractive dynamics.
10% Global Confectionery Market Category Share 8% by US Dollar Value 6% Chocolate 55% 4% Candy 31% Gum 14% 2% 0 Gum Candy Chocolate Total confectionery Source: Euromonitor Emerging markets grew at around 10% per annum between 2001 and 2006, with strong growth across all categories.
Per Source: Euromonitor capita consumption of confectionery in emerging markets is significantly below that in developed markets.
Growth is For an explanation of Underlying profit from operations and a being driven by increasing per capita consumption, which is reconciliation to profit from operations see pages 25 to 27. closely correlated with per capita wealth increases, and by population growth.
The global confectionery market is the worlds fourth largest packaged food market.
It represents 9% of that market, and By participant, the market is relatively fragmented, with the has a value at retail of US$141 billion.
Chocolate is the largest five largest confectionery companies accounting for less than category, accounting for over half of the global confectionery 40% of the market and the top 10 for less than 55%.
There are market by value.
a large number of companies which participate in the markets on only a local or regional basis.
Globally, confectionery is growing at around 5% per annum, faster than many other packaged food markets.
Gum is the most concentrated category, with the two largest companies accounting for 62% in 2006.
In chocolate, the five Developed markets, which account for around 67% of the largest companies accounted for over half of the market, but global market, grew 3% per annum between 2001 and 2006. in candy, the top five accounted for only a quarter.
Premium and wellness products, such as high cocoa solids chocolate and functional and sugar-free candy and gum, are The confectionery market is primarily branded: there is a low driving growth in these markets.
Growth in premium products level of private label sales and products are sold through a increased chocolate market growth by around 1% per annum in wide range of outlets.
the 20012006 period, while, in wellness, sugar-free gum grew at around 8% per annum.
Cadbury Schweppes in the global confectionery market Cadbury Schweppes leadership of the global confectionery Confectionery: Developed Market Annual Growth 20012006 market by value is underpinned by number one or number two confectionery market positions in 20 of the worlds 50 largest 6% confectionery markets by retail sales value.
Markets where the Group has number one or number two market positions 5% accounted for around three quarters of Confectionery Groups revenue in 2007.
4% Of the Confectionery revenue, chocolate and cocoa-based 3% beverages accounted for 42%, gum 29%, and candy 21%.
Australia beverages accounts for the remaining 8%.
2% The Group has a strong presence in faster growing categories 1% and markets.
Gum, 29% of Confectionery revenue, is a prime example.
In 2007, wellness confectionery, including products like 0 sugar-free and fat-free products, and medicated candy grew in Gum Candy Chocolate Total confectionery the confectionery market as a whole by 8% per annum from Source: Euromonitor 20022007, against 5% growth for other products.
Our wellness sub-category, which includes dark chocolate, accounts for around 30% of Confectionery revenues.
12 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 4 3 08 15:48 Page 13 Market share in the global confectionery market US dollar share Global Confectionery Market Chocolate Gum Candy Cadbury Schweppes 10.1% 7.3% 27.0% 7.4% Mars 8.9% 14.7% 2.8% Nestle 7.7% 12.5% 0.1% 2.9% Wrigley 5.5% 34.5% 2.2% Hershey 5.5% 8.3% 1.3% 2.7% Kraft 4.3% 7.8% 0.1% 0.3% Ferrero 4.2% 6.8% 1.5% Source: Euromonitor: The Group also has the largest by value and most broadly Confectionery will focus on the following priorities spread emerging markets business of any confectionery group, to deliver its financial scorecard and its vision: which in 2007 accounted for approximately one-third of to drive growth through a concentration on fewer, faster, confectionery revenue.
From 2004 to 2007, revenue of the bigger, better participation and innovation bringing to Groups emerging markets confectionery businesses grew on market more quickly a smaller number of larger projects average by 12% per annum on a like-for-like basis.
with greater impact, supported by the global category structure introduced in 2006: The Group competes against multinational, regional and to drive cost and efficiency gains to help achieve the national companies.
The Groups brands include many global margin goal: regional and local favourites.
Like the other top five chocolate to continue to invest in capabilities to support growth and groups, our chocolate share is built on regional strengths, efficiency agendas: and including strong positions in the UK, Ireland, Australia, at the same time, retaining commitments to growing New Zealand, South Africa and India.
The largest brand in sustainably and to Cadburys strong cultural heritage.
chocolate is Cadbury Dairy Milk: other key brands are Creme Egg, Flake and Green & Blacks.
Revenue growth of 46% per annum The goal is to grow revenue on a base business basis by The Group has a number two position in gum with Trident between 46%.
per annum, reflecting the growth prospects of being the largest brand.
This position is built on strong market the Confectionery business.
This goal is underpinned by global share in the Americas, in parts of Europe including France, confectionery market growth of around 5% per annum over Spain & Turkey and in Japan, Thailand and South Africa.
Other the last five years and by Confectionerys greater weighting brands include Hollywood, Stimorol, Dentyne, Clorets and toward higher growth categories such as gum and emerging Bubbaloo.
It also accommodates some brand portfolio rationalisation as described below.
In candy the largest brand is Halls accounting for around one third of candy revenues, and other significant regional and local Category focus for scale and simplicity brands include Bassetts, Maynards, the Natural Confectionery To help drive revenue growth, under its structure of managing Company and Cadbury Eclairs.
each confectionery category on a global basis, Confectionery will focus its resources on advantaged markets in each The Group uses a wide variety of raw materials purchased category where innovative products will be developed and from a broad range of suppliers.
Principal inputs are packaging launched.
In innovation, the number of smaller, nonmaterials such as paper and plastics, sugar and other advantaged innovation projects will be reduced and increased sweeteners, cocoa, and dairy products.
Confectionery will seek resources will be applied to larger innovations from which to minimise the impact of price fluctuations and ensure Confectionery can derive competitive advantage.
security of supply by entering into forward purchase agreements and long-term contracts where appropriate.
Drive advantaged, consumer-preferred brands and products Confectionery will also increase its focus on its biggest, most Confectionery strategy The Vision into Action plan advantaged brands, and on key markets.
As part of this focus, Confectionery strategy for the years 20082011 is some of the smaller brands and products in the portfolio, embodied in its Vision into Action business plan.
The governing accounting for approximately 5% of confectionery revenue, objective remains to deliver superior shareowner returns are being rationalised over the plan period.
through achieving our vision of being the biggest and best confectionery group in the world.
Confectionery will focus its resources on its top 13 brands, which accounted for around 50% of confectionery revenue in Confectionery aims to achieve this vision through delivering its 2007.
These brands have grown base business revenue at 10% financial scorecard.
The financial scorecard for the 20082011 in 2007, and have gross margins that are around 8% higher period is as follows: than the confectionery portfolio overall.
The focus will be on annual organic revenue growth of 46%.
: five brands which have the strongest potential in existing and total confectionery share gain: new markets Cadbury, Trident, Halls, Green & Blacks and The mid-teens trading margin by 2011: Natural Confectionery Company on a global basis.
The strong dividend growth: remaining 8 brands in the top 13 are: Creme Egg and Flake in efficient balance sheet: and chocolate: Hollywood, Dentyne, Stimorol, Clorets and growth in return on invested capital.
Bubbaloo in gum: and Eclairs in candy.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 13 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 4 3 08 23:28 Page 14 Description of business continued Confectionery is also increasing its focus on a limited number the second quarter of 2008: of markets in each category, based on their size today or their clustering a number of countries which have previously potential for future scale and growth.
Six countries are been run as individual operations: common across all categories: the US, the UK, Mexico, Russia, adopting a more centralised decision-making process to India and China.
The remaining countries vary by category: in category and brand management: and chocolate, they are South Africa and Australia: in gum, Brazil, additional outsourcing opportunities in the areas of France, Japan and Turkey: and in candy, Brazil, France, South back-office processing, IT and liquid chocolate production.
Other similar, affinity markets are being clustered around these lead focus markets, and initiatives are Consequently, over the 2007 to 2011 period, around 15% of being rolled out from lead markets into these affinity markets.
Confectionerys manufacturing sites around the world are expected to be closed and it is anticipated that headcount Accelerate new market entry via Smart Variety will also be reduced as a result.
Confectionery aims to accelerate its entry into markets where it does not currently have a presence via the Smart Variety In addition to the contribution from this cost reduction model, which uses existing distribution strength to expand into programme, it is expected that margins will benefit from: new categories.
Confectionery ultimately aims to have a strong improved operating margin performance in key emerging position in all three confectionery categories in the markets in markets, notably China and Nigeria, which are currently which it operates.
Recent initiatives in pursuit of this goal loss making: include the launch of gum in the UK market under the Trident a focus of resource on categories and brands which are brand to complement an existing strong presence in chocolate growing faster and which earn above average returns: and and candy, and the launch of Halls in France.
strengthened profit performance from the confectionery business in Britain & Ireland, where performance has been Create advantaged customer partnerships via total below expectations as a result of the IT system confectionery solutions implementation in 2005 and the product recall in 2006.
Confectionery is focusing its efforts on seven leading customers and three trade channels.
These seven leading Strong dividend growth customers accounted for over 10% of confectionery revenue Confectionery intends to target a dividend payout ratio in the in 2007, and these revenues grew by 12%.
We believe medium term of 4050%.
In the shorter term, it Confectionery is uniquely placed to support these customers intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy reflecting its given that it will be the only major confectionery group with a confidence in the Vision into Action plan and the earnings substantial presence across all three confectionery categories, potential of the business.
and, given that, for the top three global retailers, we have more total confectionery leadership positions than our Maintaining an efficient balance sheet competitors in their key markets.
Confectionery will manage its capital base efficiently and will initially target a capital structure consistent with maintaining an Expand platforms through acquisition investment grade credit rating.
As the leading global confectionery business, we will continue to investigate available confectionery opportunities to grow Growing return on invested capital our platform.
The focus will be on bolt-on acquisitions to The combination of higher revenue growth and margin enhance existing positions in growing categories and markets improvement is expected to drive growth in return on invested and we will only undertake acquisitions if these fit with our capital.
Confectionery also expects to continue its disciplined strategy and meet our stringent criteria for value creation.
approach to working capital management, and to continue to recycle capital from low-growth and non-core businesses into Significant increase in operating margins to mid-teens organic investment and bolt-on acquisitions with a greater by 2011 potential for higher growth and returns as appropriate.
Confectionerys goal is to increase operating margins to mid-teens by 2011.
Continuing to invest in capabilities Confectionery will continue to invest in capabilities to support A programme of cost reduction and efficiency is being its growth and efficiency agendas.
undertaken, which will result in an exceptional restructuring charge of approximately 450 million, of which around 50 Confectionery will continue to embed the Building million is expected to be non-cash.
In addition, the programme Commercial Capabilities programme, which aims to improve will require incremental capital expenditure of around 200 commercial decision-making and marketing and sales expertise million over the next three years.
Delivery of the programme by defining a common way of marketing and selling across the is being supervised by a Global Performance Director.
It is also the intention to invest further in developing its Science & Technology capabilities.
Cost reduction initiatives are impacting all parts of Confectionery: in sales, general and administration SG&A The clustering and delayering of the organisation, and an costs and supply chain, in the regions and at the centre.
SG&A increasing level of outsourcing, will also assist Confectionery cost reductions began to deliver benefits from 2007 while in its goal of streamlining processes so that it has world-class supply chain configuration benefits will reduce manufacturing capabilities across the business, including in supply chain, costs from 2009 onwards.
Initiatives include: finance and IT.
combining the central London headquarters with the new Britain, Ireland, Middle East and Africa region and Britain & Ireland business in a new location west of London during 14 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 22:50 Page 15 Sustainability commitments to use more environmentally sustainable forms of Confectionery will retain commitments to growing sustainably packaging, aiming for 60% biodegradable packaging and and to its strong cultural heritage.
100% of secondary packaging being recyclable: and to ensure that all water scarce sites have water reduction Within the overriding goal of being performance driven, but programmes in place.
values led, our aims are to: promote responsible consumption of our products: Regions in Confectionery ensure ethical and sustainable sourcing of raw materials Confectionery was organised into four regions with effect and other inputs: from 1 July 2007.
The four regions are: Britain, Ireland, Middle prioritise quality and safety: East and Africa BIMA : Europe including Russia and Turkey : reduce carbon and water use, and packaging: Americas: and Asia Pacific.
Further information on each of nurture and reward colleagues: and these regions is set out below.
invest in the communities in which we operate.
In 2006, the commercial confectionery operations were The Groups approach to and performance in this area is reorganised under a category structure, with each of the three discussed in detail in its Corporate and Social Responsibility confectionery categories of chocolate, gum and candy Report, published every two years and in the society and managed on a global basis.
This structure will be further environment section of our website.
This is available on embedded in the regions to ensure excellence of execution www.
com and will be available from and increase efficiency.
In 2006, the Groups Corporate and Social Responsibility Report set out goals and This structure enables the regions to focus on delivering the sustainability commitments for the period 20062010 in five commercial agenda and top-line growth, and allows the key areas: marketing, food and consumer issues: ethical functions to develop and drive global strategies and processes sourcing: environment, health and safety: human rights and towards best in class performance, while remaining closely employment standards: and community involvement.
aligned to the regions commercial interests.
On 2 July 2007 the Group launched a new environmental Within regions, Confectionery will also be clustered to reduce strategy designed to reduce the Groups environmental impact the number of business units and increase focus, and global, by minimising the use of energy, packaging and water which regional and business unit head offices will be co-located to aims: reduce building and back-office costs.
Further savings will be to reduce net absolute carbon emissions by 50% by 2020, achieved through allocating dual roles to functional leaders to with a minimum of 30% from company actions: reduce headcount and increase efficiency of decision-making.
to reduce packaging used per tonne of product by 10%, and by 25% in more highly packaged seasonal and gifting items: Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 15 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 22:46 Page 16 Description of business continued Britain, Ireland, Middle East and Africa BIMA % of Group 1 FY 2007 Total Revenue 1,579m 20% 2 Underlying profit from operations 169m 14% Underlying operating margin 10.7% Profit from operations 99m 10% Number of manufacturing sites 21 Main markets: UK, Ireland, South Africa, Egypt, Nigeria Main Brands: Cadbury, Green & Blacks, Trident, Stimorol, Chiclets, Bassetts, Halls, Maynards, The Natural Confectionery Company, Tom Tom, Bournvita 1 Excludes Central 2 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to profit from operations see pages 25 to 27.
The BIMA region is the largest Confectionery region in terms Middle East and Africa, the Groups main confectionery of revenue.
It mainly comprises chocolate businesses in the UK, operations are in South Africa, Nigeria and Egypt.
Ireland, South Africa and Nigeria, but also includes market leading gum businesses in South Africa and Egypt, and candy In South Africa, we have the leading confectionery market share businesses throughout the region.
We sell chocolate and candy under the Cadbury and Halls brands, and, with the acquisition of the Dan Products Britain and Ireland is the largest confectionery business in BIMA, business in 2006, we now have a leading share of the South representing around 80% of revenue.
The Group currently has a African gum market, mainly under the Stimorol brand, at 57%.
leading 28.1% share in the UK, the worlds second largest confectionery market.
In the UK and Ireland, we sell chocolate In 2006, the Group increased its shareholding in Cadbury principally under the Cadbury and Green & Blacks brands, and Nigeria to 50.02%.
The Nigerian business sells candy, food candy products under brands including Bassetts, Halls, beverages and bubble gum.
Its lead brands include Tom Tom, Maynards, The Natural Confectionery Company and Trebor.
our biggest selling candy in Africa, Bournvita and Bubba bubble Trident gum was launched in the UK in early 2007 and has gum.
In Egypt, we sell products under the Cadbury, Bim Bim secured a 10% market share during the year.
and Chiclets brand names and have a 41% share of the confectionery market.
The Group also operates in Morocco, The Group is the leading confectionery group in Africa.
In the Lebanon, Ghana and Kenya.
Europe % of Group 1 FY 2007 Total Revenue 879m 11% 2 Underlying profit from operations 91m 8% Underlying operating margin 10.4% Profit from operations 70m 7% Number of manufacturing sites 18 Main markets: France, Poland, Spain, Russia, Turkey, Greece, Scandinavia, Romania Main Brands: Hollywood, Halls, Wedel, Trident, Dirol, Stimorol, Kent, Poulain, First, Falim 1 Excludes Central 2 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to profit from operations see pages 25 to 27.
The Europe region comprises businesses in Western and Confectionery also operates in the Netherlands and Eastern Europe including Russia and Turkey, excluding the UK Switzerland selling mainly gum.
It principally sells candy and gum, with the only significant chocolate businesses in Poland, Russia and France.
Other important businesses in the Europe region are those in Russia and Turkey.
We have a 27% share of the gum market in France is the regions largest operating unit and confectionery Russia through the Dirol brand, and also sell medicated candy has the leading position in the French confectionery market under the Halls brand and chocolate under the Cadbury brand.
We have a 47% share of the French In Turkey, we have the leading share of the candy market at gum market, principally under the Hollywood brand, and also 54%, with brands including Kent, Missbon, Olips and Jelibon.
sell candy under the La Pie Qui Chante and Carambar brands, The acquisition of Intergum, the leading Turkish gum business, and chocolate, mainly under the Poulain brand.
In 2007, Halls which completed in August 2007, has resulted in a 63% share was launched in France, and the brand now has a 5% share of of the Turkish gum market, primarily under the Trident, First the candy market.
Gum is sold under the Trident brand in Spain, Portugal and In June 2007, the Group acquired 93.32%.
of Kandia-Excelent, Greece, and under the Stimorol and V6 brands in Switzerland, which has a 21%.
share of the Romanian confectionery market, Denmark, Belgium and Sweden, while candy is sold under the resulting in the Group having a 27%.
share of candy and the Halls brand in Spain and Greece.
Chocolate is sold under the second largest share of the chocolate market at 18%.
Since its Wedel brand in Poland, where we have a 15% market share.
initial acquisition, we have now increased our shareholding in Kandia-Excelent to 95%.
16 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 4 3 08 12:26 Page 17 Americas Confectionery % of Group 1 FY 2007 Total Revenue 1,372m 17% 2 Underlying profit from operations 248m 20% Underlying operating margin 18.1% Profit from operations 205m 20% Number of manufacturing sites 8 Main markets: US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Venezuela Main Brands: Trident, Halls, Dentyne, Stride, Bubbas, Clorets, Chiclets, Cadbury, 1 Excludes Central 2 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to profit from operations see pages 25 to 27.
The Group has businesses in all the Americas regions major 20% market share, and has leading market positions in gum, countries, including the US, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, Argentina, candy and cough cold confectionery, and a top three position Venezuela and Colombia.
Approximately 54% of sales are in in chocolate.
In Latin America, the Group has the leading the US and Canada, with the remainder in Mexico and Latin overall confectionery market share at 18%, double that of its America.
Outside Canada, the region sells principally gum and nearest competitor.
It has a 65% share of the Latin American candy.
Four brands Trident, Dentyne, Halls and the Bubbas gum market, and leading market shares in gum in Mexico, account for around 65% of revenue.
In the US, the worlds Brazil, Venezuela, Argentina and Colombia.
It also has the largest confectionery market, we have the second largest second largest share of the candy confectionery market at 9%.
market share in gum at 34%, mainly through the Trident and Dentyne brands, and the leading share at 56% in cough cold The Group has a broad-reaching distribution infrastructure in confectionery through Halls.
In 2006, a new US gum brand, Latin America which enables it to supply a diverse customer Stride, was launched, which now has a 5% share of the US base of small shops and kiosks.
In Mexico, the Group has a 78% gum market.
share of the gum market and an 85% share of the candy market.
Other brands sold in the Americas region include The Group has the largest confectionery business in Canada, Chiclets, Clorets, Swedish Fish, Sour Patch Kids, Beldent, the worlds 11th largest confectionery market, with an overall Bazooka and Mantecol.
Asia Pacific % of Group 1 FY 2007 Total Revenue 1,254m 16% 2 Underlying profit from operations 159m 13% Underlying operating margin 12.7% Profit from operations 146m 15% Number of manufacturing sites 19 confectionery 7 beverages Main markets: Australia, New Zealand, India, Japan, Thailand, China, Malaysia, Indonesia, Singapore, Philippines, Korea Main Confectionery Brands: Cadbury, Halls, Recaldent, Clorets, Bournvita, The Natural Confectionery Co. Main Beverage Brands Schweppes, Solo, Spring Valley, Sunkist 1 Excludes Central 2 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to profit from operations see pages 25 to 27.
Asia Pacific comprises confectionery operations in Australia, The products of the Groups Australian beverages business are New Zealand, India, Japan, Malaysia, Indonesia, Thailand and sold under the Schweppes, Cottees, Solo, Spring Valley, and China, and an Australian beverages business, which accounts Sunkist brand names.
Australian Beverages also has a licence to for approximately 32% of the regions revenue.
manufacture, sell and distribute Pepsi, Red Bull, 7 UP, Mountain Dew and Gatorade.
The beverages business manufactures, In 2006, the Group entered the Vietnamese market through a distributes and markets its own products, and also manufactures third-party distribution agreement, and in 2007 strengthened concentrate and bottles product for other manufacturers.
its position in the Japanese candy market with the acquisition of 96% of Sansei Foods, a Japanese functional candy company.
Other significant markets in this region include India, Japan and Thailand.
Our Indian business has a leading presence in Australia and New Zealand are our largest markets in the chocolate with a 71% market share, and also sells candy under region.
Confectionery has a leading position in the Australian the Eclairs and Halls brands, and Bournvita.
In Japan, we sell confectionery market, with a number one position in chocolate mainly gum under the Recaldent and Clorets brands, and have 53% market share, and a strong presence in candy.
The Groups the number two position in gum with a 20% market share.
main chocolate brand in Australia is Cadbury Dairy Milk and in New Zealand, brands include Cadbury Dairy Milk and Moro.
The The Group also has leading market shares in Thailand in gum and Group has a number one position in New Zealands candy at 63% and 31% respectively.
In Malaysia, it has a number confectionery market with a 47% share.
one market share in chocolate at 29%, and in gum, a number two position through the Dentyne brand with a 19% market share.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 17 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 17:18 Page 18 Description of business continued Most of Americas Beverages sales of beverage concentrates are Americas Beverages to bottlers who manufacture, bottle, sell and distribute its On 10 October 2007, the Group announced that it had branded products into retail channels.
Approximately one third decided to focus on demerging its Americas Beverages of its U. S. beverage concentrates by volume are sold to its business through a listing on the New York Stock Exchange.
Bottling Group, with the balance being sold to third-party The Americas Beverages business will be renamed Dr Pepper bottlers affiliated with Coca-Cola or PepsiCo, as well as Snapple Group, Inc. DPS following the demerger.
Americas Beverages also manufactures, sells and distributes syrups for use in beverage fountain dispensers Background to restaurants and retailers, as well as to fountain wholesalers, Americas Beverages operates as a brand owner, a bottler and a who resell it to restaurants and retailers.
In addition, Americas distributor through its five segments as follows: Beverages distributes non-CSD finished beverages through its its beverage concentrates segment is a brand ownership own operations and through third-party distributors.
business: its finished goods segment is a brand ownership and a Americas Beverages bottling and distribution businesses bottling business and, to a lesser extent, a distribution manufacture, bottle, sell and distribute CSD finished beverages business: from concentrates and non-CSD finished beverages and its bottling group segment is a bottling and distribution products mostly from ingredients other than concentrates.
business: They sell and distribute finished beverages and other products its Snapple distributors segment is a distribution business: primarily into retail channels either directly to retail shelves or and to warehouses through their large fleet of delivery trucks or its Mexico and the Caribbean segment is a brand through third party logistics providers.
Approximately threeownership and a bottling and distribution business.
quarters of Americas Beveragess 2006 bottling group net sales of branded products come from its own brands, with the As a brand owner, Americas Beverages builds its brands by remaining from the distribution of third-party brands such as promoting brand awareness through marketing, advertising Monster energy drink, FIJI mineral water and Big Red soda.
In and promotion, and by developing new and innovative products addition, a small portion of its bottling group sales come from and product line extensions that address consumer preferences bottling beverages and other products for private label owners and needs.
As the owner of the formulas and proprietary or others for a fee referred to as co-packing.
know-how required for the preparation of beverages, Americas Beverages manufactures, sells and distributes beverage concentrates and syrups used primarily to produce carbonated soft drinks CSD and manufactures, bottles, sells and distributes primarily non-CSD finished beverages.
Americas Beverages % of Group 1 FY 2007 Total Revenue 2,878m 36% 2 Underlying profit from operations 553m 45% Underlying operating margin 19.2% Profit from operations 486m 48% Number of manufacturing sites 25 Main markets: US, Canada, Mexico Main Beverage Brands: Dr Pepper, Snapple, Motts, Hawaiian Punch, Peafiel, Clamato, 7 UP, Yoo-Hoo, A&W, Sunkist, Diet Rite, Canada Dry, Schweppes 1 Excludes Central 2 For an explanation of underlying profit from operations and a reconciliation to profit from operations see pages 25 to 27.
Americas Beverages is a leading integrated brand owner, Americas Beverages operates primarily in the United States, bottler and distributor of non-alcoholic beverages in the Mexico and Canada, the first, second and tenth largest beverage United States, Canada and Mexico with a diverse portfolio of markets, respectively, by CSD volume, according to Beverage flavored CSDs and non-carbonated soft drinks non-CSDs, Digest.
It also distributes its products in the Caribbean.
In 2007, including ready-to-drink teas, juices, juice drinks and mixers.
89% of its net sales were generated in the United States, 4% in Its brand portfolio includes popular CSD brands such as Canada and 7% in Mexico and the Caribbean.
Dr Pepper, 7 UP, Sunkist, A&W, Canada Dry, Schweppes, Squirt and Peafiel, and non-CSD brands such as Snapple, Motts, Hawaiian Punch, Clamato, Mr & Mrs T, Margaritaville and Roses.
Its largest brand, Dr Pepper, is the number 2 selling flavoured CSD in the United States according to ACNielsen.
18 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 16:20 Page 19 Leverage our integrated business model Strategy Integrated brand ownership, bottling and the distribution The Groups strategy for Americas Beverages is as follows: business model provides opportunities for net sales and profit growth through the alignment of the economic interests of Build and enhance leading brands brand ownership and the bottling and distribution businesses.
The business has a well-defined portfolio strategy and uses an Americas Beverages will leverage the integrated business on-going process of market and consumer analysis to identify model to reduce costs by creating greater geographic key brands that the Group believes have the greatest potential manufacturing and distribution coverage and to be more for profitable sales growth.
For example, in 2006, 7UP was flexible and responsive to the changing needs of the relaunched with 100% natural flavours and no artificial businesses large retail customers by coordinating sales, service, preservatives, thereby differentiating the 7UP brand from distribution, promotions and product launches.
The intention is other major lemon-lime CSDs.
There will be a continuing to concentrate more manufacturing in multi-product, regional investment in key brands to drive profitable and sustainable manufacturing facilities, including by opening a new plant in growth by strengthening consumer awareness, developing Southern California and investing in expanded capabilities in innovative products and brand extensions to take advantage of several of our existing facilities within the next several years.
evolving consumer trends, improving distribution and increasing promotional effectiveness.
Strengthen our route to market through acquisitions The acquisition and creation of the Bottling Group is part of Focus on opportunities in high growth and the longer-term initiative to strengthen the route to market high margin categories for the Americas Beverages products.
The additional The focus is on driving growth in selected profitable and acquisitions of regional bottling companies broadens the emerging categories.
These categories include ready-to-drink geographic coverage in regions where the business is currently teas, energy drinks and other functional beverages, for underrepresented, enhances coordination with the large retail example, the recently launched Snapple super premium teas customers, more quickly addresses changing customer and juices and Snapple enhanced waters.
The intention is to demands, accelerates the introduction of new products, capitalise on opportunities in these categories through brand improves collaboration around new product innovations and extensions, new product launches and selective acquisitions of expands the coverage of high margin channels.
Americas Beverages also aims to enter into new distribution agreements for emerging, highImprove operating efficiency growth third party brands in new categories that can use our The Americas Beverages business was recently restructured bottling and distribution network.
Americas Beverages can which serves to reduce the selling, general and administrative provide these brands with distribution capability and resources expenses and improves operating efficiency.
In addition, the to grow, and they provide us with exposure to growing integration of recent acquisitions into the Bottling Group has segments of the market with relatively low risk and capital created the opportunity to improve manufacturing, investment.
For example, through the creation of multi-product manufacturing facilities such as Increase presence in high margin channels and packages our Irving, Texas facility which provides a region with a wide The business is focused on improving product presence in high variety of products at reduced transportation and co-packing margin channels, such as convenience stores, vending machines costs.
and small independent retail outlets, and through increased selling activity and investments in coolers and other cold drink equipment.
Increased promotional activity and innovation will increase demand for high margin products like single-serve packages for many of the key brands for example the successful introduction of the A&W vintage 20 ounce bottle.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 19 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 16:05 Page 20 Description of business continued Science & Technology Group structure Science & Technology leads the Groups technical innovation The Group is managed by the Cadbury Schweppes plc Board programme.
This function sets and communicates global of Directors, which delegates day-to-day management to the technical priorities, establishes and co-ordinates the science Chief Executives Committee CEC.
agenda and facilitates global knowledge management and best-practice transfer.
It prioritises and funds technology Cadbury Schweppes plc Board of Directors and Chief developments which underpin the innovation agenda, including Executives Committee CEC longer-term globally-applicable development programmes.
It The Board is responsible for the overall management and also co-ordinates nutrition initiatives as a key element of the performance of the company, and the approval of the longGroups food policy and, together with Group Legal, creates a term objectives and commercial strategy.
strategy for the Groups intellectual property assets.
The Chief Executives Committee, which comprises the Chief The Group uses its own Science and Technology facilities as Executive Officer, the leader of each region and function, and well as those of suppliers and has a growing number of the Group Strategy Director, reports to the Board and is external collaborations with university, consultant and industrial accountable for the day-to-day management of the operations partners.
The major Science and Technology facilities are at and the implementation of strategy.
This team is responsible to Reading, UK, Hanover Park, New Jersey, and Trumball, the Board for driving high level performance of the growth, Connecticut.
The Reading facility provides science and efficiency and capability programmes as well as for resource technology support to the Group both globally and to the allocation.
BIMA and Europe region and to third parties.
Hanover Park serves Americas Confectionery and Trumball Americas The CEC develops global commercial strategy and will address Beverages.
The Group also has a number of smaller facilities supply chain and major operating issues arising in the normal which support business units.
This includes reviewing the regions and functions performance contracts, and determining necessary Human Resources action relating to financial policy, targets, results and forecasts.
The role of the Human Resources function is to improve It approves some capital and development expenditures performance by enhancing the effectiveness of day-to-day according to authorities delegated by the Board, reports to working practices, people capabilities and the quality of their the Board on the sources and uses of funds, cash position and output.
Human Resources supports the business in delivering capital structure, and reviews the structure and policy of the its goals by putting in place the right people for the right job: borrowings.
The CEC evaluates foreign exchange, interest rate by helping develop and support the most effective and other risk management policies and submits an annual risk organisational strategies and structures: and by attracting, management report to the Board.
It also reviews proposed retaining and developing employees and rewarding the right acquisitions and disposals, joint ventures and partnerships behaviours and outcomes.
before submission to the Board, and reviews and approves legal and human resources matters.
Finance The role of Finance is focused on a strong business partnership Functions with the commercial operators in the Group, while The Group is organised into six global functions as well as the maintaining a robust financial control environment.
The four Confectionery and one Americas Beverages regions function sets low cost, IT-enabled common internal processes explained above.
This structure enables the regions to focus on and standards for financial reporting and control, and ensures delivering the Groups commercial agenda and top-line high quality external reporting which complies with all growth, and allows the functions to develop and drive global applicable laws and regulations.
It is responsible for setting the strategies and processes towards best in class performance, Groups annual contracts or budgets, for developing longerwhile remaining closely aligned to the regions commercial term strategy and for managing acquisitions and disposals.
also responsible for managing financial communications and the Groups relationship with the investment community.
Supply Chain Supply Chain ensures the reliable supply of products, whether Legal and Secretariat manufactured by the Group or by a third party.
Supply Chains Legal and Secretariat partners and supports the regions and role encompasses sourcing of ingredients and packaging other functions by taking responsibility for a broad range of materials, planning, manufacturing, distribution and customer legal and secretarial activities.
These include corporate services, as well as quality and safety of products, and governance matters: compliance with US and UK securities employee safety.
Supply Chain is responsible for managing the regulation and legislation: effective management of the Group fixed assets of the Groups manufacturing facilities and intellectual property portfolio: mergers and acquisitions: warehouses.
litigation management: general contract work and incident management.
Commercial The role of Commercial is to facilitate higher revenue growth from the business units than they could otherwise achieve on a stand-alone basis.
Commercial defines category and portfolio strategy: ensures the Group has best-in-class commercial capabilities: partners with other functions such as Science & Technology and Supply Chain in creating innovation: and co-ordinates brand management, consumer insights, and global customer strategy.
20 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 16:05 Page 21 The Board also recognises that the risks facing the business Risk factors may sometimes change over short time periods.
Every quarter Introduction each Region provides an update on new and emerging risks to The Group, like all businesses, is exposed to a number of risks the RCC and proposals to update the Group risks are provided which may have material and adverse effects on its reputation, to the Audit Committee and the Board.
It is not possible to identify or anticipate every risk that may affect the Group: While the Groups risk management process attempts to some material risks may not be known, others, currently identify and manage where possible the key risks it faces, no deemed as immaterial, could become material, and new risks such process can totally eliminate risk or guarantee that every may arise.
risk is identified, or that it is possible, economically viable, or prudent to manage such risks.
Consequently, there can never The Groups risk management process is described below.
be an absolute assurance against the Group failing to achieve It aims to identify the risk factors that may have a material its objectives or a material loss arising.
impact on the Group, and to manage them appropriately.
External risks The risk factors identified by the Groups risk management The Group is subject to a number of external risks.
The Group process are set out below.
Each of these could have a material defines external risks as those that stem from factors which and adverse effect on the Group, including on its reputation, are mainly outside of its control.
These risks will often arise performance and financial condition.
They have been divided from the nature of the Group and the industry in which into four categories: external risks: internal risks: execution risks: it operates.
Legal, regulatory, political and societal risks Any investment decision should be made following The Group is at risk from significant and rapid change in the consideration of the risk factors set out below.
The risk factors legal systems, regulatory controls, and custom and practices in should also be read in conjunction with the forward-looking the countries in which it operates.
These affect a wide range statements on page 24 of this document.
of areas including the composition, production, packaging, labelling, distribution and sale of the Groups products: the Risk management process Groups property rights: its ability to transfer funds and assets The Groups process for identifying and managing risk is set within the Group or externally: employment practices: data by the Board.
The Board has delegated the day-to-day protection: environment, health and safety issues: and management of risk within the Group to the Risk and accounting, taxation and stock exchange regulation and involve Compliance Committee RCC.
The RCC is chaired by actions such as product recalls, seizure of products and other the Chief Executive Officer, and comprises the Chief Legal sanctions.
Accordingly, changes to, or violation of, these Officer and representatives drawn from the Groups Regions systems, controls or practices could increase costs and have and Functions.
material and adverse impacts on the reputation, performance and financial condition of the Group.
The Board conducts an annual review of Group risks, during which it identifies the key risks for the year ahead.
As part of Political developments and changes in society, including this review, operational and strategic risks are proposed as key increased scrutiny of the Group, its businesses or its industry, risks by the RCC, based on inputs from Regions, Function for example by non-governmental organisations or the media, Heads and business leaders.
The Risk Factors set out below may result in, or increase the rate of, material legal and reflect the key risks identified as part of this process.
regulatory change, and changes to custom and practices.
Each of the key risks is assigned to a member of the Chief The Group may also be subject to regulation designed to Executives Committee CEC, who proposes a level of risk address concerns about dietary trends.
This could include the the Group is willing to take and develops an appropriate plan introduction of additional labelling requirements, and levying of action to mitigate the risk.
All risk mitigation plans are additional taxes on, or restricting the production or advertising reviewed, challenged and agreed by the RCC.
of, certain product types, which could increase the Groups costs or make it harder for the Group to market its products, Once risk mitigation plans are agreed, Regions and Functions adversely affecting its performance.
are asked to carry out a self assessment exercise which requires all operating units to confirm compliance with Group Geographic spread and emerging markets exposure policies and also to confirm that key operational controls are The Group is exposed to control and other risks inherent in a in place and working effectively.
The results of this exercise, business which operates in many countries.
A failure of control together with a review of specific plans for strategic risks, in one or more countries may materially adversely affect the enable the Board to confirm that the business has a sound, performance or financial condition of the Group as a whole.
risk-based framework of internal control.
Approximately one-third of the Groups confectionery revenues are generated in emerging markets, which have less The Group Audit team provides independent re-assurance that developed political, legal and regulatory systems which are at the standard of risk management, compliance and control higher risk of failure than those of developed markets.
Any meets the needs of the business, and this includes an failure may have a materially adverse impact on the Groups evaluation of the accuracy and completeness of the self performance or financial condition.
Group Audit status reports are discussed with the CEC, Audit Committee and Board on a regular basis.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 21 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 1 3 08 22:21 Page 22 Description of business continued Business continuity and incident management Retirement and healthcare benefits The Group is at risk from disruption of a number of key The Group is at risk from potential shortfalls in the funding manufacturing and distribution assets and systems on which of its various retirement and healthcare benefit schemes.
The functioning of the Groups liabilities of these schemes reflect the Groups latest estimate manufacturing and distribution assets and systems could be of life expectancy, inflation, discount rates and salary growth disrupted for reasons either within or beyond the Groups which may change.
These schemes are generally funded control, including: extremes of weather or longer-term externally under trust through investments in equities, bonds climatic changes: accidental damage: disruption to the supply and other external assets, the values of which are dependent of material or services: product quality and safety issues: on, among other things, the performance of equity and debt systems failure: workforce actions: or environmental markets, which can be volatile.
Changes in the value of the contamination.
While the Group has an incident management assets or liabilities of these schemes and therefore their system in place, there is a risk that these plans may prove funding status may require additional funding from the inadequate and that any disruption may materially adversely employing entities and may adversely impact the Groups affect the Groups ability to make and sell products and financial condition.
therefore materially adversely affect its reputation, performance or financial condition.
Internal risks Internal risks are those arising from factors primarily within Competition and customer consolidation the Groups control, including from the Groups structure Increased competition in the markets in which it operates may and processes.
materially adversely impact the Groups performance and financial condition.
The confectionery industry is highly Information technology infrastructure competitive.
The Group competes with other multinational The Group depends on accurate, timely information and corporations which also have significant financial resources.
The numerical data from key software applications to aid day-toGroup may be unable to compete effectively if its competitors day business and decision-making.
Any disruption caused by resources are applied to change areas of focus, enter new failings in these systems, of underlying equipment or of markets, reduce prices, or to increase investments in marketing communication networks could delay or otherwise impact the or the development and launch of new products.
The Group is Groups day-to-day business and decision-making and have also at risk from the trend towards greater concentration of its materially adverse effects on the Groups performance.
customer base due to consolidation of the retail trade which may result in increased pricing pressure from customers and Operational interdependence adversely impact the Groups sales and margins.
The Groups operations in individual countries are increasingly dependent for the proper functioning of their business on Consumer demand other parts of the Group in terms of raw material and product Consumer demand for the Groups products may be affected supply, new products and sales and marketing programme by factors including changes to consumer preferences, development, technology, funding and support services.
Any unseasonable or unusual weather, or longer-term climatic underperformance or failure to control the Groups operations changes.
The Group has made substantial investments in in one country properly could therefore impact the Groups understanding consumer preferences and in its ability to businesses in a number of other countries and materially respond to consumer needs through innovation, and also has adversely impact the performance or financial condition of products appealing to a wide range of consumers.
However, it other business units or the Group as a whole.
may be unable to respond successfully or at reasonable cost to rapid changes in demand or consumer preferences, which may Product quality and safety adversely affect its performance.
Despite safety measures adopted by the Group, its products could become contaminated or not meet the required quality Raw materials or safety standards.
The Group uses many ingredients, and The Group depends upon the availability, quality and cost of there is a risk of either accidental or malicious contamination.
raw materials from around the world, which exposes it to Any contamination or failure to meet quality and safety price, quality and supply fluctuations, including those occurring standards may be costly and impact the Groups reputation because of the impact of disease or climate on harvests.
raw materials include cocoa, milk, sweeteners, packaging materials and energy, some of which are available only from Employees a limited number of suppliers.
Although the Group will take The Group depends on the continued contributions of its measures to protect against the short-term impact of these executive officers and employees, both individually and as a fluctuations and of the concentration of supply, there is no group.
While the Group reviews its people policies on a guarantee that these will be effective.
A failure to recover regular basis and invests significant resources in training and higher costs or shortfalls in availability or quality could development and recognising and encouraging individuals with materially adversely impact the Groups performance.
high potential, there can be no guarantee that it will be able to attract, develop and retain these individuals at an appropriate cost and ensure that the capabilities of the Groups employees meets its business needs.
Any failure to do so may impact the Groups performance.
22 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights & Overview Business & Financial review Directors report Financial statements Other information U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 4 3 08 13:51 Page 23 Licensing There can be no guarantee that the Group will realise any or The Group licences to third parties certain brand and product all of the anticipated benefits of the demerger, either in a rights in specific geographies.
While such licences are carefully timely manner or at all.
If that happens, and the Group incurs controlled, inappropriate action or an incident at a licensee significant costs, it could have a material adverse impact on the partner could occur and impact the reputation of the Groups results of the Group.
brands or the Group as a whole.
Vision into Action Outsourcing There can be no guarantee that the Groups Vision into Action The Group is increasing its use of outsourcing arrangements plan will deliver improvements in business performance and with third parties, notably in information technology, the implementation of the plan may disrupt the Groups manufacturing, finance and human resources operations.
On 19 June, 2007, the Group announced a new the Group has benefited from the expertise of these third strategy for Confectionery called Vision into Action, which parties, it is at risk from failures by these third parties to deliver includes a plan to improve its margin performance to achieve a on their contractual commitments, which may adversely mid-teens operating margin by 2011.
This plan includes gross impact its reputation and performance, and increase its costs.
in the number of factories, material changes to the Groups supply chain configuration, Intellectual property and to the structure and operation of other Group Functions.
The Group has substantial intellectual property rights and These changes increase the risk of significant disruption to the interests which are important to the Group and may require Groups business, which may occur, for example, through significant resources to protect and defend.
The Group may defective execution of the Vision into Action plan, unforeseen also infringe others intellectual property rights and interests events, or workforce actions.
and therefore be required to redesign or cease the development, manufacture, use and sale of its products so that The Group expects to incur a restructuring charge of 450 they do not infringe others' intellectual property rights.
This million of which around 50 million is non-cash and invest may require significant resources or not be possible.
The Group 200 million of capital expenditure behind the Vision into may also be required to obtain licences to infringed intellectual Action plan.
There can be no guarantee, however, that this property, which may not be available on acceptable terms, or investment, or the Groups other or subsequent investments, even at all.
Intellectual property litigation by or against the will deliver the anticipated improvements in business Group could significantly disrupt the Groups business, divert performance.
management's attention, and consume financial resources, and therefore have a materially adverse impact on the reputation, Acquisitions and disposals performance and financial condition of the Group.
Risks inherent in the acquisition or disposal of businesses and brands may have an adverse impact on the Groups business or 3.
Execution risks arise from the implementation of the Groups strategy and its change and restructuring programmes, which From time to time the Group may make acquisitions and aim to enhance long term shareowner value.
disposals of businesses and brands.
While these are carefully planned, the rationale for them may be based on incorrect Demerger of Americas Beverages assumptions or conclusions and they may not realise the The demerger of Americas Beverages may not complete on anticipated benefits or there may be other unanticipated the anticipated timetable.
Completion of the demerger is or unintended effects.
Additionally, while the Group seeks subject to the satisfaction or waiver of a number of protection, for example through warranties and indemnities conditions including, amongst others, the approval of the in the case of acquisitions, significant liabilities may not be demerger by Cadbury Schweppes shareowners at a identified in due diligence or come to light after the expiry shareowner meetings i. e. general meeting and court meeting of warranty or indemnity periods.
These factors may materially and Court sanction.
If the Cadbury Schweppes shareowners do adversely impact the performance or financial condition of not approve the Proposals at the shareowner meetings, Court the Group.
sanction is not given or Americas Beverages is unable to raise sufficient finance to repay its debts to the continuing group, the demerger will not complete.
If the demerger and the transactions connected with it e. g. if it fails to repay debts post-demerger does not occur in part or whole, then the Group may experience a delay in the execution of its strategic objectives, and may be unable to realise the benefits for shareowners that the Board believes will result from the demerger.
Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 23 U53441 cover-p24.
qxd 3 3 08 15:59 Page 24 Description of business continued 4.
Financial risks The Group is exposed to market risks such as interest rate and exchange rate risks arising from its international business.
The main financial risks facing the Group are fluctuations in foreign currency, interest rate risk, availability of financing to meet the Groups needs and default by counterparties.
Any of these financial risks may materially adversely impact the performance or financial condition of the Group.
A detailed discussion of the Groups financial risks can be found in the Financial Review on pages 42 to 44.
Forward-looking statements Statements contained in this Report, including in the Description of Business Risk Factors, the Financial Review, the Directors Report and the Directors Remuneration Report, may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the US Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Forward-looking statements are generally identifiable by the use of the words may, will, should, plan, expect, anticipate, estimate, believe, intend, project, goal or target or the negative of these words or other variations on these words or comparable terminology.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause our or our industrys actual results, levels of activity, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements.
In addition to those factors described under Risk Factors, other important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations include international economic and political conditions: changes in laws, regulations and accounting standards: distributor and licensee relationships and actions: effectiveness of spending and marketing programmes: and unusual weather patterns.
Cadbury Schweppes does not undertake publicly to update or revise any forward-looking statement that may be made in this Report, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Although the Group believes that the expectations reflected in the forward-looking statements are reasonable, it cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements.
24 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007
