Items covered in this section: Business review 50 Dividends 51 Directors 51 Substantial shareholdings 52 Going concern 52 General Legal proceedings The Directors present their Report together with the audited Cadbury Schweppes plc and its subsidiaries are defendants in financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. a number of legal proceedings incidental to their operations.
The outcome of such proceedings, either individually or in Principal activities aggregate, is not expected to have a material effect upon the Our principal activities are detailed in the Description of results of our operations or financial position.
Business on page 10 and incorporated by reference into this report and deemed part of this report.
The operating Post balance sheet events companies principally affecting our profit or net assets in the On 15 March 2007 the Group announced the separation of year are listed in Note 36 to the financial statements.
the Americas Beverages businesses and on 10 October 2007 it further announced that it would effect the separation via a Business review demerger in 2008.
A Circular will be sent to shareowners Cadbury Schweppes plc is required by the Companies Act 1985 describing the demerger process and the actions shareowners to set out in this report a fair review of the business of the need to take at the appropriate time.
Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2007 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year.
On 25 February 2008 the Group completed the disposal of its Monkhill business, which principally manufactures sugar A review of the business and a commentary on its strategy, confectionery and popcorn for the UK market, for 58 million.
performance and development is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 to 4, the Chief Executives Review on Financial instruments pages 5 to 9 and Financial Review on pages 25 to 47.
In Information on our use of financial instruments, our financial addition, the principal risks facing the business are detailed in risk management objectives and policies, and our exposure to the Description of Business on pages 21 to 24.
The strategy of credit and liquidity risks, are described in the Financial Review.
the Confectionery Group is discussed on page 13 and the Our exposure to cash flow and price risks are described in Americas Beverages strategy is discussed on page 19.
Treasury Note 28 to the financial statements.
Risk on Management Policies are discussed in the Financial Review on pages 42 to 44.
Environmental policies, their Corporate and Social Responsibility performance and impact on the Group are discussed on page 51, We publish a separate Corporate and Social Responsibility research and development in the business of the Group is report every other year with the next report being available in discussed on pages 6 and 20 and the Companys capital the autumn.
Copies are available from our website, structure is discussed on pages 51 and 52.
com, or from the Group Secretary.
detailed in those sections which is required for the business review or otherwise for this report is incorporated by reference Our CSR performance is rated by various external in and shall be deemed to form part of this report.
Key organisations indices and this helps us assess how we are financial performance measures are discussed in the Financial progressing.
Indices include: Dow Jones Sustainability World Review on pages 25 to 27.
Index, FTSE4Good, the Carbon Disclosure Project, Climate Leadership Index and the UKs Business in the Community In addition, the Groups performance can be assessed by Corporate Responsibility Index.
comparative data from Euromonitor for confectionery and AC Nielsen for beverages, examples of which are given in the Employees Description of Business, and by our comparative TSR Applications for employment by disabled persons are always performance against the FTSE-100 on page 61.
We employ people with disabilities, though indicators relating to corporate and social responsibility can also not all are formally registered as disabled in UK terms.
If an be found in our biennial Corporate and Social Responsibility employee becomes disabled, we aim wherever possible to report and on our website.
offer an alternative job, with retraining if necessary.
Training, career development and promotion opportunities for people Revenue and profit with disabilities are consistent with our Group-wide policy on Revenue during the period amounted to 7,971 million 2006: equal employment opportunities, diversity and inclusiveness.
Profit before taxation amounted to 670 million 2006: 738 million.
50 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information Employee communication and involvement and senior leadership from different functions to drive our Employee communication and engagement continued to grow agenda in this area.
The remit of the committee includes in 2007, with all areas of the business introducing enhanced quality and food safety.
We are implementing additional communication structures and programmes.
We keep programmes to strengthen performance.
employees regularly informed through colleague communications via email and via the intranet.
Our financial Auditors results are always presented to employees through various In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the media channels.
Through our subsidiaries, we have successfully Companies Act 1985, each of the Directors at the date of entered into numerous collective bargaining agreements.
Our approval of this report confirms that: management has no reason to believe that it would not be So far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit able to renegotiate any such agreements on favourable terms.
information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and Employee share ownership The Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to Share ownership amongst our employees is actively have taken as a Director in order to make himself or herself encouraged.
Employees in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Ireland, Mexico, Netherlands, New Zealand, Portugal, Spain, that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
UK and USA have access to all-employee share plan arrangements.
Overall around 40% of all eligible employees The Groups auditors are Deloitte & Touche LLP, who are choose to participate and invitations to do so are issued on an willing to continue in office and resolutions for their annual basis.
re-appointment and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Charitable and political contributions In 2007, the value of Cadbury Schweppes contribution to non Note 6 in the financial statements states the auditors fees, profit causes totalled 10 million, paid in respect of the both for audit and non-audit work.
following charitable purposes: education & enterprise, environment and health and welfare.
Dividends The Directors recommend a final dividend of 10.5 pence per In 2007, neither the Company, nor any of its subsidiaries, made ordinary share 2006: 9.9p to be paid on 16 May 2008 to any donation to any registered party or other EU political ordinary shareowners on the register as at 1 May 2008. organisation, incurred any EU political expenditure or made any contribution to a non-EU political party, each as defined in An interim dividend of 5.0 pence was paid on 19 October the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
2007, which makes a total of 15.5 pence per ordinary share for the period 2006: 14.0p.
Environment & Heath and Safety EHS We recognise our responsibility to help preserve the future of Directors our planet while continuing to create sustainable value for the The names of our Directors, together with biographical business.
We are determined to reduce the carbon intensity of details, are set out on pages 48 and 49 and our global operations and use energy more efficiently as a key incorporated by reference into this report and deemed part of our commitment to sustainable growth and to help part of this report.
Therefore in June 2007 we launched a new environmental strategy, aimed at minimising the use of At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, Wolfgang energy, packaging and water through adopting absolute rather Berndt, Lord Patten and Bob Stack will retire by than relative targets, these targets are described in more detail rotation in accordance with Article 90 of the Articles on page 15 of the Business Description.
of Association, and, being eligible, will each offer themselves for re-appointment.
David Thompson will We have in place an integrated EHS policy and standards based retire as a Director with effect from 8 March 2008. on both ISO14001 and OHSAS 18001.
Our EHS policy and After over 40 years of service, Sir John Sunderland will standards deal with environmental issues related to the retire in mid 2008. manufacturing of our products, water, energy packaging and protection of the eco-systems from which we source raw Guy Elliott and Ellen Marram will also retire and offer materials, the management of our supply chain and the themselves for re-appointment in accordance with distribution, sale and consumption of our products.
Article 89 of the Articles of Association, having been appointed as independent Non-executive Directors All our manufacturing sites are audited on a rolling programme since the last Annual General Meeting.
by Group EHS Assurance Department and areas of improvement are identified.
Some sites are externally audited The explanatory notes to the Notice of Meeting set out and certified to IS014001 or OHSAS18001.
why the Board believes that these Directors should be re-elected.
Our EHS policies, goals and performance are described in detail in our Corporate and Social Responsibility Report 2006.
The report has been reviewed by Deloitte & Touche LLP who have provided an assurance statement.
Capital Structure Details of the authorised and issued share capital, together Protecting the health and safety of employees is fundamental with details of movements in the issued share capital of to our Business Principles.
We have a Quality Environment Cadbury Schweppes plc during the year are shown in Note 29 Health & Safety Group, chaired by our President of Global which is incorporated by reference and deemed to be part of Supply Chain.
This group consists of board level representation this report.
The Company has one class of ordinary shares Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 51 Directors report continued which carry no right to fixed income.
Each share carries the Directors indemnities right to one vote at general meetings of the Company.
Since February 2005, we have granted indemnities to each of the Directors, one member of our senior management and The percentage of the issued nominal value of the the Group Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
These ordinary shares is 100% of the total issued nominal value indemnities are uncapped in amount, in relation to certain of all share capital.
losses and liabilities which they may incur to third parties in the course of acting as directors or Company Secretary as the There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor case may be or employees of the Company or of one or more on the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the of its subsidiaries or associates.
general provisions of the Articles of Association and prevailing legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any agreements Substantial shareholdings between holders of the Companys shares that may result in At the date of this Report we have been notified, in accordance restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the ordinary share capital of the Company: Details of employee share schemes are set out in Note 26.
Number of shares Interest in Shares held by the Cadbury Schweppes Employee Benefit in which there issued share Trust.
The trust waives its right to vote on the shareholding, is an interest capital % and to a dividend.
Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited 150,787,720 7.18% No person has any special rights of control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
Legal & General Investment Management 106,419,523 5.04% With regards to the appointment and replacement of Franklin Resources 83,732,422 4.01% directors, the Company is governed by its Articles of Trian 72,965,267 3.47% Association, the Combined Code, the Companies Acts and related legislation.
The Articles themselves may be amended by In December 2007 Trian indicated to the Company that their special resolution of the shareowners.
The powers of Directors economic interest in the ordinary share capital of the Company are described in the Main Boards Terms of Reference, copies is approximately 4.5%.
of which are available on request, and the Corporate Governance Report on page 53.
Policy on payment to suppliers We adhere to the Better Payment Practice Guide.
Our policy At the 2007 AGM the Directors were authorised to issue is, when agreeing the conditions of each transaction, to ensure relevant securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to 86,636,438 approximately 33% of the issued ordinary share abide by, and settle in accordance with, these terms.
As capital as at 20 March 2007 : renewal was also sought from Cadbury Schweppes plc is a parent company, it has no trade the following authorities: a for the Directors to allot relevant creditors.
securities and to allot equity securities for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 13,126,733 other Change of control than on a pre-emptive basis, shareowners having approved Pursuant to section 992 of the Companies Act 2006, the similar resolutions annually since 1982: and b for the Company Directors disclose that in the event of a change of control in to purchase its own shares maximum total nominal value of the Company: i the Company may be obliged to offer to 26,253,466 and if appropriate, shareowners having approved sell its shares in Camelot to the other shareowners at fair a similar resolution annually since 1998.
The Directors did not market value: ii the Companys 1 billion Revolving Credit utilise this authority during 2007 and have no present Facility dated 17 March 2005 and its four 200 million intention to issue shares in the Company for cash other than in Revolving Credit Facilities all dated 31 May 2007 could connection with its share option and incentive schemes.
The become repayable: and iii an Exclusive Bottling Agreement, authority to purchase shares was not used in 2007 and has not which the Company has entered into in Australia, could been used since 1999.
The Directors will seek to renew similar become terminable.
Going concern Directors responsibilities On the basis of current financial projections and facilities The Statement of Directors responsibilities in relation to the available, we have a reasonable expectation that the Company financial statements is set out on page 76.
The statement by has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the auditors on corporate governance matters is contained in the foreseeable future and, accordingly, consider that it is their report on pages 76 and 77. appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Directors share interests The interests in the share capital of the Company of Directors By order of the Board holding office during the period at the beginning of the period, 1 January 2007 or date of appointment if later, and Henry Udow the end of the period, 31 December 2007, are detailed in the Chief Legal Officer and Group Secretary Directors remuneration report on page 71.
4 March 2008 52 Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Highlights&Overview Business&Financialreview Directors report Financial statements Other information Cadbury Schweppes Annual Report & Accounts 2007 53
