DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting the extent of equity gearing, are discussed the principles of the Combined Code on their Annual Report together with the results by the Board and Managers at every Board Corporate Governance published in 2003 of the Company for the year to 30 April meeting and adjusted accordingly.
the Combined Code were applied 2007. throughout the financial year.
Performance At each Board meeting, the Directors Compliance Business Review consider a number of performance measures The Company has complied throughout Business and Status to assess the Companys success in the year under review with the provisions The Company is an investment company achieving its objectives.
of the Combined Code except that no limit within the meaning of section 266 of the has been imposed on the overall length The key performance indicators KPIs used Companies Act 1985. of service of Directors and a Nomination to measure the progress and performance Committee has not been established.
The Company carries on business as of the Company over time are established an investment trust.
In the opinion of the industry measures and are as follows: The Directors recognise the importance of Directors, the Company conducts its affairs succession planning for company boards the movement in net asset value per so as to enable it to obtain approval by and the Board composition is reviewed ordinary share on a total return basis: HM Revenue & Customs as an investment annually.
The Board is of the view that trust under section 842 of the Income and the movement in the share price on a total length of service will not necessarily Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Company return basis: compromise the independence or was approved as an investment trust for contribution of Directors of an investment the discount: and the year ended 30 April 2006, subject to trust company, where continuity and matters that may arise from any subsequent the total expense ratio.
experience can be a bene t to the Board.
enquiry by HM Revenue & Customs into the Consequently, no limit has been imposed The five year record for the net asset value Companys tax return.
The Company will on the overall length of service.
All Directors and share price performance compared to continue to seek approval under section are, however, required to retire and, if the FTSE World Index can be found on page 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes appropriate, seek re-election, at least every 3 along with the five year record for the Act 1988 each year.
Directors will submit themselves discount.
Details of the total expense ratio for re-election annually when they have Objective can be found in the ten year record on page served for more than nine years.
The Companys objective is to invest 17 along with other financial highlights.
internationally to achieve capital growth, As the Board is comprised entirely of A review of the year and outlook is which takes priority over income and non-executive directors, a Nomination contained in the Chairmans Statement and dividends.
The portfolio is concentrated in Committee is considered unnecessary.
the Managers Portfolio Review on pages 4 a relatively small number of holdings for a The appointment of new Directors is to 8. global portfolio.
considered by the Board as a whole and Principal Risks and Uncertainties the Board conducts an annual review of its Investment Strategy The principal risks facing the Company composition having regard to the present The Company is primarily a vehicle through relate to the Companys investment activities and future needs of the Company.
which exposure to international equities can and include market risk, interest rate risk, be achieved although asset classes other The Board also adheres to the principles of credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency than equities will be purchased from time the AIC Code in all material respects.
risk and loss of investment trust status.
An to time including xed interest holdings, explanation of these risks and how they are The Board unquoted equities and derivatives.
In certain managed is contained in note 21 to the The Board has overall responsibility for circumstances currency exposure may be accounts on pages 38 to 41. the Companys affairs.
When investing, the Company matters reserved for its approval including moves freely between different markets Dividends strategy, investment policy, currency as opportunities arise.
While there is a hedging, gearing, treasury matters, dividend The Board recommends a final dividend of comparative index, no attention is paid and corporate governance policy.
A 2.65p per ordinary share which, together to the composition of the index when separate strategy session is held annually.
with the interim already paid, makes a total constructing the portfolio.
A long term view The Board also reviews the financial of 3.15p for the year.
is taken five to ten years and there may be statements, investment transactions, revenue periods when the net asset value per share If approved, the recommended final budgets and performance.
Full and timely declines both in absolute terms and relative dividend on the ordinary shares will be information is provided to the Board to to the comparative index.
Payment of paid on 6 August 2007 to shareholders on enable the Board to function effectively dividends is secondary to achieving capital the register at the close of business on 13 and to allow Directors to discharge their growth.
The Directors do not consider the July 2007.
The ex-dividend date is 11 July responsibilities.
shares to be a suitable investment for those 2007. seeking a regular or rising income.
The Board currently comprises four Directors all of whom are non-executive.
Corporate Governance Gearing The executive responsibility for investment Borrowings are invested in equity markets The Board is committed to achieving and management has been delegated to the when this is considered to be appropriate demonstrating high standards of Corporate Companys Managers and Secretaries, on investment grounds.
This statement outlines how THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Baillie Gifford & Co, and, in the context of Directors Attendance at Meetings a Board comprised entirely of non-executive Audit Directors, there is no chief executive of cer.
Board Committee The Senior Independent Director is Mr DCP McDougall.
Number of meetings 6 2 The Directors believe that the Board has a JGD Ferguson 6 2 balance of skills and experience that enable CC Ferguson 6 2 it to provide effective strategic leadership EM Harley 6 2 and proper governance of the Company.
DCP McDougall 6 2 Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience, can be found on page 18. the year.
The performance of each Director the Company and Directors.
Directors There is an agreed procedure for Directors was appraised by the Chairman and the receive other relevant training as necessary.
to seek independent professional advice, Chairmans appraisal was led by Mr DCP Remuneration if necessary, at the Companys expense.
McDougall, the Senior Independent Director.
As all the Directors are non-executive, the The Company also maintains Directors and The appraisals and evaluations considered, provisions of the Combined Code in respect Of cers Liability insurance.
amongst other criteria, the balance of skills of Directors remuneration are not relevant to of the Board, the contribution of individual Independence of Directors the Company except to the extent that they Directors and the overall effectiveness All the Directors are considered by the relate speci cally to non-executive directors.
of the Board and the Audit Committee.
Board to be independent of the Managers Consequently there is no requirement for Following this process it was concluded and free of any business or other a separate Remuneration Committee.
that the performance of each Director, relationship which could interfere with the Directors fees are considered by the Board the Chairman, the Board and the Audit exercise of their independent judgement.
as a whole within the limits approved by Committee continues to be effective and shareholders.
The Companys policy on Mr McDougall was a senior partner of each Director and the Chairman remain remuneration is set out in the Directors Baillie Gifford & Co until he retired on committed to the Company.
A review Remuneration Report on page 24.
30 April 1999 and is a director of Paci c of the Chairmans and other Directors Horizon Investment Trust PLC which is commitments was carried out and the Board Internal Controls and Risk Management managed by Baillie Gifford & Co. Mr is satis ed that they are capable of devoting The Directors acknowledge their McDougall and Mr Ferguson are both suf cient time to the Company.
There were responsibility for the Companys system directors of The Independent Investment no signi cant changes to the Chairmans of internal controls and for reviewing its Trust PLC.
Following a formal performance other commitments during the year.
The system of internal controls evaluation the Board has concluded is designed to manage rather than eliminate Terms of Appointment and Re-elections that, not withstanding the above, both the risk of failure to achieve business Letters which specify the terms of Mr McDougall and Mr Ferguson are objectives and can only provide reasonable appointment, are issued to new Directors.
independent in character and judgement.
but not absolute assurance against material The letters of appointment are available for Their skills and experience add signi cantly misstatement or loss.
to the strength of the Board.
The Board con rms that there is an ongoing Under the provisions of the Companys Meetings process for identifying, evaluating and Articles of Association, a Director appointed There is an annual cycle of Board managing the signi cant risks faced by the during the year is required to retire and seek meetings which is designed to address, Company in accordance with the guidance election by shareholders at the next Annual in a systematic way, overall strategy, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for General Meeting.
Directors are required review of investment policy, investment Directors on the Combined Code.
to submit themselves for re-election at least performance, marketing, revenue budgets, once every three years and Directors who The Directors con rm that they have dividend policy and communication with have served for more than nine years will reviewed the effectiveness of the system and shareholders.
The Board considers that it offer themselves for re-election annually.
they have procedures in place to review its meets suf ciently regularly to discharge its effectiveness on a regular basis.
The table above shows Ms CC Ferguson retires by rotation at the the attendance record for the Board and the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, The practical measures to ensure compliance Audit Committee meetings held during the being eligible, offers herself for re-election.
with regulation and company law, and to year.
All of the Directors attended the Annual provide effective and ef cient operations Induction and Training General Meeting.
and investment management, have been New Directors are provided with an delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, Performance Evaluation induction programme which is tailored to the Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of An appraisal of the Chairman, each particular circumstances of the appointee.
The Board Director and a performance evaluation and Regular brie ngs are provided on changes acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise review of the Board as a whole and the in regulatory requirements that could affect Audit Committee was carried out during 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT and control the discharge by the Managers Directors Interests and Secretaries of their obligations.
Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Baillie Gifford & Co have been delegated Name of interest 30 April 2007 30 April 2006 responsibility for the design, implementation JGD Ferguson Bene cial 220,000 10,000 and maintenance of control policies and CC Ferguson Bene cial 29,265 29,265 procedures to safeguard the assets of EM Harley Bene cial 200,000 150,000 the Company and to manage its affairs DCP McDougall Bene cial 1,375,000 1,375,000 properly.
This responsibility also extends to maintaining effective operational and The Directors at the end of the year under review, and their interests in the Company, were compliance controls and risk management.
There have been no changes intimated in the Directors interests up to The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business 11 June 2007.
Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring Accountability and Audit reviewing annually the terms of the programmes.
The reporting procedures Investment Management Agreement: and The responsibilities of the Directors and the for these departments are fide ned and Auditors in connection with the Financial considering annually whether there is a formalised within a service level agreement.
Statements are set out on pages 23 and 25 need for the Company to have its own Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual respectively.
review of its system of internal controls which The accounts have been prepared on the is documented within an internal controls The Audit Committee considers the going concern basis as it is the Directors report.
This report is independently reviewed experience and tenure of the audit partner opinion that the Company will continue in by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors and a and staff and the nature and level of operational existence for the foreseeable copy is submitted to the Board.
con rmation from the auditors that they The Companys investments are segregated have complied with the relevant UK Audit Committee from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their An Audit Committee has been established professional and regulatory requirements other clients through the appointment of The on independence.
Non audit fees were in compliance with the Combined Code Bank of New York as independent custodian consisting of all Directors.
Its authority and 1,000 for the year to 30 April 2007 and of the Companys investments.
related to reporting to the debenture trustees.
duties are clearly fide ned within its written A detailed risk map is prepared which terms of reference which are available on The Committee does not believe that this has identi es the signi cant risks faced by the impaired the auditors independence.
request and on the Managers website: Company and the key controls employed to www.
Mr JGD Ferguson Relations with Shareholders manage these risks.
is chairman of the Audit Committee.
The The Board places great importance on Committees responsibilities which were These procedures ensure that consideration communication with shareholders.
The discharged during the year include: is given regularly to the nature and extent Companys Managers meet regularly with of the risks facing the Company and that shareholders and report shareholders views monitoring and reviewing the integrity of they are being actively monitored.
The Chairman is available the interim and annual financial statements changes in risk have been identi ed during to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
and the internal financial controls: the year they also provide a mechanism Shareholders wishing to communicate with making recommendations to the Board in to assess whether further action is required any members of the Board may do so by relation to the appointment of the external to manage the risks identi ed.
The Board writing to them at the address on the back auditors and approving the remuneration con rms that these procedures have been in cover.
and terms of their engagement: place throughout the Companys financial The Companys Annual General Meeting year and continue to be in place up to the developing and implementing policy on provides a forum for communication with date of approval of this Report.
the engagement of the external auditors to all shareholders.
The Proxy results are supply non-audit services: Internal Audit published on the Managers website The Audit Committee carries out an annual www.
com subsequent to the reviewing and monitoring the review of the need for an internal audit meeting.
The Audit Committee continues to effectiveness of the external auditors: Shareholders and potential investors believe that the Managers compliance and reviewing the arrangements in place may obtain up-to-date information on the internal control systems and internal audit Company from the Managers website.
within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby its function provide suf cient assurance that staff may, in con dence, raise concerns a sound system of internal control, which Voting Policy and Socially Responsible about possible improprieties in matters of safeguards shareholders investment and the Investment financial reporting or other matters insofar Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal The Company has given discretionary as they may affect the Company: audit function, speci c to the Company, is voting powers to the investment managers, therefore considered unnecessary.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote Major Interests in Shares against resolutions they consider may No.
of ordinary damage shareholders rights or economic Name 5p shares held % of issue interests.
The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider Barclays PLC 16,824,222 6.0 environmental, social and governance Lloyds TSB Group plc 16,786,530 6.0 factors when selecting and retaining U. S. Steel and Carnegie Pension Plan 12,820,000 4.6 investments and have asked the Managers Legal and General Group Plc 9,975,424 3.6 to take these issues into account as long Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 9,900,292 3.5 as the investment objectives are not compromised.
The Managers policy has The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 11 June 2007. been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Investment Managers the exercise of the authority must not exceed Repurchase of Shares An Investment Management Agreement the higher of: between the Company and Baillie Gifford The Companys buy-back authority was last & Co sets out the matters over which the renewed at the AGM on 1 August 2006 i 105 percent of the average of the Managers have authority in accordance in respect of 42,981,620 shares of 5p middle market quotations for the Shares with the policies and directions of, and over the five business days immediately each equivalent to 14.99% of its then subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
preceding the date of purchase: and issued share capital.
During the year to The Management Agreement is terminable 30 April 2007 the Company bought back ii the higher of the last independent bid on not less than 12 months notice.
Details 6,707,602 ordinary shares nominal value and the highest current independent bid of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford 335,000 : on the London Stock Exchange on the London Stock Exchange.
& Co are shown in note 3 on page 31. for cancellation.
The total consideration for The minimum price exclusive of expenses these shares was 18,879,000.
Between The Board considers the Companys that may be paid will be 5p per share.
1 May 2007 and the date of this report the investment management and secretarial Purchases of shares will be made within Company bought back a further 1,340,000 arrangements for the Company on an guidelines established, from time to time, ordinary shares nominal value 67,000 ongoing basis and a formal review is by the Board.
Your attention is drawn for cancellation.
The total consideration for conducted annually.
The Board considers, to Resolution 7 in the Notice of Annual these shares was 4,145,000. amongst others, the following topics in General Meeting.
its review: the quality of the personnel The principal reason for share buy-backs is assigned to handle the Companys affairs: to enhance net asset value for continuing Articles of Association the investment process and the results shareholders by purchasing shares at a An amendment to the Companys Articles of achieved to date: investment performance: discount to the prevailing net asset value.
Association has been proposed in the light the administrative services provided by of changes made with effect from 2005 Shares are purchased at a price after the Secretaries and the marketing efforts by the Companies Audit, Investigations allowing for costs below the net asset undertaken by the Managers.
Following the and Community Enterprise Act 2004 to value and subsequently cancelled, thereby most recent review it is the opinion of the the law relating to the Companys ability reducing the issued share capital see Directors that the continuing appointment to indemnify its directors and of cers in note 13 on page 36.
As a result of of Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, respect of liabilities incurred by them in such purchases since April 1999, the net on the terms agreed, is in the interests of connection with their activities on behalf of asset value per share of the Company is shareholders as a whole due to the strength the Company.
approximately 5.2% higher now than it of the investment management team, the would otherwise have been.
The proposed amendment would extend Managers commitment to the investment the indemnity currently permitted under the trust sector and the quality of the secretarial The Directors are seeking shareholders Articles of Association to cover the liability and administrative functions.
approval at the Annual General Meeting of a director or of cer excluding an auditor to renew the authority to purchase up to a third party, other than the Company, Directors to 14.99% of the Companys ordinary for negligence, default or breach of trust shares in issue at the date of passing of the Information about the Directors, including or duty.
It would not permit the director resolution, such authority to expire at the their relevant experience, can be found on or of cer to be indemni ed in respect of Annual General Meeting of the Company page 18. such liabilities to the Company itself or to be held in respect of the year ending Ms CC Ferguson retires by rotation and cover any liability to pay any regulatory 30 April 2008 or 31 December 2008, offers herself for re-election.
Following formal or criminal fines and would not cover any whichever is the earlier.
performance evaluation, her performance liability incurred by the director or of cer In accordance with the Listing Rules of the continues to be effective and she remains in defending any criminal proceedings in committed to the Company.
The Board UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which he is convicted or civil proceedings excluding expenses that may be paid on therefore recommends her re-election to brought by the Company in which judgment shareholders.
