MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW Managers Portfolio Review Our increase in net asset value per share of about the terms on which the Royal Bank Returns From Markets 5.9% was greater than the rise in the World of Scotland is proposing to acquire ABN Index but less than the gain in the FTSE for the year ended 30 April 2007 Amro, and have therefore sold the holding.
All-Share of 9.2% during the year.
Monks was Takeovers are likely to remain a feature for twentieth out of twenty four trusts in the AIC Geographical performance against the coming year as, despite interest rate Global Growth sector in terms of NAV Total rises, funding costs are still low.
FTSE World Index in sterling terms Return performance over the year to 30 April 25% Over the last year we have made some 2007.
In the same terms, over a 10 year 20% signi cant changes to the portfolio.
The period the position is fifth out of sixteen.
The number of holdings in the UK has fallen from relatively low UK weighting when compared 15% 33 to 26 currently as we have concentrated to most other trusts in the AIC Global Growth 10% on holdings in which we have the greatest sector, made comparisons with this peer 5% group dif cult, owing to the relatively low degree of conviction.
In a number of cases 0% sterling returns from most other major markets.
we made sales to fund purchases elsewhere 5% We also had too much money in Japan, such as selling BG Group in order to invest which performed very poorly and too little in in international oil services companies.
After 10% Continental Europe, one of the few regions the strong returns achieved by UK equities in 15% UK CONTINENTAL NORTH JAPAN ASIA OTHER to outperform the UK in sterling terms.
Asset recent years we also felt that the valuation EUROPE AMERICA PACIFIC EMERGING MARKETS allocation changes were broadly in the right of a number of holdings appeared to re ect direction, as those markets to which we Source: HSBC Thomson Financial Datastream their potential.
An example of this is the added subsequently performed better than sale of holdings in the property companies Monks portfolio those where reductions were made, but, with Hammerson and British Land where property FTSE World Index hindsight, the changes should have been yields have fallen to historically low levels All figures are calculated on a total return basis larger and the overall contribution from asset and the shares are trading at close to net with net income reinvested.
Past performance is no guarantee of future Weakness in oil and gas producing performance.
Looking forward, the UK economy appears companies adversely affected returns.
This to be on a steady path although the risks particularly affected returns in North America have certainly increased over the last year.
and Emerging Markets and accounts for a stock exchanges.
In addition, Celesio, Interest rates have been raised and are likely large part of the negative contribution from to go up further as in ationary pressures the wholesale distributor and retailer of stock selection for these parts of the portfolio.
pharmaceutical products, whilst not directly The main bright spots were the strong returns have increased.
House prices have risen from our holdings outside Japan in the Asia more quickly than we would have expected involved in any corporate activity, bene ted Paci c region and the returns from our from private equity interest in rival Alliance and with valuations stretched the likelihood portfolio of xed income securities.
of a correction has increased, although we Boots that led to a reassessment by the market of the underlying cash ows of these continue to believe that the most probable United Kingdom outcome is for a steady deceleration from businesses.
The UK market continued its good run here.
Overall, despite some cyclical worries, Corporate sector earnings enjoyed another returning 11.1% over the Companys the valuation of the UK market does not year of strong growth that was rewarded financial year, despite periods of weakness look particularly demanding as corporate by good share price appreciation.
This during May and February.
Encouragingly earnings have risen rapidly in recent years.
was both a re ection of continuing strong our portfolio outperformed the index with We continue to nd a number of attractive global demand and, pleasingly, a pick up a total return of 14.6%, largely as a result investment opportunities.
in economic activity in central Europe.
After of the strong operating performance of many years of weak domestic demand we many of our holdings and some successful Continental Europe are hopeful that this pick up in activity can be new purchases.
Initial purchases of the In the year under review the European sustained.
This has encouraged us to make mining companies Lonmin and Rio Tinto in index returned 18.8% in sterling terms.
investments in Germanys Commerzbank particular were well timed.
The Lonmin share The Companys European stocks returned subsequent to the Companys year end price rose 35% from purchase to the end of 14.9%.
During the year net purchases in and Italys Intesa SaoPaolo.
The former is the Companys year.
particularly exposed to domestic real estate A major feature of the UK market during and small to medium-sized companies known One major theme of last year was the the period was the prevalence of takeover as the Mittlestand, whilst the latter is the prevalence of merger and acquisition activity, both actual and rumoured.
Large product of a domestic merger that should also activity instigated by both the corporate companies which have been bought in yield good cost synergies.
sector and private equity funds.
the last year include BAA, BOC, Corus, Unfortunately, our portfolio was under Our industrial engineering company, Atlas Gallaher and Scottish Power.
Acquirers have represented in potential bid targets and this Copco, continued to bene t from buoyant included domestic and overseas companies undoubtedly contributed to disappointing global demand for its compressors and and, particularly in mid and small sized performance.
Nevertheless, our holding mining equipment.
It also completed the companies, private equity.
With regard to in Deutsche Boerse clearly bene ted disposal of its US plant hire business during acquiring companies, we are concerned from the likely consolidation in European the year which, we believe, improves the 6 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW overall quality of this groups earnings.
The competition within its core markets which The positions in the custody bank, State performance of Atlas Copco also contributed affected its pro tability.
We believe that Street, and the chewing gum manufacturer, to the good performance of Investor.
these are long term issues for the business Wrigley, were both sold owing to concerns and have therefore sold our shares.
regarding diversi cation away from core The companies that detracted from competencies.
The holding in the genetically performance included SAP and Adidas.
The One of the main features of the North modi ed seed business, Monsanto, was German software giant had a disappointing American segment of the portfolio remains sold following a signi cant increase in the year during which it accelerated investment the large weighting in energy stocks.
valuation of the shares, and the position in in new products at the expense of short We continue to believe that the US and the mortgage business, Freddie Mac, and term margin but was not given the bene t Canada offer some of the most compelling the energy company, Encana, were sold to of the doubt by the market.
Adidas has opportunities in this sector, and we have fund purchases elsewhere in the portfolio.
struggled with the integration of the poorly increased our investment in oil and gas Finally, we sold out of the successful long performing Reebok although the most recent service related businesses.
We feel that term holding in the mortgage lender, Golden developments have been positive.
these companies will bene t signi cantly West, following a bid for the company from from increased capital expenditure as oil The Companys two major new purchases Wachovia.
and gas producers strive to maintain and during the year were AP Moller-Maersk grow their production levels.
We have Although both economic and pro ts growth and Nestl.
AP Moller is a Danish added to the position in Schlumberger, the in North America look set to slow over the conglomerate whose main activities are worlds leading oil service company, and next twelve months we remain con dent in ports and container shipping.
This has been have also bought new holdings in four the prospects of the Companys holdings.
an exceptionally well run family business drilling related businesses, Todco, Ensco, We believe their attractive valuations and for many years making good pro ts even Diamond Offshore and National Oilwell favourable business fundamentals should in low points in the cycle.
The age of the worlds existing result in superior share price performance concerns over weak shipping rates were production base and its accelerating decline over the medium to long term.
overdone and presented a good opportunity rate mean considerable investment will be to take a holding.
Nestl also has a good needed for many years if global oil and gas Japan long term record, albeit in a more stable supply is to satisfy growing demand.
The Japanese equity markets total return industry.
We are encouraged by a greater in sterling terms in the year ending 30 focus on cost control and capital discipline Outwith the energy sector we have seen April 2007 was minus 11.8%.
This was that should enhance earnings growth at this solid operating results from the bulk of the disappointing, both in absolute terms diversi ed Swiss food producer.
The most North American investments.
Amongst and relative to the rise seen in just about signi cant sale during the year was Total, the larger holdings, the performance of every other market around the world.
the giant French oil company.
As with other the bond ratings agency, Moodys, the The Companys high initial exposure to oil majors, slow production growth and advertising agency, Omnicom, and the Japanese equities was therefore unhelpful for rising capital expenditure lead us to believe health insurer, WellPoint, are particularly performance.
Good stock selection in Japan that we can nd better alternatives in the oil notable.
These companies produced pro ts lessened, but did not eliminate, the hit from industry elsewhere in the world.
growth of 21%, 20% and 15% respectively a weak local market and a weak yen and over the twelve months.
We continue to our portfolio returned minus 7.8%.
North America believe that these are all businesses which bene t from strong competitive positions During the year under review the North The path of modest economic recovery within attractive growing industries.
American index returned 4.8% in sterling continued, with the important trends of terms while the Companys North American rising industrial production and a rming Alongside the new energy investments, we investments produced a return of 1.1%.
real estate market still in place.
However, purchased new holdings in the homebuilder, consumption and wage data have remained Ryland, and the discount retailer, Wal Mart, Economic growth in the region remained weak despite clear signs of tightness in the during the year.
Although the immediate relatively strong over the twelve months, labour market.
Against this background, and outlook for the US homebuilding industry though there were some signs that monetary in the belief that an increase in consumer looks bleak, we believe that this is discounted policy tightening was starting to slow prices was well established, the Bank of in Rylands current valuation and have taken growth as the year progressed, and notable Japan in July 2006 ended the zero interest advantage of the current downturn to buy a weakness was seen within the housing rate policy that had been in place for position in this well run business.
The anticipation of slower growth is several years as an extraordinary measure invested in Wal Mart following a prolonged likely one of the principal factors underlying to stimulate activity.
This symbolic change in period of underperformance by the shares.
the continued weakness of the US dollar.
policy came just in time for Junichiro Koizumi We feel that investors have become too The primary drags on performance during to step down and be replaced by Shinzo pessimistic about the growth prospects of the year were the correction in oil and gas Abe as the leader of the LDP and therefore this dominant business, and we have been producing companies, following their strong as Prime Minister.
Since then expectations encouraged by recent management changes run in previous years, along with a large of rapid further increases in interest rates and improvements in capital allocation.
negative contribution from the digital image have diminished, in large part due to the In addition to Getty Images, we sold out provider, Getty Images.
The company rebasing of the Consumer Price Index to a of six further holdings during the year.
suffered from the emergence of low cost level from which it has failed to rise.
THE MONKS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 7 MANAGERS PORTFOLIO REVIEW One area of the economy which stands Policy risk in China and slowing demand Asia Paci c and Other Emerging out by its display of asset price and rental from the US remain two concerns.
Liquidity, Markets increases is real estate, to which the however, remains abundant.
The FTSE World Asia Paci c ex Japan Company had meaningfully increased its index and the FTSE All World All Emerging The holdings elsewhere in Emerging Markets exposure in the previous financial year.
In Markets index returned 11.1% and 8.9% were, and remain, concentrated in a small absolute terms our investments in Japanese respectively in sterling terms.
While number of stocks in the oil and gas and property developers and REITs real estate these indices are not strictly comparable mining industries, and performance suffered investment trusts has been excellent, with for with our classi cation of investments as from the general weakness in the shares example Sumitomo Realty & Developments Asia Paci c or Emerging Markets, they of oil companies during the year.
We sold share price up almost 50% in yen terms.
give a reasonable indication of relative Sasol and Anglo American Platinum in South After very strong runs in the share prices of performance.
Our overall return from our Africa, the former on rising costs and the Japan Real Estate Investment and Fukuoka Asia Paci c investments was 21.3% and threat of signi cantly higher taxation and the REIT, we decided to sell these holdings and our investments in Other Emerging Markets latter on concerns about the sustainability reinvest 10m in two other REITs that give returned minus 2.7%.
The largest single of earnings.
New purchases were made us greater exposure to regional and lower holding remains the Baillie Gifford Paci c of two mining companies, Norilsk Nickel grade of ces, where we think that there is Fund which returned 21.0%.
Our direct in Russia and CVRD, the Brazilian mining more scope for a surprise on the upside.
holdings returned a little more than that.
Net company, and of two manufacturers of pipes investment in Asia Paci c and Emerging During the year we reassessed our for the oil industry: Tenaris, headquartered Markets for the year amounted to 26.9m.
There had in Argentina, and TMK, the leading Russian been two main elements to the case for company in this eld.
For the Paci c Fund, stock picking was again investment in Japanese equities.
One was the greatest contributor to performance with that Japan was at long last emerging from its Fixed Interest notable contributions from holdings in China long dark fide ationary period and becoming The Company refocused its bond portfolio, Infrastructure Machinery, Paci c Basin and a more normal and vibrant country, with increasing its yield in the process and this has IOI Corporation.
The fund also bene ted positive consequences for Japanese had a material impact on the years earnings.
from its exposure to the smaller Asian markets companies, especially those exposed to We sold the last of our holding in the Baillie of Vietnam and the Philippines.
The holding domestic demand and asset prices.
The Gifford High Yield Bond Fund.
High corporate in the Paci c Fund was reduced by 4.3m in other was that Japanese investors would earnings and abundant liquidity have driven August in order to help finance investment of move part of their very large savings out of prices ever higher to the point where bond 7.7m in a closed-end Vietnamese fund.
cash and into Japanese shares.
Whilst the yields may no longer adequately compensate There were a number of changes to direct economic background has developed much for investment risk.
Separately, we sold our holdings with the sales of ANZ Bank, Fosters, as we expected, with hindsight it seems that Ford 2008 bond as its price came to re ect CNOOC and Petrochina.
Direct holdings we attached too little weight to the fact that more fully its guarantee from Merrill Lynch.
were taken for the first time in India with Japanese pro ts had already recovered to We found more attractive investments in the purchase of holdings in the oil and record levels and so were not in general innovative bonds whose relative novelty may petrochemicals company, Reliance and depressed and consequently formed have contributed to their apparent cheapness.
Other new unreasonable expectations of earnings The first was in Brazils debut In ation Linked purchases were Woolworths, the leading growth as the broader economy improved bond which we believed to be unduly high Australian supermarket company, Brambles, in health.
This led us to overlook the fact yielding relative both to similar bonds issued the world leader in pallet pools and POSCO, that, after the strong rise in the previous year, by other countries and to Brazils improving the highly ef cient Korean steelmaker.
Japanese shares were not particularly cheap.
Another new position On the second element of the investment was in Bay Haven which is a special vehicle Fears of a slowdown in Chinese growth led case events have shown us to be wrong, with set up to offset an insurance companys risk to a weak start to the year as Asia Paci c Japanese investors in fact moving their very from extreme levels of catastrophic risk.
The markets saw a sharp correction.
This proved large savings right out of Japan altogether.
insurance markets capital base was depleted unfounded as demand continued to remain by the hurricanes of 2005 and insurance strong and markets have since recovered, We made net sales of 90.2m in two market regulators have also stiffened their helped in part by rising corporate pro tability tranches, one in July and the other in January, capital requirements.
We have already and capital market improvements across the including complete sales of KDDI, Promise, bene ted from higher reinsurance rates region.
China remains the fastest growing Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Mitsui through our investment in Berkshire Hathaway economy in Asia, followed closely by Vietnam Sumitomo Insurance, Tokyu Corp, Nidec, shares, but such is the opportunity that a more and India.
Returns were reduced across the Yaskawa, Nippon Paper and Keyence.
direct investment through Bay Haven looks region as a result of sterling strength.
Most of the remaining companies have well merited.
In May of last year we invested leading global market positions, are unique Demand in the region looks set to continue, in a bond whose returns have been structured businesses globally, and or are attractively though improvements we have seen in to grow should long-dated sterling bond yields valued in global terms.
One example is the pro tability cannot be sustained inde nitely.
While yields are little changed new holding in Chiyoda which has a 40% This is leading to pockets of in ationary since then, we continue to believe that a rise global market share in the construction of pressure and interest rates are rising in some towards more historically normal yield levels is LNG liquefaction plants.
areas to subdue excesses in the economy.
probable over the bonds remaining six years.
