Your Board All the Directors are non-executive and are members of the Management Engagement Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Further details regarding the Board and its Committees are included in the Directors Report on pages 24 to 30 and in the Statement of Corporate Governance on pages 33 to 38.
Length of service is stated as at the Balance Sheet date.
Patrick Gifford BA Chairman Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 62 Length of Service: 7 years 11 months Experience and other public company directorships: Patrick Gifford was previously a director of Robert Fleming Holdings and chairman of Fleming Investment Trust Management.
He is chairman of Martin Currie Pacific Trust and Vtesse Networks.
He is also a director of AlphaGen Aldebaran Fund Ltd, Premier UK Dual Return Investment Trust, JPMorgan Russian Securities, Invesco Perpetual Select Trust and Tapestry Investment Company PCC Ltd. Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 19,216 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2007 22,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2007 Board and Strategy Meetings: 7 Audit Committee: 2 Remuneration Committee: 1 Management Engagement Committee: 2 Nomination Committee: 1 Adrian Coats MA, ACA, FCT Chairman of Audit Committee Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 52 Length of Service: 8 years 5 months as a Director, including 4 years as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Experience and other public company directorships: Adrian Coats is treasury and purchasing director for Scottish Power and a Trustee of the Scottish Power Pension Scheme.
He was formerly a director of Grand Metropolitan Finance and chairman of the Scottish Branch of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 5,000 Ordinary shares, Non-Beneficial 25,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2007 18,500 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2007 Board Meetings: 6 Audit Committee: 2 Remuneration Committee: 1 Management Engagement Committee: 2 Nomination Committee: 1 4 Murray Income Trust PLC Marian Glen MA LLB Status: Non-Executive Director Age: 47 Length of Service: 4 years and 4 months Experience and other public company directorships: Marian Glen is head of Funds and Financial Services at Shepherd Wedderburn Solicitors.
She is a member of the Technical Committee of the Association of Investment Companies.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: Shepherd Wedderburn have provided legal advice to companies within the Aberdeen Asset Management group.
Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Nil Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2007 16,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2007 Board Meetings: 5 Audit Committee: 2 Remuneration Committee: 1 Management Engagement Committee: 2 Nomination Committee: 1 Neil Honebon MA Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 53 Length of Service: 1 year and 11 months Experience and other public company directorships: Neil Honebon is a director of Fleming Family and Partners Asset Management, where he is Chief Investment Officer.
He has over 25 years experience in investment analysis and research and, while previously at Flemings, he was Head of Global Research and deputy chair of the asset allocation committee.
He is also a director of Avior, Volantis and Octanis, three hedge funds within Gartmores AlphaGen range.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 10,000 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2007 16,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2007 Board and Strategy Meetings: 7 Audit Committee: 2 Remuneration Committee: 1 Management Engagement Committee: 2 Nomination Committee: 1 Murray Income Trust PLC 5 Your Board continued Humphrey van der Klugt BSC HONS, FCA Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Age: 53 Length of Service: 3 years and 2 months Experience and other public company directorships: Humphrey van der Klugt was previously a director of Schroder Investment Management Limited.
In a twentytwo year career at Schroders, he was a member of the Group Investment and Asset Allocation Committees: and as a UK equity manager, he was directly responsible for 3 billion of funds under management, including the Schroder UK Equity and Schroder Income Funds.
He is currently chairman of the Supervisory Board of Schroder Exempt Property Unit Trust, a non-executive director of Merrill Lynch Commodities Income Investment Trust plc and Fidelity European Values PLC, and a member of the Investment Committee of St John Ambulance.
Employment by Manager: None Other connections with the Trust or Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: Beneficial 7,500 Ordinary shares Remuneration: Year ended 30 June 2007 16,000 Meetings attended during year ended 30 June 2007 Board and Strategy Meetings: 7 Audit Committee: 2 Remuneration Committee: 1 Management Engagement Committee: 2 Nomination Committee: 1 Director who is retiring by rotation and offers himself for re-election for a further period of three years.
Director who will offer herself for re-election annually see Statement of Corporate Governance on page 33.
