Investment Managers Review Background Performance The UK equity market continued to perform strongly The Company generated a total return of 18.2% in during the year to the end of June 2007.
The FTSE the twelve months to 30 June 2007 broadly in line All-Share Index rose by 18.4% and, although the with the FTSE All-Share Index.
backdrop was one of rising global inflation and Attribution Analysis for the year to 30 June 2007 interest rates, it still proved to be accommodative Net Asset Value total return per Ordinary 18.2% with robust corporate profitability and further share merger and acquisition activity.
FTSE All-Share Index total return 18.4% Relative return 0.2% However, this progress was punctuated by a series of corrections during the year.
In particular, risk Analysis of relative return aversion was heightened at the beginning of March Stock selection when concerns over a slowdown in China and fears Oil & Gas 0.2% over the health of the US economy dented optimism, Basic Materials 0.1% although overall the global environment has been Industrials 1.3% Consumer Goods 0.2% supportive for equities.
Healthcare 0.1% Consumer Services 0.5% In the UK, the domestic economic environment Telecommunications 0.2% remained largely benign over the period.
Gross Utilities 0.3% Domestic Product growth of 3.0% over the year was Financials 0.4% above trend with unemployment falling gently, retail Total stock selection 0.1% Asset allocation 0.9% sales remaining robust and house prices expanding at Bonds & Options 0.8% low double digit rates, although, in consequence, Gearing cash effect 0.7% inflationary concerns clouded the horizon with CPI Management fees & other expenses 0.9% inflation ahead of the Bank of Englands 2.0% target Residual effect 0.1% for the entire period.
Indeed, Marchs inflation Total 0.2% reading of 3.1% prompted the Governors first Sources: Russell Data Services AAM FTSE explanatory letter to the Chancellor.
Notes: Selection effect measures the effect of security selection within each asset category.
Allocation effect measures the impact of over or To counter this, over the period, the Monetary Policy underweighting each asset category, relative to the Committee raised interest rates from 4.5% at the benchmark weights.
Gearing cash effect beginning of the period to 5.5% at the end.
As yet measures the impact on relative returns of net there have only been nascent signs of these actions borrowings.
Management fees & other expenses curbing domestic growth with consumer demand reduce total assets and therefore reduce performance.
It is calculated by dividing expenses incurred during remaining fairly resilient.
the year by average total assets less liabilities.
The theme of heightened merger and acquisition Sector performance across the market as a whole activity continued during the year.
Companies aided demonstrated some significant divergence.
In by strong balance sheets and private equity groups general, the largest sectors in the market, Oil & Gas able to take advantage of low borrowing costs Producers, Banks and Pharmaceuticals, all maintained their enthusiasm for deals.
Oil Producers were hit by the names to have been taken over include Gallaher, falling oil price earlier in the period, Banks were Corus, Scottish Power and Alliance Boots.
Although hindered by concerns over credit quality and acquisition activity has generally recently been more Pharmaceuticals suffered in the light of continued focused on large companies, the Mid Cap Index still outperformed the FTSE 100, returning 22.6% versus 17.0%.
Murray Income Trust PLC 15 Investment Managers Review continued worries over the threat from generic competition and valued or subject to corporate activity.
a weak pipeline of new products.
Sectors that performed more strongly were generally involved in At the start of the period, we introduced a position in merger and acquisition activity such as Tobacco, Wolseley, the plumbing, heating and building Food Retailers and Construction & Building Materials.
Although exposed to a US The Mining sector also performed strongly as slowdown, costs are largely variable and the longer commodity prices increased as a result of strong term prospects remain appealing.
The purchase of global demand and a shortage of supply.
Wolseley was funded through the sale of Persimmon The Company itself was the beneficiary of a number following a strong performance, particularly over the of takeover approaches to holdings within the previous twelve months.
Scottish Power was taken over by Iberdrola, Gallaher fell to a cash bid from In addition, we introduced a holding in Venture Japan Tobacco and Hanson was bought by Production funded by a reduction in the holding in HeidelbergCement.
Venture is an oil production company concentrating primarily on undeveloped discoveries in the North Sea.
It has a low risk business model and Other highlights included our holding in Weir in the attractive valuation.
Industrial Engineering sector which continued to perform well, helped by expansion into higher Towards the end of the first half of the year we margin, higher growth markets.
In Support Services, added two new holdings to the portfolio.
Firstly, a the share price of Amec has recovered very strongly position in Premier Foods was acquired, in view of its under the stewardship of its new Chief Executive.
valuation and strong track record in brand GKN in the Auto & Parts sector also benefited regeneration.
Shortly after completing the purchase, performance as efficiency gains and a robust order Premier Foods announced the acquisition of RHM, outlook led the share price higher.
providing extended scope for further cost synergies and systems harmonisation.
Secondly, we acquired Unfortunately, there were areas of the market that an initial holding in Tomkins, the manufacturing and went against us during the financial year.
In engineering company, on an attractive valuation and particular, the performance of HMV has been a dividend yield over 5%.
These two purchases were disappointing.
However, the appointment of a new funded through the sale of the holdings in Diageo Chief Executive and the implementation of a credible and the BAE Convertible, both of which had proved recovery plan bodes well for the future.
The two successful investments for the Trust.
holdings in the media sector EMI and Emap also performed poorly, although towards the end of the Near the period end, we added a new position in period EMI announced it had received a bid for the Barratt Developments, given the attractive synergies, company from Terra Firma, while Emaps valuation and competitive position generated announcement of the resignation of its Chief through its acquisition of Wilson Bowden.
Executive and a strategic review has led to a recovery in its share price.
In addition, the Throughout the period, we maintained our policy of underweight position in Mining, where we remain recycling capital from some of the stronger concerned over the sustainability of high commodity performers into areas of weakness.
To that end, prices, as well as our overweight position in the funds from companies that had been taken over such underperforming Life Insurance sector, held back as BAA, Scottish Power and Gallaher and strong relative returns.
performers including SEGRO previously Slough Portfolio Activity and Structure Estates, Mitchells & Butlers, Weir and Arriva funded The portfolio has undergone a modest amount of top-ups of HMV, EMI, Emap, AstraZeneca, change during the past year as new investment ideas GlaxoSmithKline, Scottish & Newcastle and were added to replace holdings that were either fully Mothercare amongst others.
Following the market 16 Murray Income Trust PLC correction in March, we increased the level of gearing increase by 8.5% for 2007.
However, the dividend by 5m which provided further funds to allocate to payout ratio for the market remains below historical the portfolio.
This is partly due to the increase in share buybacks and special dividends, but we feel that Over the year, we have purchased three new reverse companies are also acting conservatively providing convertibles or equity-linked notes, which provide an scope for future dividend growth.
up-lift in yield and also help use part of the Companys off-balance sheet tax asset.
The Diageo The Company itself has also witnessed a healthy reverse convertible that we purchased last year was increase in revenue.
For the financial year ended 30 re-invested on expiry into a Vodafone reverse June 2007, the revenue return per share has risen convertible.
We purchased a reverse convertible in from 21.8p to 24.7p, or 13.3%.
British American Tobacco, funded through the sale of the ordinary shares, and finally we added a BT As mentioned above, during the year we purchased reverse convertible to the Trust, partly funded three reverse convertibles or equity-linked notes, through the sale of the ordinary BT shares.
each to the value of 5m, in BT, Vodafone and British American Tobacco.
These are one-year equity The result of the actions above have marginally participation notes with an embedded 10% short call altered the sector positioning of the fund.
Put simply, capital appreciation is capped at seen from the Distribution of Investments table on 10% above the original strike price, and in return, the page 13 that our weighting in the Oil & Gas sector notes pay a significantly enhanced yield.
has reduced marginally over the period: this is mainly as a function of the poor relative performance of the We remain comfortable with our holdings from an sector as a whole.
Dividend cover across the portfolio versus the underlying corporate earnings Furthermore, the exposure to the Consumer Goods is two times, providing the opportunity for continued sector has increased slightly despite the sale of healthy growth in dividends.
The consensus Diageo following the purchases of Premier Foods and expectation for dividend growth during 2008 for the a strong performance from Unilever.
FTSE All-Share Index is currently 8.6%.
The sector weight of Consumer Services has also Outlook increased, given the recovery in the share price of At the time of writing, the Bank of England has William Morrison and strong returns from our increased interest rates five times since August 2006 holdings in the Travel & Leisure sector, including to 5.75% in an attempt to calm inflation.
Recent Millennium & Copthorne and Mitchells & Butlers.
data have been more encouraging, with CPI inflation falling to 1.9% in July, helped by a decline in Telecoms has also seen a meaningful increase in household gas and electricity prices.
However, the weighting as we introduced the two telecoms reverse economy is still running at or above its long-run convertibles to the Trust, providing a significant yield average rate and the global economic backdrop is at up-lift.
This follows the introduction of the ordinary present, robust.
Business surveys have remained firm shares of Vodafone in the previous year.
despite the increases in interest rates, while there have been only nascent indications of the consumer The weight in Financials has fallen, given the slowing down.
The quandary for the Bank of England reduction in the holding of SEGRO during the year remains the level of spare capacity in the economy, and following profit-taking in the holding of Barclays.
but overall the balance of risk to the inflation outlook appears to be on the upside.
Income Dividend growth across the market has continued to We have been concerned that, following the strong be strong.
In aggregate, dividends are estimated to appreciation in the market over the last year, the Murray Income Trust PLC 17 Investment Managers Review continued risk reward ratio had become more finely balanced.
Following the sharp fall in the market in the period To this end, we purchased in May a tranche of after the end of the financial year, we feel that portfolio protection for 2m, when the FTSE 100 was valuations are beginning to look more attractive, trading at 6500, protecting 20% of the portfolio with the FTSE All-Share Index currently trading on a below 6211.
Recent falls in the equity market, P E of 12 times and an historic dividend yield of sparked by the crisis in the US sub-prime mortgage 3.0%.
Although credit spreads have widened, there is sector, provided the opportunity to crystallise the still scope for further merger and acquisition activity gain on part of this in order to reinvest in companies and, with corporate earnings remaining robust, while that we felt had been indiscriminately sold down, still remaining mindful of the risks ahead, we would while rolling forward part of the protection at a expect the market to make progress over the lower market level.
Charles Luke & Anne Richards Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited 19 September 2007 Investment Manager 18 Murray Income Trust PLC
