Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the Financial Statements of the Company for the year ended 30 June 2007. Review of the Business A review of the Companys operations is given in the Chairmans Statement on page 11 and in the Investment Managers Review on pages 15 to 18.
Principal Activity and Status The Company is an investment company within the meaning of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985 and carries on business as an investment trust.
The Directors do not envisage any change in this activity in the foreseeable future.
In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in a manner as to satisfy the conditions which enable it to continue to obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Customs will grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided that the Companys affairs have been conducted in such a manner as to satisfy the conditions of that section, although approval for the period would be subject to review were there to be any enquiry under the Corporate Tax Self Assessment regime.
HM Revenue & Customs approval for such status has been given for the year ended 30 June 2006.
The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully qualifying investment trust for inclusion in a general PEP, and also so that the Companys shares will be qualifying investments for the stocks and shares component of an ISA.
Business Review With the rest of the Report and Accounts, this review is intended to provide Shareholders with the information and measures that the Directors use to assess, direct and oversee the Manager in the management of the Companys portfolio.
Investment Objective and Policies The Boards objective is to achieve a high and growing income combined with capital growth through investment in a concentrated selection of UK equities.
The shares that make up the portfolio are selected from British companies that have potential for real earnings and dividend growth, while at the same time providing an above-average portfolio yield.
The emphasis is on the management of risk and on the absolute return from the portfolio, which is achieved by ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors, with a high proportion of its assets in strong, well-known companies.
The portfolio at the year end is set out on pages 21 to 22, and its analysis on pages 12 and 13.
The Company makes use of low-cost, flexible borrowing facilities to enhance Shareholder returns when appropriate, and the Board regularly reviews gearing, which was 5.7% of net assets at 30 June 2007 2006 5.4%.
Investment Policy Guidelines Investments are not formally limited as to market capitalisation or sector weightings within the UK.
It is the Companys policy to have a focused portfolio.
There were 54 holdings at 30 June 2007.
It is the Companys policy to invest no more than 15 per cent of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
Performance In the 12 months ended 30 June 2007, the Companys performance was almost in line with the benchmark FTSE-All Share Index, increasing 18.2% in total return terms, compared to the benchmarks increase of 18.4%.
24 Murray Income Trust PLC Oversight and Review of Performance The Board meets at least five times a year to review performance with the Manager.
As well as carrying out the matters set out in the Statement of Corporate Governance pages 33 and 34, the Board receives, for each meeting, a detailed portfolio report and an analysis of economic indicators, and discusses performance and strategy, considering perceived risks and economic conditions.
It uses measures such as as attribution analysis against the benchmark, active weights and valuation matrices to assess the Companys success in achieving its objectives.
The key performance indicators KPIs are established industry measures, and are as follows: Net asset value total return relative to the Companys benchmark Share price total return Discount to net asset value Performance attribution Earnings and dividends per share.
A historical record of these measures is disclosed on pages 8 to 10.
We compare our performance with the Companys benchmark and selected peer companies.
A range of comparator groups are used, including the AIC UK Growth & Income peer group and the Open Ended UK Equity Income peer group.
Future Trends Prospects for the current year look reasonable.
Profits are expected to continue to rise, as are dividends, and, following the fall in the market in the period after the end of the financial year, sparked by the crisis in the US sub-prime mortgage sector, valuations are looking more attractive.
However, the current year looks more difficult than its predecessors.
Growth in government expenditure and consumer expenditure in the UK are both likely to be more muted than in the recent past.
Internationally, the problem of US sub-prime mortgage lending, and derivative structures based on it, has caused the loss of a significant amount of equity in banks and other lenders, such as hedge funds.
In the short run, the debt market for buyout finance has also frozen as credit gets re-priced.
Central banks have achieved their objective of tightening credit and controlling inflation, but the longer-term outcome of this is still unclear.
However, it is reasonable to expect that there will be tighter credit conditions and some slowdown in growth compared to what might otherwise have been achieved.
On the other hand, inflation is under better control with positive implications for official short-term interest rates.
It is difficult to know what these contrary indicators will mean for portfolio performance.
The most likely outcome for portfolio performance seems to be for a small positive return, of which income and growth in income will form a bigger part.
The Chairman sets out in his report on page 11 the Boards considered view of the future.
Management of Risk The Board regularly reviews the major strategic risks that the Board and the Manager have identified, and against these the Board sets out the delegated controls designed to manage those risks.
The principal risks facing the Company relate to the Companys investment activities and include market price, interest rate, liquidity and credit risk.
An explanation of these risks and how they are managed is contained in Note 15 to the accounts on pages 51 to 53.
Such key risks relating to investment and strategy as, for example, inappropriate asset allocation or gearing, are managed through investment policy, guidelines and restrictions and by the process of oversight at each Board meeting outlined above.
Operational disruption, accounting and legal risks are also covered annually, and regulatory compliance is reviewed at each Board meeting.
The major risks associated with the Company are: Resource risk like most other investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
The Company therefore relies on services provided by third parties, including, in particular, the Manager, to whom responsibility for the management of the Company has been delegated under an investment management agreement the Agreement further details of which are set out on pages 29 and 30.
The terms of the Agreement cover the necessary duties and conditions expected of the Manager.
The Board reviews the performance of the Manager on a regular basis, and their compliance with the Agreement formally on an annual basis.
Murray Income Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued Investment objective the objective of the Company is to achieve a high and growing income combined with capital growth.
As a consequence, the investment portfolio may not always match that of the stockmarket as a whole, with a consequential impact on Shareholder returns.
The Boards aim is to maximise absolute returns to Shareholders while managing risk by ensuring an appropriate diversification of stocks and sectors.
Investment policy and gearing a major risk affecting the Company is inappropriate sector and stock selection leading to under-performance relative to the Companys benchmark index and peer group.
In addition, the use of borrowing facilities to invest in markets may have a negative impact if markets fall.
To mitigate these risks, the Manager operates within investment guidelines and agreed levels of borrowing.
Performance against the benchmark index and the peer group is regularly monitored.
During the year, an element of portfolio protection was put in place by the purchase of put options.
Discount volatility investment trust shares tend to trade at discounts to their underlying net asset values, which can fluctuate considerably.
To seek to minimise the impact of such fluctuations, the Company has operated a share buyback programme for a number of years.
Regulatory risk - the Company operates in a complex regulatory environment and faces a number of related risks.
A breach of Section 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 could result in the Company being subject to capital gains tax on the sale of its investments.
Serious breach of other regulations, such as the UKLA Listing Rules and the Companies Act 1985, could lead to suspension from the Stock Exchange and reputational damage.
The Board receives monthly compliance reports from the Manager to monitor compliance with regulations.
Results and Dividends The total return attributable to equity Shareholders for the year amounted to 81,297,000.
A third interim dividend of 4.7p per Ordinary share was paid on 14 July 2006, and the final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2006 of 7.5p per Ordinary share was paid on 31 October 2006.
The first and second interim dividends for the year ended 30 June 2007 of 5p per Ordinary share each were paid on 19 January 2007 and 15 April 2007 respectively, making a total distribution to Ordinary Shareholders of 14,476,000 as shown in Note 6 on page 47.
The sum of 1,618,000 has been added to the Companys revenue reserve.
The third interim dividend of 5p per Ordinary share was paid on 13 July 2007.
The Directors now recommend a final dividend of 9.25p per Ordinary share payable on 31 October 2007 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register on 28 September 2007.
A resolution in respect of the final dividend will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Dividends are paid by means of three interim dividends and a final, normally in January, April, July and October.
Further information on dividends is contained in the Chairmans Statement on page 11.
The Net Asset Value per Ordinary share at 30 June 2007 was 802.3p 2006 699.7p.
Share Capital At the Annual General Meeting held on 30 October 2006, Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority permitting the Company to repurchase up to 9,773,923 of its Ordinary shares, and gave approval for the Company to hold shares in treasury.
During the year ended 30 June 2007, and from the date of renewal of the authority on 30 October 2006, share repurchases totalling 134,050 Ordinary shares of 25p each 0.2% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2006 took place at an average price of 677.69p, to be held in treasury.
From the date of renewal of the authority on 30 October 2006 to 19 September 2007, 244,050 Ordinary shares of 25p each 0.4% of the issued Ordinary share capital at 30 October 2006 were bought back at an average price of 685.77p within the established guidelines, to be held in treasury.
No shares were subsequently re-issued from treasury between 30 October 2006 and 19 September 2007.
The issued Ordinary share capital at 30 June 2007 consisted of 65,138,908 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,277,550 Ordinary shares held in treasury.
At 19 September 2007, the issued share capital consisted of 65,028,908 Ordinary shares of 25p and 1,387,550 Treasury shares of 25p.
26 Murray Income Trust PLC Issue of New Shares The Companies Act 1985 the Act requires that the Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised by the Shareholders.
Resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, if passed, will give the Directors the necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital of the Company up to an aggregate nominal amount of 812,861.25 equivalent to 3,251,445 Ordinary shares or 5 per cent.
of the Company's existing issued share capital at 19 September 2007.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of the passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will have to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
When new shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 1 of the Act provides that existing Shareholders have pre-emption rights, and that the new shares should first be offered to such Shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, Shareholders can, by special resolution, authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a pro rata issue to existing Shareholders.
Resolution 10 will, if passed, give the Directors power to allot, for cash, equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of 812,861.25 equivalent to 3,251,445 shares or 5 per cent.
of the Company's existing issued share capital at 19 September 2007 excluding Treasury shares as if Section 89 1 of the Act did not apply.
This is the same amount of share capital which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot pursuant to Resolution 9.
This authority will also expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months, whichever is earlier.
Furthermore, this authority will not be used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
The Directors intend to use the authority given by Resolutions 9 and 10 to issue new shares and disapply pre-emption rights for such shares only in circumstances where this will be in the best interests of Shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, shares are available under the savings plans operated by the Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the Company stands at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value, it may be advantageous for the Company to allot new shares directly to participants in the savings plans or to other prospective purchasers.
Such issues would only be made at prices greater than 0.5 per cent above the Net Asset Value, and would involve no dilution for existing Shareholders.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of Shareholders in general meeting.
New shares will normally only be issued where there are no Treasury shares held by the Company and available for re-sale.
Share Repurchases and Treasury Shares For several years, the Company has been operating a share buy-back facility in the market.
The principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance Shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount as and when the Directors consider this appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at a discount, should result in an increase in Net Asset Value for the remaining Shareholders.
The Board believes that it is beneficial to Shareholders that the Company continues to operate such a facility.
Resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a maximum of 14.99 per cent.
of shares in issue excluding shares held in treasury at the date of the Annual General Meeting.
Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or after a period of 15 months from the date of passing of the resolution, whichever is earlier.
This means in effect that the authority will fall to be renewed at the next Annual General Meeting.
Details of share buy-backs carried out during the year ended 30 June 2007 and during the period from the renewal of the authority to buy-back shares 30 October 2006 to 19 September 2007 are detailed above.
The maximum price exclusive of expenses that may be paid on the exercise of any buy-back authority is the higher of i 5% above the average of the middle-market quotations for a share taken from, and calculated by reference to, the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: or in the case of a tender offer, the date the tender offer is announced: and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade and the highest current independent bid on the London Stock Exchange at the time the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price which may be paid is 25p per share.
It is currently proposed that the purchase of shares by the Company will be made entirely from the realised capital reserve of the Company, but only if such shares are cancelled.
In the case of shares which are purchased by the Company to be Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Directors Report continued held in treasury, the cost will be funded from the Treasury share reserve of the Company.
The purchase price will normally be paid out of the cash balances held by the Company from time to time.
On 1 December 2003, regulations came into force that enable companies traded on the London Stock Exchange to purchase their own shares and, instead of cancelling such shares immediately, as was previously required, to hold them in treasury for subsequent resale or cancellation.
The holding of Treasury shares is restricted to 10 per cent.
of the Company's issued share capital.
When shares are held by the Company in treasury, all their voting rights are suspended and no distribution to them either by way of dividend or on a winding-up is permitted.
The resolution seeking authority to buy back shares Resolution 11, will permit the Company to hold shares bought back as Treasury shares rather than cancel them immediately.
The Directors could therefore choose to sell on Treasury shares at some time in the future.
It is intended that any shares bought back under the buy-back facility will normally be held in treasury until the 10 per cent.
limit is reached or they are re-sold.
If the Directors believe that there is no likelihood of reselling shares held in treasury, such shares would be cancelled.
The benefit of the ability to hold Treasury shares is that such shares may be resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
It is the intention of the Board that any re-sale of Treasury shares would only take place at a price not less than the Net Asset Value prevailing at the date of sale.
It is also the intention of the Board that sales from treasury will only take place when the Board believes that it will assist in the provision of liquidity to the market.
"Resolution 10 will also disapply the statutory pre-emption rights, summarised in the section headed ""Issue of New shares"" above, on the re-sale of Treasury shares."
This resolution will enable the Company to sell shares held in treasury without having to make a pro rata offer to existing Shareholders.
The resolution will allow Treasury shares to be re-sold, without giving rise to pre-emption rights for Shareholders on re-sale.
The Directors will manage the non pre-emptive issue of new shares and the sale of Treasury shares, so that a maximum of 5 per cent.
of the Companys issued share capital as at 19 September 2007 excluding Treasury shares will be issued as new shares, and a maximum of 10 per cent.
of the Company's issued share capital as at 19 September 2007 excluding Treasury shares will be sold or transferred out of treasury each year.
Recommendation from the Board The Directors consider that the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the interests of the Company and Shareholders as a whole, and recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in aggregate to 41,716 shares, representing approximately 0.06 per cent of the Companys issued share capital.
Share Interests At 19 September 2007, the following share interests in the Company had been notified.
Ordinary shares Percentage of of 25p Ordinary share capital Aberdeen Asset Managers Savings Plans non-discretionary 10,602,338 16.30 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management 2,307,049 3.54 Legal & General Investment Management 2,283,152 3.51 Directors The Directors, who held office throughout the year under review, are shown on pages 4 to 6 of the Annual Report, and their share interests are shown overleaf.
Mr Coats and Mr Honebon retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Resolutions 4 and 5 to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
28 Murray Income Trust PLC The firm of which Ms Glen is a partner provides legal advice to companies within the Managers group.
She will, therefore, offer herself for re-election annually.
Resolution 6 to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The re-election of Mr Coats, Mr Honebon and Ms Glen, whose biographies appear on pages 4 to 5, was considered and approved by the Nomination Committee.
The reasons for the Committees recommendations for their re-election, and the subsequent approval of those recommendations by the Board, are set out on page 35, in the Statement of Corporate Governance.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors must offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking re-election at this time, it has been less than three years since their previous re-election.
No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys business and in which any of the Directors is interested has subsisted during the year.
A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 31 and 32.
Directors Interests The interests of the Directors in office at the end of the year in the Ordinary share capital of the Company were as follows: 30 June 2007 1 July 2006 Beneficial Non-Beneficial Beneficial Non-Beneficial P A F Gifford 18,807 16,631 A J M Coats 5,000 25,000 5,000 25,000 M Glen N A Honebon 10,000 5,000 H van der Klugt 7,500 5,000 Mr P A F Giffords beneficial holding increased to 19,216 Ordinary shares by the acquisition of 129 Ordinary shares on 13 July 2007, 139 Ordinary shares on 23 July 2007 and 141 Ordinary shares on 22 August 2007.
As at 19 September 2007 there have been no other changes in the above holdings.
Manager and Company Secretary Investment management services are provided to the Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company secretarial, accounting and administrative services are provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
For the year ended 30 June 2007, the management and secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and charged on the following basis: A monthly fee at the rate of one-twelfth of 0.55% on the first 400 million of net assets, 0.45% on the next 150 million of net assets and 0.25% on the excess over 550 million.
The value of any investments managed within the Aberdeen Asset Group is deducted from net assets.
The investment management fee remains chargeable 50% to revenue and 50% against realised capital reserves.
A secretarial fee of 75,000 per annum is also payable, which is chargeable 100% to revenue.
The management and administration contracts may be terminated by either the Company or the Manager on the expiry of three months written notice.
On termination, the Manager would be entitled to receive fees which would otherwise have been due to that date.
The management and secretarial fees paid during the year ended 30 June 2007 are shown in Note 3 on page 46.
In monitoring the performance of the Manager, the Board considers the investment record of the Company over short and longer-term periods, taking into account both its performance against the benchmark index and peer group investment Murray Income Trust PLC 29 Directors Report continued trusts.
The Board also reviews the management processes, risk control mechanisms and marketing activities of the Manager.
As a result of these reviews, the Board considers the continuing appointment of the Manager to be in the interests of the Shareholders because the Aberdeen Asset Management Group has the investment management, marketing and associated secretarial and administrative skills required for the effective operation of the Company.
The Board continues to keep this matter under review.
Corporate Governance The Statement of Corporate Governance is contained on pages 33 to 38.
Audit Committee Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit Committee on page 36.
Political and Charitable Donations The Company has not made any political or charitable donations in the year 2006 - nil.
Going Concern The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
The Company has adequate financial resources to enable it to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Creditor Payment Policy The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year end.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 30 October 2007.
The Notice of Meeting is contained on pages 55 to 57.
Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Resolution 7, to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditors, will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting along with Resolution 8, to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
It should be noted that the only fees paid to the Auditors over the past six years have been in respect of audit services.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors' Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Company's Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information, and to establish that the Company's Auditors are aware of that information.
One Bow Churchyard By order of the Board Cheapside, London EC4M 9HH Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 27 September 2007 Secretaries 30 Murray Income Trust PLC
