"Marketing Strategy Murray Income Trust contributes to the Marketing Programme run by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited ""AAM"" on behalf of a number of investment trusts under its management."
This agreement sees the Companys contribution matched by AAM and from 1 July 2007 is 394,650 plus VAT a year.
The purpose of the Programme is to communicate effectively with existing Shareholders and gain more new Shareholders, thus improving liquidity and thereby enhancing the value and rating of the Companys shares.
AAMs experience has also shown that well-targeted marketing of the Companys investment merits through packaged products, whether singly, or in conjunction with other trusts run by AAM, can be a cost-effective way of gaining new investors.
These aims can be met in several ways: Investor relations programme Shareholder services AAM runs an investor relations programme to existing and AAM runs an investment help desk for retail enquirers prospective institutional investors in investment trusts.
Enquirers or investors will be sent any month, institutional investors and prospects receive a relevant literature on request and have queries answered Managers report on your Company that includes detailed immediately.
The Marketing Programme is under the performance analysis.
direction of AAMs Investment Trust Marketing Director, who has over twenty years experience in the marketing Group Schemes and communications of investment products.
He is AAM runs a group Share Plan, PEP and ISA.
These schemes supported by a team of three marketing professionals.
allow investment free of dealing costs and with only nominal exit charges, have proved popular with private Internet investors.
Murray Income Trust has its own dedicated website: http: www.
This allows web users Direct response advertising to access information on the Companys share price The Manager advertises the packaged product availability of performance, capital structure, stock exchange the Trust in selected national broadsheets as well as the announcements and monthly reports.
The site is specialist financial press.
continuously being evaluated for improvement.
Direct mail It is intended that ongoing Programme activities in these Periodic mail shots of information packs inviting named various fields, both proactive and supportive, will assist addressees to respond is a low-cost method of building the Company to increase and maintain its Shareholder awareness and investor databases.
Target groups include base, improve liquidity and sustain ratings.
existing holders of other AAM investment trusts as well as The Company is committed to a close monitoring of the known buyers of investment trusts.
The Marketing Director provides a Newsletter written summary quarterly to the Board.
"The ""Bulletin"" newsletter, an informed commentary on If you have any questions about your Company, the markets and investment trusts managed by AAM is Manager or performance, please telephone our Customer distributed free of charge."
Services Department direct private investors on 0500 Public relations 00 00 40 or our Broker Desk on 0800 592 487 The Manager undertakes to brief journalists, write regularly Institutions and IFAs.
Alternatively, internet users may through placed articles and ensure Company results and any e-mail us on inv.
com or write to corporate activity are brought to public attention.
us at 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG.
60 Murray Income Trust PLC Other ways to invest in Murray Income Trust PLC Aberdeen Investment Trust Share Plan ISA Costs AAM runs a Share Plan the Plan through which shares There are no brokerage or initial charges for the ISA, in Murray Income Trust can be purchased.
There are no although investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which dealing charges on the initial purchase of shares, although can be a significant amount.
Investors only pay investors will suffer the bid-offer spread, which can, on Government Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on purchases.
some occasions, be a significant amount.
Lump sum Selling costs are 15 VAT.
The annual ISA management investments start at 250, while regular savers may invest charge is 24 VAT, regardless of how many Aberdeen from 100 per month.
Investors simply pay Government Investment Trust PEPs or ISAs an investor holds.
This Stamp Duty currently 0.5% on entry.
Selling costs are annual charge is applied half yearly.
There is no restriction on how long an investor legislation, investments in ISAs can grow free of income or need invest in a Plan, and regular savers can stop or capital gains tax.
suspend participation by instructing AAM in writing at any Company Information time.
In common with other schemes of this type, all If investors would like details of Murray Income Trust or investments are held in nominee accounts.
Investors have information on the Share Plan or ISA please telephone full voting and other rights of share ownership.
0500 00 00 40 or write to Aberdeen Asset Managers AAM offers both a Mini and Maxi stocks and shares ISA, Limited, 10 Queens Terrace, Aberdeen AB10 1YG or through which shares in Murray Income Trust can be e-mail at inv.
available by accessing the internet on the following pages: http: www.
co. uk An investment of up to 7,000 in Murray Income Trust can be made in the tax year 2007 2008.
Mini ISA AAM offers a Mini ISA which will enable investors to invest up to 4,000 in the tax year 2007 2008.
The information above is issued and has been approved for the purposes of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, One Bow Churchyard, Cheapside, London EC4M 9HH which is authorised and regulated by the Financial Services Authority.
