Managers Review Background Performance Global equity markets endured some extremely hostile The Net Asset Value Total Return for the year to 31 macro-economic conditions over the past twelve months, December 2007 with net dividends reinvested was 14.9%, yet surprisingly still produced positive returns in Sterling compared with a return on the benchmark of 8.7%.
The year started brightly enough with surging attribution analysis is given on page 16 which details the corporate merger and acquisition activity providing the various influences on portfolio performance.
In summary, of impetus for higher stock prices.
For six months investors the 720 basis points before expenses of performance above largely ignored deteriorating economic trends, most the index, asset allocation contributed 950 basis points and noticeably relentlessly rising oil prices and upward pressure stock selection -110 basis points.
Structural effects relating on inflation.
Somewhat ominously bond markets did not to the fixed income portfolio, net of borrowing and hedging share the same sanguine expectations of stockmarkets.
costs, deleted 120 basis points of relative performance, a Rising yields throughout this period reflected increasing reflection of the under performance of bonds relative to macro-economic concerns, and as borrowing costs rose, equities.
Within the equity asset allocation, positive liquidity was drained from financial markets.
In July the contributions came from our significant underweighting of spectacular collapse of several US hedge funds highlighted North America and overweighting towards Asia and Latin escalating problems in credit markets, especially those America.
There were also material contributions from connected with housing loans in the United States.
Within a superior stock selection in the UK.
matter of weeks global credit markets had almost totally seized up.
Stockmarkets declined sharply and investors held USA their breath in anticipation of what policy responses might Amongst the numerous characteristics of the human psyche, be forthcoming.
In the US, where declining house prices perhaps the most complex to understand is denial.
When were having detrimental effects on asset quality, the something is painstakingly obvious, why is it so often Authorities were quick to react.
Interest rates were cut three rebuked?
The investment climate in the United States times over the balance of the year in an attempt to restore throughout 2007 seemed to embrace an almost constant confidence.
Short term this proved successful, but longer state of denial, for despite the worst deterioration in term structural imbalances of over-indebtedness, poor asset economic fundamentals for over a decade, US equity quality and uncompetitiveness remain unresolved.
In the UK markets produced positive returns.
Why this was so appears and Europe the Authorities were less accommodative very irrational.
Whilst fiscal laxity and structural towards the urgent need for liquidity in financial markets.
indebtedness have dominated macro-economic imbalances Lack of prompt policy response contributed to severe in the US for years, the catalyst which caused greatest difficulties for UK financial institutions.
Pursuit of inflation economic damage in 2007 was sharply declining property fighting credibility blinded those respective Central Bankers prices.
As house prices fell, mortgage defaults and house from the severity of prevailing events, complacency which repossessions spiked sharply upwards causing widespread may come back to haunt those responsible over the coming downgrades in credit and asset quality.
The asset class called twelve months.
Somewhat ironically, Asia and Latin America credit, which for the past six years had witnessed observed the evolving global financial credit and asset quality unprecedented growth, rapidly became reclassified as problems from a relatively detached perspective, unhindered liabilities.
The resulting credit crunch immediately starved by the need for global capital and backed by enormous all financial institutions of available capital and the complex savings.
Such financial muscle at a time of fragile global unwinding of multi tranche loans and so called structured fundamentals may prove particularly advantageous for those financing began.
The seriousness of this event cannot be regions over the coming years.
over-emphasised, for it could potentially exert huge deflationary forces upon the US economy.
The US Monetary The spectrum of stockmarket returns that prevailed over the Authorities immediate response was to cut interest rates, but year was as divergent as ever.
For the fifth consecutive year the Central Bank will have to tread carefully if its credibility Latin America produced the strongest returns, up 50.2% in is to remain intact.
There can be no justification for bailing Sterling terms.
Other notable positive contributions included out financial institutions that through indulgence of double-digit returns from China, India and Thailand in Asia, excessive risk-taking should be made to pay the free-market plus respectable above average gains from Germany and consequences of their actions.
History also shows that lower France in Europe.
The influence of Sterling on capital returns interest rates can relieve liquidity problems but are virtually also proved significant, with the greatest impact felt in ineffectual when the issue is one of solvency.
What is clear Europe and Brazil where Sterling depreciated by 8% and 16% is that the US economy, and particularly the profits of respectively against the Euro and Real.
Below average domestic US companies, will face some strong headwinds in returns were recorded in the UK and USA, two countries in 2008.
The current credit market dislocation occurs at a time which well below benchmark exposure was maintained.
when the US has never been more economically vulnerable 6 Murray International Trust PLC to global fund flows and foreign financing.
This keeps us the Eurozone economy, such as stronger currency, higher cautious on the prospects for the US market.
There was very energy prices and fiscal tightening did indeed materialise in little portfolio activity over the past year, with total exposure line with expectations.
The European Central Bank had remaining relatively constant.
Positions in Microsoft and consistently signalled its desire for higher interest rates, and Quest were sold outright, whilst a new position in Kraft, a these also were ultimately forthcoming.
Indeed the ECB, in leading global food producer, was established.
typical conservative fashion, repeatedly declared stern words of warning emphasising strong vigilance towards inflation risks and intolerance towards latent pricing pressures.
Such UK rhetoric seemed slightly excessive in a region where headline The rift between rhetoric and reality in the UK widened inflation remained below 2% for most of the year, but noticeably over the past twelve months.
Talk of robust certainly contributed to the overall mood of caution.
What economic growth, controlled inflation, fiscal prudence and periodically lifted the gloom and led to a very respectable balanced budgets was not evident in economic performance.
15.7% return in Sterling terms from the European index, was Indeed UK Central Bankers and Fiscal Financers may wish to positive surprises in corporate profitability despite subdued quickly forget the events of 2007.
In late Spring the MPC economic conditions.
This was partially attributable to were being hauled across the coals to explain why consumer increased overseas earnings within European corporates but price inflation was above 3% and not responding also through disciplined cost control and capital appropriately to tighter monetary policy.
Many European companies utilised balance oil and food prices caused by global supply shortages, were sheet strength to acquire domestic competitors and foreign offered and accepted.
Strange therefore, that when such assets.
Portfolio holdings, such as the German utility giant conditions persisted yet inflation fell to 2%, no comment E. On and Portugal Telecom, delivered superior returns was forthcoming.
Perhaps the path of house price inflation, through a combination of acquisitions, asset disposals, higher long the Achilles heel of UK monetary policy, was more dividends and return of capital to shareholders.
Such value influential than the Authorities cared to admit.
Within the enhancing activity has become more pronounced in government sector, assurances of fiscal responsibility did not corporate Europe over the past few years, a trend that looks materialise into actions.
Consequently the UK budget deficit likely to continue.
Within the portfolio, exposure to maintained its relentless decline into the red for the eighth financials was reduced through divestment of Danske Bank, consecutive year.
The timing of this malaise could not be Fortis and ING Group.
This reflected increasing concerns worse given the sharp reduction expected in corporate tax over global asset quality in general and future dividend receipts and Stamp Duty over the coming year.
Fiscal growth in the companies concerned.
Cash raised was responsibility is urgently required if global confidence in predominately reinvested in existing holdings, such as Italian Sterling is to be maintained.
The economy also reported its energy company ENI and French oil producer Total.
highest ever current account deficit since records began, not helped by the structural decline in oil reserves.
Running such Japan high twin deficits, primarily based on over-consumption and living beyond ones means, is clearly unsustainable in the The economic enigma that is Japan continued to confuse long term.
Debt-laden consumers are being forced to curtail global investors over the past twelve months.
Inflationary spending and this combined with weaker property prices and and deflationary pressures remained at loggerheads causing falling real income growth suggests tough times lie ahead for wild fluctuations in sentiment almost on a monthly basis.
Given these concerns, there was a further Ongoing improvements in the labour market depicted not reduction of total UK asset exposure.
Amongst the only ten year lows in unemployment but also emerging wage companies divested, the large holding in Atrium Underwriting pressures in certain sectors of the economy.
Land prices was sold following its takeover by Ariel Holdings, and other continued to rise and higher energy costs were persistent positions in GlaxoSmithKline, Billiton, Morrisons and Scottish throughout.
Counteracting such inflationary forces were Power were sold outright.
The residual exposure to UK weak retail sales and widespread discounting in sectors such equities will remain defensively positioned until such time as as telecommunications.
No wonder the Bank of Japan greater transparency of corporate profitability emerges.
struggled to interpret such contradictory signals.
Consequently having raised its target rate once in February to 0.5%, the BOJ was unable to implement any further policy Europe directives for the rest of the year.
Unfortunately this left the Perhaps the most redeeming feature of possessing low Japanese economy no nearer its desired state of a normalised expectations is the positive impacts that occur when they interest rate with which to attract savings.
Looking to the are exceeded.
This notion typified the investment landscape future, there is probably little to be gleaned from gazing into in Europe last year.
It would have proved virtually impossible the macro-economic tea-leaves of Japan.
More insight can to construct a compelling macro-economic case at the be gained at the micro-economic level what the corporates beginning of 2007 for the region.
The headwinds that faced are witnessing.
Well capitalised savings banks, such as Bank Murray International Trust PLC 7 Managers Review continued of Kyoto and Sapporo Hokuyo, are well positioned to benefit Outlook from accelerating loan growth currently prevalent in some It is the Managers belief that tough challenges lie ahead for regions.
Japanese pharmaceutical companies, Astellas and overall global economic growth in 2008, but interesting Takeda, remain dominant in various product sectors, serving investment opportunities are likely to emerge ahead of any a domestic market with ageing demographics envied fundamental improvements.
With 14.7% in fixed income throughout the industry.
Such companies, and many others and 6.3% in cash, the portfolio has ample liquidity to in Japan, continue to expand margins, develop innovative capitalise on weakness in equity markets should they arise.
products and have global brand recognition.
Such positive Domestic economic activity in the UK and US remains attributes deserve the attention of global investors, especially hostage to contracting property markets that will continue during periods of underperformance when valuation to deteriorate for the foreseeable future.
Escalating capital outflows from Japanese effects associated with declining housing prices will exert a retail investors desperately trying to escape a very low significant drag on consumption that could persist for several yielding environment has kept downward pressure on the years to come.
Whether both economies decline into market and perpetrated major weakness in the Yen.
2007 recession or not is debateable, but downward pressure on finally brought some respite to the beleaguered currency.
corporate profitability will be negative for sentiment.
Hopefully this year will bring some long overdue recognition Against this backdrop the outlook for these markets looks to the equity market.
muted, although any significant dislocation or dividend cuts in the UK banking sector may present interesting investment Asia and Emerging Markets opportunities.
In Europe the environment of muted 2007 witnessed the tenth anniversary of the Asian financial economic momentum coupled with low expectations will crisis, an event which chronically destabilised emerging likely persist.
Not ideal, but good for capitalising on markets in the late nineties.
Ten years later and what a companies that continue to deliver solid growth in profits difference a decade makes.
With economic reforms and and dividends.
As usual, predicting the path to prosperity for improved corporate governance the region has evolved into Japan is particularly problematic.
Corporate fundamentals an economic powerhouse no longer dependent on exports remain appealing but the catalyst to rekindle domestic and foreign capital for growth.
The past twelve months investors interest in equities appears as elusive as ever.
A witnessed further progress along this path of transformation.
strengthening Yen may at last provide some reward.
In Asia Domestic demand driven growth based on positive and Latin America the most intriguing issue is about to be demographics, rising real incomes and a generational change addressed.
Namely can these emerging markets continue to in individuals attitudes towards borrowing and consuming grow against a backdrop of economic decline in the was evident throughout the region.
Whats more, Asian Developed World.
Based on rising real incomes and corporates capitalised on these trends to deliver superior numerous domestic growth opportunities, the Managers returns to shareholders.
The portfolio benefited from its view from an economic perspective is that they can.
Their exposure to banks in India, Singapore and Hong Kong and respective financial markets may experience increased significant returns were also achieved from telecom volatility along the way, but any periods of over-extended companies in China and Taiwan.
Indeed capital returns from weakness will be used to selectively add exposure to equities.
China were so strong it was deemed prudent to divest Globalisation is increasingly presenting new opportunities in completely from China Mobile and Petrochina when which to invest.
In the year ahead the Manager will seek to valuations became excessive.
Although corporate conditions capitalise upon them in pursuit of adding value for remained strong, crystallising profits usually proves prudent shareholders.
In Latin America, fundamentals also continued to improve.
Independent fiscal authorities in Brazil Bruce Stout and Mexico kept a firm grip on public expenditures, whilst Investment Manager strong commodity prices flowed into burgeoning trade 6 March 2008 surpluses and foreign exchange reserves.
Petrobras of Brazil, the largest portfolio holding, discovered more oil in one successful prospect last year than exists in the total reserves of Norway!
No wonder the developed world remains in awe of Latin Americas wealth of natural resources.
Within the portfolio there was virtually no activity but overall exposure increased courtesy of very strong capital appreciation.
Selective exposure will be maintained for the attractive earnings and dividend growth characteristics that exist in the region.
