Your Board of Directors The Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Manager, supervise the management of Murray International Trust PLC and represent the interests of Shareholders.
John Trott Lady Balfour of Burleigh David Benson Status: Chairman and Independent Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Senior Independent NonNon-Executive Director Director Executive Director Relevant experience and other Relevant experience and other Relevant experience and other directorships: He was formerly directorships: She taught politics and directorships: He is a senior adviser to chairman of The Standard Life modern history at Oxford University, Fleming Family Partners.
He is is also a Assurance Company and The Brunner before moving to the Central Policy non-executive director of Daniel Investment Trust plc.
Review Staff in the Cabinet Office.
She Thwaites plc and chairman of the Length of Service: He was appointed a has worked for governments in many Trustees of the Edward James Director on 23 October 2000 and countries and for a number of public Foundation.
He is also a director of Chairman on 6 November 2002. companies.
Her other current Dover Corporation in the USA.
He was Age: 70 directorships are The Scottish American formerly vice-chairman of Kleinwort Committee member: Management Investment Trust plc: The Scottish Benson Group Plc and chairman of Engagement Committee Chairman, Oriental Smaller Companies Trust plc: Charter Pan European Trust PLC.
The Nuclear Liabilities Fund Limited, Length of Service: He was appointed a Employment by the Manager: None Stagecoach plc and Close Enterprise Director on 25 October 1999.
Other connections with Trust or VCT PLC.
Age: 70 Manager: None Length of Service: She was appointed Committee member: Management Shared Directorships with any other a Director on 30 September 2003.
Engagement Committee, Nomination Trust Directors: None Age: 62 Committee, Remuneration Committee Shareholding in Company: 35,000 Committee member: Audit and Audit Committee.
Ordinary shares Committee, Management Engagement Employment by the Manager: None Committee, Nomination Committee Other connections with Trust or and Remuneration Committee Manager: None Chairman.
Shared Directorships with any other Employment by the Manager: None Trust Directors: None Other connections with Trust or Shareholding in Company: 4,000 Manager: None Ordinary shares Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 1,300 Ordinary shares 20 Murray International Trust PLC James Best Fred Shedden Status: Independent Non-Executive Status: Independent Non-Executive Director Director Relevant experience and other Relevant experience and other directorships: He is an investment directorships: He is a former senior banker with 30 years experience in partner of McGrigor Donald now international capital markets and is McGrigors.
He is a non-executive now a partner of Arkios Ltd, a London director of The Equitable Life Assurance merchant bank.
He was previously Society and Iomart Group plc.
He was Managing Director of UBS in London formerly chairman of Martin Currie and Credit Suisse in Singapore.
He is also a Length of Service: He was appointed a Governor of Glasgow School of Art and Director on 30 June 2005 a board member of the Glasgow Age: 60 Housing Association Limited.
Committee member: Management Length of Service: He was appointed a Engagement Committee, Nomination Director on 23 October 2000.
Committee, Remuneration Committee Age: 63 and Audit Committee Committee member: Audit Employment by the Manager: None.
Committee Chairman, Management Other connections with Trust or Engagement Committee, Nomination Manager: None Committee and Remuneration Shared Directorships with any other Committee.
Trust Directors: None Employment by the Manager: None Shareholding in Company: 15,200 Other connections with Trust or Ordinary shares Manager: None Shared Directorships with any other Trust Directors: None Shareholding in Company: 5,698 Ordinary shares Murray International Trust PLC 21
