Directors Report The Directors submit their Annual Report together with the A final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2006 of financial statements of the Company for the year ended 31 7.6p per Ordinary share was paid on 18 May 2007.
Interim December 2007. dividends of 4.30p each were paid on 14 August 2007, 15 November 2007 and 14 February 2008 making a total distribution to Ordinary Shareholders of 17,753,000.
The Business Review Directors recommend a final dividend for the year ended 31 A review of the Companys operations is given in the December 2007 of 8.1p per Ordinary share payable on 16 Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3, the Chairmans May 2008 to holders of Ordinary shares on the register at Statement on pages 4 and 5 and the Managers Report on close of business on 4 April 2008. pages 6 to 8.
This includes a review of the business of the Company and its principal activities, likely future In line with the changes to the dividend procedures approved developments of the business, recommended final dividend at the Annual General Meeting in 2006, whenever a cash and details of the issue of new shares during the year by the dividend is paid on the Ordinary shares, a bonus issue of B Company.
The major risks associated with the Company are Ordinary shares is made to the holders of B Ordinary shares.
detailed in the Corporate Summary on pages 2 and 3 and in In connection with the final dividend the Directors will make Note 18 to the Financial Statements.
Details of the risk a corresponding capitalisation issue of B Ordinary shares management objectives and policies are provided in the credited as fully paid.
This capitalisation issue will be Corporate Governance Statement internal controls report on equivalent in asset value to the final dividend now pages 30 and 31.
Further details on how the portfolio is recommended on the Ordinary shares but excluding any tax managed to achieve the risk management policies and credit thereon.
Subject to the approval of Shareholders of the objectives are disclosed in The Investment Process on page final dividend, definitive certificates in respect of the 19.
The Key Performance Indicators for the Company capitalisation issue will be posted on 16 May 2008. including NAV and share price information are detailed on Fractional entitlements will be sold for the benefit of page 9. shareholders.
The new B Ordinary shares will rank equally with the existing B Ordinary shares.
The current Directors, Messrs J F H Trott, D H Benson, J D Best, and A C Shedden and Lady Balfour of Burleigh were the Resolution No.
7 to approve the above distribution will be only Directors who served during the year.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting, as printed in the Notice of Meeting contained in the circular accompanying The Company does not make political donations or the Annual Report.
expenditures and has not made any donations for charitable purposes during the year and, in common with most The Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B Ordinary share at 31 investment trusts, the Company has no employees.
& Officers liability insurance cover has been maintained throughout the year at the expense of the Company.
Special Business at Annual General Meeting Share Buybacks Principal activity and status At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 April 2007, The Company is an investment company within the meaning Shareholders approved the renewal of the authority of Part VIII of the Companies Act 1985 and carries on permitting the Company to repurchase its Ordinary shares.
business as an investment trust.
In the opinion of the Directors of the Company, its affairs have been conducted in The Directors wish to renew the authority given by a manner to satisfy the conditions to enable it to continue to Shareholders at the previous Annual General Meeting.
The obtain approval as an investment trust under Section 842 of principal aim of a share buy-back facility is to enhance the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
HM Revenue & Shareholder value by acquiring shares at a discount to Net Customs will grant Section 842 status, if requested, provided Asset Value, as and when the Directors consider this to be that the Companys affairs have been conducted in such a appropriate.
The purchase of shares, when they are trading at manner as to satisfy the conditions of that section.
Approval a discount to Net Asset Value per share, should result in an for such status has been given by HM Revenue & Customs increase in the Net Asset Value per share for the remaining for the year ended 31 December 2006.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would result in an increase in the Net Results and dividends Asset Value per share for the remaining Shareholders and if it The total return attributable to equity Shareholders for the is in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
Any year amounted to 80,997,000. purchase of shares will be made within guidelines established from time to time by the Board.
It is proposed to seek 22 Murray International Trust PLC Shareholder authority to renew this facility for another year equivalent to 4,330,639 Ordinary shares and 54,854 B at the Annual General Meeting.
Ordinary shares or 5 per cent of the Companys existing issued share capital at 6 March 2008, the latest practicable Under the Listing Rules, the maximum price that may be paid date prior to the publication of this Annual Report.
Such on the exercise of this authority must not be more than the authority will expire on the date of the next Annual General higher of i an amount equal to 105 per cent.
of the average Meeting or on 30 June 2009, whichever is earlier.
This means of the middle market quotations for a share taken from the that the authority will have to be renewed at the next London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the 5 business Annual General Meeting.
days immediately preceding the day on which the share is purchased: and ii the higher of the last independent trade When shares are to be allotted for cash, Section 89 1 of the and the current highest independent bid on the trading Companies Act provides that existing Shareholders have prevenue where the purchase is carried out.
The minimum price emption rights and that the new shares must be offered first which may be paid is 25p per share.
to such Shareholders in proportion to their existing holding of shares.
However, Shareholders can, by special resolution, It is currently proposed that the purchase of shares by the authorise the Directors to allot shares otherwise than by a Company will be made from the realised capital reserve of pro rata issue to existing Shareholders.
The purchase price will normally be paid out if passed, also give the Directors power to allot for cash, of the cash balances held by the Company from time to equity securities up to an aggregate nominal amount of time.
1,096,373 equivalent to 4,330,639 Ordinary shares and 54,854 B Ordinary shares or 5 per cent of the Companys The Resolution seeking authority to buy back shares will existing issued share capital at 6 March 2008, the latest permit the Company to hold shares bought back as treasury practicable date prior to the publication of this Annual shares rather than cancel them immediately.
The benefit of Report, as if Section 89 1 of the Companies Act does not the ability to hold treasury shares is that such shares may be apply.
This is the same nominal amount of share capital resold.
This should give the Company greater flexibility in which the Directors are seeking the authority to allot managing its share capital and improve liquidity in its shares.
This authority will also expire The Company would only sell on treasury shares at a on the date of the next Annual General Meeting or on 30 premium to net asset value.
When shares are held in June 2009, whichever is earlier.
This authority will not be treasury, all voting rights are suspended and no distribution used in connection with a rights issue by the Company.
either by way of dividend or by way of a winding up is permitted in respect of treasury shares.
If the Directors The Directors intend to use the authority given by believe that there is no likelihood of re-selling shares bought Resolutions No.
8 and 9 to allot shares and disapply preback, such shares would be cancelled.
emption rights only in circumstances where this will be clearly beneficial to Shareholders as a whole.
As such, issues Special Resolution No.
10 in the Notice of Annual General will only be made where shares can be issued at a premium Meeting will renew the authority to purchase in the market a of 0.5 per cent or more to Net Asset Value.
At present, maximum of 14.99% of shares in issue at the date of the shares are available under the savings plans operated by the Annual General Meeting amounting to 12,983,255 Ordinary Manager.
In circumstances where the share price of the shares and 164,451 B Ordinary shares as at 6 March 2008.
Company stands at a premium of 0.5 per cent or more to Such authority will expire on the date of the next Annual Net Asset Value, it may be advantageous for the Company General Meeting or on 30 June 2009, whichever is earlier.
to allot new shares directly to participants in the savings This means in effect that the authority will have to be plans or to other prospective purchasers.
Such issues would renewed at the next Annual General Meeting or earlier if the only be made at prices greater than Net Asset Value, and authority has been exhausted.
would involve no dilution for existing Shareholders.
The issue proceeds would be available for investment in line with the During the year ended 31 December 2007 and up to the date Companys investment policy.
No issue of shares will be of this Report no share repurchases have taken place.
made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without the prior approval of Shareholders in Issue of shares general meeting.
Resolution 9 will also disapply pre-emption In terms of the Companies Act 1985 the Act the rights on the sale of Treasury shares as envisaged above.
Directors may not allot unissued shares unless so authorised Once again, the pre-emption rights would only be disapplied by the Shareholders.
8 in the Notice of where the Treasury shares were sold at a premium to net Annual General Meeting, if passed, will therefore give the asset value of 0.5 per cent.
Directors the necessary authority to allot the unissued share capital up to an aggregate nominal amount of 1,096,373 Murray International Trust PLC 23 Directors Report continued The Directors consider that the above authorities are in the Directors interests of the Company and Shareholders taken as a whole The Directors, who held office during the year under review, and recommend that all Shareholders vote in favour of the are shown on pages 20 and 21 of the Annual Report and resolutions, as the Directors intend to in respect of their own their interests are shown below.
All the Directors held office beneficial holdings of Ordinary shares amounting in throughout the year under review.
aggregate to 68,198 shares, representing approximately 0.08% of the Companys issued share capital.
Mr J F H Trott, whose biography appears on page 20, having attained the age of 70, retires in accordance with the Articles Circular of Association of the Company at the Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
Mr Accompanying this Annual Report, shareholders will receive a D H Benson, whose biography appears on page 20 having circular which incorporates the Notice of Annual General reached the age of 70 and being required to retire by Meeting as well as Notices of a separate Class Meeting of rotation in accordance with the Articles of Association, Ordinary shareholders and a Class Meeting of B Ordinary retires at the Annual General Meeting, and being eligible, shareholders.
The Directors are proposing amendments to offers himself for re-election.
the Articles of Association as a result of the continuing implementation of the Companies Act 2006.
Resolutions 3 and 4 to this effect will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Share Capital The issued Ordinary share capital at 31 December 2007 In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors amounted to 86,612,772 Ordinary and 1,090,350 B Ordinary must offer themselves for re-election at least once every shares.
On 14 February 2008 the issued B Ordinary share three years.
For those Directors who are not seeking recapital increased to 1,097,074 B Ordinary shares following election at this time, it has been less than three years since the capitalisation issue of 6,724 B Ordinary shares in lieu of their previous re-election.
No contract or arrangement significant to the Companys Share Interests business and in which any of the Directors is interested has At 6 March 2008 the following share interests in the subsisted during the year.
Company above 3% had been notified: The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Percentage of Company were as follows: Ordinary Ordinary shares of 25p capital 31 December 2007 1 January 2007 Rathbones 5,855,510 6.8 Beneficial Beneficial Aberdeen Asset Managers 5,783,064 6.7 J F H Trott 35,000 15,000 Savings Plans non Lady Balfour of 1,300 1,300 discretionary Burleigh Speirs & Jeffrey 5,169,292 5.9 D H Benson 4,000 4,000 Brewin Dolphin 4,816,478 5.6 J D Best 15,200 15,200 Legal & General Investment 4,016,147 4.6 A C Shedden 5,611 5,139 Management Rensburg Sheppards 3,221,212 3.7 Mr A C Sheddens beneficial holding increased to 5,698 D C Thomson & Company 2,700,000 3.1 Ordinary shares by the acquisition, through the Aberdeen Limited Share Plan, of 31 Ordinary shares, 28 Ordinary shares and 28 Ordinary shares on 23 January 2008, 14 February 2008 Percentage of and 22 February 2008 respectively.
On 20 February 2008 Mr B Ordinary B Ordinary Best increased his interests to 22,200 Ordinary shares shares of 25p capital following the purchase of 7,000 Ordinary shares by his wife.
T C Nominees Ltd of which 457,444 41.9 In addition to the above, on 14 February 2008, Mr D H the undernoted has a Benson informed the Company that he is deemed to have a holding of 3% or over: non-beneficial interest in a further 4,250 Ordinary shares Carol Barrie Trust 247,990 22.7 which are controlled by a Family Settlement Trust created by The Hon Mrs C Baillie 207,501 19.0 Mr D H Benson.
With the exception of these further Hamilton Trust disclosures, the above holdings were unchanged at 6 March 24 Murray International Trust PLC secretarial, marketing and administrative skills required for 2008, being the nearest practicable date prior to the signing the effective operation of the Company.
Corporate Governance Directors Fees The Statement of Corporate Governance is shown on pages A report on the Directors Remuneration is set out on pages 27 to 31.
Audit Committee Manager and Company Secretary Details of the Audit Committee are contained in the Investment management services are provided to the Statement of Corporate Governance under the heading Audit Company by Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Company Committee on page 28. secretarial, accounting and administrative services are provided by Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
Directors and Officers Insurance The Company purchases and maintains liability insurance For the year ended 31 December 2007, the management and covering the Directors and officers of the Company.
secretarial fees payable to the Manager were calculated and charged on the following basis: PEP and ISA Status an investment management fee payable to the Manager, The Company intends to manage its affairs so as to be a fully Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited, of 0.5% per annum of qualifying investment trust for inclusion in a general PEP and the value of total assets, less unlisted investments and all also so that the Companys shares will be qualifying current liabilities excluding monies borrowed to finance the investments for the stocks and shares component of an ISA.
investment objectives of the Company, averaged over the six previous quarters.
A fee of 1.5% per annum is charged Going concern on the value of unlisted investments.
The investment The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to management fee is chargeable 30% against revenue and adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial 70% against realised capital reserves: and statements.
The Company has adequate financial resources included in the charge of 0.5% in part a above is a to enable it to continue in operational existence for the secretarial fee of 100,000 per annum which is chargeable foreseeable future.
Creditor payment policy In addition, the Manager was entitled to a performance fee The Companys payment policy is to agree terms of payment on the following basis: before business is transacted, to ensure suppliers are aware a fee of 5% of the first 2% of any outperformance of the of these terms and to settle bills in accordance with them.
Companys net asset total return over that of its The Company did not have any trade creditors at the year benchmark.
a fee of 10% of any additional outperformance against the benchmark.
Annual General Meeting and Class Meetings The total amount of the fee earned by the Manager in any The Notice of Annual General Meeting which will be held on one year comprising the basic management fee and the 22 April 2008 is contained in the separate circular to performance fee is capped at 0.8% of the average value of shareholders accompanying the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Companys total assets less current liabilities.
Any Separate Notices convening class meetings of the Ordinary performance fee is paid in equal instalments over a four year and B Ordinary shareholders are also contained in the period with any future underperformance offset against the circular.
Financial Instruments No fees have been charged in the case of investments The Companys financial instruments comprise its managed or advised by Aberdeen Asset Management Group.
investment portfolio, cash balances, loans and debtors and The management agreement may be terminated by either creditors that arise directly from its operations such as sales party on the expiry of one years written notice.
On and purchases awaiting settlement and accrued income.
The termination the Manager would be entitled to receive fees main risks that the Company faces arising from its financial which would otherwise have been due up to that date.
instruments are disclosed in Note 18 to the financial statements.
The Board considers the continued appointment of the Manager on the terms agreed to be in the interests of the Accountability and Audit Shareholders as a whole because the Aberdeen Asset Each Director confirms that, so far as he or she is aware, Management Group has the investment management, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and he or she has taken all Murray International Trust PLC 25 Directors Report continued the steps that they ought to have taken as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Additionally there are no important events since the year end.
Independent Auditors The Auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
5 to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Auditor will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, along with Resolution No.
6 to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
The Auditors received 5,250 VAT in relation to non-audit services undertaken during the year.
By order of the Board Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretaries 40 Princes Street, Edinburgh EH2 2BY 6 March 2008 26 Murray International Trust PLC
