Corporate Summary Market capitalisation is not a primary concern.
The Company The Company is permitted to invest up to 15% of its investments by value Murray International Trust is an investment trust traded on in any single stock at the time of purchase.
the London Stock Exchange and is a constituent of the FTSE Actuaries All-Share Index.
Some 25,000 of its Shareholders A detailed description of the investment process and risk are private investors.
Murray International Trust is controls employed by the Manager is disclosed on page 19.
A differentiated from other investment trusts in that it offers comprehensive analysis of the Companys portfolio is the advantages of exposure to world markets while disclosed on pages 11 to 14 including a description of the maintaining the higher income generally associated with the twenty largest investments, the Portfolio of Investments by UK equity market.
The Company will be invested in a value, attribution analysis, distribution of investments and diversified portfolio of international equities and fixed distribution of equity investments.
At the year end the Companys portfolio consisted of 93 Benchmark holdings.
The Manager is authorised by the Board to hold The Companys benchmark is a composite index made up as between 50 and 150 stocks in the portfolio.
to 40% of the FTSE World-UK Index and 60% of the FTSE World ex-UK Index.
The Board is responsible for determining the gearing strategy for the Company.
Gearing is used selectively to leverage the Companys portfolio in order to enhance returns where and Investment Objective to the extent this is considered appropriate to do so.
Total The primary aim of Murray International Trust is to achieve a gearing is not in normal circumstances to exceed 30% of net total return greater than its benchmark by investing assets.
For this purpose sums held on cash deposit may be predominantly in equities worldwide.
Within this objective netted against the level of borrowings.
At the year end there the Manager will seek to increase the Companys revenues in was gearing of 11.7% and particular care is taken to ensure order to maintain an above average dividend yield.
that any bank covenants permit maximum flexibility of investment policy.
Investment Policy The Companys assets are invested in a diversified portfolio History of international securities and fixed income securities spread Murray International Trust started its life in 1907 as The across a range of industries and economies.
Scottish Western Investment Company Limited.
The Scottish Western of the early days was very highly geared but it was It is the investment policy of the Company to invest no more mainly invested in bonds, though the international spread than 15% of its gross assets in other listed investment was just as great with countries such as Argentina, China, companies including listed investment trusts.
The Company Japan, Canada and many others appearing in the portfolio.
currently does not have any investments in other investment Although the range of currencies was much smaller, multicompanies.
currency or even gold-backed bonds were all the rage, as many of the eras bond certificates show.
Delivering the Investment Policy The Directors are responsible for determining the investment The big move into equities came after the 1930s slump, policy and the investment objective of the Company.
Day to when bond defaults forced the purchase of higher yielding day management of the Companys assets has been equities to fund the costs of the trusts gearing.
"The delegated to Aberdeen Asset Managers ""AAM"" or the Managers were not slow to spot an opportunity, but it ""Manager""."
The Manager invests in a diversified range of started as Hobsons choice, and was only later trumpeted as international companies in accordance with the investment brilliant foresight.
In 1929 just under 20% of the assets were in equities, in The investment manager, Bruce Stout, has responsibility for 1940 38%, in 1948 51% of the assets, which were still only portfolio construction across all regional segments.
After deducting the preference shares which closely with the relevant underlying desks in each case, were repaid in 1999 and debentures, the Company was portfolio construction is an interactive process.
The Manager effectively over 100% geared into equities by the start of the utilises a Global Equity Buy List which is constructed by great post war boom.
each of the specialist country desks.
This list contains all buy and hold recommendations for each desk, which are then After a number of amalgamations, the Company emerged as used as the investment universe.
Stock selection is the major a generalist investment trust.
However, there was an excess source of added value.
of trusts with a similar broad remit, so towards the end of the 1970s the Board defined the investment brief more Top-down investment factors are secondary in the Managers narrowly as the achievement of growth in income and capital portfolio construction, with diversification rather than formal through a well diversified portfolio.
controls guiding stock and sector weights.
2 Murray International Trust PLC Symbolised by the name change from Murray Western to of capital.
This increases distributable income at the expense Murray International Trust in 1984, the focus has since been of capital growth, which will either be eroded or constrained.
on a relatively high yielding portfolio of equities in a well Maintaining a high level of dividend may also diminish diversified mix of overseas markets supported by a capital value.
In common with most investment trusts, substantial UK component.
Murray International Trust is able to borrow for investment purposes.
The use of gearing is likely to lead to volatility in Shareholders will find further insight into the history of the the Net Asset Value NAV, meaning that a relatively small Company in the accompanying booklet which has been movement either down or up in value of the Companys total commissioned to commemorate the centenary of the assets will result in a magnified movement in the same incorporation of the Company on 18 December 1907. direction of that NAV.
There is no guarantee that the market price of shares in investment trusts will fully reflect their underlying NAV.
Capital Structure The Companys issued share capital as at 6 March 2008 The market prices of fixed interest stocks and, to a lesser consisted of 86,612,772 Ordinary shares of 25p each and extent, convertibles may be affected by changes in interest 1,097,074 B Ordinary shares of 25p each.
between the rights of the B Ordinary Shareholders and that of the Ordinary Shareholders is contained in the glossary on Share Dealing PEP ISA status page 58.
Shares in Murray International Trust can be bought in the open market through a stockbroker.
They can also be Total Assets and Net Asset Value purchased through Aberdeen savings schemes and fully At 31 December 2007, the Company had Total Assets of qualify for inclusion within tax-efficient ISA wrappers see 725.4 million and a Net Asset Value per Ordinary and B page 57.
Management Agreement Summary The Company has an agreement with Aberdeen Asset Borrowings Managers Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Aberdeen The borrowings at 31 December 2007 of 75.6 million Asset Management PLC, for the provision of management represent 11.7% of Net Assets.
Committed and services for a fee, as detailed in the Directors Report on page uncommitted borrowing facilities to the Company are 25 and in Note 3 on page 43. detailed in Note13.
Financial covenants contained within the relevant loan agreements provide, inter alia, that AIC borrowings shall at no time exceed 50% of Net Assets and Murray International Trust is a member of the Association of that the Net Assets must exceed 250 million.
Assets were 646.2 million at 31 December 2007.
Websites If any of the financial covenants were to be breached the www.
co. uk Lenders would be entitled, following the serving of notice to www.
com the Company, to declare the loans and all accrued interest, fees and other sums owed under the agreement to be immediately due and repayable.
Company Secretary Aberdeen Asset Management PLC, 40 Princes Street, Duration Edinburgh EH2 2BY The Company does not have a fixed life.
co. uk Risk Customer Services Many of the stocks in which the Company invests are Freephone: 0500 00 00 40 open Monday - Friday 9am - exposed to the risk of political change, exchange controls, tax 5pm Email: inv.
com or other regulations which may affect their value and marketability.
Currency fluctuations may also affect the value of the Companys investments and the income derived therefrom.
Companies in emerging markets are not always subject to the equivalent accounting, auditing and financial standards of those in the United Kingdom.
There may therefore be less supervision and regulation in this respect.
Currently 70% of the investment management fee and finance costs and 100% of the performance fee are taken out Murray International Trust PLC 3
