CAPRICORN seeks to discover hidden value through entrepreneurial exploration and establishing strategic positions in frontier locations with high potential.
Bangladesh greenland in addition to its positions in bangladesh and nepal, the main strategic objective production and development capricorn announced on 10 january for capricorn in 2007 was to secure new an offshore drilling campaign in block 16 2008 that it has an interest in six acreage opportunities offering longcommenced in january 2007 during hydrocarbon licences offshore of term organic growth potential.
the which two wells south sangu-3 and west greenland, having recently been successful implementation of this sangu-10 were drilled.
the appraisal awarded four blocks and acquired an strategy is evidenced by the entry into well, south sangu-3, was drilled to interest in a further two blocks in a tunisia, as a result of the corporate evaluate the earlier south sangu transaction with encana corporation.
takeovers of plectrum and medoil, discovery and encountered subthe six exploration blocks cover a and the acquisition of new acreage in commercial quantities of gas.
combined total area of approximately 2 greenland.
capricorn continues to the development well, sangu-10, 52,000 km.
capricorns interests are evaluate further potential growth was drilled as an extended reach as follows: opportunities.
delineation well in the main sangu field an 87.5% operated interest in two and encountered gas in new sand above blocks sigguk and eqqua awarded capricorn now has assets in south asia the main producing intervals contained in the disko west licencing round: northern india, bangladesh and nepal, in what is considered to be a small, a 92% operated interest in two the mediterranean tunisia, albania and, isolated gas-bearing reservoir.
blocks saqqamiut and kingittoq pending licence awards, in spain and awarded in the open door area: and sicily, peru, papua new guinea and production from the sangu field is a 40% non-operated interest in two greenland.
as a result of an ongoing declining and efforts are being focused blocks atammik and lady franklin rationalisation programme, the on extending the economic life of the acquired from encana.
exploration interests inherited from field.
the separate shallower reservoir in plectrum in australia bremer basin sangu-10 was brought on production in it is the intention to acquire 8,000 km and in the uk west of the shetlands march 2008 as part of an ongoing well of 2d seismic over the operated blocks are considered to be non-core assets.
intervention programme at an initial rate in 2008 09. an electromagnetic survey of 20 mmscfd.
is being planned over the atammik and lady franklin blocks during 2008 by exploration encana, the operator.
a two-well exploration drilling programme over the 2007 08 winter has in line with its licence agreements, resulted in a gas discovery in normallycapricorn is working with the national pressured reservoirs in the magnama 1 oil company, nunaoil a s and the well, while gas shows were encountered greenlandic and danish authorities in the hatia 1 well.
further appraisal work to ensure compliance with the will be required over magnama before environmental regulations and commerciality can be established and procedures covering exploration consideration is being given to activities offshore of greenland.
evaluating the updip potential at hatia.
20 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Qaqortoq, Greenland nePal other assets the security situation in nepal continues seismic surveys are being planned for to be monitored closely.
contractual offshore blocks in albania and peru for force majeure remains in place in 2008 09. licence applications have capricorns acreage in nepal precluding been made in sicily and spain.
blocks in new seismic acquisition.
as soon as the the bremer basin australia and west security situation permits, final planning of the shetlands are considered for seismic field operations will non-core assets.
talisman, the operator for block prl-1 in tUnisia papua new guinea, is seeking a licence extension and, if that is granted by the the key objective of the plectrum and government, is planning to acquire a medoil acquisitions was to acquire a 3d seismic survey in 2009 over the material acreage position in tunisia and pandora gas field and other prospects.
capricorn now has a 50% interest in the nabeul permit and a 100% interest in the louza permit, both of which are operated by capricorn and are located offshore of tunisia.
it is currently planned to drill two to four exploration wells in tunisia between q4 2008 and q4 2009 with first activity commencing on the louza permit.
Cambay Basin, India CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 21
