DIRECTORS REPORT The directors of Cairn Energy PLC present their annual report for the year ended 31 December 2007 together with the financial statements of the Group for the year.
These will be laid before the shareholders at the AGM to be held on Friday 23 May 2008.
Results and Dividend The Group made a profit after tax and exceptional items of $1,527.8m 2006 restated: loss of $97.1m.
The directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Subsequent events that have occurred after the Balance Sheet dated at 31 December 2007 are included in Note 37 of the Notes to the Accounts.
Principal Activities and Business Review The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings is the exploration for and development and production of oil and gas.
Details of the development of the Groups business during the year and the information that fulfils the requirements of the Business Review can be found in the Highlights of 2007, Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Assets, Operating & Exploration Review, Corporate Responsibility and Financial Review on pages 24 to 31 of this document and the Risk Factors section on pages 36 to 39, which are deemed to form part of this report by reference.
Details of Cairns offices are given on the back cover of this report and details of Cairns advisers are given on page 136.
Acquisitions and Disposals Details of acquisitions and disposals made during the year are contained in the Chief Executives Review on page 8 and in Note 3 to the accounts on page 85.
Change of Control All of the Companys share incentive plans contain provisions relating to a change of control and full details of these plans are provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 68.
Outstanding options and awards would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of performance conditions, if applicable, at that time.
On a change of control of the Company resulting in the termination of a directors employment, each of the executive directors is also entitled, pursuant to their service contracts, to compensation of a sum equal to their annual basic salary as at the date of termination of employment.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for employees on a change of control.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of a change of control of the Company except the $850 million syndicated revolving credit facility agreement dated 22 November 2006 entered into by certain of the Companys subsidiaries, The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC and IFC and a syndicate of other commercial banks the Facility.
Under the Facility, lenders may, upon 30 days notice, cancel all of their commitments and declare all outstanding loans made by them, together with accrued interest, immediately due and payable if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of the Company while it retains control of Cairn India.
Directors The names and biographical details of the current directors of the Company are given on pages 32-34.
The beneficial interests of the directors in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown below: As at 31 December 2006 As at 31 December 2007 As at 31 March 2008 Sir Bill Gammell 805,000 500,000 500,000 Dr Mike Watts 300,000 200,000 200,000 Malcolm Thoms 74,437 37,600 37,600 Phil Tracy 61,519 6,400 6,400 Jann Brown 41,519 32,200 32,200 Simon Thomson 39,519 6,637 6,637 Norman Murray 100,000 81,250 81,250 Hamish Grossart 40,000 5,000 5,000 Ed Story 5,000 4,062 4,062 Todd Hunt 35,000 28,436 28,436 Mark Tyndall 5,000 4,062 4,062 Andrew Shilston 5,000 4,062 4,062 Sir Bill Gammells interest includes 92,257 shares which are held in discretionary trusts, where his children are potential beneficiaries.
Following the share consolidation decribed at note 27.
50 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED At 31 December 2007, none of the directors or any members of their families holds an interest in options over ordinary shares in the Company.
None of the directors has a material interest in any contract, other than a service contract, with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
Details of the directors service contracts are set out on pages 63 and 64 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Share Capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in Note 27 of the Notes to the Accounts.
At the date of this 2 report, 130,845,424 ordinary shares of 6 13 pence each have been issued and are fully paid up and are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the Companys articles of association.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares and the Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Voting Rights Subject to any special rights or restrictions attaching to any class of shares, at a general meeting or class meeting, on a show of hands, every member present in person and every duly appointed proxy entitled to vote shall have one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote for every share held by him.
In the case of joint holders of a share, the vote of the senior member who tenders a vote, whether in person or by proxy, shall be accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the other joint holders and for this purpose seniority shall be determined by the order in which the names stand in the register of members in respect of the joint holding.
Under the Companies Acts, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a general meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A corporation which is a member of the Company may authorise one or more individuals to act as its representative or representatives at any meeting of the Company, or at any separate meeting of the holders of any class of shares.
A person so authorised shall be entitled to exercise the same powers on behalf of such corporation as the corporation could exercise if it were an individual member of the Company.
Restrictions on Voting No member shall, unless the directors of the Company otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him to attend or vote at a general meeting of the Company either in person or by proxy if any call or other sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of shares in the Company remains unpaid.
Further, if a member has been served with a notice by the Company under the Companies Acts requesting information concerning interests in shares and has failed in relation to any shares to provide the Company, within fourteen days of the notice, with such information, the directors of the Company may determine that such member shall not be entitled in respect of such shares to attend or vote either in person or by proxy at any general meeting or at any separate general or class meeting of the holders of that class of shares.
Proxy forms must be submitted not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting or in the case of a poll taken otherwise than at, or on the same day as, the meeting or adjourned meeting not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll at which it is to be used.
Variation of Rights Whenever the share capital of the Company is divided into different classes of shares, all or any of the special rights attached to any class may, subject to statute and unless otherwise expressly provided by the rights attached to the shares of that class, be varied or abrogated either with the consent in writing of the holders of not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the issued shares of that class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of the shares of that class.
At every such separate general meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class.
These provisions apply to the variation or abrogation of the special rights attached to some only of the shares of any class as if the shares concerned and the remaining shares of such class formed separate classes.
The rights attached to any class of shares shall, unless otherwise expressly provided by the terms of issue of such shares or the terms upon which such shares are for the time being held, be deemed not to be varied or abrogated by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with or subsequent to the first mentioned shares or by the purchase by the Company of its own shares.
Transfer of Shares Subject to any procedures set out by the directors in accordance with the Articles of Association, all transfers of shares shall be effected by instrument in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors of the Company.
The instrument of transfer shall be executed by, or on behalf of, the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by, or on behalf of, the transferee.
The transferor shall be deemed to remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register of members of the Company.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 51 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share unless such share is listed on the Official List of the Uk Listing Authority and traded on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities.
The directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a share in uncertificated form where the Company is entitled to refuse or is excepted from the requirement under the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 to register the transfer and they may refuse any such transfer in favour of more than four transferees.
The directors may also refuse to register any transfer of a share on which the Company has a lien.
The directors may, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to register a transfer of any share in certificated form unless the relevant instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share, is duly stamped or adjudged or certified as not chargeable to stamp duty, is lodged at the transfer office or at such other place as the directors may determine, is accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and is in favour of not more than four transferees jointly.
If the directors refuse to register a transfer, they shall, within two months after the date on which the transfer was lodged with the Company in the case of a share in certificated form or the date on which the operator-instruction as defined in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 was received by the Company in the case of a share in uncertificated form or in either case such longer or shorter period if any as the Listing Rules may from time to time permit or require, send to the transferee notice of the refusal.
Major Interests in Share Capital As at 31 March 2008, the Company had received notification that holdings exceeding the 3 per cent notification threshold were as follows: Number of Shares % of Share Capital BlackRock Investment Management 17,163,948 13.12 Baillie Gifford 13,876,535 10.61 HSBC Investments 12,607,491 9.64 Legal & General Investment Management 9,210,081 7.04 F&C Asset Management 8,344,077 6.38 HSBC James Capel as principal 7,079,940 5.41 TT International Investment Management 4,905,289 3.75 Charitable and Political Donations The Company has a Charities Committee which is responsible for distributing the Companys charitable donations to selected charities within an overall annual budget.
During the year the Company made various charitable contributions in the Uk totalling $3,146,764 2006: $270,943.
Contributions in the Uk are made to a variety of charitable organisations whose areas of operation and activities are aligned with Cairns.
In addition, the Group provides funding to various charitable initiatives outwith the Uk.
Further details of these can be found in our Corporate Responsibility Report.
In July 2007, the Company formed a new longteam strategic alliance with Heriot Watt University.
Heriot Watt is one of the Uks leading universities for business and industry at the forefront of innovative technology and rigorous research-based science.
Its Institute of Petroleum Engineering operates one of the largest research programmes in its field.
The partnership includes a 1.4 million donation from the Company which will help towards the funding of a new Postgraduate Centre and appointment of the first Programme Co-ordinator for Innovation and Enterprise.
As part of the alliance a new Chair has also been created within the field of Petroleum Engineering.
No political donations were made and no political expenditure was incurred during the year.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice It is Cairns payment policy to ensure settlement of suppliers services in accordance with the terms of the applicable contracts.
In most circumstances, settlement terms are agreed prior to business taking place.
Trade creditors of the Company at 31 December 2007 were equivalent to 27 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers to the Company during the year.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company are detailed in Note 30 of the Notes to the Accounts.
52 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Election Re-Election of Directors Norman Murray and Sir Bill Gammell retire by rotation at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008 in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election as directors.
Hamish Grossart and Ed Story have each served on the Board for more than nine years and, in accordance with the Combined Code, will therefore seek re-election as directors on an annual basis.
Andrew Shilston retires by rotation at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008 and will not be offering himself for re-election.
The Board has carried out a formal performance evaluation and confirms that, after rigorous review, it has determined that the performance of each of the directors who is subject to re-election continues to be effective and that each demonstrates commitment to the role.
An explanation of the performance evaluation procedure carried out by the Company is contained in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 49.
The directors biographies are on pages 32 to 34.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that directors can be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
The nomination committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and replacement of directors.
Further details of the rules governing the appointment and replacement of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 40 to 49 and in the Companys Articles of Association.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, Uk legislation and any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The directors currently have powers both in relation to the issuing and buying back of the Companys shares and are seeking renewal of these powers at the forthcoming AGM see below under Share Capital Authorities.
Share Capital Authorities Resolution 8 in the Notice of AGM seeks to give the directors authority to allot up to 43,610,779 unissued ordinary shares, being up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,683,740.25.
This maximum amount represents 33.33% of the Companys total issued ordinary share capital as at 31 March 2008.
As at 31 March 2008 the Company holds no shares in treasury, representing 0% of the total ordinary share capital calculated exclusive of treasury shares.
The authority conferred by this resolution will expire on 22 May 2013, although the directors intend to seek the renewal of this authority on an annual basis.
The directors consider that the authority proposed to be given pursuant to resolution 8 is desirable to allow the Company to retain flexibility, although they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
Resolution 9 in the Notice of AGM seeks to give the directors power to allot unissued ordinary share capital and to sell ordinary shares held in treasury for cash up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,683,740.25 in aggregate without first being required to offer such shares to existing shareholders but this authority is limited to: i the allotment of ordinary shares and sale of treasury shares avoiding legal or practical problems should there be an offer of shares or other securities to shareholders pro rata in the future: and ii the allotment and sale of up to 6,542,271 ordinary shares and treasury shares for cash for any purpose, representing 5% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2008.
Purchase of Own Shares Resolution 10 in the Notice of AGM will be proposed to authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares.
Shares repurchased by the Company pursuant to such authority may be cancelled or held in treasury and then either sold in whole or in part for cash or cancelled in whole or in part.
The directors intend to take advantage of the flexibility afforded by this resolution as they deem appropriate.
No dividends will be paid on treasury shares and no voting rights attach to them.
The maximum aggregate number of ordinary shares that may be purchased pursuant to the authority shall be 14.99% of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2008, being 19,613,729 ordinary shares.
The maximum price which may be paid for an ordinary share pursuant to this resolution exclusive of expenses shall be the higher of i an amount equal to 105% of the average of the middle market quotations for the Companys ordinary shares for the five business days immediately preceding the date of purchase and ii the higher of the price of the last independent trade of an ordinary share and the highest current independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Trading System SETS.
The minimum 2 price that may be paid for an ordinary share pursuant to this resolution exclusive of expenses shall be 6 13 pence, being the nominal value of an ordinary share.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 53 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED In accordance with the Listing Rules, the Company will not repurchase shares in the period of 60 days immediately preceding the preliminary announcement of its annual or interim results or, if shorter, the period from the end of the financial period concerned up to and including the time of a relevant announcement or, except in accordance with the Listing Rules, at any other time when, in terms of the Companys Dealing Rules, the directors would be prohibited from dealing in shares.
This authority, if conferred, will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
This authority will expire on the earlier of 22 November 2009 or the conclusion of the AGM of the Company to be held in 2009 unless previously revoked, varied or renewed by the Company in general meeting.
The directors intend to seek renewal of this authority at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2007 other than the off-market purchase of deferred shares in May 2007 as a consequence of the return of cash to shareholders in April 2007.
As at 31 March 2008, options to subscribe for shares were outstanding over an aggregate of 989,928 ordinary shares representing 0.76% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 31 March 2008.
If the outstanding amount of the existing buy-back authority granted at the 2007 AGM is utilised in full prior to the 2008 AGM and the new authority is granted at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008 and is then utilised in full, the options outstanding at 31 March 2008 would represent 1.08% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary therein, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by a special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Resolution 11 in the Notice of AGM will be proposed to adopt new Articles of Association the New Articles in order to update the Companys current Articles of Association the Current Articles primarily to take account of changes in company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
The principal changes introduced in the New Articles are summarised below.
Other changes which are of a minor, technical or clarifying nature and also some more minor changes which merely reflect changes made by the Companies Act 2006, have not been noted below.
The New Articles showing all of the changes to the Current Articles are available for inspection, as noted in the Notice of AGM.
Proposed Changes to the Current Articles Provisions in the Current Articles which replicate provisions contained in the Companies Act 2006 are in the main amended to bring them into line with the Companies Act 2006.
Certain examples of such provisions include provisions as to the form of resolutions, the variation of class rights and provisions regarding the period of notice required to convene general meetings.
The main changes made to reflect this approach are detailed below.
Form of Resolution The Current Articles contain a provision that, where for any purpose an ordinary resolution is required, a special or extraordinary resolution is also effective and that, where an extraordinary resolution is required, a special resolution is also effective.
This provision is being amended as the concept of extraordinary resolutions has not been retained under the Companies Act 2006.
The Current Articles enable members to act by written resolution.
Under the Companies Act 2006, public companies can no longer pass written resolutions.
These provisions have, therefore, been removed in the New Articles.
Variation of Class Rights The Current Articles contain provisions regarding the variation of class rights.
The proceedings and specific quorum requirements for a meeting convened to vary class rights are contained in the Companies Act 2006.
The relevant provisions have, therefore, been amended in the New Articles.
Convening Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings The provisions in the Current Articles dealing with the convening of general meetings and the length of notice required to convene general meetings are being amended to conform to new provisions in the Companies Act 2006.
In particular, an extraordinary general meeting to consider a special resolution can be convened on 14 days notice whereas previously 21 days notice was required.
Votes of Members Under the Companies Act 2006, proxies are entitled to vote on a show of hands whereas under the Current Articles proxies are only entitled to vote on a poll.
The time limits for the appointment or termination of a proxy appointment have been altered by the Companies Act 2006 so that articles of association cannot provide that they should be received more than 48 hours before the meeting or in the case of a poll taken more than 48 hours after the meeting, more than 24 hours before the time for the taking of a poll, with weekends and bank holidays being permitted to be excluded for this purpose.
Multiple proxies may be appointed provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share held by the shareholder.
The New Articles reflect all of these new provisions.
54 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Age of Directors on Appointment The Current Articles contain a provision limiting the age at which a director can be appointed.
Such provision could now fall foul of the Employment Equality Age Regulations 2006 and so has been removed in the New Articles.
Retirement of Directors by Rotation The Current Articles contain a provision requiring a minimum number of one third of the directors who are subject to retirement by rotation to retire at every AGM.
Such provision is no longer appropriate in view of the Combined Code requirement for directors to offer themselves for re-election at regular intervals and at least every three years and so has been removed in the New Articles.
The New Articles provide that any director who has been appointed by the Board since the last AGM, or who held office at the time of the two preceding AGMs and who did not retire at either of them, or who has held office for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the AGM, is to retire at each AGM and, if he wishes to do so, offer himself for re-appointment.
Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008, a director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or trustee of another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the articles of association to contain other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
The New Articles give the directors authority to approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
Firstly, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the companys success.
The directors will be able to impose conditions, limitations and or terms when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The New Articles also contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a director being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only apply where the position giving rise to the potential conflict has previously been authorised by the directors.
Electronic and Web Communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members by electronic and or website communications.
The New Articles continue to allow communications to members in electronic form and, in addition, they also permit the Company to take advantage of the new provisions relating to website communications.
Before the Company can communicate with a member by means of website communication, the relevant member must be asked individually by the Company to agree that the Company may send or supply documents or information to him by means of a website, and the Company must either have received a positive response or have received no response within the period of 28 days beginning with the date on which the request was sent.
The Company will notify the member either in writing, or by other permitted means when a relevant document or information is placed on the website and a member can always request a hard copy version of the document or information.
Directors Indemnities and Loans to Fund Expenditure The Companies Act 2006 has in some areas widened the scope of the powers of a company to indemnify directors and to fund expenditure incurred in connection with certain actions against directors.
The existing exemption allowing a company to provide money for the purpose of funding a directors defence in court proceedings now expressly covers regulatory proceedings and applies to associated companies.
The New Articles reflect these new provisions.
General Generally, the opportunity has been taken to bring clearer language into the New Articles and in some areas to conform the language of the New Articles.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors of the Company who held office at 31 December 2007 confirm that, as far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In making this confirmation, the directors have taken appropriate steps to make themselves aware of the relevant audit information and that the Companys auditors are aware of this information.
CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 55 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Reappointment of Auditors Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as auditors and their reappointment at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008 will be proposed in accordance with the Companies Act.
AGM 2008 The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on 23 May 2008 are set out in the Notice of AGM.
Please note that this Annual Report and Accounts which includes the Notice of AGM is an important document and requires your immediate attention.
If you are in any doubt as to what action you should take, you should consult your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other professional adviser immediately.
If you have sold or transferred all your shares in Cairn Energy PLC please send this document and the accompanying Form of Proxy to the purchaser or transferee or to the bank, stockbroker or other agent through whom the sale or transfer was effected, for transmission to the purchaser or transferee.
The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out in the Notice of AGM are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each of them.
By order of the Board Duncan Wood Company Secretary 31 April 2008 56 CAIRN ENERGY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
