DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 The Directors present their report and the DIRECTORS audited financial statements for the year The current composition of the Board of Directors together with brief biographical details of ended 31 December 2007. each Director is shown on page 3.
The following table shows details of Board appointments and retirements up to the date of this report.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES R F Bennett Retired 31 January 2007 The principal activities of the Group are D A Jones Appointed 1 February 2007.
Retired 22 February 2008 discussed in the Operating and Financial B K Sanderson Appointed as Chairman 19 October 2007.
Retired 22 February 2008 Review on pages 25 to 39.
J F Devaney Appointed 26 November 2007 S T Laffin Appointed 26 November 2007 REVIEW OF BUSINESS, FUTURE L P Adams Appointed 29 November 2007 DEVELOPMENTS, PRINCIPAL RISKS AND P A Thompson Appointed 18 January 2008.
Retired 22 February 2008 UNCERTAINTIES A M Kuipers Retired 16 November 2007.
Reappointed as Director and A review of the business, future Chief Executive 13 December 2007 developments, principal risks and Dr M W Ridley Retired 19 October 2007 uncertainties is set out in the Operating and Sir Derek Wanless Retired 16 November 2007 Financial Review on pages 25 to 39.
Ms N Pease Retired 16 November 2007 N A H Fenwick Retired 16 November 2007 DIVIDENDS Ms R A Radcliffe Retired 16 November 2007 The Directors do not propose the payment D F Baker Retired 16 November 2007 of any dividends on the Ordinary Shares in K M Currie Retired 16 November 2007 respect of the year ended 31 December A J Applegarth Retired 12 December 2007 2007.
Sir Ian Gibson Retired 22 February 2008 R A Sandler Appointed 22 February 2008 TANGIBLE FIXED ASSETS A F Godbehere Appointed 22 February 2008 Land and buildings, which are included in the P J Remnant Appointed 22 February 2008 balance sheet at cost less accumulated T W Scholar Appointed 22 February 2008 depreciation and impairment losses, S A M Hester Appointed 22 February 2008 amounted to 106.8 million at Details of the interests of Directors in the shares of the Company at 31 December 2007 and 31 December 2007.
In the Directors 21 February 2008 are set out on page 19.
Following temporary public ownership taking effect opinion, based on valuations carried out by on 22 February 2008, no Director had any interest in the shares of the Company.
the Groups qualified chartered surveyors, the total market value of these assets at that The powers of the Directors, along with provisions relating to their appointment and date was not significantly different.
replacement, are set out in the Articles of Association and The Northern Rock plc Transfer Order 2008 and are also governed by UK company law.
Any alteration to the Articles of Details of changes to tangible fixed assets Association must be approved by shareholders.
are included in note 27 to the Accounts.
The service or employment contracts of certain Directors and executives contain provisions POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS entitling such Directors and executives to terminate their respective service or employment Details of post balance sheet events contracts in the event of a change of control of the Company.
In such circumstances, the including temporary public ownership and relevant directors and executives are entitled to a liquidated payment in lieu of salary, bonus, new banking facilities are given in note 45 to pension and other benefits.
As at 31 December 2007, 18 directors of Group companies and the Accounts.
37 individual executives had such provisions in their service or employment contracts.
The Companys Articles of Association provide an indemnity to the Directors against certain liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnities extend to defending any proceedings in which judgement is given in the Directors favour, or in which they are acquitted or in any proceedings in which relief is granted by a court from liability for negligence, default, breach of duty or breach of trust in relation to the affairs of the Company.
In addition, the Company arranges Directors and Officers Insurance on behalf of its Directors in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
As part of the terms of their letters of appointment or service contracts, new Directors appointed after September 2007 are generally offered separate contractual indemnities from the Company.
40 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 continued There are no restrictions on the transfer of awards of shares and so had no voting or SHARES shares and prior approval is not required other rights in respect of the shares awarded Details of the structure of the Companys from the Company.
under the schemes prior to vesting.
authorised and issued share capital as at the year end, as well as movements in and At the Annual General Meeting on 22 April The Company operated employee benefit changes to the authorised and issued share 2007, a resolution was passed giving the trusts to hold shares pending employees capital during the year, are provided in note Company the authority to make market becoming entitled to them under the 38 to the Accounts.
purchases of Ordinary Shares up to a employee share schemes.
9,061,684 shares As at 31 December 2007 the Company had maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
were so held as at 31 December 2007. issued share capital of 496m, comprising A further resolution was passed providing Where the shares had not been allocated to 421.2m 84.92% of the Companys for the Company to enter into a contingent employees, the trusts had full discretion in nominal capital issued in Ordinary Shares, purchase contract with The Northern Rock relation to the voting of such shares.
Where 74.4m 15% in Foundation Shares and Foundation to repurchase Foundation Shares shares have been allocated to employees, 0.4m 0.08% in Preference Shares.
in the same proportion and at the same the trustee holding those shares sought Holders of Ordinary Shares had the rights price as the ordinary shares repurchased.
voting instructions from the employee as accorded to them under UK company law These authorities were not used and expire beneficial owner, and voting rights are not including the right to receive the Companys at the Annual General Meeting in 2008. exercised if no instructions are given.
Annual Report and Accounts, to attend and For legal and practical reasons, the rules of speak at general meetings, to appoint EMPLOYEES the Companys employee share schemes proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Holders Employee communications are vital to the generally set out the consequences of a of Preference Shares had limited voting success of the Company, and good staff change of control of the Company.
rights and in general could only vote on a relations are a key part of management variation of class rights, on a resolution to responsibility at all levels.
Employee FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS wind up the Company or in the event of the consultation takes place with the national The Groups financial risk management preference dividend being unpaid.
The Company also objectives and policies, including its of Foundation Shares had limited voting issues weekly news bulletins to employees.
governance framework and approach to the rights and in general could only vote on a The Company is committed to equal management of key risks including credit variation of class rights.
Holders of employment opportunities for everyone, and risk, market risk and liquidity risk, are Foundation Shares did not, in general, have treats applicants for work solely on their discussed in note 41 to the Accounts.
any right to participate in the profits of the ability to do the job.
The Foundation Shares converted SIGNIFICANT SHAREHOLDINGS into Ordinary Shares on 22 February 2008 EMPLOYEE SHARE SCHEMES As at the date of this report, all of the and were transferred, along with all Ordinary As a result of The Northern Rock plc issued share capital is held by the Treasury and Preference Shares on 22 February Transfer Order 2008 all share schemes were Solicitor as nominee for HM Treasury.
At 2008, to the Treasury Solicitor as nominee extinguished on 22 February 2008.
This 31 December 2007, the disclosable for Her Majestys Treasury.
Further details note therefore reflects the position of these interests in the voting rights of the regarding the rights and obligations share schemes as at 31 December 2007.
Company, as notified to the Company in attaching to share classes are contained in accordance with Chapter 5 of the UK Listing the Articles of Association.
As at 31 December 2007, the Company Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency Rules operated a number of employee share Pursuant to The Northern Rock plc Transfer were as shown in the table below.
Order 2008 on 22 February 2008 all Barclays PLC 5.01% shares in the Company were transferred to In relation to some schemes namely the RAB Capital plc 6.66% the Treasury Solicitor as nominee for Share Incentive Plan SIP, the Share SRM Global Master Fund 9.10% HM Treasury and each Foundation Share was Matching Plan and the Deferred Bonus converted into and redesignated as an Plan, employees were beneficial owners of Other than as shown, the Company is not Ordinary Share.
the shares but were subject to restrictions aware of any ordinary shareholder who held on transfer and other than in the case of an interest of 5% or more in the issued Other than in respect of Foundation Shares the SIP risk of forfeiture.
share capital of the Company as at and pursuant to certain Employee Schemes, 31 December 2007. as at 31 December 2007, there were no In relation to other schemes namely the restrictions on the transfer of shares and as Sharesave Scheme, the Employee Share BRANCH OFFICES at the date of this report there are no Option Scheme, the Long Term Incentive The Company has branch offices in both restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary and Plan and elements of the Share Matching Ireland and Denmark and a subsidiary Preference Shares.
Plan, employees held options or conditional through which it operates in Guernsey.
41 DIRECTORS REPORT FOR THE YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2007 continued In March 2008, the Company announced There were no political donations in the year The maintenance and integrity of the the closure of its retail funding operation in 2006 nil.
Northern Rock plc website is the Denmark.
responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve GOING CONCERN consideration of these matters and, CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY As set out in note 1 to the Accounts the accordingly, the auditors accept no The Companys policy with regard to the Bank of England and HM Treasury have responsibility for any changes that may have payment of suppliers is to negotiate and provided various on demand facilities and occurred to the financial statements since agree terms and conditions with all its comfort to the Directors in relation to the they were initially presented on the website.
suppliers, which include the giving of an Companys future financing requirements.
undertaking to pay them within an agreed These facilities are subject to clearance Legislation in the United Kingdom governing payment period.
being obtained from the European the preparation and dissemination of Commission.
If such clearance is not financial statements may differ from The average creditor payment period at obtained then the facilities may be legislation in other jurisdictions.
Subject to this material 29 days.
uncertainty pertaining to the Companys AUDITORS AND DISCLOSURE OF funding requirements, the Directors are SIGNIFICANT AGREEMENTS INFORMATION TO AUDITORS satisfied at the time of approval of the For the purposes of the Companies Act So far as every Director as at the date of financial statements that the Group has 2006, the Company has identified the this report is aware, there is no relevant adequate resources to continue in business significant agreements summarised below audit information needed in preparation of for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, that, as at 31 December 2007, take effect, the auditors report of which the auditors they continue to adopt the going concern alter or terminate on a change of control of are not aware.
The Directors have taken the basis in preparing the accounts.
the Company: steps that they need to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Bank of England Facility.
Under the relevant audit information and to establish RESPONSIBILITIES Sterling Loan Agreement dated that the auditors are also aware of that The Companies Act 1985 requires the 14 September 2007 as amended and information.
Directors to prepare financial statements for restated on 9 October 2007 together each financial year that give a true and fair By order of the Board with further subsequent amendments view of the state of affairs of the Company between the Company and The C Taylor, Company Secretary and Group as at the end of the year and of Governor and Company of the Bank of 29 March 2008 the profit or loss of the Group for the year.
England, the facility will, upon the occurrence of a change of control, be The Directors consider that in preparing the cancelled and all outstanding loans, financial statements on pages 44 to 102 together with all other amounts accrued appropriate accounting policies, consistently and outstanding, will become applied and supported by reasonable and immediately due and payable.
prudent judgements and estimates, have been used and that applicable accounting In addition, the Company, or other members standards have been followed.
of the Group, are party to certain nonmaterial agreements that contain change of The Directors are responsible for ensuring control provisions in the event of the that the Company and Group keeps takeover of the Company but these are not accounting records that disclose with considered to be significant on an individual reasonable accuracy at any time the basis.
Company and Groups financial position and that enable them to ensure that the financial CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS AND statements comply with the Companies Act POLITICAL DONATIONS 1985.
They are also responsible for Details of charitable contributions relating safeguarding the assets of the Company and to 2007 are included within the Operating Group and hence for taking reasonable steps and Financial Review on page 39. to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
