Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview 02 Who we are Our vision is to be a premier international savings and wealth management business What we do Well positioned for growth Asset management High-share markets The heart of our business is growing our clients savings and Southern Africa and Nordic wealth, whether through active and direct asset management, Our operations in these markets are characterised by strong or the selection of funds and managers for our clients to invest brands and market shares, and continue to deliver a high in.
Our South African and US asset management business model, contribution to returns.
Our focus here is to consolidate our together with our market-leading Skandia open-architecture market share by enhancing our product range and increasing model, position us to respond to the growing demand for choice, customer satisfaction and loyalty.
High-growth markets Life assurance USA, UK and Europe Our innovative life assurance product solutions, addressing both We have a strong position in these markets and their contribution protection and retirement savings needs, are developed in our to the business is growing rapidly.
Our aim is to increase our South African business, as well as in our US Life operations.
market share by the development of innovative products and services and by strong brand differentiation.
Banking High-potential markets Nedbank is one of South Africas leading bank franchises and serves all levels of the local market.
The Group also has banking Asia Pacific and Latin America operations in other countries in Southern Africa and in Sweden.
These are rapidly growing markets where we are sowing the Bancassurance is a key part of our asset gathering strategy.
They are typically underserved, and we are increasing our footprint by introducing world-class General insurance products and building brand awareness.
Old Mutuals interest in the general insurance sector is through its majority shareholding in Mutual & Federal, which provides general insurance services to the personal and corporate markets in South Africa, Namibia, Botswana and Zimbabwe.
Group values Despite our geographic and cultural diversity, we are bound together by our Group values: Integrity Respect Accountability Pushing Beyond Boundaries Act honestly and openly and Treat others as we would like Take responsibility for the be trustworthy and consistent to be treated value and learn commitment that we make, Strive as individuals, as a team in all that we do.
Act in from the strength of our diversity.
actions we perform and and as an organisation to break accordance with the highest Actively listen to others and problems that occur.
Accept that new ground and achieve higher ethical standards.
recognise that everyone has we will be judged on these.
levels of performance, reaching a contribution to make.
to the depth of our abilities.
