Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Board of directors 62 Board of directors 2 1,2, 3 Christopher Collins 68 Jonathan Nicholls 50 Nigel Andrews 60 F. C. A. has been non-executive Chairman B.
A, A. C. A, F. C. T. has been Group Finance B. Sc.
A. has been an independent since May 2005, having been a Director since November 2006, having non-executive director of the Company non-executive director since March 1999. previously been Finance Director of Hanson since June 2002.
He is non-executive He also chairs the Nomination Committee.
Prior to that, he held Chairman of the Companys principal He was formerly Chairman of Hanson PLC various roles at Abbey National from 1985.
US holding company, Old Mutual US from 1998 until April 2005.
He is Chairman During his period at Hanson PLC he initiated Holdings, Inc.
He is a non-executive of Forth Ports plc and a non-executive continuous improvement at its operations director of Chemtura Corporation, a director of Go-Ahead Group plc.
in over 14 countries and introduced more governor of the London Business School rigorous capital appraisal and strategic and a trustee of the Victory Funds.
He was formerly a Previously he was an Executive Vice non-executive director of Man Group plc, President and member of the office of the B. Sc.
A. became Chief Executive in a role he resigned from on joining CEO of GE Capital, having spent 13 years November 2001, having been appointed to the Company.
with The General Electric Company Inc. the Board as Chief Executive of the Groups life assurance businesses in January 2000.
1,2, 3 Julian Roberts 50 Rudi Bogni 60 He is also a non-executive director of Nedbank Group Limited, Nedbank Limited B.
A, F. C. A, M. C. T. has been Chief Executive D. Econ.
Bocconi, has been an and Lonmin plc and a director of The of Skandia since February 2006.
He was independent non-executive director of the Nelson Mandela Legacy Trust UK.
Before previously Group Finance Director of Company since February 2002 and he joining the Group, he was Chief Executive, Old Mutual plc, a position he had held chairs the Remuneration Committee.
He UK, of Prudential plc and Chief Operating since joining the Group in August 2000. will succeed Mr Broadhurst as the senior Officer of Jackson National, Prudentials He was formerly Group Finance Director of independent director upon Mr Broadhursts US subsidiary.
Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc.
Mr Bogni is joining Sun Life & Provincial Holdings plc, Chairman of Medinvest International SCA, he was a director and Chief Financial Luxembourg.
He is also a member of the Officer of Aon UK Holdings Limited.
boards of the LGT Foundation, Common Purpose International Limited and Prospect Publishing, and of the governing council of the Centre for the Study of Financial From left to right Norman Broadhurst Innovation.
He served previously as a Jonathan Nicholls member of the Executive Board and Chief Richard Pym Executive, Private Banking, of UBS AG, Bongani Nqwababa Christopher Collins and before that he was Group Treasurer Jim Sutcliffe and a member of the Executive Committee Nigel Andrews of Midland Bank plc.
Lars Otterbeck Julian Roberts Russell Edey Reuel Khoza Rudi Bogni Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report Board of directors 63 1,2, 3 Norman Broadhurst 66 Reuel Khoza 58 Lars Otterbeck 65 F. C. A. F. C. T. has been an independent Eng.
D. M. A. has been a non-executive Dr. Econ.
has been an independent non-executive director of the Company since director of the Company since January non-executive director of the Company since March 1999 and the senior independent 2006 and Chairman of Nedbank Group November 2006.
He is also Chairman of director since May 2005.
Mr Khoza is Chairman Skandia Insurance Company Limited, Hakon Group Audit and Risk Committee.
Having of Aka Capital, which is 25% owned by Invest AB, The Free Enterprise Foundation served nine years on the Board, he will Old Mutual Life Assurance Company and Nringslivets Brskommittee Industry retire at the AGM in May 2008 and will South Africa and is the single largest and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee.
He was Group Finance participant in Nedbanks Corporate Client He is Vice Chairman of the Swedish Director of Railtrack plc from 1994 to 2000.
Scheme established as part of its BEE Corporate Governance Board and of the He is Chairman of Freightliner Limited, ownership arrangements.
He is also Third AP Fund as well as a non-executive Chloride Group plc and Cattles plc.
a non-executive director of Nampak, director of AB Svenska Spel.
He is also a non-executive director of Protea Hospitality Holdings and Corobrik.
His previous appointments include Richard Pym 58 Chairmanship of Eskom and non-executive B. Sc.
F. C. A. joined the Board as an 1,2 Russell Edey 65 directorships of Glaxo Wellcome SA, IBM independent non-executive director on SA, Vodacom, the JSE, JCI, Standard Bank F. C. A. has been an independent 1 September 2007.
He is a member of and Liberty.
non-executive director of the Company since the Group Audit and Risk Committee and June 2004.
He is Chairman of Anglogold will succeed Mr Broadhurst as Chairman 1 Bongani Nqwababa 41 Ashanti Limited, deputy Chairman of N M of that Committee during 2008.
Mr Pym Rothschild Corporate Finance Limited and B. Acc.
A. joined the Board was Group Chief Executive of Alliance & a member of the Conseil fide Surveillance as an independent non-executive director Leicester plc from 2002 until July 2007, of Paris-Orlans, SA.
He previously served on 1 April 2007.
He has been Finance and prior to that he held a number of senior on the boards of English China Clays plc, Director of the South African electricity financial and management roles at Alliance Wassall plc, Northern Foods plc and Express utility group, Eskom Holdings Limited, & Leicester plc and The Burton Group plc.
His career began in the Finance since 2004.
Prior to joining Eskom, he had He is also Chairman of Halfords Group plc Division of the Anglo American Corporation been Treasurer and CFO of Shell Southern and of Brighthouse Group Limited and was of South Africa Limited in Johannesburg.
He is currently Chairman of the until 2007 a Vice President of the British In the 1970s he was General Manager South African Revenue Services Receiver Bankers Association.
Corporate Finance of Capel Court of Revenue Audit Committee.
He joined 1 Member of the Group Audit and Risk Committee Rothschild in 1977 and was Head of 2 Member of the Nomination Committee Corporate Finance from 1991 to 1996.
3 Member of the Remuneration Committee Governance
