Nicholas Keen Chairman Finance Director Age 57 Age 49 Nick Keen joined the Group in May 1991 and became Bob Dench joined Paragon as a non-executive director in Finance Director in June 1995 having previously held the September 2004 and was appointed Chairman in February position of Treasurer.
Prior to joining the Group he worked 2007.
During an extended career with Barclays he held a in Corporate Banking, Treasury and Capital Markets.
number of senior positions in the UK and overseas, leaving He is Chairman of the Paragon Credit Committee.
He is also a non-executive director of AXA UK plc and AXA Ireland Limited and of Clipper Ventures plc.
John A Heron Chief Executive Director of Mortgages Age 47 Age 48 Nigel Terrington joined the Group in 1987 and became John Heron joined the Group in January 1986.
He was Chief Executive in June 1995, having held the positions appointed as Marketing Director in 1990 and in 1994 of Treasurer and Finance Director.
Prior to Paragon, played a pivotal role in re-establishing the Groups he worked in investment banking.
He is a Board member mortgage lending operations as Managing Director of of the Finance and Leasing Association and is also Paragon Mortgages.
As Director of Mortgages, he is Chairman of the FLA Consumer Finance division.
He responsible for both Paragon Mortgages and Mortgage previously held the position of Chairman of the Trust.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers Intermediary Mortgage Lenders Association and was also and a member of the Executive Committee of the Council a member of the Executive Committee of the Council of of Mortgage Lenders.
12 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 5.
Christopher D Newell Chief Operating Officer Non-Executive Director Age 43 Age 47 Pawan Pandya joined the Group in December 1988.
Christopher Newell has been a director of He was appointed as Chief Operating Officer in July 2002, Altium Capital Limited since 1990.
He was a director responsible for operational and IT areas of the Group.
of Artemis Investment Management Limited from its Prior to joining Paragon, he worked in foreign exchange, formation until 2006.
He is a Chartered Accountant and credit risk management, marketing and corporate finance.
joined the Board of Paragon as a non-executive director in November 2001.
He is Chairman of the Paragon Audit and Compliance Committee.
Terence C Eccles Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 66 Age 61 David Beever joined Paragon as a non-executive Terry Eccles joined Paragon as a Non-Executive Director director in August 2003.
He is Vice-Chairman of on 1 February 2007.
He was previously Vice Chairman of London & Continental Railways Ltd and a non-executive JPMorgan Cazenove.
Since joining the JPMorgan Group in director of JJB Sports plc and Volex Group plc.
He was 1970 he held a wide range of roles in London, New York previously a Vice-Chairman of SG Warburg & Co Ltd and and Hong Kong.
Since 1986 he was involved with the Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance.
He is the Senior development of the firm's financial institutions business, Independent Non-Executive Director.
becoming its head and then chairman.
He has advised on many of the more significant transactions in the financial services industry.
The Paragon Group of Companies PLC 13
