PIGIT pp11 13 13 6 07 8:01 pm Page 11 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 11 DIRECTORS Sir Patrick Sheehy # Chairman of the Main Mr Antony Scott Hardy # Chairman of the Audit Committee Board and of the Management Engagement Aged 67, Mr Hardy is a non-executive director of and Nomination Committees Montanaro UK Smaller Companies Investment Aged 76, Sir Patrick was Chairman of BAT Trust plc, Investment Adviser to Essex County Industries plc from 1982 to 1995 and has served Council Pension Fund and South Yorkshire on the boards of a number of UK publicly listed Pension Fund.
He is adviser to a number of companies.
He is currently a non-executive endowed charities and trusts, a director of director of a North American resource company.
Sableknight Limited and was previously Investment Manager of the Church Mr James Charles Robert DAlbiac # Commissioners for England.
Aged 71, Mr DAlbiac is a non-executive director of Jupiter Primadona Growth Trust PLC.
He was Mr Vivian Bazalgette # previously a director of Jupiter Asset Aged 56, Mr Bazalgette is a non-executive Management Limited, Jupiter Tyndall plc and director of Henderson High Income Investment Mercury Asset Management plc.
From 1968 to Trust plc and Brunner Investment Trust plc.
He is 1986, he was a partner in Rowe and Pitman.
also an adviser to BAE Systems Pension Fund and a Trustee of both Kings College Hospital Charitable Trust and The Dulwich Estate.
He is Mr William John Alexander CBE # currently a Governor of Dulwich College.
He Aged 60, Mr Alexander is currently non-executive previously held the position of Chief Investment chairman of Xansa plc.
He is also a member of Officer of M&G between 1996 and 2000 and, the Board of the CBI.
He has previously held following the takeover of M&G by Prudential, senior positions at RWE Thames Water plc and was appointed Chief Investment Officer of was appointed Chief Executive between April Prudential from 2000 to 2002.
He has also previously held non-executive appointments at Mr Edward Burke RMC plc and Laporte plc.
Aged 49, Mr Burke is a Senior Fund Manager in the Invesco Perpetual UK equity investment Sir Martyn Arbib team.
Before joining Invesco Perpetual in May Aged 67, Sir Martyn was the founder and 1999 he was a Director and Head of UK Equities at Robert Fleming Securities, following a number Chairman of Perpetual plc which became part of of years at James Capel.
He is no longer an employee of Invesco Perpetual.
Member of the Audit Committee #Member of the Management Engagement Committee Member of the Nomination Committee
