PIGIT pp01 10 13 6 07 8:00 pm Page 07 PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07 MANAGERS REPORT Market and Economic Review UK equities made steady progress during the twelve months to 31st March 2007, with the FTSE All-Share index rising 11.1% in total return terms.
Merger and acquisition M&A activity remained a feature throughout the year, driven primarily by interest from private equity funds.
Much of this activity, both actual and rumoured, has been focused on mid and small capitalisation stocks which has, in turn, driven out-performance from these areas compared to a more pedestrian performance from large caps.
The market environment over the period has also been characterised by consistent steady gains with very low levels of volatility.
However, this benign picture has been punctuated by two pronounced corrections, one in the summer of 2006 and the other in spring 2007.
Both were characterised by a sudden risk aversion amongst investors, followed by an equally swift recovery.
In both cases, one would struggle to find evidence that the sell-offs had occurred the events left few scars, but perhaps suggest that market confidence is not as deep-seated as it first appears.
On the economic front, UK interest rates rose three times over the course of the year from 4.5% to 5.25%, as the Bank of England became increasingly concerned by a resumption in house price inflation, and the build-up of other inflationary pressures elsewhere in the economy.
Consumer spending continued to grow at a moderate pace, keeping GDP growth in positive territory and defying expectations of a slowdown as higher interest rates failed to have the desired effect of slowing down the rate of consumption growth and the housing market.
In this environment, cyclical parts of the market performed very well, providing another source of momentum for UK mid caps.
Portfolio Strategy and Review Over the twelve month review period, the Companys diluted net asset value total return rose by 12.4% in comparison to 11.1% for the FTSE All-Share Index.
I am therefore happy to report on a period of out-performance by the Company, even though the strength of the UK equity market over the year has been somewhat surprising.
It has surpassed my expectations, and in the course of doing so, some parts of the market have started to look stretched in valuation terms.
In particular, the strong run that mid caps have enjoyed over the last four years has left many stocks looking expensive and vulnerable to an economic slowdown or an end to the M&A boom.
Essentially, the M&A boom has in recent years been exploiting the gap between the low cost of borrowing and a high earnings yield on UK equities.
This financing gap was most prominent amongst small and mid cap stocks, and the activity of predators picking off the most attractively valued assets has slowly closed this gap.
More latterly, rumours of bids have been very common, as the market attempts to second guess the next bid target.
This has driven valuations in some areas to speculative levels, thereby removing the easy wins which existed a few years ago.
However, the private equity industry, which has driven a good proportion of the activity, has raised considerable amounts of money in recent years which still needs to be invested.
The dealmakers are now looking at larger targets, as illustrated by the recent approaches for Sainsburys and Alliance Boots, and are resorting to higher levels of debt in proposed transactions in order to achieve the desired returns on equity.
In my view, this has amplified the speculative nature of the market and in turn, it has increased the level of risk across much of the market.
Furthermore, companies are now being urged to employ some of the private equity strategies but remaining within the quoted environment by gearing up balance sheets and removing property asset backing to benefit existing shareholders.
These actions can only serve to add considerable financial risk to the valuation risk that comes with investing in fully-valued shares.
The strong run in mid cap stocks has provided some very good performance for the trust in the last few years.
Since 2002, the mid caps have moved from a substantial valuation discount to their larger counterparts, to a significant valuation premium.
This has provided me with the opportunity to sell some of our holdings in this part of the market at much higher levels than that at which they were initially purchased.
Mid caps sold during the year include bus company Arriva, defence & infrastructure group Babcock International and Lloyds Insurers Brit Insurance and Beazley.
The proceeds of these sales have been recycled into some of the larger stocks within the UK market.
Several years of underperformance have left many of the UKs largest cap stocks trading at very attractive valuations.
During the year, I commenced positions in BP, HSBC and Royal Dutch Shell.
In terms of share price performance, the oil majors have not participated fully in the oil price rises we have seen in recent years.
2006 was a poor year for BP, with problems at its Prudhoe Bay oilfield in Alaska and Texas City refinery weighing on sentiment.
But the shares have also been overlooked by many investors simply because of the companys sheer size it is too big to benefit from M&A speculation and is therefore easy for investors to ignore, or even to short, whilst in pursuit of the next bid target.
The shares have looked PIGIT pp01 10 13 6 07 8:00 pm Page 08 08 MANAGERS REPORT continued increasingly attractive in terms of valuation, and I believe the company remains well-managed, with an increasing emphasis on shareholder returns.
Continued strength in the price of oil will see considerable capital being returned to shareholders in the form of improving dividend streams and ongoing share buybacks.
Royal Dutch Shell looks similarly attractive on most valuation measures, and even more so in terms of value per barrel of oil reserves and cash flow.
HSBC has also had its operational problems in the last twelve months, most prominently within its US business, where defaults on sub-prime loans mortages given to people with low credit ratings have led to the companys first ever profit warning.
But, to put these problems into perspective, the problems are contained within just one part of HSBCs global empire, and the US business is still profitable despite its current problems.
It is worth remembering that HSBC has some market leading assets in the emerging markets of Asia and Latin America and it remains a very conservatively managed bank with considerable balance sheet strength.
At times, the M&A activity has been beneficial to the trust.
Several stocks received bid approaches during the review period.
Water company AWG was acquired by a consortium of private investors, realising a substantial profit for the trust.
Postal group DX Services was also taken private during the year, whilst corporate buyers accounted for airport operator BAA and Wellington Underwriting.
Elsewhere, I reduced exposure to the tobacco sector, through the sale of Gallaher in May 2006 and Altria shortly before the end of the review period.
The tobacco stocks have performed very well in recent years and I still retain an overweight position in this sector through positions in British American Tobacco, Imperial Tobacco and Reynolds American, all of which feature in the portfolios largest ten holdings.
The utility sectors have also featured prominently in the trust in recent years, and similarly, I have been selectively reducing holdings as a result of good performance.
Water companies Kelda and Severn Trent were both sold during the year under review, as well as Scottish Power and United Utilities, all of which were looking more fully valued and were sold to accommodate the new positions.
Outlook In the UK, two of the key drivers of economic growth in recent years, namely consumer and government spending, do not appear to be as favourably positioned going forward.
Similar dynamics are at play in the largest economy in the world the US and I believe this will result in some slowing in global economic activity in 2007.
Already, the US economy seems to be decelerating as a result of the abrupt slowdown in the housing market we have witnessed in the last few months.
The market does already appear to be expecting economic growth rates to moderate over the next 12 months, but the risk is that it may be under-estimating the extent of the slowdown.
I would also question the ability of central banks to reduce interest rates in the face of slowing growth.
In the UK, inflation appears to be more of a problem now than for many years, and the persistence of inflationary pressures suggests that the next move in rates should be upwards with the peak being reached at a higher level than has prevailed in the last few years.
Similarly, inflation remains a key concern for the Federal Reserve, and this may prevent US interest rates falling as swiftly as the market hopes.
In terms of UK equities, overall valuations appear quite reasonable in the context of history, but the overall figures do mask a significant disparity between the valuations of the largest companies in the UK and their smaller counterparts.
Valuations look most stretched in the mid cap part of the market, and these areas therefore look most exposed to an economic slowdown.
In general, I dont believe that I will be sufficiently rewarded for taking the risk of investing in such areas.
Instead, I continue to focus on companies that I believe will be able to continue to grow earnings and dividends, even in a more challenging economic environment.
In valuation terms, the UK larger caps look more attractive now than they have done for a long time, and now form an important part of the portfolio.
These are financially strong, highly liquid, globally diversified businesses, which offer further defensive characteristics.
I believe these characteristics are currently under-valued by the market as a whole, and should stand the portfolio in good stead through the more turbulent period for financial markets that may well lie ahead.
Mark Barnett Investment Manager 12 June 2007
