Operating and financial review Other corporate information Explanation of balance sheet structure Explanation of balance sheet structure The Groups capital on an IFRS basis comprises of shareholders Capital Tiers m funds of 6,201 million, subordinated long-term and perpetual Innovative Tier 1 debt of 1,570 million, other core structural borrowings of 922 million and the unallocated surplus of with-profits funds 2007 763m of 14.4 billion.
2006 763m Subordinated or hybrid debt is debt capital which has some equity-like features and which would rank below other senior Upper Tier 2 debt in the event of a liquidation.
These features allow hybrid debt to be treated as capital for FSA regulatory purposes.
All 2007 nil of the Groups hybrid debt which qualifies in this way is held at 2006 nil the Group level and is therefore taken as capital into the parent solvency test under the Insurance Groups Directive IGD.
Lower Tier 2 The FSA has established a structure for determining how 2007 932m much hybrid debt can count as capital which is similar to that used for banks.
It categorises capital as Tier 1 equity and 2006 902m preference shares, Upper Tier 2 and Lower Tier 2.
Up to 15 per cent of Tier 1 can be in the form of hybrid debt and Senior called Innovative Tier 1.
At 31 December 2007, the Group 2007 797m held 763 million of Innovative Tier 1 capital, in the form of perpetual securities, and 932 million of Lower Tier 2 capital.
2006 947m Following the implementation of the IGD, it is advantageous to the Group from a regulatory capital standpoint to raise its longTotal term debt in hybrid form and it is the Groups policy to take 2007 2,492m advantage of favourable market conditions as they arise to do so.
The unallocated surplus of the with-profits funds 2006 2,612m represents assets in the life fund which have not yet been allocated either to policyholders or shareholders.
They are not generally available to the Group other than as they emerge Core structural borrowings at 31 December 2007 included through the statutory transfer of the shareholders share of the 1,473 million at fixed rates of interest with maturity dates surplus as it emerges from the fund over time.
Of the core borrowings 888 million were denominated in US dollars, to hedge Financial instruments partially the currency exposure arising from the Groups The Group is exposed to financial risk through its financial investment in Jackson.
assets, financial liabilities, and policyholder liabilities.
The Prudential has in place an unlimited global commercial financial risk factors affecting the Group include market risk, paper programme.
At 31 December 2007, commercial paper credit risk and liquidity risk.
Information on the financial risk of 320 million, US$3,479 million and 483 million has been management objectives and policies of the Group and the issued under this programme.
Prudential also has in place exposure of the Group to the financial risk factors is given in the a 5,000 million medium-term note MTN programme.
At Risk Management section of the Operating and Financial Review 31 December 2007, subordinated debt outstanding under this and in Section C of the financial statements on pages 165 to 168. programme was 435 million and 520 million, and senior debt Further information on the sensitivity of the Groups outstanding was 65 million and US$12 million.
In addition, financial instruments to market risk and the use of derivatives is the holding company has access to 1,600 million committed also provided in notes D1 to D4 and G2 and G3 of the financial revolving credit facilities, provided in equal tranches of 100 statements on pages 169 to 211 and pages 237 to 244 respectively.
million by 16 major international banks renewable in December 2009 and an annually renewable 500 million committed Shareholders borrowings and financial flexibility securities lending liquidity facility.
These facilities have not Core structural borrowings of shareholder-financed operations been drawn on during the year.
The commercial paper at 31 December 2007 totalled 2,492 million, compared with programme, the MTN programme, the committed revolving 2,612 million at the end of 2006 excluding Egg.
This decrease credit facilities and the committed securities lending liquidity reflected the repayment of 150 million long-term borrowings facility are available for general corporate purposes and to upon maturity, exchange conversion losses of 16 million and support the liquidity needs of the parent company.
other adjustments of negative 14 million.
The Groups core debt is managed to be within a target After adjusting for holding company cash and short-term level consistent with its current debt ratings.
At 31 December investments of 1,456 million, net core structural borrowings 2007, the gearing ratio debt, net of cash and short-term at 31 December 2007 were 1,036 million compared with investments, as a proportion of EEV shareholders funds 1,493 million at 31 December 2006.
This reflects the net cash plus debt was 6.6 per cent compared with 11.2 per cent inflow of 445 million including 527 million net proceeds at 31 December 2006. from the sale of Egg, exchange conversion gains of 49 million and other adjustments of negative 37 million.
65 Other corporate information continued Prudential plc enjoys strong debt ratings from Standard to groups whose activities are primarily concentrated in the & Poors, Moodys and Fitch.
Prudential long-term senior insurance sector, and applies for Prudential from December debt is rated A stable outlook, A2 stable outlook and AA- 2007, following the sale of Egg Banking during 2007.
Prior to stable outlook from Standard & Poors, Moodys and Fitch this, Prudential was required to meet the requirements of the respectively, while short-term ratings are A-1, P-1 and F1.
Financial Conglomerates Directive FCD, which applies to Based on EEV basis operating profit from continuing groups with significant cross-sector activities in insurance operations and interest payable on core structural borrowings, and banking investment services.
interest cover was 16.1 times in 2007 compared with 13.1 The FSA implemented the FCD by applying the sectoral times in 2006. rules of the largest sector of the group.
Prudential was therefore classified as an insurance conglomerate under the Treasury policy FCD, and was required to focus on the capital adequacy The Group operates a central treasury function, which requirements relevant to that sector.
Prudentials move from has overall responsibility for managing its capital funding FCD to IGD during 2007, therefore, did not have a significant programme as well as its central cash and liquidity positions.
impact on the Group, as the FSAs implementation of both The aim of Prudentials capital funding programme, which directives is closely aligned.
In particular, from 31 December includes the 5,000 million MTN programme together with the 2006 the FSA made the continuous parent solvency testing unlimited commercial paper programme, is to maintain a strong mandatory for all insurance groups covered by the IGD.
This involves the aggregating of surplus capital held in the Prudential UK and Prudential Corporation Asia use regulated subsidiaries, from which Group borrowings, except derivatives to reduce equity risk, interest rate and currency those subordinated debt issues which qualify as capital, are exposures, and to facilitate efficient investment management.
No credit for the benefit of diversification is In the US, Jackson uses derivatives to reduce interest rate risk, allowed for under this approach.
The test is passed when this to facilitate efficient portfolio management and to match aggregate number is positive, and a negative result at any point liabilities under fixed index policies.
in time is a notifiable breach of UK regulatory requirements.
It is Prudentials policy that all free-standing derivatives Due to the geographically diverse nature of Prudentials are used to hedge exposures or facilitate efficient portfolio operations, the application of these requirements to Prudential management.
In particular, for many of our Asian operations, Amounts at risk are covered by cash or by corresponding the assets, liabilities and capital requirements have to be assets.
recalculated based on FSA regulations as if the companies Due to the geographical diversity of Prudentials businesses, were directly subject to FSA regulation.
it is subject to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations.
Prudentials The IGD surplus as at 31 December 2007 will be submitted international operations in the US and Asia generally write to the FSA by 30 April 2008 but is currently estimated to be policies and invest in assets denominated in local currency.
This includes a gain of around 0.3billion Although this practice limits the effect of exchange rate that arose during 2007 from the sale of Egg Banking plc.
fluctuations on local operating results, it can lead to significant The European Union EU is continuing to develop a fluctuations in Prudentials consolidated financial statements new prudential framework for insurance companies, the upon conversion of results into pounds sterling.
The currency Solvency II project that will update the existing life, non-life exposure relating to the conversion of reported earnings is not and Insurance Groups Directives IGD.
The main aim of this separately managed, as it is not in the economic interests of framework is to ensure the financial stability of the insurance the Group to do so.
The impact of gains or losses on currency industry and protect policyholders through establishing conversions is recorded as a component of shareholders funds solvency requirements better matched to the true risks of within the statement of recognised income and expense.
Like Basel 2, the new approach is expected impact of exchange rate fluctuations in 2007 is discussed to be based on the concept of three pillars minimum capital elsewhere in this financial review.
requirements, supervisory review of firms assessments of risk, and enhanced disclosure requirements.
However, the scope is Unallocated surplus of with-profits wider than Basel 2 and will cover valuations, the treatment of During 2007, the unallocated surplus, which represents the insurance groups, the definition of capital and the overall level excess of assets over policyholder liabilities for the Groups of capital requirements.
with-profits funds on a statutory basis, grew from 13.6 billion A key aspect of Solvency II is the focus on risks and, for at 1 January to 14.4 billion at 31 December.
This reflects an example, capital requirements will be calibrated to a one-year increase in the cumulative retained earnings arising on withValue at Risk with a 99.5 per cent confidence level.
Companies profits business that have yet to be allocated to policyholders will be encouraged to improve their risk management or shareholders.
processes and will be allowed to make use of internal economic capital models to enable a better understanding of risks.
The Regulatory capital requirements emphasis on transparency and comparability would ensure a Prudential is subject to the capital adequacy requirements level playing field but not delivering this remains one of the key of the Insurance Groups Directive IGD as implemented risks for the project.
by the Financial Services Authority FSA.
The IGD pertains 66 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review The European Commission EC published a draft framework and asset valuation reserve position of 2,251 million at directive on 10 July 2007 containing high-level principles.
The 31 December 2007 improved year-on-year by 327 million, directive is now being reviewed by the European Parliament after deducting the 122 million of capital remitted to the and the Council of Ministers.
The EC expects the institutions to parent company.
Jacksons financial strength is rated AA agree the Solvency II framework directive in the second half of by Standard & Poors and A1 by Moodys.
The principles in the directive will be supplemented by Jacksons invested asset mix on a US regulatory basis implementing measures that will be adopted by the EC and EU excludes policy loans and reverse repo leverage is as follows: member states.
Solvency II is then intended to be implemented during 2012.
It is important that the EU policy makers keep up the progress to enable implementation by the suggested date.
Jackson 2007 % 2006 % 2005 % During 2007, the Committee of European Insurance and Bonds: Occupational Pensions Supervisors CEIOPS invited the EU Investment Grade Public 59 60 58 insurance industry to participate in the third quantitative Investment Grade Private 18 18 19 impact study, which provided useful input for supervisors and Non-Investment Grade Public 3 45 industry alike.
The EU insurance industry will be participating Non-Investment Grade Private 2 12 in a fourth quantitative impact study during the first half of Commercial mortgages 12 12 11 2008 with a view to providing further quantitative input into Private equities and real estate 3 33 the calibration of the capital requirements.
This study will Equities, cash and other assets 3 22 include a particular focus on groups.
Participation in these Total 100 100 100 exercises involves a substantive commitment and is expected to yield benefits by providing evidence leading to a truly risk-based capital requirement.
Prudential is also actively engaged in policy discussions United Kingdom mainly through its participation in the Chief Risk Officer The PACs long-term fund remains very strong.
On a realistic CRO Forum of major European insurance firms.
We have valuation basis, with liabilities recorded on a market consistent been emphasising the importance of Solvency II delivering an basis, the free assets are valued at approximately 8.7 billion economic based approach for groups reflecting diversification at 31 December 2007, before a deduction for the risk capital benefits across all the groups insurance activities: an margin.
The financial strength of PAC is rated AA stable appropriate level playing field, in particular in connection with the outlook by Standard & Poors, Aa1 negative outlook by treatment of operations outside the European Economic Area Moodys and AA stable outlook by Fitch Ratings.
EEA : and the provision of instruments of group support that The with-profits sub-fund delivered a pre-tax return of enhance the efficiency of capital management within the EEA.
7.2 per cent in 2007, and over the last five years the fund has achieved a total return of 91 per cent.
Much of this excellent Financial strength of insurance operations investment performance was achieved through the active asset Asia allocation of the fund.
As part of its asset allocation process, Prudential Corporation Asia maintains solvency margins in Prudential UK constantly evaluates prospects for different each of its operations so that these are at or above the local markets and asset classes.
During the year PACs Long Term regulatory requirements.
Both Singapore and Malaysia have Fund reduced its exposure to property and increased the discrete life funds, and have strong free asset ratios.
The quality of its corporate bond portfolio.
The fund includes Hong Kong life operation is a branch of The Prudential the assets of the Equitable Life with-profit annuity business, Assurance Company Limited and its solvency is covered transferred during the year, which were almost entirely fixed by that business.
Taiwan has Risk Based Capital regulatory interest corporate bonds.
solvency margins and Prudential ensures sufficient capital is retained in the business to cover these requirements.
UK fund 2007 % 2006 % 2005 % Asia invested asset mix excluding linked funds: UK equities 35 36 40 International equities 17 17 19 Asia 2007 % 2006 % 2005 % Property 14 15 15 Equities 44 38 36 Bonds 27 25 21 Bonds 44 48 47 Cash and other asset classes 7 75 Other asset classes 12 14 17 Total 100 100 100 Total 100 100 100 Inherited estate of Prudential Assurance United States The assets of the main with-profits fund within the long-term The capital adequacy position of Jackson remains strong, insurance fund of PAC comprise the amounts that it expects with the capital ratio improving from 9.8 per cent in 2006 to pay out to meet its obligations to existing policyholders and to 10.6 per cent in 2007.
Jacksons statutory capital, surplus an additional amount used as working capital.
The amount 67 Other corporate information continued payable over time to policyholders from the with-profits fund The finalisation of the valuation as at 5 April 2005 was is equal to the policyholders accumulated asset shares plus accompanied by changes to the basis of funding for the scheme any additional payments that may be required by way of with effect from that date.
Deficit funding amounts designed to smoothing or to meet guarantees.
The balance of the assets eliminate the actuarial deficit over a 10-year period have been of the with-profits fund is called the inherited estate and has and are being made based on that valuation.
Total contributions accumulated over many years from various sources.
to the Scheme for deficit funding and employers contributions The inherited estate represents the major part of the for ongoing service for current employees are expected to working capital of PACs long-term insurance fund.
This be of the order of 70 million to 75 million per annum over enables PAC to support with-profits business by providing a 10-year period.
In 2007, total contributions for the calendar the benefits associated with smoothing and guarantees, by year including expenses and augmentations were 82 million.
providing investment flexibility for the funds assets, by Under IAS 19 the basis of valuation differs markedly from meeting the regulatory capital requirements that demonstrate the full triennial valuation basis.
In particular, it requires assets solvency and by absorbing the costs of significant events or of the Scheme to be valued at their market value at the yearfundamental changes in its long-term business without end, while pension liabilities are required to be discounted at affecting the bonus and investment policies.
The size of the a rate consistent with the current rate of return on a high-quality inherited estate fluctuates from year to year depending on the corporate bond.
As a result, the difference between IAS 19 investment return and the extent to which it has been required basis assets and liabilities can be volatile.
For those schemes to meet smoothing costs, guarantees and other events.
such as PSPS, which hold a significant proportion of their PAC believes that it would be beneficial if there were assets in equity investments, the volatility can be particularly greater clarity as to the status of the inherited estate.
For 2007, a 23 million pre-tax shareholder charge PAC has announced that it has begun a process to determine to operating results based on longer-term returns arises.
In whether it can achieve that clarity through a reattribution of the addition, outside the operating result, but included in total inherited estate.
As part of this process a Policyholder Advocate profits is a pre-tax shareholder credit of 90 million for net has been nominated to represent policyholders interests.
These gains primarily represent the effect of This nomination does not mean that a reattribution will occur.
changes in economic assumptions which more than offsets the Given the size of the Groups with-profits business any losses from the effect of strengthened mortality assumptions proposal is likely to be time consuming and complex to for the UK pension schemes.
implement and is likely to involve a payment to policyholders Surpluses and deficits on the Groups defined benefit from shareholders funds.
If a reattribution is completed the schemes are apportioned to the PAC life fund and shareholders inherited estate will continue to provide working capital for funds based on estimates of employees service between the long-term insurance fund.
At 31 December 2005, the deficit of PSPS was apportioned Prudential aims to be in a position to determine whether in the ratio 70 30 between the life-fund and shareholders reattribution is in the best interests of policyholders and backed operations following detailed consideration of the shareholders in the first half of 2008. sourcing of previous contributions.
This ratio was applied to the base deficit position at 1 January 2006 and for the purpose Defined benefit pension schemes of determining the allocation of the movements in that position The Group operates four defined benefit schemes, three in up to 31 December 2007.
The IAS 19 service charge and the UK, of which the principal scheme is the Prudential Staff ongoing employer contributions are allocated by reference Pension Scheme PSPS, and a small scheme in Taiwan.
The to the cost allocation for current activity.
The deficit of the level of surplus or deficit of assets over liabilities for defined Scottish Amicable Pension Scheme has been allocated 50 per benefit schemes is currently measured in three ways: the cent to the PAC with-profits fund and 50 per cent to the PAC actuarial valuation, FRS 17 for subsidiary accounting in the shareholder fund.
UK, and IAS 19 for the Group financial statements.
FRS 17 Reflecting these two elements, at 31 December 2007, the and IAS 19 are very similar.
As at 31 December 2007 the total share of the surplus on PSPS and the deficit on the smaller shareholders share of the 447 million surplus for PSPS and Scottish Amicable scheme attributable to the PAC with-profits the deficits of the other schemes amounted to an 76 million fund amounted to a net surplus of 304 million net of related surplus net of related tax relief.
Defined benefit schemes in the UK are generally required to be subject to full actuarial valuation every three years to Products and drivers of insurance operations profits assess the appropriate level of funding for schemes having Asia regard to their commitments.
These valuations include The life insurance products offered by Prudential Corporation assessments of the likely rate of return on the assets held Asia include a range of with-profits participating and nonwithin the separate trustee administered funds.
PSPS was participating term, whole life and endowment and unit-linked last actuarially valued as at 5 April 2005 and this valuation policies.
Prudential also offers health, disablement, critical demonstrated the Scheme to be 94 per cent funded, with illness and accident cover to supplement its core life products.
a shortfall of actuarially determined assets to liabilities of Prudentials business in Asia is focused on regular premium six per cent, representing a deficit of 243 million.
products that provide both savings and protection benefits.
68 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review In 2007, the new business profit mix was 63 per cent unitthe contract holder account or begins making payments to the linked, 15 per cent non-linked and 22 per cent Accident contract holder in the form of an immediate annuity product.
This latter product is similar to a UK annuity in payment.
Fixed Unit-linked products combine savings with protection annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges for the and the cash value of the policy depends on the value of the first six to nine years of the contract.
In addition, the contract underlying unitised funds.
Participating products provide may be subject to a market value adjustment at the time of savings with protection where the basic sum assured can be surrender.
During the surrender charge period, the contract enhanced by a profit share or bonus from the underlying holder may cancel the contract for the surrender value.
fund as determined at the discretion of the insurer.
NonJacksons profits on fixed annuities arise primarily from the participating products offer savings with protection where spread between the return it earns on investments and the the benefits are guaranteed or determined by a set of defined interest credited to the contract holders account net of any market related parameters.
Accident & Health products surrender charges or market value adjustment less expenses.
provide mortality or morbidity benefits and include health, Jacksons fixed annuities continue to be a profitable book of disablement, critical illness and accident covers.
Accident business, benefiting from favourable spread income in recent & Health products are commonly offered as supplements to years.
However, the fixed annuity portfolio could be impacted main life policies but can also be sold separately.
by the continued low interest rate environment as lower The profits from participating policies are shared between crediting rates could result in increased surrenders and lower the policyholder and insurer typically in a 90:10 ratio in the sales as customers seek alternative investment opportunities.
same way as with-profits business in the UK.
Under unit-linked However, if customers become more risk averse to equity-based products the profits that arise from managing the policy, returns due to recent market volatility, fixed annuities could be its investments and the insurance risk accrue entirely to viewed as an attractive alternative to variable annuities.
shareholders, with investment gains accruing to the Fixed index annuities formerly referred to as equitypolicyholder within the underlying unitised fund.
The profits indexed annuities are similar to fixed annuities in that the from Accident & Health and non-participating products consist contract holder pays Jackson a premium, which is credited of any surplus remaining after paying policy benefits.
to the contract holders account and periodically, interest is Unit-linked products tend to have higher profits on the credited to the contract holders account and administrative EEV basis of reporting than traditional non-linked products charges are deducted, as appropriate.
Jackson guarantees an as expenses and charges are better matched and solvency annual minimum interest rate, although actual interest credited capital requirements are lower.
At the end of 2007 Prudential may be higher and is linked to an equity index over its indexed Corporation Asia offered unit-linked products in 10 of the option period.
Jacksons profit arises from the investment 12 countries in Asia in which it operates.
From January 2008 income earned and the fees charged on the contract, less the unit-linked products are offered in 11 countries.
expenses incurred, which include the costs of the guarantees, In addition to the life products described above, Prudential and the interest credited to the contract.
Fixed index annuities offers mutual fund investment products in India, Taiwan, Japan, are subject to early surrender charges for the first five to Singapore, Malaysia, Hong Kong, Korea, Vietnam and China, 12 years of the contract.
During the surrender charge period, allowing customers to participate in debt, equity and money the contract holder may cancel the contract for the surrender market investments.
It is also licensed in United Arab Emirates.
Fixed index annuities continue to be a profitable Prudential Corporation Asia earns a fee based on assets product, benefiting from favourable spread and the effective under management.
The fixed index book provides a natural offsetting equity exposure to the guarantees issued in United States conjunction with Jacksons variable annuity products, which Jacksons product offerings include variable, fixed and fixed allows for an efficient hedging of the net equity exposure.
index annuities, as well as life insurance, retail mutual funds Variable annuities are tax-advantaged deferred annuities and institutional products.
where the rate of return depends upon the performance of the underlying portfolio, similar in principle to UK unit-linked Annuities products.
They are also used for asset accumulation in Annuity products are long-term individual retirement retirement planning and to provide income in retirement.
products, which offer tax-deferred accumulation on the The contract holder can allocate the premiums between a funds invested until proceeds are withdrawn from the policy.
variety of variable sub-accounts with a choice of fund Interest-sensitive fixed annuities are used for asset managers and or guaranteed fixed-rate options.
The contract accumulation in retirement planning and for providing income holders premiums allocated to the variable accounts are held in retirement and offer flexible payout options.
The contract apart from Jacksons general account assets, in a separate holder pays Jackson a premium, which is credited to the account, which is analogous to a unit-linked fund.
The value contract holders account.
Periodically, interest is credited of the portion of the separate account allocated to variable to the contract holders account and administrative charges sub-accounts fluctuates with the underlying investments.
Jackson may reset the interest Variable annuity policies are subject to early surrender charges rate on each contract anniversary, subject to a guaranteed for the first four to seven years of the contract.
During the minimum, in line with state regulations.
When the annuity surrender charge period, the contract holder may cancel the matures, Jackson either pays the contract holder the amount in contract for the surrender value.
Jackson offers one variable 69 Other corporate information continued annuity that has no surrender charges.
Jackson offers a choice the long-term growth potential of professionally managed of guaranteed benefit options within its variable annuity investments.
Jacksons life insurance book has also delivered product portfolio, which customers can elect and pay for.
consistent profitability, driven primarily by positive mortality These include the guaranteed minimum death benefit and persistency experience.
GMDB, which guarantees that, upon death of the annuitant, the contract holder or beneficiary receives a minimum value Institutional products regardless of past market performance.
These guaranteed Jacksons institutional products division markets institutional death benefits might be expressed as the return of original products such as traditional Guaranteed Investment Contracts premium, the highest past anniversary value of the contract, GICs, Funding Agreements and Medium Term Note MTN or as the original premium accumulated at a fixed rate of funding agreements.
The institutional product offerings also interest.
In addition, there are three other types of guarantee: include Jacksons funding agreements issued to the Federal guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefits GMWB, Home Loan Bank.
Jackson distributes its institutional products guaranteed minimum accumulation benefits GMAB and directly to investors, through investment banks or through guaranteed minimum income benefits GMIB.
provide a guaranteed return of the principal invested by allowing for periodic withdrawals that are limited to a maximum Mutual funds percentage of the initial premium.
One version of the GMWBs During 2007, Jackson launched a line of retail mutual funds provides for a minimum annual withdrawal amount that is as a complement to the broad product offering.
guaranteed for the contract holders life without annuitisation.
GMABs generally provide a guarantee for a return of a certain United Kingdom amount of principal after a specified period.
GMIBs provide for In common with other UK long-term insurance companies, a minimum level of benefits upon annuitisation regardless of Prudential UKs products are structured as either with-profits the value of the investments underlying the contract at the time or participating products, or non-participating products of annuitisation.
including annuities in payment and unit-linked products.
As the investment return on the separate account assets Depending upon the structure, the level of shareholders is attributed directly to the contract holders, Jacksons profit interest in the value of policies and the related profit or arises from the fees charged on the contracts, less the loss varies.
expenses incurred, which include the costs of guarantees.
With-profits policies are supported by a with-profits In addition to being a profitable book of business in its own sub-fund and can be single premium for example, Prudence right, the variable annuity book also provides an opportunity to Bond or regular premium for example, certain corporate utilise the offsetting equity risk among various lines of business pension products.
to manage Jacksons equity exposure in a cost-effective Prudentials primary with-profits sub-fund is part of PACs fashion.
Jackson believes that the internal management of long-term fund.
The return to shareholders on virtually all equity risk coupled with the utilisation of external derivative with-profits products is in the form of a statutory transfer to instruments where necessary, continues to provide a costPAC shareholders funds which is analogous to a dividend from effective method of managing equity exposure.
Profits in the PACs long-term fund and is dependent upon the bonuses variable annuity book of business will continue to be subject to credited or declared on policies in that year.
There are two the impact of market movements both on sales and allocations types of bonuses: annual and final.
Annual bonuses are to the variable accounts and the effects of the economic declared once a year, and once credited, are guaranteed in hedging programme.
While Jackson hedges its risk on an accordance with the terms of the particular product and are economic basis, the nature and duration of the hedging determined as a prudent proportion of the long-term expected instruments, which are recorded at fair value through the future investment return on the underlying assets.
Final income statement, will fluctuate and produce some accounting bonuses are only guaranteed until the next bonus declaration volatility.
Jackson continues to believe that, on a long-term and are primarily determined on the actual smoothed economic basis, the equity exposure remains well managed.
investment return achieved over the life of the policy.
Prudentials with-profits policyholders currently receive 90 per Life insurance cent of the distribution from the main with-profits sub-fund as Jackson also sells several types of life insurance including term bonus additions to their policies and shareholders receive life, universal life and variable universal life.
Term life provides 10 per cent as a statutory transfer.
protection for a defined period of time and a benefit that is The defined charge participating sub-fund DCPSF forms payable to a designated beneficiary upon death of the insured.
part of the PAC long-term fund and comprises the accumulated Universal life provides permanent individual life insurance investment content of premiums paid in respect of the defined for the life of the insured and includes a savings element.
charge participating with-profits business issued in France, Survivorship universal life is a form of permanent life insurance and the defined charge participating with-profits business that insures two people and pays the policy benefits after the reassured into PAC from Prudential International Assurance plc death of the last surviving insured.
Variable universal life is a and Canada Life Europe Assurance Ltd. All profits in this fund life insurance policy that combines death benefit protection accrue to policyholders in the DCPSF.
and the important tax advantages of life insurance with 70 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review The profits from almost all of Prudentials new non-participating The EEV basis is a value-based method of reporting in business accrue solely to shareholders.
Such business is that it reflects the change in value of the business over the written in the non-profit sub-fund within PACs long-term fund, accounting period.
This value is called the shareholders or in various shareholder-owned direct or indirect subsidiaries, funds on the EEV basis which, at a given point in time, is the the most significant of which is Prudential Retirement Income value of future profits expected to arise from the current book Limited PRIL, which also writes all new immediate annuities of long-term insurance business plus the net worth of the arising from vesting deferred annuity policies in the withCompany.
In determining these expected profits, Prudential profits sub-fund of PAC.
makes full allowance for the risks attached to their emergence There is a substantial volume of in-force non-participating and the associated cost of capital and takes into account recent business in PACs with-profits sub-fund and that funds wholly experience in assessing likely future persistency, mortality owned subsidiary Prudential Annuities Limited PAL which is and expenses.
closed to new business: profits from this business accrue to the The change in value is typically analysed into the following with-profits sub-fund.
components: Description of EEV basis reporting The value added from new business sold during the year: Prudentials results are prepared on two bases of accounting, the change in value from existing business already in place the supplementary EEV basis and the IFRS basis for the at the start of the year: financial statements.
Over the life of any given product, the short-term fluctuations in investment returns: total profit recognised will be the same under either the IFRS change in the time value of cost of options and guarantees or the EEV basis.
However, the two methods recognise the and economic assumption changes: emergence of that profit differently, with profits emerging other items for example, profit from other Group earlier under the EEV basis than under IFRS.
This section operations, tax, foreign exchange, exceptional items : and explains how EEV differs from IFRS and why it is used.
In broad terms, IFRS profits for long-term business reflect the aggregate of statutory transfers from UK-style with-profits The value added from new business being the present value funds and profit on a traditional accounting basis for other of the future profits arising from new business written in the long-term business.
The products sold by the life insurance year is a key metric used in the management of the business.
industry are by their nature long-term, as it commits to service The change in value of business in force at the start of the year the products for many years into the future.
The profit on these demonstrates how the existing book is being managed.
insurance sales is generated over this long-term period and the Together they provide management and shareholders with IFRS result does not, in Prudentials opinion, properly reflect valuable information about the underlying development of the the inherent value of these future profits as it focuses instead business and the success or otherwise of management actions.
on the amounts accruing to shareholders in the current year.
EEV basis results are prepared by first of all setting best In May 2004 the CFO Forum, representing the Chief estimate assumptions, by product, for all relevant factors Financial Officers of 19 European insurers, published the including expenses, surrender levels and mortality.
Economic European Embedded Value Principles which were designed assumptions as to future investment returns and inflation are to promote transparent and consistent embedded value based on market data.
These assumptions are used to project reporting.
Key features of the principles are: future cash flows.
The present value of the future cash flows is then calculated using a discount rate which reflects both the Inclusion of an explicit allowance for the impact of time value of money and the risks associated with the cash flows.
This typically requires stochastic The risk discount rate is determined by adding a risk margin calculations, under which a large number of simulations to the appropriate risk free rate of return.
The actual outcome are performed that provide a representation of the future may be different from that projected in which case the effect behaviour of financial markets: will be reflected in the experience variances for that year.
an active allowance for the combined impact of risk profile The assumptions used for the EEV basis of accounting and encumbered capital in the selection of discount rates.
are set out on pages 310 to 313 in the notes that accompany This ensures that the risks to the emergence of shareholder the supplementary EEV basis information.
An indication of cash flows are properly accounted for: and the sensitivity of the results to changes in key assumptions sufficient disclosure to enable informed investors to is provided on pages 330 to 332. understand the key risks within the business and the basis The EEV Principles were a significant step towards the of preparation of the results.
harmonisation of embedded value reporting in Europe.
However, even with these principles and the accompanying The EEV basis not only provides a good indicator of the guidance, a divergence of approaches between companies has value being added by management in a given accounting emerged in practice.
In order to further improve consistency period but it also demonstrates whether shareholder capital and transparency of embedded value reporting, the CFO is being deployed to best effect.
Indeed insurance companies Forum is currently developing revised principles based on in many countries use comparable bases of accounting for a market-consistent approach to embedded value reporting.
These are expected to be published during 2008.
