Board of directors Sir David Clementi Mark Tucker Philip Broadley Tidjane Thiam Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Financial Officer Clark Manning Michael McLintock Nick Prettejohn Barry Stowe Executive director Executive director Executive director Executive director Sir Winfried Bischoff Keki Dadiseth Michael Garrett Ann Godbehere Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Bridget Macaskill Kathleen ODonovan James Ross Lord Turnbull Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director Non-executive director 86 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Corporate governance Clark Manning FSA MAAA Chairman Executive director Clark Manning has been an executive director of Prudential since January Sir David Clementi FCA MBA 2002.
He is also President and Chief Executive Officer of Jackson National Chairman and Chairman of the Nomination Committee Life.
He was previously Chief Operating Officer, Senior Vice President and Sir David Clementi has been Chairman of Prudential since December Chief Actuary of Jackson National Life, which he joined in 1995.
In 2005, Sir David was appointed as President of the Investment that, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Actuary for SunAmerica Inc, Property Forum.
In 2003, he joined the Financial Services Authority's and prior to that Consulting Actuary at Milliman & Robertson Inc. Clark Financial Capability Steering Group, and was appointed by the Secretary has more than 25 years' experience in the life insurance industry, and of State for Constitutional Affairs to carry out a review of the regulation of holds both a bachelor's degree in actuarial science and an MBA from the legal services in England and Wales, which was completed in 2004.
He also holds professional designations of Fellow of 2003, he has been a non-executive director of Rio Tinto plc.
In addition, the Society of Actuaries FSA and Member of the American Academy of Sir David is a Trustee of the Royal Opera House, and with effect from Actuaries MAAA.
23 May 2008, he will also be a non-executive director of Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC.
From 1997 to 2002, he was Deputy Governor of the Michael McLintock Bank of England.
During this time he served as a member of the Monetary Executive director Policy Committee and as a non-executive director of the Financial Services Michael McLintock has been an executive director of Prudential since Authority.
From 1975 to 1997, he worked for the Kleinwort Benson Group, September 2000.
He is also Chief Executive of M&G, a position he held at latterly as Chief Executive.
the time of M&G's acquisition by Prudential in 1999.
He is also a non-executive director of Close Brothers Group plc.
Executive directors Nick Prettejohn Mark Tucker ACA Executive director Group Chief Executive Nick Prettejohn has been an executive director of Prudential and Chief Mark Tucker was re-appointed as an executive director in May 2005, Executive, Prudential UK and Europe since January 2006.
He is also a when he also became Group Chief Executive.
From May 2004 to board member of the ABI, Chairman of the Financial Services Practitioner March 2005, he was Group Finance Director, HBOS plc and director of Panel having previously been Deputy Chairman, and a board member Halifax plc.
Previously, Mark was an executive director of Prudential from of the Royal Opera House.
Previously, he was Chief Executive of Lloyd's 1999 to 2003, and from 1993 to 2003 he was Chief Executive of Prudential of London from 1999 until 2005.
Nick joined the Corporation of Lloyd's Corporation Asia, and also held senior positions in Prudential's businesses in 1995 as Head of Strategy, and played a key role in the Reconstruction in the UK and US.
Mark first joined Prudential in 1986, having previously and Renewal process, which reorganised Lloyd's after the losses of the been a tax consultant at PriceWaterhouse UK in London.
Following the successful completion of the reorganisation in 1996, he became Managing Director of Lloyd's Business Philip Broadley FCA Development Unit and in 1998, he also assumed responsibility for Lloyd's Group Finance Director until 25 March 2008 North America business unit.
Prior to his appointment to Lloyd's, Nick was Philip Broadley has been an executive director of Prudential and Group responsible for corporate strategy at National Freight Corporation plc, Finance Director since May 2000.
He is currently Vice-Chairman of the and prior to that he was a partner at management consultants Bain and Co 100 Group of Finance Directors, having previously been its Chairman from and a director of private equity company Apax Partners.
2005 until 2007, and he was a member of the Insurance Advisory Group of the International Accounting Standards Board.
Philip is also President Barry Stowe of the Przezornosc Charitable Foundation, which has been established in Executive director Poland in recognition of former policyholders with whom the Company Barry Stowe has been an executive director of Prudential since November lost contact.
Previously, he was with the UK firm of Arthur Andersen, 2006, and Chief Executive, Prudential Corporation Asia since October where he became a partner in 1993.
Philip will stand down as a director 2006.
Previously, he was President, Accident & Health Worldwide for AIG at the next Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2008.
He joined AIG in 1995, and prior to that was President and CEO of Nisus, a subsidiary of Pan-American Life, from 1992-1995.
Prior to Tidjane Thiam Nisus, Barry spent 12 years at Willis Corroon in the US.
Chief Financial Officer from 25 March 2008 Tidjane Thiam has been appointed as an executive director of Prudential Non-executive directors and Chief Financial Officer with effect from 25 March 2008.
He was previously Chief Executive Officer, Europe at Aviva, where he also held Sir Winfried Bischoff successively the positions of Group Strategy and Development Director Independent non-executive director and Managing Director, Aviva International.
Prior to that, Tidjane was a Sir Winfried Bischoff has been an independent non-executive director of partner with McKinsey & Company in France and one of the leaders of Prudential since 2 August 2007.
Sir Win has been Chairman of Citi Europe their Financial Institutions practice, focusing on insurance companies and a Member of The Management, Operating and Business Heads and banks.
Earlier in his career, he spent a number of years in Africa Committees of Citigroup Inc since May 2000.
He was Acting Chief Executive where he was Chief Executive and then Chairman of the National Bureau Officer of Citigroup Inc from 5 November 2007 to 11 December 2007, for Technical Studies and Development in Cote d'Ivoire and a cabinet when he was appointed Chairman of Citigroup Inc.
In addition, Sir Win is member as Minister of Planning and Development.
He is a non-executive Chairman of the European Advisory Board of Citigroup Inc. and has been director of Arkema in France, a member of the Council of the Overseas a non-executive director of The McGraw-Hill Companies, New York and of Development Institute ODI in London and a sponsor of Opportunity Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis since June 2000, and of Land Securities International, a charity focusing on microfinance in developing countries.
Prior to that, Sir Win joined the Company Finance Division of J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited, London, in 1966 and in 1971, he was appointed as Managing Director of Schroders Asia Limited, Hong Kong.
He returned to London in January 1983, and was appointed Chairman of J. Henry Schroder & Co. in October 1983.
Sir Win was appointed Group Chief Executive of Schroders plc in December 1984 and as Chairman of 87 Board of directors continued Schroders plc in May 1995, until the acquisition of Schroders, an investment Bridget Macaskill banking business, by Citigroup Inc. in May 2000.
In addition, Sir Win was Independent non-executive director, Chairman of the Remuneration a non-executive director of Cable and Wireless plc from 1991 and Deputy Committee and member of the Nomination Committee Chairman from 1995 to 2003.
His other non-executive directorships Bridget Macaskill has been an independent non-executive director of included: IFIL Finanziaria di Partecipazioni SpA, Italy 1999-2004, Prudential since September 2003.
She rejoined the Board of Prudential Siemens Holdings Plc 2001-2003, and Akbank T. A. S. 2007-2008. having previously resigned due to a potential conflict of interest in 2001.
She has been a member of the Remuneration Committee since 2003 and Keki Dadiseth FCA became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee in May 2006.
Bridget Independent non-executive director is a non-executive director of the Federal National Mortgage Association and member of the Remuneration Committee Fannie Mae and Scottish & Newcastle PLC.
She was previously a nonKeki Dadiseth has been an independent non-executive director executive director of J Sainsbury Plc.
Prior to that she spent 18 years at of Prudential since April 2005.
During 2006, he was appointed as a OppenheimerFunds Inc, a major New York based investment management non-executive director of ICICI Prudential Life Assurance Company company, the final 10 years of which she was Chief Executive Officer.
Limited and ICICI Prudential Trust Limited.
He is also a member of the Advisory Board of Marsh & McLennan Companies Inc. and an Kathleen O'Donovan ACA International Advisor to Goldman Sachs.
In addition, Keki is a director Independent non-executive director of Nicholas Piramal Limited, Siemens Limited, Britannia Industries Limited and Chairman of the Audit Committee and The Indian Hotels Company Limited, all quoted on the Bombay Stock Kathleen O'Donovan has been an independent non-executive director Exchange.
He is also a director of the Indian School of Business and acts of Prudential since May 2003.
She has been a member of the Audit as a trustee of a number of Indian charities.
Before he retired from Unilever Committee since 2003 and became Chairman of the Audit Committee in in 2005, Keki was Director, Home and Personal Care, responsible for the May 2006.
Kathleen is a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit HPC business of Unilever worldwide, a Board member of Unilever PLC Committees of Great Portland Estates PLC and Trinity Minor plc, and a and Unilever N. V. and a member of Unilever's Executive Committee.
non-executive director of ARM Holdings plc.
She is also Chairman of the He joined Hindustan Lever Ltd in India in 1973.
Previously, she was a non-executive director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of the EMI Group plc and the Court Michael Garrett of the Bank of England, and a non-executive director of O plc.
Prior to 2 Independent non-executive director that, Kathleen was Chief Financial Officer of BTR and Invensys, and before and member of the Remuneration Committee that she was a partner at Ernst & Young.
Michael Garrett has been an independent non-executive director of Prudential since September 2004.
He worked for Nestl from 1961, James Ross becoming Head of Japan 1990-1993, and then Zone Director and Member Senior independent non-executive director of the Executive Board, responsible for Asia and Oceania, and in 1996 his and member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees responsibilities were expanded to include Africa and the Middle East.
James Ross has been an independent non-executive director since May Michael retired as Executive Vice President of Nestl in 2005.
He served the 2004 and the Senior Independent Director since May 2006.
He holds Government of Australia as Chairman of the Food Industry Council and as non-executive directorships with McGraw Hill in the US and Schneider a Member of the Industry Council of Australia, and was also member of the Electric in France.
He is also Chairman of the Leadership Foundation for Advisory Committee for an APEC Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation Food Higher Education and of the Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine.
James System, a Member of The Turkish Prime Minister's Advisory Group and the was previously a non-executive director of Datacard Inc in the US, and WTO World Trade Organization Business Advisory Council in Switzerland.
prior to that Chairman of National Grid plc and Littlewoods plc.
He was Michael remains a director of Nestl in India, and was appointed Chairman of also Chief Executive of Cable and Wireless plc and Chairman and Chief the Evian Group in 2001, a think tank and forum for dialogue promoting free Executive of BP America Inc. and a Managing Director of the British trade.
He also serves as a non-executive director on the Boards of the Bobst Petroleum Company plc.
Group Switzerland, Hasbro Inc. in the USA, and Gottex Fund Management Holdings Limited in Guernsey.
In addition, he is a member of the Finance and Lord Turnbull KCB CVO Performance Review Committee of The Prince of Wales International Independent non-executive director Business Leaders Forum IBLF, as well as a Member of the Swaziland and member of the Audit Committee International Business Advisory Panel under the auspices of the Global Lord Turnbull has been an independent non-executive director of Leadership Foundation GLF London.
Prudential since May 2006, and a member of the Audit Committee since January 2007.
He entered the House of Lords as a Life Peer in 2005.
In Ann Godbehere FCGA 2002, he became Secretary of the Cabinet and Head of the Home Civil Independent non-executive director Service until he retired in 2005.
Prior to that, he held a number of positions and member of the Audit Committee in the civil service, including Permanent Secretary at HM Treasury: Ann Godbehere has been an independent non-executive director of Permanent Secretary at the Department of the Environment later Prudential since 2 August 2007, and has been a member of the Audit Environment, Transport and the Regions : Private Secretary Economics Committee since 1 October 2007.
She began her career in 1976 with to the Prime Minister: and Principal Private Secretary to Margaret Thatcher Sun Life of Canada, joining Mercantile & General Reinsurance Group and then John Major.
Lord Turnbull is a in 1981, where she held a number of management roles rising to Senior non-executive director of Frontier Economics Ltd and The British Land Vice President and Controller for life and health and property casualty Company PLC, and was formerly a non-executive director of the Arup businesses in North America in 1995.
In 1996, Swiss Re acquired Mercantile Group.
He also works part-time as a Senior Adviser to the London partners & General Reinsurance Group, and Ann became Chief Financial Officer of Booz Allen Hamilton UK.
of Swiss Re Life & Health, North America.
In 1997, she was made Chief Executive Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health, Canada.
She moved to London as Chief Financial Officer of Swiss Re Life & Health Division in 1998 and joined the Property & Casualty Business Group, based out of Zurich, as Chief Financial Officer on its establishment in 2001.
In 2003, she was appointed Chief Financial Officer of the Swiss Re Group.
Ann is also a nonexecutive director of Ariel Holdings Limited, Atrium Underwriting plc and Atrium Underwriting Limited, and Chief Financial Officer of Northern Rock.
