Market overview Capturing the global retirement opportunity The retail financial services industry is undergoing there is a move towards greater self-provision as a result a fundamental transformation as one of the biggest of declining state support.
The increased cost of long-term demographic waves in history transitions out of the care is also a significant factor, as is the need to protect the workforce and into active retirement.
Some estimates value of assets against inflation over longer periods of time.
suggest that, in the US and the UK alone, some 7 trillion We believe that this global retirement opportunity of assets could move into the retirement market over will be a significant driver of growth and profitability over the next five years, and there is also a significant and the coming years, and that we have a set of assets and growing retirement opportunity in Asia.
capabilities which position us extremely well to capture Not only are these people likely to live longer than a disproportionately large share of that opportunity in our previous generations, but their needs are fundamentally chosen markets.
These include our brands, our investment different from their predecessors.
In particular, many are and risk management skills, our product innovation and looking for a more active lifestyle in retirement, but often our powerful distribution networks.
underestimate the savings required for this.
In addition, Asia Projection of population aged 55 Asian households are changing rapidly: they are becoming wealthier, 2025 816m smaller and older, with a growing 2020 714m need for financial solutions.
2015 615m 2010 535m 2005 452m United States Projection of population aged 55 As 78 million baby boomers move into retirement age, their assets will 2025 109m shift from asset accumulation to 2020 101m income distribution.
2015 91m 2010 80m 2005 70m United Kingdom Projection of population aged 55 The retirement and near-retirement population will represent the fastest- 2025 24m growing segments of the market 2020 23m over the next 10 years.
2015 21m 2010 19m 2005 18m 10 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview Changing dynamics People are living longer More active retirement People want to retire at an earlier age Need for more long-term savings Underestimating savings required for retirement Need for income and protection in retirement Increased cost of long-term care Reduction and withdrawal of state pension benefits Protection of purchasing power Asia remains a very attractive region for growth opportunities Asian governments have little appetite to increase the due to its high levels of economic activity translating into provision of state-funded retirement benefits and healthcare, higher levels of personal wealth, greater disposable incomes, and are actively encouraging the development of a strong, a comparatively higher propensity to save and a growing dynamic private sector to meet peoples growing need for appetite for good quality protection and savings products.
Traditionally, older people have relied on their children to provide for them, but within just one generation this will be far less common.
Within this environment, ageing demographics are also beginning to drive increased household savings rates and an emerging need for healthcare and retirement solutions.
The US is the largest retirement savings market in the world The US life insurance industry remains highly fragmented and is expected to continue to grow significantly over the and competition for market share is intensifying through next 10 years as the post-war generation reaches retirement.
Life insurers find themselves competing The combination of increasing life expectancy and with other financial services providers, particularly mutual decreasing retirement age in the US is leading to an increase fund companies and banks, for a share of retirement savings in the average time individuals will spend in retirement.
the same time, the responsibility for providing income during retirement continues to shift away from institutions such as government and employers, towards individuals.
As a result, consumers have a growing need for independent financial advice and increasingly seek guarantees and longevity protections from the financial products they purchase.
Prudential is focusing on the retirement savings and income that individuals will be inadequately provided for during market in the UK.
The accumulation market is huge, with over increasingly long periods of retirement.
Consequently, 50 per cent of total assets including pensions, housing equity there is a growing demand for financial advice and financial and liquid assets, held by those approaching, or in, retirement.
products including guarantees and longevity protection.
In addition, wealth is concentrated in the mass affluent and high net worth individuals.
With an ageing population and wealth concentration, the retirement and near-retirement population will represent the fastest-growing segments of the market over the next 10 years.
Additionally, the responsibility for providing income during retirement is continuing to shift away from the government and employers towards the individual.
This coupled with low savings and high indebtedness in the UK, increases the risk 11 12 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview Some estimates suggest that, in the United States and the United Kingdom, some 7 trillion of assets could move into the retirement market over the next five years, and there is also a significant and growing retirement opportunity in Asia.
Prudentials capabilities, geographic presence and powerful brands position it well to capture value from this retirement opportunity.
