Core capabilities We believe our assets and capabilities position us extremely well to capture a disproportionately large share of the growing retirement opportunity in our chosen markets.
These include: Trusted brands We believe that our brands are a significant advantage in capturing an increasing share of the global retirement market.
See page 21 Key skills Our risk and investment management capabilities underpin our business, enabling us to meet customers changing needs throughout their lifetimes.
See page 22 Innovative products We have established a strong track record of delivering innovative solutions that meet customers needs, with a particular focus on helping them to save for, and secure an income in, retirement.
See page 23 Powerful distribution networks Our broad and diverse distribution network is tailored to local market and customer needs, enabling us to deliver our products and services in the most efficient and effective way in each of our chosen markets.
See page 24 20 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview Trusted brands We believe that our brands are a significant advantage in capturing an increasing share of the global retirement market.
In the UK, where we have had a lifestyle choices in an entertaining and positioned as a heavyweight, presence for 160 years, we continued to engaging way.
The concept has been investment-led business across build our brand during 2007, supported carefully tailored and launched in six all the international markets in which by an aspirational campaign to redefine Asian markets to reflect the different it operates.
This led to the introduction retirement as a time of opportunity.
cultures, needs and aspirations of our in September of new branding which Using the strapline Retirement customers.
provides a fresh look for M&G and has more potential with Prudential, In the US, where we operate under highlights the individual investment advertisements have been running the Jackson brand, our strategy centres talent and flair that have always been in the UK national press and online on the advice-based channels to which at the core of its business.
The new since October 2007, focusing on the customers are increasingly turning for brand was launched via an extensive opportunities that retirement brings.
help in choosing from the maze of international marketing and advertising In Asia, Prudentials operations are retirement solutions in this complex campaign and revamped website.
unified under the Prudence icon, which and crowded marketplace.
Jackson is enjoys consistently high recognition already recognised as a leading provider across the region.
The brand has been of one of the countrys most popular built around understanding customers retirement vehicles, the variable needs and leveraging the Groups annuity, and in 2007 it continued to international scale and heritage to raise its profile through targeted media convey a sense of security, stability campaigns focused on independent and trustworthiness.
Jackson also rebranded continued to position ourselves in the its website in 2007, highlighting its retirement space through our highly vision to help Americans achieve successful Whats your number?
campaign, which encourages people to M&G conducted a brand review in think about the cost of their retirement 2007 to ensure that it was appropriately 21 Key skills Our risk and investment management capabilities underpin our business, enabling us to meet customers changing needs throughout their lifetimes.
In the UK our wealth of longevity equities with safeguards against risks fund management skills to create higher knowledge and experience is a such as inflation and market volatility.
margin products for external customers, significant advantage in designing and In Asia, we successfully leverage our consolidating its position at the forefront pricing products for the retirement regional and international expertise and of the leveraged loans, structured credit income market, while our multi-asset multi-asset investment capabilities to and infrastructure investment markets.
investment capability and emphasis create tailored insurance and mutual on cautiously-managed products such fund products for different markets.
For as With-Profits, enable us to meet example, we launched pan-Asian funds customers needs, especially in in several Asian markets during the year: volatile markets.
we also offer a range of global, US and Our asset allocation and investment European funds in Hong Kong, managed management capabilities are evident in by M&G, and a number of US funds in the sustained top performance of our UK Japan, managed by our US investment With-Profits Life Fund.
In July 2007, we management company PPMA.
retained our top-ranking in the WM Life At M&G, our success is underpinned Fund Survey by WM, the independent by an impressive track record of fund-performance service provider.
investment performance in recent years.
This ranking consolidates the superior In 2007, some 45 per cent of the position achieved in previous years, companys retail funds delivered top with Prudential retaining its top spot quartile performance.
In the wholesale over 10 years.
marketplace, 86 per cent of M&Gs In the US, our expertise in long-term segregated institutional funds guarantees has enabled us to design met or exceeded their benchmark products for customers who increasingly performance.
M&G has also continued want to combine the potential growth of to successfully leverage its internal 22 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Overview Innovative products We have established a strong track record of delivering innovative solutions that meet customers needs, with a particular focus on helping them to save for, and secure an income in, retirement.
In the US, we are a leading provider In Asia, we constantly update our in Singapore, India, and Hong Kong.
of one of the countrys most popular product range to ensure it is appealing M&G also extended its product retirement vehicles the variable and relevant to customers changing range in 2007.
In the retail market, annuity.
We have one of the most needs.
For example, in 2007 we the business cemented its position as a flexible products on the market, with extended the funds range for our leading innovator with the launches of a range of 2,300 benefit combinations.
linked products, including a new the M&G Cautious Multi Asset Fund In 2007, we introduced six new property fund in Singapore, and a new and the M&G Global Convertibles Fund.
guaranteed living benefits and Shariah-compliant range in Indonesia.
In the wholesale arena, M&G launched a further 20 investment options.
We also launched several new funds three new funds the M&G Alpha In the UK, we have developed a full aimed at capturing the potential Opportunities Fund, M&G Secured range of retirement income solutions.
in fast-growing economies such as Property Income Fund and M&G This includes a new Flexible Lifetime China and India.
In Japan, our India Secured Debt Fund.
These three Annuity, and an Income Drawdown Infrastructure Equity Fund became funds leverage the companys expertise product which helps customers manage our third fund in Japan to pass the and scale in both property and private their pension through the various 100 billion Japanese Yen milestone, finance, and provide institutional and stages of retirement, as well as offering while in Singapore, our Dragon Peacock pension fund clients with innovative flexibility and the potential for growth Fund, which invests in China and India, alternatives to traditional fixed through investment.
We have also is one of the largest retail equity funds income assets.
made a number of enhancements to in the market.
our lifetime mortgage range, including In Taiwan we leveraged Jacksons a new lump sum product as well as an experience to develop an annuity inheritance guarantee.
Our PruHealth product which helped drive new joint venture also continues to grow well, business volumes up 71 per cent in attracting over 140,000 customers to 2007.
We have also been developing date with its mould-breaking proposition, a range of health-related products, which rewards healthy living.
which we have successfully piloted 23 Powerful distribution networks Our broad and diverse distribution network is tailored to local market and customer needs, enabling us to deliver our products and services in the most efficient and effective way in each of our chosen markets.
In Asia, we have a highly successful a range of marketing, sales and for M&G.
Over the past five years, M&G multi-channel distribution platform, educational tools to help advisers build has expanded its retail business beyond tailored to each market, which includes their own businesses, combined with the UK into the major European markets, traditional tied agency, banks, general award-winning customer service.
the Middle East, South America and Asia.
agents or brokers and an emerging In the UK, we have a multiOur Asia fund management business direct channel.
For example, in India, distribution approach including financial distributes its retail funds predominantly the emphasis is on rapidly building advisers and consultants, banks, direct to through banks and brokers.
Over the last agency scale, and in 2007 agent consumers and distribution partnerships, few years, we have built an impressive numbers increased by over 120 per cent, to reflect the diversity of our product network of distributors, and now work whereas in markets where we already range across the retirement savings, with most of the major players in have agency scale, the emphasis is on retirement income and protection each market.
During 2007, we focused on 2007 we also entered several significant strengthening relationships with key, new partnerships, including Standard high potential advisers by offering more Chartered Bank in Taiwan, and localised support and a business-partner Kookmin Bank and Industrial Bank approach.
We also continued to build of Korea in Korea.
our strategic partnerships, including In the US, we have built a highly an agreement with Barclays to be the successful distribution model focused preferred supplier of conventional on independent financial advisers, and annuities to its retail customers in the UK.
our Perspective II variable annuity was Our fund management businesses the top selling variable annuity contract distribute through a wide range of in the US independent broker-dealer channels and geographies.
The success of our cross-border distribution has model lies in the support we give to accelerated, which has continued advisers through our network of to open up significant bank and life wholesalers.
This support includes company distribution opportunities 24 Prudential plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review Prudential plc is the Group Operating and financial review holding company and the principal activity of its 26 Operating and financial review subsidiary undertakings 27 Key performance indicators is the provision of financial 30 Group overview services in Asia, the US 40 Business unit review: and the UK.
Its principal Insurance operations: Asia, US, UK subsidiary undertakings are Asset management: M&G, Asia, US listed in note I6 on page 281.
65 Other corporate information 72 Risk management This Operating and Financial 81 Corporate responsibility review Review OFR has been prepared in accordance with the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement 1- OFR, a reporting statement of voluntary best practice.
