Directors Chairman Executive directors Mark Powell Andy Pomfret Mark Powell, aged 62, is the chairman with principal Andy Pomfret, aged 47, is the chief executive.
He is chairman responsibility for the strategy of the Group.
He moved to of the Executive Committee which manages the day-to-day affairs a non-executive role with effect from 1 January 2008 and of the Group and of the Groups Social and Environmental is not considered to be independent for the purposes Committee.
He qualied as a chartered accountant with Peat, of the Combined Code.
Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG.
Prior to joining Rathbones in July 1999, he spent over 13 years with Kleinwort Benson He has been involved in investment management for private now Dresdner Kleinwort as a corporate nancier, venture clients throughout his career.
From 1968 to 1989 he worked capitalist and latterly finance director of the investment in what became Credit Lyonnais Securities and was chief management and private banking division.
He was appointed executive of CL-Alexanders Laing & Cruickshank Holdings.
to the Board in August 1999 and became chief executive in In 1989 he joined Laurence Keen as chief executive and was October 2004.
He is also the senior independent director of appointed to the Rathbones Board as managing director Beazley Group plc and a director of the Association of Private of the Group following its acquisition in March 1995.
He was Client Investment Managers & Stockbrokers APCIMS.
appointed as chairman in May 2003.
He is also non-executive chairman of SVM Active Fund Plc.
He is a former chairman Ian Buckley of the Association of Private Client Investment Managers Ian Buckley, aged 57, is chief executive of the Groups trust & Stockbrokers APCIMS and a member of the Takeover and tax business and the director responsible for its pensions Panel.
He is chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is also chairman of the Groups IT Steering Committee and the director responsible for marketing.
He qualied as a chartered accountant with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co. now KPMG in 1975.
He was chief executive of Smith & Williamson for ten years from 1985 to 1995, and subsequently chief executive of EFG Private Bank Limited and Tenon Group Plc.
He was appointed to the Board in December 2001.
He is the senior independent director of NXT Plc.
Paul Chavasse Paul Chavasse, aged 43, is the chief operating officer responsible for the Groups investment operations, IT infrastructure and facilities.
He started his career working for the institutional fund management arm of NatWest, which was later merged with Gartmore.
After a period in the private client businesses of NatWest and Coutts, his final role before joining the Group in 2001 was as head of NatWest Portfolio Management in Bristol.
He was appointed to the Board in September 2001.
Mark Powell Andy Pomfret Ian Buckley Paul Chavasse 32 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Richard Lanyon Peter Pearson Lund Richard Lanyon, aged 56, is the director responsible for Peter Pearson Lund, aged 60, is the director responsible Rathbones investment management business.
Initially with for Rathbones unit trust business and is chief executive of Laurence Prust, he moved to Framlington Group Plc in 1986 Rathbone Unit Trust Management Limited.
He was appointed where he was the Board member responsible for pension to the Board in January 2005.
Richard joined the Group in 1992 to concentrate on Peter worked for Gartmore for 14 years where he was a group private client discretionary investment management and director and managing director of Gartmore Fund Managers, was appointed to the Board in March 1996. the unit trust division.
Peter joined Rathbones in 1999 when the company decided to develop its unit trust activities and Andrew Morris promote them externally.
Andrew Morris, aged 43, is the director responsible for Rathbones investment management business in Liverpool, Richard Smeeton Edinburgh and Kendal.
He also manages a large number of Richard Smeeton, aged 43, has, as his principal responsibility, client portfolios.
He has spent his entire working career at the management of the Groups investment management Rathbones in private client investment management and was business in London and Jersey.
He also manages a large appointed to the Board in November 2000.
He is chairman number of client portfolios.
Having trained with County Bank, of the Groups Training and Competence Committee.
he joined Laurence Keen in 1988 prior to its acquisition by Rathbones in 1995.
He was appointed to the Board in November 2000.
He chairs the Groups Alternative Asset Committee.
Members of the Executive Committee.
Richard Lanyon Andrew Morris Peter Pearson Lund Richard Smeeton 33 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007 Directors continued Non-executive directors Oliver Corbett Oliver Corbett, aged 43, is group finance director of Novae Giles Coode-Adams Group plc.
He is a chartered accountant and worked for Giles Coode-Adams, aged 69, has over 40 years experience SG Warburg, Phoenix Securities later Donaldson Lufkin in the City.
In 1966 he became a partner in L. Messel & Co. Jenrette and Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein now Dresdner which from 1986 was part of Lehman Brothers.
He became Kleinwort, where he was managing director, emerging a managing director of Lehman Brothers in 1987 and companies, before joining Novae Group formerly SVB Holdings has advised a number of leading UK and US companies.
He was appointed to the Board on Additionally, from 1991 to 1997 he was chief executive of 7 March 2006 and is considered to be independent.
the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Foundation.
He is also a director of Guardian Media Group plc.
He joined the Board David Harrel in June 1999 and is the senior independent director and David Harrel, aged 59 was one of the founding partners of chairman of the Audit Committee.
S J Berwin LLP in 1982, and was made senior partner in 1992.
He relinquished this role in 2006 and is now a consultant to James Barclay the rm.
David has a variety of other appointments: he is a James Barclay, aged 62, has many years experience in the non-executive director of Wichford Plc, a member of the Board financial services and banking sector.
As chairman and chief of the English National Opera and a trustee of the Clore Dufeld executive of Cater Allen Holdings Plc, he was responsible and John Aspinall Foundations.
He was appointed to the Board for creating a market leader that was ultimately sold to Abbey on 1 December 2007 and is considered to be independent.
Currently, he is non executive chairman of M&G Equity Investment Trust PLC and a director of Thos.
John May Agnews and Sons Limited, a leading West End international John May, aged 52 is an executive director at Caledonia art dealer.
In 2000 he was appointed as an adviser to the Investments plc.
He has almost 30 years experience in advising, UK Debt Management Ofce and was chairman of its audit managing and investing in listed and unlisted companies, committee for four years.
He was appointed to the Board including more than 20 years with the Hambros Group, where in November 2003 and is considered to be independent.
he was joint managing director of Hambro Countrywide plc and an executive director of Hambros Bank, and subsequently Caroline Burton with his own private equity investment and consultancy business.
Caroline Burton, aged 58, is a highly experienced gure within the asset management industry.
She spent 26 years He was appointed to the Board on 1 December 2007.
He is with Guardian Royal Exchange Plc where she was executive a director of a major shareholder, Caledonia Investments plc, and director in charge of investments from 1990 until 1999.
She it is recognised that he is not considered to be independent for was also a director of The Scottish Metropolitan Property Plc the purposes of the Combined Code.
until June 2000 and was a member of the service authority for Mark Robertshaw the National Crime Squad and National Criminal Intelligence Mark Robertshaw, aged 39, is chief executive officer of Service until March 2006.
She is a non-executive director The Morgan Crucible Company plc.
Prior to joining Morgan of TR Property Investment Trust Plc.
She was appointed to the Crucible in 2004 he was chief financial officer of Gartmore Board in November 2003 and is considered to be independent.
Investment Management Plc for four years.
He previously She is chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
worked for the NatWest Group and also spent nine years as a management consultant with Marakon Associates.
He was appointed to the Board on 7 March 2006 and is considered to be independent.
Giles Coode-Adams James Barclay Caroline Burton Oliver Corbett David Harrel John May Mark Robertshaw 34 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2007
