The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 06 Our business goal and strategy 1.
Generating profitable growth We generate profitable growth by: A.
Driving organic growth: we concentrate on organic growth, winning business that provides long term recurring revenues from new and existing customers in the UK and Ireland.
Stimulating growth through acquisitions: we supplement organic growth by acquiring businesses that broaden our skills base, consolidate our market position or take us into new market segments.
As a result, we have grown consistently since we started initially delivering support services to government, and now operating across both the public and private sectors.
Transforming criminal records for the Home Office The Criminal Records Bureau CRB gives employers information to facilitate safer recruitment and protect the vulnerable.
In August 2002, it replaced local police checks across the country with a national service, collating data from a variety of sources.
Were responsible for designing, building and maintaining its fully integrated IT and administration infrastructure.
New IT infrastructure Robust business processes Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07 Priorites for 2008: Generating profitable growth Organic growth p Identify beneficial new business opportunities across the Group p Address opportunities selectively p Maintain competitive differentiation p Maintain bid process disciplines to secure appropriate pricing and contract terms p Track success and future opportunities p Retain and expand contracts through client satisfaction.
Acquisitions p Select acquisitions that complement or grow our business offering and market reach p Maintain rigorous criteria and disciplines for selecting targets and agreeing pricing p Maintain and continue to enhance integration processes.
99.5% delivery vs 93% target The IT infrastructureweve created can processover 70,000 applications aweek and issueover 120,000 documents a month.
TheCRB now issues 99.5% of  10days, well ahead of its 93% public service standard.
In 2005we implementedthe Interim PoliceCross Reference service.
This pullstogetherover 54m recordsfrom 43 policeforces, central government files andthe Police NationalComputer, offering Strong partnership recruiters significantly greater security.
Sincethen weve installedtheCRBs new e-platform and launched itsfirst e-service, OnlineTracking now loggingover 600,000 enquiries a month.
Some 85%of customers nowfindCRB information useful in making recruitmentdecisions, andthe bureau has shown its satisfaction by giving us a key role inthe servicesfuture strategy.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 Our business goal and strategy Generating profitable growth Identifying and securing Addressing opportunities 1A.
Driving profitable beneficial new business selectively organic growth opportunities across the Group Major bids are costly, in time and resources.
Our organic growth is Public sector procurement processes are We actively identify opportunities highly defined and can take up to two years driven in two ways: to complete: private sector procurements In the UK, public sector contracts are The majority comes from securing high can vary in length due to changing subject to defined procurement processes.
quality, recurring revenues from long term corporate priorities and differing EU policy requires fair and open contracts that deliver multiple, integrated procurement processes.
We are highly competition, and opportunities are formally support services.
The length of these selective throughout the bid process, only advertised or notified.
contracts has consistently increased and bidding where we believe we can build a In the private sector we actively seek out now average nine years.
sensible working relationship which will opportunities to generate real business deliver benefits to both the client and We also focus on single service business that value for organisations.
rolls over annually, has a high repeat rate or identify these through business intelligence is secured under medium to long term and relationships, and the procurement contracts of two to seven years.
process is determined by each individual The combination of long term contracts and customer.
highly recurring business provides strong visibility of future revenues.
Our approach to securing business varies according to the size and complexity of the opportunity Our major sales team pursues complex, long term contracts worth more than 10m over the term of the contract.
It can draw on the resources of the whole Group to design integrated solutions tailored to each client.
Sales teams in each business unit of each division pursue contracts usually focused on a single service.
Where these are worth over 10m, the major sales team may provide extra support.
Major new contracts and extensions secured in 2007: 1.89bn 2006: 1.37bn Client Value m Term years Division Countrywide New 19 15 Life & Pensions Swindon Borough Council Enlarged 243 15 Professional Services Initial value: 140 Southampton City Council New 290 10 Professional Services OSPT New 12 10 Financial Services Birmingham City Council New 142 10 ICT & Advisory Services Resolution New 580 12 Life & Pensions Co-Operative Insurance CIS Enlarged 270 10 Financial Services Initial value: 250 Prudential New 722 15 Life & Pensions Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 09 Critical selection factors include: We consistently provide: Maintaining competitive p Defined bid process with clear decision differentiation p Market expertise criteria, set by clients with whom we can Our clients are highly selective when p Financial strength and stability build a strong relationship choosing to engage an outsourcing partner.
p Depth and flexibility of expert resources p Fit with our core competencies in service Outsourcing has evolved rapidly over the transformation p Extensive and flexible infrastructure past 10 years, from delivering cost driven, single service solutions to creating complex p Limited requirement for capital p A wide range of ICT solutions transformational partnerships.
These investment, unless there is a real value p Onshore, nearshore and offshore partnerships between outsourcer and client proposition for the Group delivery options.
are focused on fundamentally changing the p Fair risk reward balance clients operational model to increase effectiveness, maintain competitiveness p Acceptable contractual obligations.
We have an established track and add real value to both parties.
record of delivering: If we feel, at any point during the bid We have built up an unrivalled set of p Business process efficiencies process, that any of these factors has skills and infrastructure and have significantly changed and become consistently led and helped shape the p Consistent service delivery unacceptable we will withdraw from the market by developing our outsourcing p Step changes in service quality process.
It is essential that we maintain our offering.
We are able not only to respond improvement discipline of securing contracts that will to clients unique requirements but also generate value for both our clients and the to propose alternative service models that p Practical application of innovation Group over the term of the contract.
can deliver even greater benefits.
p Economies of scale When clients outsource large scale p Cost savings functions or services they want to partner with an organisation with a solid financial p Added value services.
Our knowledge base and geographical and technical infrastructure have taken over 20 years to build.
Our strong balance sheet and cash flow provide reassurance that their service is in safe hands.
Our proven record of ethical and socially responsible behaviour and strong governance is also a competitive strength.
Together, these elements clearly differentiate us from our competitors and are significant barriers to entry for new participants in all our markets.
Extensive infrastructure, flexible delivery 55 Business centres Our extensive infrastructure of business centres onshore, nearshore and offshore, allows us to deliver services in the most effective and appropriate way.
As we increase our economies of scale through our growing infrastructure, we drive down our operating costs, add greater value and flexibility to our clients and increase our competitive advantage.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10 Our business goal and strategy Generating profitable growth Maintaining bid process Tracking success and disciplines to secure appropriate future opportunities pricing and contract terms One measure of our success in finding and securing significant opportunities is the bid Our major contracts are long term pipeline.
It contains contracts of 10m or commitments.
On average they last nine above, where we have been shortlisted to years, so we need to get our pricing and the last four or fewer: all bids are capped at contract terms right to deliver value to 500m to prevent very large individual both the Group and our clients.
contracts from distorting the total.
As part of the bid process, we make Because our bid success rate is one in three detailed risk assessments of the contract over the long term and currently one in requirements and our service delivery two the sales pipeline is a useful indicator proposals.
We build in flexibility and make of future sales growth.
We report the provision for changing needs where possible.
pipeline in our full and half year results, Our extensive experience in measuring and providing a snapshot of the size and accounting for risks is a valuable benefit.
Once a bidding process Where we identify risks we build them into is completed, the contract moves out of our model and price accordingly.
We will the pipeline which is replenished as other not accept responsibility for risk that is bids progress to a shortlist stage.
The bid pipeline is backed by an active To ensure prudent pricing, we clearly prospect list of opportunities where we separate responsibilities.
Sales teams are are working on bids which are yet to reach responsible for client relationships: sales a shortlist or final bidding stage.
In turn, support teams develop pricing and risk this is backed by a list of suspects and models.
On all major bids, pricing is agreed relationships which we are nurturing to by the Group Board.
In February 2008, our bid pipeline was 2.5bn February 2007: 2.6bn.
Growing client relationships Prudential We deliver a range of life and pension sales and administration services for Prudential UK's business.
Weve been successfully providing a full range of services for Prudential's international cross border life assurance portfolio of new and existing business since 2003, and in 2006 we signed an outsourcing agreement to deliver end-to-end support for Prudential's UK life and pensions business from their Belfast operation.
In November 2007 we signed a contract to administer 7 million mature life and pensions policies including group and individual pensions, investment bonds and life and endowment policies.
The contract is worth approximately 722m over 15 years.
Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 11 We aim not just to keep existing Impending rebids of existing Retaining and expanding relationships, but to grow them.
Many of material contracts contracts through our clients have awarded us additional Value per work, once they have experienced the client satisfaction Contract annum m quality service and added value we deliver.
Renewing or expanding existing client We not only broaden existing contracts, 2008 None relationships is the most efficient way we are also successful in winning additional to win business.
2009 None contracts to support further areas of our clients operations.
We concentrate on generating client 2010 DCFS: National satisfaction by meeting expectations and Strategies 35 By delivering operational excellence and delivering value.
We share thinking and adding value for our clients and their 2011 None expertise across our operations to ensure customers we achieve high client retention that we can provide clients with the highest 2012 TV Licensing 50 rates.
We also create a pool of positive standards of service.
As a result we are well referees who provide powerful support to CRB 40 placed for clients to extend and expand new sales initiatives.
Defined as generating more than 1% of previous years revenue We successfully renew the great majority To measure the improvement in service of our contracts when they come up for to clients and their customers we agree renewal.
In our 24 year history we have detailed service standards and key only failed to renew three of our material performance indicators.
On our largest contracts defined as generating more contracts, strategic partnership boards than 1% of the previous years revenue.
help both parties understand each others These were contracts to deliver the needs better.
As a result, clients find that Driving Theory Test, Office Services for outsourcing gives them more control over the Department of Work and Pensions and support operations, not less.
the London Congestion Charging Scheme.
We face no material rebids until 2010.
Transforming civil engineering and transport in Wales In 2002, we joined forces withTorfaen, Blaenau Gwent, Caerphilly County Borough Council and Monmouthshire County Council to form Capita Gwent Consultancy.
This unique joint venture provides a range of civil engineering and transportation services previously undertaken by the individual councils.
400k profit in one year, against a projected 640k loss  now manages 350mof spendingon some 1,400 projects and transportation initiatives including highway projects, PFIs, rail and community regeneration schemes.
Working notonlyfor, but alongside authority staff, the jointventureoperates aquality management systemdesignedto encourage creativity and innovation and buildon past project experience.
Quality management Continuous improvement In justoneyear, its cultureof continuous improvementturned a projected 640,000 loss undertheold arrangements into 400,000 profit for reinvestment, while also cutting service costs by 5%.
Were nowon coursefor a 27% increase in operating profits: good newsfor service users as 70% of profits are reinvested.
The partnership continues to grow and aimstodouble in size by 2012.
The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12 Our business goal and strategy Generating profitable growth To stimulate growth we seek target Selecting acquisitions 1B.
Stimulating growth acquisitions that: for growth through acquisitions p Have operations and customers in the Acquisitions have consistently played a key UK and or Ireland We stimulate growth role in stimulating our growth.
We seek acquisitions that will either strengthen and p Fit with our strategy and core through acquisition enhance our current position or provide a competencies We focus on acquiring small to medium foothold in a new market segment where p Generate sustainable, quality revenue.
sized businesses that will support and we can generate further growth.
For In 2007, we spent 114m on 12 acquisitions supplement our organic growth by example, we have entered markets such as and investments.
While continuing to be enhancing our existing offering or education, life and pensions and financial highly selective, we anticipate a similar market reach.
services with an initial acquisition, then volume of small to medium sized swiftly built significant capabilities and transactions in 2008. generated good returns through a mixture of further acquisitions and contract wins.
We now have a strong presence in nine target markets where we continuously look to acquire businesses that will strengthen our market positions, bring complementary skills and services and provide opportunities to create further economies of scale, or expand our current reach.
Acquisitions and investments in 2007 Company Service Division Value m Spectrum Software Professional Services 1.75 Harry Weeks Travel Travel admin Integrated Services 21 12 CPFR Solutions Software Professional Services 3 10 Global Fund Administration Fund admin Financial Services 2 2.5 NHS Partners Resourcing HR Solutions & Property Consultancy 1.9 0.9 CMGL Insurance Insurance & Specialist Services 32 MVRA Insurance Insurance & Specialist Services 1.3 1.6 TMG Legal services Insurance & Specialist Services 8 8.5 PwC CI Trust Business Trust services Financial Services 12.75 Higham Dunnett Shaw Pensions admin Life & Pensions 15 Aspen Pensions admin Life & Pensions 7.4 McKeags Legal services Insurance & Specialist Services 7 5 investment Total spent on 12 acquisitions and investments in 2007: 114m 2006: 48m, 11 acquisitions and investments Business review The Capita Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 13 Applying rigorous criteria Integrating acquisitions when selecting targets and successfully agreeing purchase prices We have substantial experience of integrating acquired businesses and Potential acquisitions are brought to the achieving synergies with our existing Group by external consultants or, operations.
Stringent due diligence, increasingly, by people within the Group.
before and after acquisition, enables us We are highly selective: in the past year we to set clear targets for growth, integration assessed some 100 acquisitions and benefits and profit.
A dedicated project investments but proceeded with only 12. team manages the transition, rigorously Due diligence is undertaken at both Group applying the processes we have developed and business level.
All acquisitions are to bring financial procedures, information assessed and agreed by the Group Board.
and communications technology ICT, HR, Capita has a track record of acquiring and legal, compliance and marketing quickly successfully integrating small to medium into line with our standards, using Group sized businesses that stimulate growth.
systems and resources where appropriate.
We tend to select acquisition targets Acquiring only small to medium sized that are: businesses enables us to integrate the new p Privately owned operations into our existing business infrastructure with little disruption and p Too small to interest the private generally allows us to generate value faster.
equity market p Not in an auction we aim to acquire without competition p Attractively priced, with scope to add value for shareholders.
This enables us to negotiate sensible purchase prices and terms, and so generate good returns for the Group.
Adding value through acquisitions Trustee Services In 2000, our trust administration business comprised just eight staff acting as trustees for debentures & loan stocks issued by customers.
In May 2001 we bought Royal & Sun Trust Companies, and over the next few years went on to consolidate our position in the market with the acquisitions of Channel House, StirlingTrustees, PwC Channel IslandTrustee Operations and Niewenhuis Services for a total acquisition spend of approximately 40m.
Today we have over 260 staff working out of offices in London, Dublin, Jersey, Guernsey and Amsterdam, with expected revenues of 29m in 2008.
