T Th he e C Ca ap pi it ta a G Gr ro ou up p P Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 07 7 5 50 0 Board members Gordon Hurst, David Rigby Paddy Doyle, Bill Grimsey, Simon Pilling Maggi Bell, Peter Kelly Group Board Eric Walters Paddy Doyle Martina King Non-Executive Chairman, Age 63 Joint Chief Operating officer, Age 57 Non-Executive Director, Age 46 Joined the Group Board in January 2001 and Joined Capita in 1992 and was appointed to the Joined the Group Board on 1 January 2005.
Chair became Non-Executive Chairman with effect Board in 1994.
Jointly responsible for the ongoing of the Remuneration Committee and member of from 1 August 2006.
Chair of the Nomination operational management of the Groups business the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Former Committee and Member of the Remuneration units.
His background is in IT and outsourcing, Yahoo!
Managing Director for Europe, and the and Audit Committees.
Joined the Group from previously with Cap Gemini UK formerly first Managing Director of Yahoo!
UK and Ireland, Alchemy Partners LLP, where he was a senior Hoskyns and AIG.
Overall responsibility for our appointed in 1999.
He has held senior positions with employee and human resources policies.
of Johnston Press plc and IMD PLC.
Martina is Engleeld Capital, Schroder Ventures, Grand also Treasurer of the Marketing Group of Great Simon Pilling Metropolitan plc and Lex Service plc and is Britain, Chair of the Radio Advertising Bureau, Joint Chief Operating officer, Age 45 Non-Executive Director of a number of private a Trustee of the Ahoy Centre and a Governor Joined the Group Board on 1 August 2006.
has joint responsibility for the operational Paul Pindar management of the Groups operations.
Moved Bill Grimsey Chief Executive, Age 48 to Capita in 1999 from Sema now Atos Origin.
Non-Executive Director, Age 56 Responsible for managing and developing In February 2002, he was promoted to the Joined the Group Board on 9 October 2006.
Capitas operations to achieve the Groups Divisional Executive Board heading the Member of the Audit, Remuneration and strategic objectives.
Joined the Group in 1987 Professional Services Division.
Bill has held a number from 3i, after advising Capita on its management 2005 he has led the Integrated Services Division.
of senior positions across the retail sector over buy-out.
A chartered accountant since 1984, He has Board responsibility for client service the past 20 years, including Chief Executive of Paul is also Chair of the Great Ormond Street quality.
The Big Food Group and Wickes Plc.
Bill is Hospitals Corporate Partnerships Board and currently Chief Executive of Focus DIY Limited.
Peter Cawdron Non-Executive Director of Debenhams Plc.
He does not hold any other Non-Executive Senior Non-Executive Director, Age 64 Paul has overall responsibility for the Groups positions.
Joined the Group Board in September 1997. community approach.
Chair of the Audit Committee and member of Gordon Hurst the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Group Finance Director, Age 46 Former Group Strategy Development Director Joined the Group in 1988 from Sun of Grand Metropolitan plc and Chief Financial MicroSystems Ltd. First appointed to the Board officer of DArcy MacManus & Masius as Commercial Director in February 1995 and Worldwide Inc. A chartered accountant, he then as Group Finance Director in 1996.
A is Chairman of Punch Taverns plc.
Other chartered accountant since 1986, he is also non-executive directorships include Johnston Company Secretary.
He has Board responsibility Press plc, GCap Media plc, BUPA and ProStrakan for Capitas overall corporate social responsibility Group plc.
He retires from the Board on policy and our environment, health and safety 30 September 2008. approach and supplier relationships.
Governance T Th he e C Ca ap pi it ta a G Gr ro ou up p P Pl lc c A An nn nu ua al l R Re ep po or rt t a an nd d A Ac cc co ou un nt ts s 2 20 00 07 7 5 51 1 Kevin Dady, Robert Coyle Peter Cawdron, Eric Walters Paul Pindar, Martina King Divisional Executive Board David Rigby Maggi Bell Robert Coyle Age 47 Age 52 Age 42 David joined Capita in 1994, initially as a Director Moved to Capita in January 1999 from Appointed to the Divisional Executive Board in the Property Consultancy business and has Manpower where she was UK Operations on 1 August 2006 with responsibility for the headed up a number of different businesses in Director.
She ran Capitas recruitment businesses Financial Services Division.
He joined Capita the Group.
At the end of 1999, he was appointed until she was promoted to the Divisional in August 2000 from PwC where he was a Managing Director of the Property Consultancy Executive Board to lead the Business Services director in their insolvency practice.
Initially Division, until being promoted to the Divisional Division in June 2001.
In 2002, she moved to he was Finance Director and then head of Executive Board in July 2002.
David has had head the Corporate Services Division, with our financial services businesses.
He is a responsibility for the Groups Life & Pensions overall responsibility for business development chartered accountant.
business since Capitas entry into the market in activity across the Group.
Since January 2005, August 2002. she has been head of the Group Sales & Marketing Division.
Peter Kelly Age 59 Kevin Dady Moved to Capita in February 1994 from Cap Age 43 Gemini UK formerly Hoskyns.
Joined as Appointed to the Divisional Executive Board Managing Director of our local government on 1 August 2006 with responsibility for the software business until his appointment as head Professional Services Division, which includes of our Software Services Division.
In 2000 he was all Capitas software and local government promoted to the Divisional Executive Board and businesses as well as our strategic childrens has had responsibility for a number of divisions.
Kevin joined Capita in 1996, He currently heads up the ICT & Advisory after working in local government for 12 years.
Services Division and is responsible for the In 2000, he was appointed Managing Director of Groups internal IT.
the Groups local government software business.
