208720 RIT R&A pp01-14 1 6 07 17:10 Page 13 13 Board of Directors NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-INDEPENDENT THE LORD ROTHSCHILD, OM GBE MIKAEL BREUER-WEIL Aged 71, he is Chairman of the Companys Board of Aged 43, he was appointed a non-executive Director in Directors and the Nominations Committee.
Since 1994 he has been the principal investment Deputy Chairman and senior non-executive director of adviser to philanthropic foundations connected with Lord British Sky Broadcasting Group plc, and a non-executive Rothschilds family interests.
Prior to this, he spent eight director of RHJ International.
years at Mercury Asset Management Group plc as an Lord Rothschild began his career at N M Rothschild investment manager, including a period of secondment & Sons, where he subsequently ran the corporate finance to Odyssey Partners L. P. in New York.
department and became chairman of the executive committee.
He left N M Rothschild & Sons in 1980 to NATHANIEL ROTHSCHILD develop RIT plc, a forerunner of RIT Capital Partners plc, Aged 35, Mr Rothschild was appointed as a nonand his interests in the financial sector.
In addition to his executive Director in 2004.
He is the Co-chairman of career in finance, he has been involved in public service, Atticus Capital LP, a US based investment manager.
including the arts and heritage fields, and philanthropy.
Mr Rothschild joined Atticus in 1996.
Prior to that he was an analyst in the mergers and acquisitions DUNCAN BUDGE department at Gleacher & Co, a New York based Aged 51, he was appointed an executive Director and investment bank.
Chief Operating Officer of the Company in 1995.
He has Mr Rothschild is a member of the Belfer Centers been a director of J. Rothschild Capital Management International Council at Harvards John F. Kennedy Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of RIT Capital School of Government and the International Advisory Partners plc, since 1988 and has represented Council of the Brookings Institute.
He is a member of the the Company on the boards of a number of International Advisory Board of the Barrick Gold its investments.
Prior to this, he spent six years with Corporation.
He was nominated as a Young Global Lazard Brothers & Co Ltd. Leader by the World Economic Forum in 2005.
Mr Rothschild has appointed Timothy Barakett as his Alternate Director.
Mr Barakett is a Co-Chairman and an DAVID HAYSEY owner of Atticus Capital LP.
David Haysey, 50, was appointed as Chief Investment Officer in August 2005 and as an executive Director of the Company in December 2005.
Prior to joining RIT MICHAEL SOFAER Capital Partners plc, he held senior positions at S. G. Aged 49, he was appointed a non-executive Director in Warburg Securities and most recently at Deutsche Asset 1999.
He has been Managing Director and Principal of Management.
Sofaer Capital Inc. SCI since its inception in 1986.
He began his investment career as a securities analyst with Schroders in London before establishing the research department for Schroders Asia in Hong Kong, where he also managed two unit trusts.
He founded First Pacific Fund Management in Hong Kong in 1983, where he pioneered hedged investing in Asia.
SCI now manages eight hedge funds and three private equity funds.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 208720 RIT R&A pp01-14 1 6 07 17:10 Page 14 14 Board of Directors NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS INDEPENDENT CHARLES BAILEY JAMES LEIGH-PEMBERTON Aged 73, he is a chartered accountant and was appointed Aged 50, Mr Leigh-Pemberton was appointed as a nona non-executive Director in 1988.
He is the Senior executive Director in 2004.
He has worked at Credit Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit, Suisse First Boston since 1994, holding positions as Head Remuneration and Conflicts, and Valuation Committees, of Equity Syndicate, Head of Equity Capital Markets and as well as a member of the Nominations Committee.
He from 2001 to 2004, Head of European Investment is also a director of General Oriental Investments Limited, Banking.
He is currently Chairman of European Antofagasta plc, and Atrium Underwriting plc and is a Investment Banking.
Mr Leigh-Pemberton began his career member of the audit committees of those companies.
at S. G. Warburg & Co, where he worked for fifteen years.
MICHAEL MARKS CBE JOHN ELKANN Aged 65, he is the Chairman of NewSmith Capital Partners Aged 31, Mr Elkann was appointed as a non-executive LLP, which he founded in 2003.
He was formerly co-Head Director in March 2007.
He is Vice-Chairman of Fiat Group of the Global Equities business of Merrill Lynch, which he and IFIL Investment SpA, Chairman of Itedi publisher of La joined in 1995, and where he subsequently held positions Stampa, a director of RCS Mediagroup and Banca as Chief Operating Officer of Merrill Lynch Europe, Leonardo.
Mr Elkann is a graduate of the Politecnico Middle East and Africa and was subsequently named University in Turin.
He was also Executive Vice President of Merrill Lynch & Co. Inc. Mr Marks began his career at CHRISTOPHER HOHN Smith Bros. in 1958, where he became a director in 1975 Mr Hohn, 40, was appointed as a non-executive Director in and Chief Executive of Smith New Court in 1987.
He is the founder and Senior Partner of The currently a non-executive director of Old Mutual plc and Childrens Investment Fund Management UK LLP, which was, until 2004, a non-executive director of London Stock he founded in 2003.
He was formerly the portfolio manager Exchange plc.
He was appointed as a non-executive leading the European event-driven investment strategy at Director of RIT Capital Partners plc in 2004.
Perry Capital, which he joined in 1996.
Mr Hohn started his career with Coopers & Lybrand as a manager in the COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP corporate finance division in 1989, prior to obtaining an MBA at Harvard Business School with high distinction.
He Audit Committee then worked with Apax Partners from 1994 to 1995 prior to Charles Bailey Chairman joining Perry Capital.
Andrew Knight Mr Hohn is currently a director of The Childrens James Leigh-Pemberton Investment Fund Foundation UK and The Childrens Investment Fund Management UK Limited.
Nominations Committee Lord Rothschild Chairman ANDREW KNIGHT Charles Bailey Aged 67, he was appointed a non-executive Director in Andrew Knight 1996 and is a member of the Audit, Nominations and James Leigh-Pemberton Remuneration and Conflicts Committees.
He is a director of News Corporation and Templeton Emerging Markets Remuneration and Investment Trust PLC.
He is a former Editor of The Conflicts Committee Economist and served as Chief Executive of the Telegraph Charles Bailey Chairman group, Chairman of News International and Deputy Andrew Knight Chairman of Home Counties Newspapers Holdings plc James Leigh-Pemberton until its acquisition by Eastern Counties Newspapers.
He is a past Chairman of the Shipston Home Nursing and Jerwood charities, and founder of the SMA Trust to further research into spinal muscular atrophy.
RIT Capital Partners plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
