Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 37 Directors report The directors of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc RSA present of preference shares on the register at the close of business their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the on 7 March 2008. year ended 31 December 2007.
Employment policy Principal activity The Groups employment policy reflects our belief that motivated and The Company is the holding company of the RSA group of companies skilled employees are critical to our success.
the Group whose principal activity is the transaction of personal and commercial general insurance business.
The Group writes business in We encourage equal opportunities and diversity across the Group.
This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and developing people solely on the grounds of ability to do the job, and establishing and Business review promoting a working environment which is free from discrimination.
The Company is required by the Companies Act to include a business review in this report.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for all business review can be found within the Group CEOs review on pages employees including those with a disability.
In order to do this, we will 6 to 10, the Group strategy on pages 11 to 13 and the regional business ensure that any reasonable adjustment is made, where it is appropriate reviews on pages 14 to 22 which are incorporated in this report by to do so, to provide equal opportunities to all in respect of recruitment, reference.
An overview of the Groups business performance during the terms and conditions of employment, promotions, transfers, grievances, year along with an analysis of its financial position is set out in the financial redundancies and vocational training.
The Group is committed wherever review on pages 23 to 26.
The future developments of the business can possible, to supporting the rehabilitation and return to work of employees be found in the Group CEOs review on pages 6 to 10 and in the regional who become disabled during their career with us.
business reviews on pages 14 to 22.
The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out in the estimation techniques, uncertainties In 2007 the Group entered the Where Women Want To Work Top 50 and contingencies on pages 70 to 72 and in the risk framework on pages produced by The Times for the first time.
We were one of only three 27 to 29. insurers who made it on to the list.
The Group uses Key Performance Indicators KPIs to provide a well The Group is committed to fostering a constructive dialogue with balanced and comprehensive review of the Groups overall performance.
recognised independent trade unions, ensuring a regular and constructive KPIs are monitored in a number of areas including financial, employee, dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes affecting the customer and the environment and community.
Financial KPIs include the workforce.
In the UK, Unite is formally recognised through a partnership Groups combined operating ratio, expense ratio, operating result and net agreement which covers collective consultation and bargaining on behalf written premium growth.
Employee KPIs include the percentage of staff of non management employees.
The Management Association TMA that have performance related pay, the percentage of staff taking part in represents managerial employees under a separate consultative the employee survey and the increase in overall employee satisfaction as agreement.
The European Consultative Forum ECF is a cross European measured by the survey.
Customer KPIs include the levels of customer body created to enable information sharing and consultation on retention and the Groups position in the annual benchmarking survey on transnational issues with the European workforce.
Since 2005, an complaints handling by the Association of British Insurers.
Environment amended constitution has been in place for the European workforce and community KPIs include the levels of CO emissions and the amount which enables streamlined consultation arrangements.
2 of the Groups charitable donations.
Financial KPIs are detailed in the Group CEOs review on pages 6 to 10, the Group strategy on pages 11 to 13 and The Group continues to focus on the development of employees in order the regional business reviews on pages 14 to 22.
The employee, customer to ensure they can deliver high levels of performance.
We believe we can and the environment and community KPIs are detailed in the regional create real competitive advantage by building and maintaining a high business reviews on pages 14 to 22, the corporate responsibility report performance culture across the Group.
In 2007, the focus has been on on pages 30 to 31 and in this report.
developing leadership talent and capability for todays business needs and those of the future.
We have continued to accelerate the development of Dividends our in house executive talent, through the Executive Development The directors recommend a final dividend of 4.53p per ordinary share in Programme which enters its fourth year in 2008.
We have also respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 to be paid on 6 June 2008 introduced robust strategies to build capability and performance in the to holders of ordinary shares on the register at the close of business on areas of sales, underwriting, claims and actuarial.
7 March 2008, subject to shareholder approval.
This, together with the interim dividend of 2.48p per ordinary share, will make a total dividend A Groupwide programme was introduced during 2006 looking at sales for the year of 7.01p per ordinary share.
effectiveness, with the aim of equipping our salesforce with the tools, skills, career pathways, training, reward and recognition that an effective The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from salesforce would expect.
This programme has now been rolled out in the 1 October 2007 to 31 March 2008 will be paid on 1 April 2008 to holders UK, Scandinavia, Canada, Ireland, Italy and a number of countries in the 38 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report continued Emerging Markets region.
The programme will be rolled out in the terms.
In the UK these are available on request from UK Procurement, remaining countries during 2008.
Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
During 2007 a new Graduate Programme was launched.
In this first year The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on it focused on technical roles within claims, underwriting and actuarial.
31 December 2007 amounted to 5.6m corresponding to 20 days The Graduate Programme is aimed at filling the talent pipeline within payment when averaged over the year.
our technical roles to support the Groups growth objectives.
The programme is run as part of the Technical Academy.
Share capital During the year, 12,448,823 ordinary shares of 27.5p each were issued in A second year of our accelerated career programme, FastTrack, resulted satisfaction of the exercise of employee share options for a total in us hiring 45 individuals who show potential to swiftly build capability to consideration of 9m, and 66,632,200 ordinary shares of 27.5p each fulfil leadership positions in the Group.
Typically three or four years post were issued under the Companys scrip dividend scheme for a total graduate, these individuals follow a structured career acceleration consideration of 100m.
On 24 May 2007 the Company placed programme involving a six month overseas assignment to help bring 186,350,000 ordinary shares of 27.5p each, raising gross proceeds of increased exposure to cultural and organisational differences.
The placing was part of the financing in respect of the recommended offer to purchase the shares in Codan A S not already Our fourth annual web based Global Employee Survey was run in 2007. held by the Group.
91% of eligible employees took the opportunity to contribute.
Our aim is to consistently seek feedback on the environment we are creating as an The Company can increase its share capital and authorise the directors to employer and to work constructively towards our objective of becoming allot further securities by ordinary resolution.
As at 31 December 2007, an employer of choice.
Our intention is to continue to conduct an annual the directors had authority to allot securities up to a nominal amount of survey to ensure we have a current picture of employees views and to 432,165,676. track year on year movement in particular areas of priority.
In this way we measure how the culture of our business is changing.
For example, in 2007 The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any 72% of staff felt that My job provides the opportunity to learn new skills redeemable shares.
An authority from shareholders for the Company and develop new talents, an increase of 2% on 2006.
As in previous years, to purchase up to 298,848,845 of its own ordinary shares representing we have used the 2007 results to build a Groupwide action plan which 10% of its issued share capital as at 22 March 2007 remained in force at requires every manager to identify and work on areas of particular 31 December 2007. importance to his or her team.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares Our policy is to encourage employee share ownership.
Employees from a The rights attaching to the ordinary shares and preference shares are set number of our global businesses are encouraged to participate in out in the Companys Articles of Association the Articles.
Details of the Sharesave which is an Employee Sharesave Scheme HM Revenue and rights and obligations attaching to shares as at 31 December 2007 are Customs approved.
This year 44% of UK based eligible employees incorporated into this report by reference and are set out in note 18 on participated while overseas the average take up rate was 28%, which was pages 96 to 97. a significant increase on previous years.
The Articles may be amended subject to shareholder approval by special Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and resolution at a general meeting of the Company.
We are proposing to objectives of the Group.
amend the Articles at the 2008 AGM, further details of which are set out in the Notice of AGM.
The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in supporting their local communities.
Further details are provided in the Employee Benefit Trusts corporate responsibility report on pages 30 to 31.
The Company operates the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust, the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
2 and the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust Environmental programme No.
In each case, the trustee is Lloyds TSB Offshore Trust Details of our environmental programme can be found on our website at Company Limited.
In respect of any shares held in the Trusts, the trustee www.
may vote in respect of those shares, but is not obliged to.
In respect of the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
3, the trustee may have regard to the Supplier payment policy financial interests of the beneficiaries in exercising its voting rights over the It is the Companys policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in Companys shares.
advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services are made under the Groups standard terms of contract that lay down payment Governance Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 39 Substantial share interests The Group did not make any donations to European Union EU political At the date of this report we have been notified, in accordance with the parties nor to political parties outside the EU during 2007, and it is not the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the Groups policy to do so.
ordinary share capital of the Company: Annual General Meeting Number of shares Number of shares Interest The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, in which there is in which there is in issued a direct interest an indirect interest share capital Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, 19 May AXA S. A.
Goldman Sachs Asset Management 192,491,038 5.92% Enclosed with this report is a letter from the Chairman to shareholders.
Legal & General Group plc 159,445,835 4.90% Attached to the letter is the Notice convening the AGM which will include Schroders plc 147,476,133 4.53% items of ordinary and special business as detailed in the Notice.
Standard Life Investments 108,621,140 17,201,130 3.87% Change of name Directors It is proposed that a resolution be put to the shareholders of the The names of the directors, together with biographical details are set out Company at the 2008 AGM that the name of the Company be changed on page 34. to RSA Insurance Group plc.
Details of the directors service contracts and terms of appointment, Auditors together with their interests in the Companys shares are shown in the So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as remuneration report on pages 45 to 56. defined in section 234ZA 3 of the Companies Act 1985 of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all steps Details of directors powers are set out in the corporate governance that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself report on page 40 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
or herself aware of, and to establish that the auditors are aware of, any relevant audit information.
Directors indemnity Article 154 of the Companys Articles provides that, among other things Deloitte & Touche LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in and insofar as permitted by law, every director shall be indemnified by the office as auditors of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2008.
Company against all costs, charges, expenses, losses or liabilities incurred A resolution for their reappointment will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
in the execution and discharge of the directors duties, power or office.
Going concern Since 12 July 2006, the Company has granted an indemnity to each of The directors have satisfied themselves that the Group has adequate the directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 154.
The resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future having given indemnities granted constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions consideration to the uncertainties and contingencies disclosed in the as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board of financial statements and have therefore prepared the financial statements Directors the Board believes that it promotes the success of the on a going concern basis.
Company to provide this indemnity to its directors in order to ensure that the Group attracts and retains high calibre directors through competitive By order of the Board terms of employment in line with market standards.
Mark R Chambers General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have the 26 February 2008 benefit of an insurance policy which provides suitable cover in respect of legal actions brought against the directors.
None of the directors had any interest in any other contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2007.
Related party transactions Related party transactions are set out in note 32 on page 115.
Charitable and political contributions The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations of 2,370,003 during the year.
The largest contribution of 251,935 was made for the Danish life buoy programme promoting safety around water.
