32 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 exeCUtive team andy haste neil macmillan group Chief executive group Director, audit, risk and Compliance Andy was appointed Group Chief Executive in April 2003, following Neil joined the Group as UK Director for Internal Audit in June 2003 and previous roles as Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and Director of was appointed Group Director, Audit, Risk and Compliance in July 2006.
AXA UK plc life and pensions.
He is the former President and Chief Before joining RSA, Neil was Head of Internal Audit for the Royal Bank Executive Officer of Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE Capital UK, of Scotland Groups Wealth Management and Retail Direct Divisions.
Western Europe and Eastern Europe financial services, and is the former President of National Westminster Banks US Consumer Credit Business.
Bridget mcintyre Uk Chief executive mark Chambers Bridget joined as UK CEO at RSA in November 2005.
Previously, Bridget general Counsel and group Company secretary worked for Norwich Union for 13 years in roles including Finance Director Mark was appointed General Counsel and Group Company Secretary of the general insurance business, Managing Director of London & in October 2004.
He was previously head of the legal team at American Edinburgh, Finance Director of UK Long Term Savings and, most recently, Express for EMEA.
Before that he worked for GE, holding a number of Sales, Marketing & Underwriting Director of Norwich Unions general senior positions with the consumer finance and insurance businesses.
As a qualified Chartered Management Accountant, in Earlier in his career, Mark worked for the international law firm Slaughter her earlier career Bridget worked at Volvo UK, HarperCollins, Marconi and May in London and New York.
Mark is a non-executive director of Radar Systems and Willis Faber.
timothy mitchell george Culmer group Underwriting and Claims Director Chief Financial Officer Tim was appointed Group Underwriting and Claims Director in George was appointed Chief Financial Officer and Group Director in November 2007 when he joined the Group.
He was previously Head of Capital Management at Zurich experience in the insurance industry.
He joined RSA from Zurich Financial Financial Services and Chief Financial Officer of its UK operation.
Before Services where he held senior underwriting roles including three years as that George spent ten years with Prudential.
Global Chief Underwriting Officer for General Insurance.
Tim has also held senior management roles at AIG and Continental Insurance.
Orlagh hunt group human resources Director Clare salmon Orlagh joined the Group as HR Director for International in September group strategy, marketing and Customer Director 2003 and was appointed Group Human Resources Director in October Clare joined as Group Strategy, Marketing and Customer Director in June 2006.
She was previously Head of Human Resources for AXA Sun Life plc 2007.
Previously she was Director of Marketing & Commercial Strategy at and has previously worked at Walkers and Tesco in a variety of HR ITV plc and a member of the Executive Management Board.
Clare is also management roles.
the former Managing Director of AA Financial Services and has held senior commercial roles at Prudential and British Gas.
She is also a nonsimon Lee executive director of Alliance Trust plc.
Chief executive, international Businesses Simon has been Chief Executive of RSAs International business since April 2003.
Previously he spent 17 years with the National Westminster Bank Group, in the UK and US including time as Chief Executive, NatWest Offshore and Head of US Retail Banking.
Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | rsa | 33 Left to right: standing: Bridget McIntyre, David Weymouth, Timothy Mitchell, Simon Lee, Paul Whittaker.
seated: George Culmer, Mark Chambers, Andy Haste, Neil Macmillan, Clare Salmon, Orlagh Hunt.
David Weymouth Paul Whittaker group Operations and it Director CeO of emerging markets David joined as Group Operations and IT Director in June 2007.
He spent Paul was appointed CEO of Emerging Markets in 2006, having been 27 years with the Barclays Group, where senior positions included Chief RSAs Group HR Director since April 2003.
He has over 15 years senior Operating Officer for Corporate Banking and Group Chief Information management experience in the financial services sector including three Officer and was part of the Group Executive Committee.
He most years at AXA and 10 years at GE Capital, including work in Asia and recently spent two years consulting to a portfolio of blue chip and Eastern Europe on acquisition integration and business development.
government organisations and acting as an independent board member at the DTI and for Chordiant Inc, the US Nasdaq quoted software business.
