Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | RSA | 11 Group strategy OUR STRATEGy We are a leading Structure We derive real advantage from being a pure general insurer.
Our focus on doing one thing and doing it well is evident in our general insurer attention to detail, rigorous control and our actions.
delivering sustainable We have strong positions in attractive markets and a profitable performance balanced portfolio of businesses.
The shape of the portfolio is deliberate: Our strategy is based on delivering Our geographic spread gives us exposure to markets at different our strategic priorities of: points in the insurance cycle and different stages of development It allows us to shift capacity to where we see the best opportunities Strong annual earnings In each of our markets there are opportunities for targeted Targeted profitable growth profitable growth Driving operational excellence Key to delivering these strategic Capabilities Our technical skills are market leading: in both underwriting and priorities are our structure, claims they are a source of real competitive advantage.
our capabilities and our focus on delivery.
In 2007, we added to these skills with new executive appointments in Underwriting and Claims, Strategy, Marketing and Customer and Operations and IT.
These appointments support our focus on driving profitable growth and operational excellence.
We are building for the future through our Technical Academy, Executive Development Programme, Leadership Development Programme and FastTrack, our programme for high potential early career candidates.
More recently, we launched the Operational Development Programme to develop expertise and strong careers in operations, with the aim of creating processes and systems that will become another source of competitive advantage.
Delivery Our track record of successful execution is underpinned by our focus on personal accountability and performance management.
Key to delivery is having the right culture and right people.
We are focused on developing talent through creating an environment where responsibilities and accountabilities are clearly defined, people are challenged and performance rewarded.
We have embedded a strong performance culture across the Group.
