Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | rsa | 27 risk FrameWOrk Overall risk framework Risk framework Compliance with policy statements is mandatory.
Policies are subject to regular The Group operates under an enterprise risk The Group has continued to adopt the review in order to reflect changes in management framework that is designed to three lines of defence governance model.
circumstances and the risk appetite.
identify, assess, measure and manage exposure The framework for the oversight and to risk including environmental, social and management of risk is as follows: Risk categories governance matters.
This process is subject to continuous review and development and Management the first line of defence in The Group views risks according to the further work was undertaken in 2007 to setting strategy, performance measurement, categories outlined below.
establishment and maintenance of internal information is provided in the risk management control and risk management in the business section of the financial statements.
Details of Risk management Risk assessment the second line, operating some of the key current practices, tools and a formal risk management framework within other arrangements for each risk category are The Board is responsible for the Groups which, the Group policies and minimum set out below.
standards are set, and objective oversight and challenge of risk management across the Insurance risk Executive management has the responsibility Group is achieved.
This is provided by the for establishing and implementing appropriate Board Risk Committee, supported by the The Groups general insurance activities are systems and controls in their own areas Group Risk functions, and a Groupwide primarily concerned with the pricing, of remit.
The Group Risk Management network of regional risk committees acceptance and management of risks arising Framework provides the mechanism through Independent assurance the third line of from our contracts with customers.
The which risk management and control is defence, providing independent and objective management of the underwriting and claims embedded throughout the Group.
Each Group assurance of the effectiveness of the Groups risks uses a number of key tools, including the business is required to follow a consistent systems of internal control established by the review of the performance and management process to identify, assess, manage and monitor first and second lines of defence.
This is of all the individual insurance portfolios their key risks.
provided by the Group Audit Committee, throughout the Group, and the investigation supported by Group Internal Audit.
of potential emerging insurance risks.
Group risk appetite Group risk policy statements Further work has been undertaken in 2007 to The Group has a process for setting risk refine and improve the Portfolio Classification appetite and for monitoring compliance with Group risk policy statements set out the process, designed to provide a more effective this.
The Group risk appetite sets business minimum standards to be maintained by the method of evaluating individual and overall volumes for certain higher risk insurance classes, Groups operations in order to manage their portfolio performance.
stipulates loss retention limits, reinsurance risks in a way that is consistent with the risk protection, targets for credit rating and solvency appetite.
Business managers are responsible for Claims development and reserving levels are margins, and other appropriate measures.
complying with Group and local risk policies and closely monitored by Reserve Committees.
for managing risk by taking mitigating actions Each regions Reserve Committee determines There is a formal escalation process for where risks are outside the appetite.
The Board a recommended level of outstanding claims potential or emerging risks that are outside Risk Committees oversight and challenge role reserves, in accordance with the Group the risk appetite.
includes consideration of risk mitigation.
The Group Reserving 28 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 risk framework continued Committee considers the reasonableness of A series of forward looking key risk indicators considered to be a low risk category.
It then determines the is used to assess potential future trends in liquidity is managed by Group Treasury and level of aggregate outstanding claims reserves to operational risks, whilst data collected on actual each operation is required to maintain a be carried by the Group.
operational risk incidents and near misses minimum level of cash or cash equivalents or captures past experiences.
In addition, the use highly liquid assets that can be liquidated within Reinsurance risk of scenario analyses enables the Group to assess a maximum stated period of time.
Contingency whether certain operational events that have funding plans are prepared and monitored to The Groups reinsurance strategy and appetite occurred elsewhere could manifest themselves ensure that these minimum levels are met even are set and agreed by the Board and published within the Group.
When taken together, the in stressed conditions.
and disseminated via the Group reinsurance tools provide a complementary set of indicators policy statement.
The Group Reinsurance of the Groups operational risk profile.
Regulatory risk Credit Committee oversees the implementation of the counterparty credit aspects of this Credit, market and liquidity risks The Group operates in a number of strategy.
The reinsurance team monitors and geographical locations with diverse regulatory controls reinsurance activity throughout the The primary sources of credit risk within the requirements.
The regulatory environment Group and has responsibility for the purchase of Group are investment and treasury activities has become more complex and demanding.
the Groups worldwide programme of treaties.
Within the The Group continues to respond to these All major treaty purchases are analysed using investment management and treasury activities, developments through its arrangements for various sophisticated modelling tools to ensure a range of bank counterparty concentration regulatory compliance and by ensuring that it that the level of cover purchased is capital and credit quality limits, together with other maintains open and cooperative relationships efficient and aligned with Group risk appetite controls, are in place to ensure that exposure with its regulators.
is managed within the Group risk appetite.
New reinsurance cover is placed with reinsurers Operational risk that are authorised as Approved Reinsurance Counterparties recommended by the Group Operational risk exists in every facet of the Reinsurance Credit Committee under criteria organisation, including those areas that are not approved by the Board Risk Committee.
As such, all areas of the Group and its major outsourcing providers Market risk arises from the Groups investment are involved in addressing and controlling portfolios.
The Global Asset Management operational risk.
Committee is the management committee that oversees the Groups investment strategy The Group uses a suite of risk tools to help under the oversight of the Investment manage operational risk using a common Committee, and operating within risk limits categorisation of risk.
These tools include Risk set by the Board Risk Committee.
and Control Self Assessments, Key Risk Indicators, Scenario Analyses, Incident The primary source of liquidity risk is the Management and Loss Data.
Liquidity risk is Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | rsa | 29 Principal risks and uncertainties Portfolio reviews are carried out across the 4. adverse financial markets impact the business to assess the performance of each investment portfolio and the pension fund In this section we set out the principal risks and portfolio against key performance indicators.
The Group operates a low risk investment uncertainties to delivering our strategy, together Key risk indicators are used to monitor policy, with the investment portfolio dominated with the actions we are taking to minimise emerging trends, opportunities and risks.
by short dated, high quality fixed income and the likelihood that these will occur and any Any portfolio that triggers a key risk indicator cash assets.
potential impact on the future performance is flagged and investigated, with corrective of the business.
In 2007, we have taken steps to further reduce the Groups exposure to market risk, including: 1. rating environment softens significantly in Audits of business won and lost ensure that risks key markets accepted are priced to achieve target returns Reducing equity exposure in the pension fund The Groups overriding objective is to deliver and that underwriting discipline is maintained.
from 46% to 24% at the year end sustainable profitable performance.
Our strong Selling a net 220m of shareholder equities and diverse portfolio provides exposure to 3. adverse loss experience through and hedging up to 800m of the remaining markets at different stages of development catastrophic losses arising from an insurance equity portfolio with derivatives to mitigate at different points in the insurance cycle.
event or series of events, increasing frequency the impact of equity market falls We actively use the portfolio to shift capacity and severity of large losses or deterioration in Ongoing reduction of CDO exposure to where we see the best returns.
long tail reserves through selective disposals The Groups underwriting strategy is set Extending bond duration to improve liability We are committed to underwriting discipline, centrally using risk aggregation models and limits matching and lock in higher yields with a relentless focus on profitability to ensure that risks written are well diversified over volume.
and are within the Groups risk appetite.
While the value of the Groups general insurance bond holdings will be impacted by We continue to invest in our technical skills and Portfolio reviews monitor underwriting interest rate movements, the short dated our sales and marketing capabilities.
We target performance, ensuring that risks accepted are average term of these holdings mitigates their growth where it is profitable through specialist within the Groups risk appetite and priced to sensitivity to such movements.
segmentation and focus on expanding in target achieve target returns.
Emerging trends in large trades and segments where our technical losses, frequency and severity are flagged The investment portfolio is routinely monitored expertise gives us competitive advantage.
to ensure compliance with counterparty concentration and credit limits and that all 2. insurance risks are accepted outside the The Group maintains a conservative exposures are within the Groups risk appetite.
groups risk appetite or below technical price reinsurance programme, which limits net losses The Group has strict underwriting limits in to a specified amount each year.
The prudent nature of the Groups investment place to ensure that risk selection is within strategy has been evidenced by the resilience the Groups risk appetite.
The Groups In addition, the Group maintains a conservative of the portfolio during 2007.
In spite of market underwriters are licensed to only write risks reserving policy and claims reserves are set with turbulence, the portfolio performed strongly and within specified limits, based on the experience the aim that, over the longer term, they will be did not experience any material impairments.
more likely than not to result in positive prior year development.
