34 | rsa | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BOarD OF DireCtOrs John napier simon Lee Age 65.
Director of the Group from January 2003 and Chairman of the Age 47.
Director of the Group from January 2007 having been Chief Group from March 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination Committee from Executive of the International business since April 2003.
Non-executive Chairman of Kelda Group plc water utility.
Executive, Natwest Offshore and Head of US Retail Banking at National Former Executive Chairman and Chief Executive of Kelda Group plc.
Former Chairman of Booker plc cash and carry.
Former Managing Director of Hays plc business services from 1991 to 1998.
Former malcolm Le may Managing Director of AGB plc international market research and Age 50.
Director of the Group from March 2004 and Chairman of the information services.
President Europe JER Partners Limited Europe property investment.
Non-Executive Director of Pendragon plc.
andy haste Former Deputy Chief Executive Morley Fund Management Investment Age 46.
Director and Group Chief Executive from April 2003.
Former Deputy CEO of ING-Barings finance.
Chief Executive of AXA Sun Life plc and Director of AXA UK plc life and pensions.
Former President and Chief Executive Officer of John maxwell Global Consumer Finance Europe at GE Capital UK, Western Europe Age 63.
Director of the Group from July 2003.
Chairman of the and Eastern Europe financial services.
Former President of National Remuneration Committee from October 2003.
Director of Provident Westminster Banks US Consumer Credit Business retail banking.
Director of Homeserve plc support services.
Director of the Royal Automobile Club Limited.
Director of george Culmer London Finance and Investment Group plc.
Chief Financial Officer and Director of the Group from May 2004. director of Prudential Group plc.
Former Chairman of DX Services plc Previously Head of Capital Management Zurich Financial Services mail.
Previously Director General Chief Executive Officer of The insurance and Chief Financial Officer of its UK operation.
noel harwerth Bridget mcintyre Age 60.
Director of the Group from March 2004.
UK Chief Executive and Director of the Group from November CMG, Corporate Services Group plc, Anglo Irish Bank and Partnership 2005.
Former Executive Director of Norwich Union insurance.
Deputy Chairman of Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation Europe Limited finance.
Former Chief Operating Member of the Group Audit Committee Officer of Citibank International plc finance.
Executive director Member of the Investment Committee edward Lea Member of the Nomination Committee Age 66.
Chairman of the Group Member of the Remuneration Committee Audit Committee from October 2003.
Director Redbourn Group plc property management and investment.
Director of IDC Plugs Limited electrical services.
Director of MacIntyre Care charity.
Previously a director of The British United Provident Association BUPA.
Business review Annual Report and Accounts 2007 | rsa | 35 Left to right: top row: John Napier, Andy Haste, George Culmer middle row: Noel Harwerth, Edward Lea, Malcolm Le May Bottom row: John Maxwell, Simon Lee, Bridget McIntyre 36 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance 37 Directors report 40 Corporate governance 45 Remuneration report 52 Directors emoluments and interests Financial statements 57 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 58 Consolidated income statement 59 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 60 Consolidated balance sheet 61 Consolidated cashflow statement 62 Significant accounting policies 70 Estimation techniques, uncertainties and contingencies 73 Risk management 84 Notes to the financial statements 118 Independent auditors report to the members of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc 119 Parent Company balance sheet 120 Statement of changes in equity of the Parent Company 121 Parent Company cashflow statement 122 Notes to the separate financial statements Other information 125 Shareholder information 127 Financial calendar
