Business review continued Liquidity risk outside the UK ensure compliance with any local regulatory The Groups liquidity policy is designed to ensure that it can at liquidity requirements and are subject to Group Treasury all times meet its obligations as they fall due.
Liquidity management within the Group focuses on overall Diversification of funding sources balance sheet structure and the control, within prudent limits, The structure of the Groups balance sheet is managed to of risk arising from the mismatch of maturities across the maintain substantial diversification, to minimise concentration balance sheet and from exposure to undrawn commitments across its various deposit sources, and to limit the reliance on and other contingent obligations.
The management of liquidity total short-term wholesale sources of funds gross and net of risk within the Group is undertaken within limits and other repos within prudent levels.
policy parameters set by GALCO.
Compliance is monitored and coordinated by Group Treasury both in respect of internal During 2007, the Groups funding sources remained well policy and the regulatory requirements of the Financial diversified by counterparty, instrument and maturity, both Services Authority.
In addition, all subsidiaries and branches before and after the acquisition of ABN AMRO in October 2007.
represent 8% of total funding in the enlarged balance sheet.
Excluding ABN AMRO, these core funds in total increased by 70.7 billion 16% over the course of 2007 to represent 59% of Capital owners equity and subordinated debt increased total funding at 31 December 2007.
The inclusion of ABN AMRO by 13.0 billion 19% to provide 9% of total funding at has added 253.5 billion to that total at 31 December 2007 to 31 December 2007. represent 53% of total funding in the enlarged balance sheet.
Repo borrowing collateralised by a range of debt securities Customer accounts comprise a well diversified and stable and other assets is undertaken with a range of corporate and source of funds from a wide range of retail, corporate and noninstitutional customers and banks.
Excluding ABN AMRO, bank institutional customers.
Excluding ABN AMRO, customer collateralised borrowing by repo increased by 9.8 billion 7% accounts grew by 46.3 billion 14% to represent 43% of total to represent 18% of the Groups funding at 31 December funding at 31 December 2007.
The inclusion of ABN AMRO has 2007.
Including ABN AMRO collateralised borrowing by repo added 180.9 billion to that total at 31 December 2007, to has added 147.8 billion to that figure, to represent 21% of represent 38% of total funding in the enlarged balance sheet.
total funding in the enlarged balance sheet.
Term debt securities in issue with an outstanding term of over Short term wholesale funds with up to one year residual one year increased 11.4 billion 26% to represent 7% of the maturity are taken on an uncollateralised basis from a wide Groups funding at 31 December 2007 excluding ABN AMRO, range of counterparties and debt investors, with the largest reflecting the activity of the Group in raising term funds through single depositor continuing to represent less than 1% of the its securitisation and Euro and US Medium Term Note Groups total funding.
80 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Short positions in various securities are held primarily by RBS Net customer activity Greenwich Capital in the US, RBS Global Banking & Markets Excluding ABN AMRO, net customer lending, excluding repos, and by ABN AMRO Global Markets.
Excluding ABN AMRO, rose by 14.7 billion 17% over the course of 2007 as the the level of funding from short term unsecured debt issuance, growth in loans and advances to customers continued to bank deposits excluding repos and short positions has exceed growth in customer accounts, thus increasing increased by 62.0 billion 44% to represent 23% of total commensurately the reliance on wholesale market funding to funding at 31 December 2007.
Including ABN AMRO, such support loan growth.
short-term wholesale borrowing has added 175.3 billion to that figure, to represent 26% of total funding in the enlarged Including ABN AMRO, net customer lending, excluding repos, balance sheet.
has added 43.5 billion, reducing the ratio of loans and advances to customer accounts to 126.6%.
Including Excluding ABN AMRO ABN AMRO 2007 2007 2006 2005 Net customer activity m m m m Loans and advances to customers gross, excluding reverse repos 693,331 468,942 407,918 372,223 Customer accounts excluding repos 547,449 366,538 320,238 294,113 Customer lending less customer accounts 145,882 102,404 87,680 78,110 Loans and advances to customers as a % of customer accounts excluding repos 126.6% 127.9% 127.4% 126.6% Management of term structure Contingency funding plans are maintained to anticipate and The Group evaluates on a regular basis its structural liquidity respond to any approaching or actual material deterioration in risk and applies a variety of balance sheet management and market conditions.
The Group remains confident that it can term funding strategies to maintain this risk within its normal manage its liquidity requirements effectively under such policy parameters.
The degree of maturity mismatch within the overall long-term Daily management structure of the Groups assets and liabilities is managed The primary focus of the daily management activity is to within internal policy guidelines, to ensure that term asset ensure access to sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow commitments may be funded on an economic basis over their obligations within key time horizons, in particular out to one life.
In managing its overall term structure, the Group analyses month ahead.
and takes into account the effect of retail and corporate customer behaviour on actual asset and liability maturities The short-term maturity structure of the Groups liabilities and where they differ materially from the underlying contractual assets is managed daily to ensure that all material or potential maturities.
cash flow obligations, arising from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations can be met.
Potential sources Stress testing include cash inflows from maturing assets, new borrowing or In August 2007, a systemic liquidity stress event was triggered the sale of various debt securities held after allowing for by difficulties in the US sub-prime mortgage market which then appropriate haircuts.
spread more widely to the global asset-backed market and impacted adversely the overall supply and cost of funding and Short-term liquidity risk is generally managed on a liquidity for other than very short-term maturities.
RBS has consolidated basis with internal liquidity mismatch limits set for managed its liquidity position through those market conditions, all subsidiaries and non-UK branches which have material increased its liquidity cushion and remains able fully to meet its local treasury activities, thereby assuring that the daily funding needs.
maintenance of the Groups overall liquidity risk position is not compromised.
ABN AMRO, Citizens Financial Group and RBS Insurance manage liquidity locally, given different regulatory The Group performs stress tests to simulate how events may regimes, subject to review by Group Treasury.
As integration of impact its funding and liquidity capabilities.
Such tests inform ABN AMROs businesses within the Group proceeds, the the overall balance sheet structure and help define prudent liquidity risk policies, parameters and metrics used will be limits for control of the risk arising from the mismatch of progressively aligned within a single framework.
maturities across the balance sheet and from undrawn commitments and other contingent obligations.
The nature of stress tests is kept under review in line with evolving market conditions.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 81 Business review Business review continued Including Excluding ABN AMRO ABN AMRO 2007 2007 2006 2005 Net short-term wholesale market activity m m m m Debt securities, listed held-for-trading equity shares, treasury and other eligible bills 328,352 174,724 135,775 129,440 Reverse repo agreements with banks and customers 318,298 146,675 117,060 90,691 Less: repos with banks and customers 297,954 150,184 140,360 96,659 Short positions 73,501 47,058 43,809 37,427 Insurance companies debt securities held 8,062 6,876 6,149 5,724 Debt securities charged as security for liabilities 29,709 8,911 8,560 9,578 Net marketable assets 237,424 108,370 53,957 70,743 By remaining maturity up to one month: Deposits by banks excluding repos 112,181 38,470 36,089 35,153 Less: loans and advances to banks gross, excluding reverse repos 25,609 21,763 21,136 16,381 Debt securities in issue 66,289 28,814 19,924 20,577 Net wholesale liabilities due within one month 152,861 45,521 34,877 39,349 Net surplus of marketable assets over wholesale liabilities due within one month 84,563 62,849 19,080 31,394 Excluding ABN AMRO, the Groups net surplus of marketable Liquidity in non-sterling currencies assets over net short-term wholesale liabilities due within one The Group also recognises the importance of non-sterling month increased by 43.8 billion, reflecting actions taken by liquidity, which is managed daily within various limits.
This takes the Group to increase its liquidity cover in response to market into account the marketability, within a short period, of the wide conditions.
Including ABN AMRO, the net surplus of range of debt securities held, if required to meet unexpected marketable assets over net short-term wholesale liabilities due outflows.
within one month was 84.6 billion.
The level of contingent risk from the potential drawing of Sterling liquidity undrawn or partially drawn commitments, back-up lines, Excluding ABN AMRO, over 36% of the Groups total assets standby lines and other similar facilities is also actively are denominated in sterling, where the FSA requires the Group, monitored and reflected in the measures of the Groups nonon a consolidated basis, to maintain daily a minimum ratio of sterling liquidity risk.
Particular attention is given to the US 100% between: dollar commercial paper market and the propensity of the Groups bank and corporate counterparties who are active in a stock of qualifying high quality liquid assets primarily UK raising funds from that market to switch to utilising facilities and EU government securities, treasury bills and cash held offered by the Group in the event of either counterparty in branches : and specific difficulties or a significant widening of interest spreads generally in the commercial paper market.
the sum of: sterling wholesale net outflows contractually due within five working days offset up to a limit of 50%, by 85% of sterling certificates of deposit held which mature beyond five working days : and 5% of retail deposits with a residual contractual maturity of five working days or less.
The FSA also sets an absolute minimum level for the stock of qualifying liquid assets that the Group is required to maintain each day.
Internal processes ensure that the Group achieves or exceeds these minimum requirements at all times.
82 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review The Group also provides liquidity back-up facilities to its own There are two sources of market risk for the Group: conduits and has small exposures to other selected conduits which take funding from the asset-backed commercial paper Trading: the principal risk factors for the Group are interest ABCP market.
The short-term contingent liquidity risk in rates, credit spreads, equity prices and foreign exchange.
providing such backup facilities is mitigated by the spread of maturity dates of the commercial paper taken by the conduits.
The primary focus of the Groups trading activities is client Limits sanctioned for such facilities totalled approximately facilitation providing products to the Groups client base at 64 billion at 31 December 2007, of which 16 billion related competitive prices.
The Group also undertakes: market to the RBS conduits and 48 billion to ABN AMRO conduits.
making quoting firm bid buy and offer sell prices with The RBS conduits are multi-seller ABCP conduits rated at A1 the intention of profiting from the spread between the or A1 P1 levels.
During the difficult market conditions since quotes: arbitrage entering into offsetting positions in August 2007 the conduits were generally able to continue to different but closely related markets in order to profit from issue rated CP albeit at generally shorter maturities and higher market imperfections: and proprietary activity taking price levels than previously.
There was an increased shortage positions in financial instruments as principal in order to take of market liquidity, particularly in November and December, for advantage of anticipated market conditions.
longer dated issuance i. e. over 1 month as the year end approached.
RBS and RBS Greenwich Capital Markets act as Financial instruments held in the Groups trading portfolios dealers to the conduits CP issuance programmes and have include, but are not limited to: debt securities, loans, purchased CP in that capacity but such holdings have not deposits, equities, securities sale and repurchase generally been material.
The majority of the ABN AMRO agreements and derivative financial instruments futures, conduits are also rated A1 or A1 P1 and they experienced forwards, swaps and options.
similar trading conditions to the RBS conduits although they saw two small conduits draw liquidity.
ABN AMRO Bank and For a discussion of the Groups accounting policies for, and ABN AMRO Corp act as dealers to the programmes and have information with respect to, its exposures to derivative held generally non material CP on inventory.
The conduits are financial instruments, see Accounting policies and Note 13 consolidated by the Group.
Developments in liquidity risk management regulation Non-trading: the principal market risks arising from the During 2007, increased regulatory focus and the need for Groups non-trading activities are interest rate risk, currency international coordination of liquidity risk management has risk and equity risk.
been highlighted by external market conditions.
Treasury activity and mismatches between the repricing of New liquidity regulation was also introduced by a number of assets and liabilities in its retail and commercial banking local regulators, notably in the Republic of Ireland.
The Group operations account for most of the non-trading interest rate had no difficulties in meeting the new requirements.
Non-trading currency risk derives from the Groups investments in overseas subsidiaries, associates and Further regulatory developments are expected through 2008, branches.
including progress in harmonising liquidity requirements.
Central Banks are also expected to continue to work to The Groups strategic investment in Bank of China, venture coordinate their liquidity supply arrangements in order to capital portfolio and investments held by its general mitigate market conditions.
The Group has been, and insurance business are the principal sources of non-trading continues to be, actively involved in working with the various equity price risk.
regulatory policy makers and central banks to assist the development of an appropriate future liquidity regime which The Groups portfolios of non-trading financial instruments takes into account both national considerations and the mainly comprise loans including finance leases, debt integrated cross-border approach to the management of securities, equity shares, deposits, certificates of deposit liquidity risk within integrated banking groups such as the and other debt securities issued, loan capital and Group.
To reflect their distinct nature, the Groups longterm assurance assets and liabilities attributable to Market risk policyholders have been excluded from these market risk Market risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from adverse disclosures.
changes in risk factors such as interest rates, foreign currency and equity prices, together with related factors such as market Strategy and process volatilities.
GEMC approves the Groups trading book market risk appetite, expressed in value-at-risk VaR and stress testing limits.
These The Group is exposed to market risk because of positions held limits are delegated to individual trading businesses within the in its trading portfolios as well as its non-trading business Group.
The Board, GEMC and GRC review monthly reports, including the Groups treasury operations.
which provide summary information on VaR, trading positions and stress tests.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 83 Business review Business review continued The market risk function is independent of the Groups trading The Group calculates both general market risk i. e. the risk due businesses and is responsible for: to movement in general market benchmarks and idiosyncratic market risk i. e. the risk due to movements in the value of effective application and compliance with the Groups securities by reference to specific issuers using its VaR models.
Market Risk Policy Statement MRPS, aligning the market risk taken by the Group with the risk limits set by GEMC: The Groups VaR should be interpreted in light of the identification, measurement, monitoring, analysis and limitations of the methodology used.
These limitations include: reporting of the market risk generated by the various businesses: and Historical data may not provide the best estimate of the joint determination of appropriate policies and methodologies to distribution of risk factor changes in the future and may fail measure and control market risk.
to capture the risk of possible extreme adverse market movements which have not occurred in the historical window Market risk measurement methodology used in the calculations.
The Group uses a number of approaches to measure market risk in its trading and treasury portfolios.
These approaches VaR using a one-day time horizon does not fully capture the include: market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day.
i VaR VaR is a technique that produces estimates of the potential VaR using a 95% confidence level does not reflect the extent negative change in the market value of a portfolio over a of potential losses beyond that percentile.
specified time horizon at given confidence levels.
For internal risk management purposes, the Groups VaR assumes a time The Group largely computes the VaR of trading portfolios at horizon of one trading day and a confidence level of 95%.
The the close of business and positions may change substantially Group also calculates VaR at a confidence interval of 99% and during the course of the trading day.
Further controls are in a time horizon of ten trading days for the purposes of place to limit the Groups intra-day exposure, such as the calculating trading book market risk capital.
calculation of the VaR for selected portfolios.
These limitations and the nature of the VaR measure mean that the Group The Group uses historical simulation models in computing VaR.
cannot guarantee that losses will not exceed the VaR amounts This approach, in common with many other VaR models, indicated.
The Group undertakes stress testing to identify the assumes that risk factor changes observed in the past are a potential for losses in excess of the VaR.
good estimate of those likely to occur in the future and is, therefore, limited by the relevance of the historical data used.
The Groups method, however, does not make any assumption about the nature or type of underlying loss distribution.
The Group typically uses the previous 500 trading days of market data.
The VaR for the Groups trading portfolios segregated by type of market risk exposure, including idiosyncratic risk, is presented in the table below.
2007 2006 Average Period end Maximum Minimum Average Period end Maximum Minimum Excluding ABN AMRO m m m m m m m m Interest rate 11.7 9.6 17.6 7.6 8.7 10.2 15.0 5.7 Credit spread 17.7 37.9 44.0 12.6 13.2 14.1 15.7 10.4 Currency 2.6 2.6 6.9 1.1 2.2 2.5 3.5 1.0 Equity 2.4 1.9 6.8 1.4 1.1 1.6 4.4 0.5 Commodity 0.2 0.1 1.6 0.2 1.1 Diversification 12.4 12.8 Total trading VaR 20.3 39.7 45.5 13.2 14.2 15.6 18.9 10.4 2007 Average Period end Maximum Minimum Including ABN AMRO m m m m Interest rate 12.5 15.0 21.8 7.6 Credit spread 18.8 41.9 45.2 12.6 Currency 2.6 3.0 6.9 1.1 Equity 5.4 14.0 22.0 1.4 Commodity 0.2 0.5 1.6 Diversification 28.7 Total trading VaR 21.6 45.7 50.1 13.2 84 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Backtesting The Group undertakes a programme of daily backtesting, exceptions are those instances when a realised loss exceeds which compares the actual profit or loss realised in trading the predicted VaR.
At the 99% confidence level, no more than activity to the VaR estimation.
The results of the backtesting one backtesting exception is expected every 100 trading process are one of the methods by which the Group monitors days.
The Group experienced three backtesting exceptions the ongoing suitability of its VaR model.
Backtesting at the consolidated Group level during 2007.
The Groups trading activities are carried out principally by Global Banking & Markets.
The chart below depicts the number of days on which Global Banking & Markets trading income fell within stated ranges.
25 20 15 10 5 0 Trading income m ii Stress testing iii Position risk and sensitivity analyses Stress testing measures the impact of abnormal changes in In addition to the VaR and stress testing measures discussed market rates and prices on the fair value of the Groups trading above, the Group calculates a wide range of sensitivity and portfolios.
GEMC approves the high-level market risk stress test position risk measures, for example interest rate ladders or limit for the Group.
These measures provide valuable additional controls, often at individual desk or strategy level.
The Group calculates a range of market risk stress tests each day.
The objective of stress testing is to identify the loss that Market risk controls the Groups current portfolio of trading book exposures would All divisions which incur market risk in the course of their generate in plausible but adverse market events.
The Group business are required to comply with the requirements of the calculates historical stress tests and hypothetical stress tests.
The main risk management tools are delegated authorities, specifically hard limits and discussion triggers.
Historical stress tests calculate the loss that would be generated if the market movements that occurred during a Limits form part of the dealing authorities and constitute one of historical market event were to be repeated.
Hypothetical the cornerstones of the market risk management framework.
stress tests calculate the loss that would be generated if a Their breach must be followed by appropriate action, as specific set of adverse market movements were to occur.
specified in detail in the MRPS.
Upon notification of a limit breach, the appropriate body must take either of the following In addition to the Group-level consolidated market risk stress actions: tests, stress testing is also undertaken at key trading strategy level.
Additional stress tests are undertaken for those strategies instructions can be given to reduce positions so as to bring where the associated market risks are not adequately captured the Group within the agreed limits, or by VaR.
a temporary increase in the limit for instance, in order to Stress test exposures are discussed with senior management allow orderly unwinding of positions can be granted, or and are reported to GRC, GEMC and the Board.
Breaches in the Groups market risk stress testing limit are reported to GRC, a permanent increase in the limit can be granted.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 85 20 20 18 18 16 16 14 14 12 12 10 10 8 8 6 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 2 2 4 4 6 6 8 8 10 10 12 12 14 14 16 16 18 18 20 20 22 22 24 24 26 26 28 28 30 30 32 32 34 34 36 36 38 38 Number of trading days Business review Business review continued Treasury Non-trading interest rate VaR The Groups treasury activities include its money market Non-trading interest rate VaR for the Groups treasury and retail business and the management of internal funds flow within the and commercial banking activities, including ABN AMRO on a Groups businesses.
Money market portfolios include cash fully consolidates basis, was 42.9 million at 31 December instruments principally debt securities, loans and deposits 2007 2006 40.2 million with the major exposure being to and related hedging derivatives.
VaR for the Groups treasury changes in longer term US dollar interest rates.
During the portfolios, which relates mainly to interest rate risk including year, the maximum VaR was 53.6 million 2006 98.7 credit spreads, was 5.5 million at 31 December 2007 2006 million, the minimum 32.9 million 2006 40.2 million and 1.5 million.
During the year the maximum VaR was 6.4 the average 43.2 million 2006 76.6 million.
million 2006 4.4 million, the minimum 1.3 million 2006 0.6 million and the average 3.7 million 2006 2.4 million.
Citizens was the main contributor to overall non-trading interest rate VaR.
It invests in portfolios of highly rated and liquid Retail and commercial banking investments, principally mortgage-backed securities issued Non-trading interest rate risk can arise in these activities from a by US Government-backed entities.
This balance sheet variety of sources, including where assets, liabilities and offmanagement approach is common for US retail banks where balance sheet instruments have different repricing dates.
mortgages are originated and then sold to Federal agencies for funding through the capital markets.
Non-trading interest rate risk is calculated in each business on the basis of establishing the repricing behaviour of each asset, VaR, like all interest rate risk measures, has limitations when liability and off-balance sheet product.
For many products, the applied to retail banking books and the management of actual interest rate repricing characteristics differ from the Citizens Financial Groups interest rate exposures involves a contractual repricing.
In most cases, the repricing maturity is number of other interest rate risk measures and related limits.
determined by the market interest rate that most closely fits the Two measures that are reported both to Citizens ALCO and the historical behaviour of the product interest rate.
For non Board are: interest bearing current accounts, the repricing maturity is determined by the stability of the portfolio.
The repricing The sensitivity of net accrual earnings to a series of parallel maturities used are approved by Group Treasury and divisional movements in interest rates: and asset and liability committees at least annually.
Key conventions are reviewed annually by GALCO.
Economic value of equity EVE sensitivity to a series of parallel movements in interest rates.
A static maturity gap report is produced as at the month-end for each business, in each functional currency based on the behaviouralised repricing for each product.
It is Group policy to include in the gap report, non-financial assets and liabilities, mainly property, plant and equipment and the Groups capital and reserves, spread over medium and longer term maturities.
This report also includes hedge transactions, principally derivatives.
Any residual non-trading interest rate exposures are controlled by limiting repricing mismatches in the individual business balance sheets.
Potential exposures to interest rate movements in the medium to long term are measured and controlled using a version of the same VaR methodology that is used for the Groups trading portfolios but without discount factors.
Net accrual income exposures are measured and controlled in terms of sensitivity over time to movements in interest rates.
Risk is managed within VaR limits approved by GALCO, through the execution of cash and derivative instruments.
Execution of the hedging is carried out by the relevant division through the Groups treasury functions.
The residual risk position is reported to divisional asset and liability committees, GALCO and the Board.
86 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review The limits applied to these measures are set to parallel EVE is the present value of the cash flows generated by the movements of -1% and -2%.
The EVE methodology current balance sheet.
EVE sensitivity to a 2% parallel captures deposit re-pricing strategies and the embedded movement upwards and downwards in US interest rates is option risks that exist within both the investment portfolio of shown below.
mortgage-backed securities and the consumer loan portfolio.
Percent increase decrease in Citizens EVE 2% parallel upward 2% parallel downward movement in movement in US interest rates US interest rates no negative rates allowed 2007 % % Period end 6.4 9.7 Maximum 10.1 10.3 Minimum 4.5 3.0 Average 8.0 7.6 2006 Period end 9.6 7.2 Maximum 10.1 10.3 Minimum 8.4 1.9 Average 9.4 6.0 For the Group, the other major structural interest rate risk arises exposure arising from net asset value, including goodwill, in from a low interest rate environment, particularly in sterling, foreign subsidiaries, equity accounted investments and sustained for a number of years.
In such a scenario, deposit branches, except where doing so would materially increase the pricing may reach effective floors below which it is not sensitivity of either the Groups or the subsidiarys regulatory practical to reduce rates further whilst variable rate asset capital ratios to currency movements.
The policy requires pricing continues to decline.
A sustained low rate scenario structural foreign exchange positions to be reviewed regularly would also generate progressively reduced income from the by GALCO.
Foreign exchange differences arising on the medium and long term hedging of non-interest bearing liabilities.
translation of foreign operations are recognised directly in equity together with the effective portion of foreign exchange Currency risk differences arising on hedging instruments.
The Group does not maintain material non-trading open currency positions other than the structural foreign currency Equity classification of foreign currency denominated translation exposures arising from its investments in foreign preference share issuances requires that these shares be held subsidiaries and associated undertakings and their related on the balance sheet at historic cost.
The Groups policy in relation to structural share issuances have the effect of increasing the Groups positions is to match fund the structural foreign currency structural foreign currency position.
The tables below set out the Groups structural foreign currency exposures.
Structural Net investments Net foreign in foreign investment currency operations hedges exposures 2007 m m m US dollar 14,819 2,844 11,975 Euro 46,629 41,220 5,409 Swiss franc 910 863 47 Chinese RMB 2,600 1,938 662 Brazilian real 3,755 3,755 Other non-sterling 2,995 875 2,120 71,708 47,740 23,968 2006 US dollar 15,036 5,278 9,758 Euro 3,059 1,696 1,363 Swiss franc 462 457 5 Chinese RMB 3,013 3,013 Other non-sterling 132 107 25 21,702 7,538 14,164 The exposure in Chinese RMB arises from the Groups strategic investment in Bank of China.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 87 Business review Business review continued Pension obligation risk The specific characteristics of each of the risks highlighted The Group is also exposed to risk from its defined benefit above are as follows: pension schemes.
The schemes assets comprise investment portfolios which are held to meet projected liabilities to the Underwriting and pricing risk: the Group manages underwriting scheme members.
Risk arises from the schemes because and pricing risk through a wide range of processes which returns from these portfolios may be less than expected and include: because there may be greater than expected increases in the estimated value of the schemes liabilities.
In these Underwriting guidelines that detail the class, nature and type circumstances, the Group could be obliged, or may choose, to of business that may be accepted: make additional contributions to the schemes.
Pricing policies which are set by senior management: Centralised control of policy wordings and any subsequent Equity risk changes.
Non-trading equity positions can result in changes in the Groups non-trading income and reserves arising from Claims management risk: arises if claims are handled or paid changes in equity prices income.
Claims are managed using a range of IT crystallise during the course of normal business activities or in system controls and manual processes conducted by stress market conditions.
These, together with a range of detailed policies and procedures, ensure that claims are handled in a There are several reasons for retaining equity positions in the timely, appropriate and accurate manner.
The processes Groups non-trading book, including achieving strategic include controls to avoid claims staff handling or paying claims objectives, expected capital gain and supporting venture beyond their level of authority, as well as controls to avoid capital transactions.
These investments are carried at fair value paying invalid claims.
Loss adjustors are used to handle with changes in fair value recorded in profit or loss, or in equity.
The types, nature and amounts of exchange-traded exposures, Reinsurance risk: the following types of reinsurance are used private equity exposures, and other exposures vary significantly.
to protect against the impact of major catastrophic events or Such exposures may take the form of listed and unlisted equity unforeseen volumes of or adverse trends in large individual shares, equity warrants and options, linked equity fund claims and to transfer risk that is outside the Groups current investments, private equity and venture capital investments, risk appetite.
Reinsurance of risks above the Groups risk preference shares classified as equity and capital stock in the appetite is only effective if the reinsurance premium payable Federal Home Loans Bank and the Federal Reserve Bank.
makes economic sense and the counterparty is financially secure.
Before entering a contract with a new reinsurer, it must Insurance risk satisfy the Credit Risk Approval process that uses information The Group is exposed to insurance risk, either directly through derived internally and from security ratings agencies.
its businesses or through using insurance as a tool to reduce Acceptable reinsurers are rated at Aor better unless other risk exposures.
specifically authorised by the RBS Insurance Group Board.
Effectively, an insurance contract transfers risk from the Excess of loss per individual risk reinsurance to protect policyholder to the insurer, whereby, in return for a premium against significantly large individual losses.
paid, the insurer indemnifies the policyholder on the occurrence of specified events.
Insurance risk arises through Excess of loss catastrophic event reinsurance to protect fluctuations in the timing, frequency and or severity of insured against major events, for example, windstorms or floods.
events, relative to the expectations at the time of underwriting.
Insurance risk is managed in four distinct ways: Quota share reinsurance to protect against unforeseen adverse trends, where the reinsurer takes an agreed Underwriting and pricing risk percentage of premiums and claims.
Claims management risk Reinsurance risk Other forms of reinsurance may also be utilised, subject to Reserving risk approval by senior management.
Overall, insurance risk is predictable, supported by large Reserving risk: arises when reserves are assessed incorrectly, volumes of data over time.
Uncertainty does exist, especially so that insufficient funds are retained to pay or handle claims around predictions, for example, variations in weather.
Risk is as they fall due either for claims which have already occurred minimised through the application of documented risk policies, in relation to the claims reserves including claims handling coupled with governance frameworks.
expense reserves or will occur in future periods of insurance 88 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review in relation to the premium reserves.
The Group holds Life business undiscounted claims reserves including reserves to cover The three regulated life companies of the Group, National claims which have been incurred but not reported IBNR Westminster Life Assurance Limited, Royal Scottish Assurance reserves for all classes at a sufficient level to meet all plc and Direct Line Life Insurance Company Limited, are liabilities as they fall due, having regard to actuarial estimates required to meet minimum capital requirements at all times and the volatility observed and expected in the claims in each under the Financial Service Authoritys Prudential Sourcebook.
Group policy ensures that the net unearned premium reserves are adequate to meet the expected cost of claims The capital resources covering the regulatory requirement are and associated expenses in relation to the exposure after the not transferable to other areas of the Group.
To ensure that the balance sheet date.
To the extent that the unearned premium capital requirement is satisfied at all times, each company reserves, net of reinsurance and deferred acquisition costs are holds a voluntary buffer above the regulatory minimum.
inadequate, a liability adequacy provision will be held.
The Group is not exposed to price, currency, credit, or interest The Groups policy is to hold appropriate levels of provisions, risk on unit linked life contracts but it is exposed to variation in typically in excess of the actuarial best estimate, for the major management fees.
A decrease of 10% in the value of the classes of business.
assets would reduce the asset management fees by 2 million per annum 2006 5 million.
The Group also writes Frequency and severity of specific risks and sources insurance contracts with minimum guaranteed death benefits of uncertainty that expose it to the risk that declines in the value of underlying The Groups focus in its insurance operation is on high volume investments may increase the Groups net exposure to death risk.
and relatively straightforward products, for example home and motor.
This facilitates the generation of comprehensive Operational risk underwriting and claims data, which are used to accurately Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business.
price and monitor the risks accepted.
This attention to data Operational risk losses occur as the result of fraud, human analysis is reinforced by tight controls on costs and claims error, missing or inadequately designed processes, failed handling procedures.
systems, damage to physical assets, improper behaviour or from external events.
Most general insurance contracts are written on an annual basis, which means that the Groups liability extends for a To ensure appropriate responsibility is allocated for the twelve month period, after which the Group is entitled to management, reporting and escalation of operational risk, the decline or renew or can impose renewal terms by amending Group operates a three lines of defence model which outlines the premium, terms and or conditions.
principles for the roles, responsibilities and accountabilities for operational risk management: Uncertainty regarding possible frequency and severity of claims arise as follows: The first line of defence is the business line management.
This is where the primary responsibility resides for the a Motor insurance contracts private and commercial : claims identification, management and mitigation of the risks experience varies, but the principal factors include age, associated with the products and processes of the business.
gender and driving experience, together with the type of This accountability includes regular testing and certification vehicle and location.
of the adequacy and effectiveness of controls and compliance with Group Policies including the Groups b Property insurance contracts residential and commercial : Operational Risk Policy and Principles ORPP.
short-term uncertainty is mainly driven by weather conditions.
Over a longer period, the strength of the economy is also a The second line of defence is the Operational Risk factor.
The Group Operational Risk department is responsible for the design and ownership of the ORPP.
The c Other commercial insurance contracts: claims may arise ORPP provides the principles and minimum standards for from business interruption and loss arising from the negligence delivering effective operational risk management.
It of the insured liability insurance.
Business interruption losses incorporates key processes including risk and control come from the loss of income, revenue and or profit as a result assessment, scenario analysis, loss data collection, new of property damage claims.
Liability insurance includes product approval process, key risk indicators, notifiable employers liability and public products liability.
events process, and the self certification process.
Implementation of the ORPP is facilitated and overseen by Fluctuations in the social, economic and legislative climate are Divisional Operational Risk teams who provide expert a source of uncertainty in the Groups general liability account, support and advice as well as oversight and challenge to and in particular court judgements and legislation, significant business line management.
events for example terrorist attacks, any emerging new heads of damage and types of claim that are not envisaged when the policy is written.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 89 Business review Business review continued The third line of defence is audit.
Group Internal Audit is The Group has co-operated fully with various regulatory responsible for assessing compliance with the ORPP and for reviews of the operation of retail banking and consumer credit providing independent evaluation of the adequacy and industries in the UK and elsewhere.
effectiveness of the risk and control framework.
These include the reviews by the Competition Commission and Basel II introduces for the first time, a specific capital charge the FSA into payment protection insurance, the OFTs reviews for operational risk.
From launch in 2008, the Group will initially of undertakings given following the Competition Commission apply the Standardised Approach.
inquiry in 2002 into the provision of banking services to SMEs.
The OFT is also inquiring into credit and debit card Regulatory risk and supervision interchange fees and has decided to undertake a fact find into The approach to regulatory risk has three distinct elements: unauthorised overdraft fees.
In the EU, the European Commission is inquiring into MasterCard cross border Review of potential changes in regulation to ensure the interchange fees and has announced that its inquiry into retail Group addresses the risks arising from such changes and banking has identified barriers to competition in certain areas implement them appropriately.
of retail banking, payment systems and cards.
Monitoring of compliance with existing rules and regulations As previously disclosed by ABN AMRO, the United States and mitigating the consequences of any inadvertent nonDepartment of Justice has been conducting a criminal compliance.
investigation into ABN AMROs dollar clearing activities, Office of Foreign Assets Control compliance procedures and other Management of effective relationships with regulators to Bank Secrecy Act compliance matters.
ABN AMRO has ensure open two-way communication.
cooperated and continues to cooperate fully with the investigation.
Prior to the acquisition by the Group, ABN AMRO The Group and its subsidiaries are fully engaged with had reached an agreement in principle with the Department of regulatory authorities in all the jurisdictions in which they Justice that would resolve all presently known aspects of the operate, in response to regulators on-going supervisory ongoing investigation by way of a Deferred Prosecution requirements.
Agreement in return for a settlement payment by ABN AMRO of US$500 million which amount was accrued by ABN AMRO Under a Group-wide framework of high-level policies, in its interim financial statements for the six months ended 30 regulatory risk is managed by developing, maintaining and June 2007.
Negotiations are continuing to enable a written implementing local policies and systems to ensure effective agreement to be concluded.
The Groups operating processes are designed so as to meet all regulatory and legal requirements in all Certain of the Groups subsidiaries have received requests for jurisdictions that the Group operates in.
information from various U. S. governmental agencies and selfregulatory organisations including in connection with sub-prime The Group works with domestic and international trade mortgages and securitisations, collateralised debt obligations associations, and proactively engages with regulators, and synthetic products related to sub-prime mortgages.
The especially the UK Financial Services Authority FSA, as well as Group and its subsidiaries are cooperating with these various with other influential stakeholders such as the Basel requests for information and investigations.
Committee, the Committee of European Banking Supervisors and the EU Commission, to gain an appropriate understanding The outcome of these reviews is outside the Groups control of planned changes and to contribute to regulatory policy and it is not possible to predict the effect, if any, on the formulation.
Groups operations of future changes in regulatory actions and policies.
Following the acquisition of ABN AMRO, the Group operates in over 50 countries.
In the normal course of business the Group and its subsidiaries co-operate with regulatory authorities in various jurisdictions in their enquiries or investigations into alleged or possible breaches of regulations.
90 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Governance 92 Board of directors and secretary 94 Report of the directors 99 Corporate governance 105 Directors remuneration report 115 Directors interests in shares 116 Statement of directors responsibilities RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 91 Governance
