Divisional profile Corporate Corporate Markets is focused on the provision of debt and risk GBM 2007 key global rankings Markets management services to medium and large businesses and ifr magazine named us Sterling Bond House financial institutions in the UK and around the world.
Its activities of the Year in 2007.
In the Risk Magazine Awards, we were named have been organised into two businesses, Global Banking & Inflation Derivatives House of 2007.
Markets and UK Corporate Banking, in order to enhance our focus on the distinct needs of these two customer segments.
Contribution m Global Banking & Markets is a leading banking partner to 07 3,832 major corporations and financial institutions around the world, 06 3,923 providing an extensive range of debt financing, risk management and investment services to its customers.
UKCB 2007 key highlights UK Corporate Banking is the largest provider of banking, Impairment losses fell 5%, reflecting the strong quality of the portfolio.
finance and risk management services to UK corporate Average loans and advances were up 11% and customers.
Through its network of relationship managers average deposits were up 14%.
across the country it distributes the full range of Corporate Markets products and services to companies.
Contribution m 07 2,398 06 2,193 Retail Retail Markets comprises Retail and Wealth Management.
Retail 2007 key highlights We opened more than 975,000 new personal current Markets accounts, maintaining the Groups joint number one Retail comprises both RBS and NatWest retail brands.
It offers position in that market.
a full range of banking products and related financial services Bancassurance grew sales by 28% to 342 million.
to the personal, premium and small business SMEs markets through the largest network of branches and ATMs in the UK, Contribution m by telephone and internet.
Retail is the UK market leader in SME banking.
Retail issues credit and charge cards and 07 4,073 06 3,830 other financial products through RBS, NatWest and other brands, including MINT, First Active UK and Tesco Personal Wealth Management 2007 key highlights Finance.
It is the leading merchant acquirer in Europe and Coutts & Cos UK income grew by 22%.
A ComPeer survey found Adam & Company market leading in providing investment operations, reporting Wealth Management provides private banking and and performance services to wealth managers investment services to its global clients through Coutts Group, Adam & Company, RBS International and NatWest Contribution m Offshore, in the UK and internationally in selected markets in Europe and Asia-Pacific.
07 558 06 462 Ulster Ulster Bank, including First Active, provides a comprehensive 2007 key highlights Bank range of financial services across the island of Ireland.
Retail Business lending grew by 29%, spread across a variety of industrial sectors.
Banking has a network of branches and operates in the Innovative products launched in 2007 included eSavings, personal, commercial and wealth management sectors.
First Active Regular Saver and Reward Reserve.
Corporate Markets provides services in the corporate and institutional markets.
Contribution m 07 732 06 636 06 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Divisional profile Citizens Citizens is engaged in retail and corporate banking activities 2007 key highlights through its branch network in 13 states in the US and through RBS Lynk, our US merchant acquiring business, processed 30% more transactions than in 2006. non-branch offices in other states.
Citizens was ranked the Kroger Personal Finance, our joint venture with the ninth largest commercial banking organisation in the US based second largest US supermarket group, sold over on deposits as at 30 September 2007.
Citizens Financial Group two million products.
includes the two Citizens Banks, RBS Lynk, our US merchant acquiring business, and Kroger Personal Finance, our credit card joint venture with the second largest US supermarket group.
Contribution $m 07 2,647 06 2,917 RBS RBS Insurance sells and underwrites retail and SME insurance 2007 key highlights Home insurance grew across all of our own brands in Insurance over the telephone and internet, as well as through brokers the second half, with sales of home policies through our and partnerships.
Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege sell bank branches up 40%.
general insurance products direct to the customer.
Through its As a founder signatory in 2007 of the ClimateWise International division, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, principles, we will work with government and customers mainly motor, in Spain, Germany and Italy.
The Intermediary to embed  behaviour.
and Broker division sells general insurance products through independent brokers.
Contribution m 07 902 06 964 Manufacturing Manufacturing supports the customer-facing businesses 2007 key highlights We held cost growth to 1%, despite investing to and provides operational technology, customer support in support increased transaction volumes and the telephony, account management, lending and money development of our businesses.
transmission, global purchasing, property and other services.
We helped to launch mobile phone banking Manufacturing drives efficiencies and supports income growth in September, allowing customers to access across multiple brands and channels by using a single, mini-statements and account balances through scalable platform and common processes wherever possible.
It also leverages the Groups purchasing power and has become the centre of excellence for managing large-scale Total costs m and complex change.
07 2,914 06 2,872 ABN AMRO ABN AMRO is a major international banking group with 2007 key highlights a leading position in international payments and a strong Transaction banking income rose 7%, reflecting strong growth in cash management balances and investment banking franchise with particular strengths in significant expansion in trade finance.
emerging markets, as well as offering a range of retail financial GBM and ABN AMROs capabilities will make us services in Asia and the Middle East, ABN AMRO has regional a global top five bank in products including Global business units in Europe, the Netherlands, North America, Securitisation, International Bonds and International Latin America and Asia.
The businesses of ABN AMRO to be Cash Management.
retained by RBS comprise principally its global wholesale businesses and its international retail businesses in Asia, Contribution m from date of acquisition 17 October 2007.
Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
07 128 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 07
