This resulted in a 17% reduction in in-force RBS Insurance has made good progress in 2007 in policies, but income fell by only 2%.
Total income was maintained at 5,656 partnerships and brokers fell by 22% as a result of floodmillion, in line with 2006 levels, with growth in our own-brand related claims.
Excluding the impact of the floods, contribution businesses offset by a decline in partnerships.
from partnerships and brokers increased by 18%.
Operating profit declined by 9% to 683 million, reflecting the For RBS Insurance as a whole, insurance premium income, net impact of the severe flooding experienced in June and July.
of fees and commissions, was 2% lower at 4,922 million, Excluding the 274 million impact of the floods, contribution reflecting modest growth in our own brands offset by a 5% grew by 22% and operating profit by 28%, supported by decline in the partnerships and broker segment.
Other income strong claims management and the benefits of improved risk rose by 11% to 734 million, reflecting increased investment selection in this and prior years.
We have continued to focus on income.
selective underwriting of more profitable business.
Total expenses were held flat at 963 million.
Within this, staff Our own-brand businesses have performed well, with income costs reduced by 7%, reflecting our continued focus on rising by 1% and contribution growing by 4%.
Excluding the improving efficiency whilst maintaining service standards.
A impact of the floods, own-brand contribution grew by 24%.
In 5% rise in non-staff costs reflects increased marketing the UK motor market we have pursued a strategy of targeting investment in our own brands.
lower risk drivers and have increased premium rates to offset claims inflation, improving profitability by implementing heavier Net claims rose by 1% to 4,010 million.
Gross claims relating price increases in higher risk categories.
Our international to the floods in June and July cost more than 330 million, with businesses performed well, with Spain delivering strong profit a net impact, after allowing for profit sharing and reinsurance, growth while, in line with plan, our German and Italian of 274 million.
Excluding the impact of the floods, net claims businesses also achieved profitability in 2007.
Home insurance costs were reduced by 7%.
In the motor book, while average grew across all of our own brands in the second half, and we claims costs have continued to rise, this has been mitigated by achieved particular success in the distribution of home policies improvements in risk selection and management and by through our bank branches, with sales up 40%.
continuing efficiencies in claims handling.
In our partnerships and broker business, providing The UK combined operating ratio for 2007, including underwriting and processing services to third parties, we have manufacturing costs, increased to 98.0%, reflecting a higher loss concentrated on more profitable opportunities and have ratio and the reduction in partnership income.
Excluding the consequently not renewed a number of large rescue contracts.
impact of the floods, the combined operating ratio was 91.9%.
We also pulled back from some less profitable segments of the RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 61 Business review Business review continued 2006 compared with 2005 Insurance premium income was up 2% to 5,501 million, RBS Insurance increased total income by 3% to 5,679 million, reflecting a modest overall increase in the total number of with contribution also rising by 3% to 964 million and in-force policies.
operating profit by the same percentage to 749 million.
Net fees and commissions payable increased by 8% to We achieved overall policy growth of 1% in our businesses 486 million, whilst other income rose by 22% to 664 million, including excellent progress in our European businesses.
Our joint venture in Spain grew policy numbers by 14% to 1.34 million.
Total expenses rose by 3% to 960 million.
Good cost discipline held direct expenses to 745 million, up 2%.
Staff In the UK we have grown our own-brand motor book by 3% costs rose by 1%, reflecting improved efficiency despite whilst focusing on more profitable customers acquired through continued investment in service standards.
A 4% rise in nonour direct brands, with good results achieved through the staff costs included increased marketing expenditure to internet channel, which accounted for half of all new ownsupport growth in continental Europe.
brand motor policies last year.
Net claims rose by 4% to 3,970 million.
The environment for We implemented price rises in motor insurance in the second home claims remained benign, whilst underlying increases in half of the year, and average motor premium rates across the average motor claims costs were partially offset by purchasing market increased in the fourth quarter.
Higher premium rates efficiencies and improvements in risk management.
will, however, take time to feed through into income, and competition on prices remains strong.
The UK combined operating ratio for 2006, including Manufacturing costs, was 94.6%, compared with 93.4% in Our own-brand non-motor personal lines policies were flat, 2005, reflecting a higher loss ratio and the discontinuation despite particularly good progress in Tesco Personal Finance.
SME has also performed well with policies sold through our intermediary business growing by 10%.
However, some of our partnership books continue to age and we did not renew a number of other partnerships.
As a result, the number of partnership policies in force fell by 1%.
62 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review
