Group profile RBS was named Global Bank of the Year 2007 by The Banker magazine Great Britain Americas Corporate Markets Corporate Markets Retail Markets Citizens Ulster Bank ABN AMRO RBS Insurance Manufacturing ABN AMRO The Royal Bank of Scotland has operated in Great Britain since 1727.
Citizens Financial Group CFG was a small Rhode Island company The Group enjoys leading positions in a number of markets, including when RBS acquired it in 1988.
It has since grown to become the ninth corporate and SME banking, current accounts, merchant acquiring and largest US commercial banking group based on deposits.
In corporate banking, RBS is the number one brand in NatWest acquisition in 2000, Greenwich Capital joined the Group.
RBS England & Wales and Scotland while RBS and NatWest rank first and Greenwich Capital is among the principal suppliers of corporate finance second among major high street banks for customers who say they are and debt capital markets services across the US.
extremely satisfied with their main current account provider.
Our US brands include Citizens, Charter One, RBS Greenwich Capital, As well as RBS and NatWest, our brands include Direct Line, Churchill, RBS Lynk and the Kroger Personal Finance joint venture.
The ABN AMRO Coutts and Lombard.
Last year saw the tenth anniversary of our Tesco acquisition extends our presence in the Americas, a market of 750 million Personal Finance joint venture.
In 2007 we expanded our UK businesses people and GDP of $19,000 billion in 2007.
We will continue to develop and see attractive options for continued organic growth.
our strong US franchises while capitalising on these new opportunities.
We operate the largest free-to-use ATM network in the UK Citizens is the ninth largest bank in the US ranked by deposits.
Global Banking & Markets in North America has a relationship Our Global Banking & Markets division GBM has a relationship with 80% of the Fortune 100 companies.
with more than 95% of the FTSE 100 companies.
RBS Greenwich Capitals Interest Rate Derivatives business is RBS Insurance is the UKs number one car insurer and ranked in the top five in the US.
number two for general and household insurance.
04 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group profile Europe and Middle East Asia-Pacific Corporate Markets Corporate Markets Retail Markets Retail Markets Ulster Bank Manufacturing RBS Insurance ABN AMRO Manufacturing ABN AMRO Ulster Bank became part of RBS on the acquisition of NatWest in 2000, RBS has grown organically in Asia-Pacific, building on our strengths in giving the Group a presence in retail and corporate banking across the businesses such as wealth management and project finance.
In recent years we have achieved strong organic growth we entered into a strategic partnership with the Bank of China.
The in corporate markets in continental Europe and the Nordic region through acquisition of ABN AMRO enhances our presence in the fastest-growing GBM.
With the acquisition of ABN AMRO, GBM ranks number one in region of the world economy.
Europe in terms of relationships with large corporates and financial institutions.
Direct Line operates in Germany, Italy and Spain.
We have In 2007, the countries in which we have a presence in the Asia-Pacific recently developed our presence in the Middle East, most notably region had a combined population approaching 3.4 billion people.
through our private banking and wealth management businesses.
With GDP of more than $27,500 billion, its economy is already more than twice the size of the US.
Between 2000 and 2007, these countries are In 2007, the countries in which we have a presence in Europe and the estimated to have grown by 86%.
Despite their rapid growth, and including Middle East had a combined population of more than 750 million people.
Japan, GDP per person in the Asia-Pacific countries in which we operate Their GDP of over $15,000 billion makes the region more than seven stood at only 17% of the US level in 2007, implying that there remains times the size of the UK.
scope for continued growth over the long term.
RBS has a relationship with more than 95% of the RBS is the number five corporate bank in Asia-Pacific, excluding Dow Jones Eurostoxx 50.
Japan, as measured by number of corporate relationships.
In Europe, our GBM Divisions income grew by 39%.
With the ABN AMRO acquisition, we have access to 3.7 million new retail customers.
Ulster Bank has more than 1,100 ATMs.
RBS Coutts grew income by 51% in US dollar terms.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 05
