Report of the directors The directors have pleasure in presenting their report together Financial performance with the audited accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
A review of the Groups performance during the year ended 31 December 2007, including details of each division, and Profit and dividends the Groups financial position as at that date is contained in The profit attributable to the ordinary shareholders of the the Business review on pages 34 to 69. company for the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to 7,303 million compared with 6,202 million for the year ended Business developments 31 December 2006, as set out in the consolidated income In October 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. RFS Holdings, a statement on page 120. company jointly owned by the company, Fortis N. V. Fortis SA NV and Banco Santander S. A. the Consortium Banks An interim dividend of 10.1p per ordinary share was paid on and controlled by the company, completed the acquisition of 5 October 2007 totalling 953 million 2006 771 million.
ABN AMRO Holding N. V. ABN AMRO.
The directors now recommend that, subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, a final dividend of 23.1p per ordinary In due course, RFS Holdings will implement an orderly share totalling 2.3 billion 2006 2.1 billion be paid on separation of the business units of ABN AMRO with the 6 June 2008 to members on the register at the close of company retaining the following ABN AMRO business units: business on 7 March 2008.
Continuing businesses of Business Unit North America: Business Unit Global Clients and wholesale clients in the Business review Netherlands including former Dutch wholesale clients and Activities Latin America excluding Brazil : The company is a holding company owning the entire issued Business Unit Asia excluding Saudi Hollandi : and ordinary share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland, the Business Unit Europe excluding Antonveneta.
principal direct operating subsidiary undertaking of the Certain other assets will continue to be shared by the company.
The Group comprises the company and all its Consortium Banks.
subsidiary and associated undertakings, including The Royal Bank of Scotland and NatWest.
Details of the principal Employees subsidiary undertakings of the company are shown in Note 16 As at 31 December 2007, the Group employed over 226,000 on the accounts.
employees full-time equivalent basis throughout the world including almost 90,000 employees in ABN AMRO.
Details of The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of employee related costs are included in Note 2 on the accounts banking, insurance and other financial services.
Further details on page 140. of the organisational structure and business overview of the Group, including the products and services provided by each Employee recruitment of its divisions and the competitive markets in which they Across the Group worldwide, over 30,000 employees are operate, is contained on pages 30 to 32 of the Business recruited at different levels every year.
The Group utilises a wide review.
range of recruitment channels including its in-house search function, external executive search suppliers, general advertising, Risk factors an open internal jobs market, talent reviews and detailed The Groups future performance and results could be succession planning to ensure that the recruitment and materially different from expected results depending on the development of its employees is fully aligned to its organisational outcome of certain potential risks and uncertainties.
the principal risk factors the Group faces are given on pages 32 and 33 of the Business review.
Employee reward The Group recognises that its continuing success is closely The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the linked to the performance, skills and individual commitment of accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie its employees.
the preparation of its financial statements.
Details of the Groups critical accounting policies and key sources of The Group aims to attract and retain the most talented people.
accounting judgements are included in the Accounting policies To stay ahead of the market, salaries are routinely compared on pages 131 to 138. with those paid for similar roles by competitors, and individual performance is recognised and rewarded.
The Groups approach to risk management, including its financial risk management objectives and policies and The Group offers a comprehensive remuneration and benefits information on the Groups exposure to price, credit, liquidity package, Total Reward, to all employees.
Total Reward is and cash flow risk is discussed in Note 31 on the accounts.
externally recognised as offering one of the most innovative and flexible remuneration and benefits programmes in the financial services sector.
94 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Within this package, RBSelect, the Groups benefits choice The Group recognises employer representative organisations programme, aims to provide employees with a wide range of such as trade unions and work councils in a number of benefits to choose from that suits their needs and lifestyle.
The Group has a European aim is to make sure there are choices to suit everyone right Employee Communication Council that provides elected across the Group, and during 2007 this approach was representatives with an opportunity to better understand the extended to a number of non-UK employees.
impact on its European operations.
Employees also participate in bonus incentive plans specific to Diversity their business and share in the Groups ongoing success The Groups Managing Diversity policy sets a framework for through the Profit Share, Buy As You Earn and Sharesave broadening the Groups talent base, achieving the highest schemes, which align their interests with those of levels of performance and enabling all employees to reach shareholders.
their full potential irrespective of age, disability, gender, marital status, political opinion, race, religious belief or sexual Employee learning and development orientation.
The Group maintains a strong commitment to creating and providing learning opportunities for all its employees through a The Group is also committed to ensuring that all prospective variety of personal development and training programmes and applicants for employment are treated fairly and equitably learning networks.
The Groups employees are encouraged to throughout the recruitment process.
Its comprehensive volunteer to work with its community partners.
The Group resourcing standards cover the attraction and retention of continues to invest in leadership and management individuals with disabilities.
Reasonable adjustments are development which is consistent with its objective of being the provided to support applicants in the recruitment process employer of choice: attracting, rewarding and retaining the where these are required.
The Group provides reasonable very best talent.
workplace adjustments for new entrants into the Group and for existing employees who become disabled during their Many of the Groups development programmes are delivered employment.
at the RBS Business School based on the Gogarburn Campus.
Health, safety, wellbeing and security Employee communication The health, safety, wellbeing and security of employees and Employee engagement is encouraged through a range of customers continues to be a priority for the Group.
Regular communication channels, at both a divisional and Group level.
reviews are undertaken of both policies and processes to These channels provide access to news and information in a ensure compliance with current legislation and best practice.
number of ways, including the intranet, magazines, team The Group focus is on ensuring that these policies are closely meetings led by line managers, briefings held by senior linked to the operational needs of the business.
Health and managers and regular dialogue with employees and employee safety standards within high risk areas and activities have been representatives.
reviewed and action taken to further improve performance.
The Group Chief Executive and other senior Group executives During 2007, the development of global health, safety and regularly communicate with employees through Question Time wellbeing arrangements has been a key priority, to ensure style programmes, broadcast on the Groups internal television equitable standards of health and safety for all Group network.
The Employee Assistance Programme, which provides advice on a range of personal and work related Employee consultation matters, has been further enhanced and the coverage Each year, all employees are invited to complete the global extended during the year.
The survey is confidential and independently managed by Towers-Perrin Independent Survey Pre-employment screening Research TP-ISR.
The survey provides a channel for The Group has a comprehensive pre-employment screening employees to express their views and opinions about the policy to guard against possible infiltration and employeeGroup on a range of key issues.
In addition to existing workplace security measures, all people engaged in the Group are screened prior In 2007, the response rate was 90%.
This is the highest it has to commencing employment.
ever been, and 20% higher than the financial services norm.
This represents over 129,000 employees participating in the Code of ethics survey across 36 countries and in nine languages.
Online The Group has a code of ethics applicable to all employees coverage of the survey increased to 95% globally.
in every country of its operations and is available in eleven languages.
The Group outperformed the global financial services norm in every one of the 15 categories for the third year in succession.
The survey results are presented to the Board and at divisional and team levels.
Action plans are developed to address any issues identified.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 95 Governance Report of the directors continued Corporate responsibility Authority to repurchase shares Business excellence requires that the Group meets changing At the Annual General Meeting in 2007, shareholders renewed customer, shareholder, investor, employee and supplier the authority for the company to make market purchases expectations.
The Group believes that meeting high standards of up to 958,712,195 ordinary shares.
The directors have not of environmental, social and ethical responsibility is key to the exercised this authority to date.
Shareholders will be asked to way it does business.
renew this authority at the Annual General Meeting in April 2008.
In 2007, the Group undertook a survey to identify and prioritise Additional information the issues that stakeholders care about in relation to the Where not provided previously in the Report of the directors, financial services sector.
This allows the Group to focus the following provides the additional information required to be corporate responsibility activities on issues which matter most disclosed by Part 7 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
Financial crime and corruption is the primary focus, followed by consumer banking issues, employee Details of the ordinary and preference share capital are practices, direct environmental impact, community investment, provided in Note 26 on the accounts on pages 177 to 179. global lending and project finance, financial inclusion and The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary capability and support for small businesses.
The Group takes shares and preference shares are set out in the companys all these responsibilities seriously, continually monitoring and Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from managing them through policies and practices across the Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Group Group.
The Board regularly considers corporate responsibility Secretary and General Counsel.
issues and receives a formal report on these each year.
On a show of hands at a general meeting of the company Further details of the Groups corporate responsibility policies every holder of ordinary shares and cumulative preference will be contained in the 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report.
shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have one vote.
On a poll, every holder of ordinary shares Going concern present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote shall have The directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate one vote for every share held.
On a poll, holders of cumulative resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
preference shares present in person or by proxy and entitled For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern to vote shall have four votes for every share held.
The Notice basis for preparing the accounts.
of the Annual General Meeting specifies the deadlines for exercising voting rights and appointing a proxy or proxies to Corporate governance vote in relation to resolutions to be passed at the general The company is committed to high standards of corporate meeting.
Details are given on pages 99 to 104.
The cumulative preference shares represent less than 0.04% of Ordinary share capital the total voting rights of the company, the remaining being In May 2007, the company capitalised 1,576 million of its represented by the ordinary shares.
share premium account by way of a bonus issue of two new ordinary shares of 25p each for every one ordinary share held There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in by shareholders at close of business on 4 May 2007.
As of the company other than certain restrictions which may from 8 May 2007, the authorised ordinary share capital of the time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, company increased by 1,609 million 6,434,972,616 ordinary insider trading laws.
Pursuant to the Listing Rules of the shares of 25p each and the allotted, called-up and fully paid Financial Services Authority certain employees of the company ordinary share capital increased by 1,576 million require the approval of the company to deal in the companys 6,304,298,670 ordinary shares of 25p each.
During the year, the ordinary share capital was also increased A number of the companys share plans include restrictions on by 530.6 million ordinary shares issued to former ABN AMRO transfers of shares while the shares are subject to the plans, in shareholders and 19.1 million ordinary shares allotted as a particular the Employee Share Ownership Plan.
result of the exercise of options under the companys share schemes.
The rights and obligations of holders of non-cumulative preference shares are set out in Note 26 on the accounts on Details of the authorised and issued ordinary share capital at page 179.
31 December 2007 are shown in Note 26 on the accounts.
The company is not aware of any agreements between Preference share capital shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer Details of issues and redemptions of preference shares during of securities and or voting rights.
There are no persons holding the year and the authorised and issued preference share capital securities carrying special rights with regard to control of at 31 December 2007 are shown in Note 26 on the accounts.
96 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Under the rules of certain employee share plans, eligible Directors interests employees are entitled to acquire shares in the company, and The interests of the directors in the shares of the company at shares are held in trust for participants by The Royal Bank of 31 December 2007 are shown on page 115.
None of the Scotland and Ulster Bank Dublin Trust Company as Trustees.
directors held an interest in the loan capital of the company Voting rights are exercised by the Trustees on receipt of or in the shares and loan capital of any of the subsidiary participants instructions.
If a participant does not submit an undertakings of the company, during the period from 1 instruction to the Trustee no vote is registered.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc 2001 Employee Share Directors' indemnities Trust and The Royal Bank of Scotland plc 1992 Employee In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, the Share Trust are used to hold shares on behalf of the Groups directors of the company, members of the Group Executive executive share plans.
The voting rights are exercisable by the Management Committee and Approved Persons of the Group Trustees, however, in accordance with investor protection under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 have guidelines, the Trustees abstain from voting.
The Trustees been granted Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions by would take independent advice before accepting any offer for the company.
the company in a takeover bid situation.
In terms of section 236 of the Companies Act 2006, Qualifying The rules governing the appointment of directors is set out in Pension Scheme Indemnity Provisions QPSIP have been the Corporate Governance Report on page 99.
The companys issued by the company to a number of pension Articles of Association may only be amended by a special trustees directors of in-house corporate trustees of the resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
The intention is to issue QPSIPs to all pension trustees of the Groups pension schemes during A change of control of the company following a takeover bid 2008. may cause a number of agreements to which the company is party to take effect, alter or terminate.
In addition, a number of Directors' disclosure to auditors: executive directors' service agreements may be affected on a Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report change of control.
All of the companys employee share plans confirms that: contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding awards and options may vest and become exercisable on a so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit change of control, subject where appropriate to the satisfaction information of which the companys auditors are unaware: of any performance conditions at that time and pro-rating of and awards.
In the context of the company as a whole, these b the director has taken all the steps that he she ought to agreements are not considered to be significant.
have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Directors companys auditors are aware of that information.
The names and brief biographical details of the directors are shown on pages 92 and 93.
All directors served throughout the This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in year and to the date of signing of the financial statements.
accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Larry Fish became non-executive Chairman, RBS America and Citizens Financial Group, Inc. with effect from 1 January 2008.
On 1 May 2008, he will become a non-executive director of the company and will continue in the role of non-executive Chairman, RBS America and Citizens Financial Group, Inc. Colin Buchan, Jim Currie, Janis Kong, Sir Tom McKillop, Sir Steve Robson and Guy Whittaker will retire and offer themselves for re-election at the companys Annual General Meeting on 23 April 2008.
Details of the service agreement for Guy Whittaker are set out on pages 108 and 109.
No other director seeking election or re-election has a service agreement.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 97 Governance Report of the directors continued Shareholdings The table below shows the shareholders that have notified us that they hold more than 3% of the voting rights in the undernoted classes of shares.
Number of shares % held Number of shares % held 1 Ordinary shares: 5 2% cumulative preference shares: Legal & General Group plc 504,686,799 5.04 Mr P S and Mrs J M Allen: 11% cumulative preference shares: Miss C L Allen, and Miss J C Allen 451,796 28.23 Guardian Royal Exchange Assurance plc 129,830 25.97 Commercial Union Assurance plc 91,429 22.86 Windsor Life Assurance Company Limited 51,510 10.30 Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited 46,255 11.56 Mr S. J. and Mrs J.
A. Cockburn 15,520 3.10 E M Behrens Charitable Trust 20,000 5.00 Mr Stephen J Cockburn 15,290 3.06 Mrs Gina Wild 19,800 4.95 Cleaning Tokens Limited 25,500 5.10 Trustees of The Stephen Cockburn Limited Pension Scheme 19,879 4.97 Miss Elizabeth Hill 16,124 4.03 Mr W. T. Hardison Jr. 13,532 3.38 Notification has been received on behalf of Mr A. W. R. Medlock and Mrs H. M. Medlock that they each have an interest in the holding 1 of 5 2% cumulative preference shares registered in the name of Bassett-Patrick Securities Limited noted above and that there are further holdings of 5,300 and 5,000 shares, respectively, of that class registered in each of their names.
Charitable contributions Auditors In 2007 the contribution to the Groups Community Investment The auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated their programmes was 57.7 million 2006 58.6 million.
willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint The total amount given for charitable purposes by the company Deloitte & Touche LLP as the companys auditor will be and its subsidiary undertakings during the year ended proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Political donations At the Annual General Meeting in 2006, shareholders gave Miller McLean authority for the company to make political donations and incur Secretary political expenditure up to a maximum aggregate sum of 27 February 2008 500,000 as a precautionary measure in light of the wide definitions in The Political Parties, Elections and Referendums The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc Act 2000, for a period of four years.
These authorities have not is registered in Scotland No.
No political donations were made during the year and it is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors The Group is committed to maintaining a sound commercial relationship with its suppliers.
Consequently, it is the Groups policy to negotiate and agree terms and conditions with its suppliers, which includes the giving of an undertaking to pay suppliers within 30 days of receipt of a correctly prepared invoice submitted in accordance with the terms of the contract or such other payment period as may be agreed.
At 31 December 2007, the Groups trade creditors represented 30 days 2006 28 days of amounts invoiced by suppliers.
98 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance
