Business review Description of business banking proposition and customers are able to access services Introduction through a full range of channels, including the largest network of The Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc is the holding company of branches and ATMs in the UK, the internet and the telephone.
one of the worlds largest banking and financial services groups, with a market capitalisation of 44.4 billion at the end of 2007.
Retail also includes the Groups non-branch based retail Headquartered in Edinburgh, the Group operates in the UK, US businesses that issue a comprehensive range of credit and and internationally through its two principal subsidiaries, the Royal charge cards to personal and corporate customers and provides Bank and NatWest.
Both the Royal Bank and NatWest are major card processing services for retail businesses.
Retail is the UK clearing banks whose origins go back over 275 years.
In the leading merchant acquirer in Europe and ranks third globally.
US, the Groups subsidiary Citizens is ranked the ninth largest commercial banking organisation by deposits.
The Group has a It also includes Tesco Personal Finance, The One account, MINT, large and diversified customer base and provides a wide range of First Active UK, Direct Line Financial Services and Lombard Direct, products and services to personal, commercial and large all of which offer products to customers through direct channels corporate and institutional customers.
In continental Europe, Retail offers a similar range of products through the RBS and Comfort Card brands.
The Group had total assets of 1,900.5 billion and owners equity of 53.0 billion at 31 December 2007.
It is strongly capitalised Wealth Management provides private banking and investment with a total capital ratio of 11.2% and tier 1 capital ratio of 7.3% services to its clients through a number of leading UK and as at 31 December 2007. overseas private banking subsidiaries and offshore banking businesses.
Coutts is one of the world's leading international Organisational structure and business overview wealth managers with offices in Switzerland, Dubai, Monaco, The Groups activities are organised in the following business Hong Kong and Singapore, as well as its premier position in the divisions: Corporate Markets comprising Global Banking & UK.
Adam & Company is the major private bank in Scotland.
The Markets and UK Corporate Banking, Retail Markets comprising offshore banking businesses The Royal Bank of Scotland Retail and Wealth Management, Ulster Bank, Citizens, RBS International and NatWest Offshore deliver retail banking Insurance and Manufacturing.
A description of each of the services to local and expatriate customers, principally in the divisions is given below.
Channel Islands, the Isle of Man and Gibraltar.
Corporate Markets is focused on the provision of debt and risk Ulster Bank Group including First Active, provides a management services to medium and large businesses and comprehensive range of retail and wholesale financial services in financial institutions in the UK and around the world.
the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, supported by an extensive network of branch and business centres.
Retail Markets Global Banking & Markets GBM is a leading banking partner to operates in the personal and affluent banking sectors.
Corporate major corporations and financial institutions around the world, Markets provides a wide range of services in the commercial, providing an extensive range of debt financing, risk management corporate and wealth markets.
RBSs European Consumer and investment services to its customers.
GBM has a wide range Finance ECF activities, previously part of RBS Retail Markets, of clients across its chosen markets.
It has relationships with an are now managed within Ulster Bank.
ECF provides consumer overwhelming majority of the largest UK, European and US finance products, particularly card-based revolving credits and corporations and institutions.
GBMs principal activity in the US is fixed-term loans, in Germany and the Benelux countries.
conducted through RBS Greenwich Capital.
Citizens is the second largest commercial banking organisation in UK Corporate Banking is the largest provider of banking, finance New England and the ninth largest commercial banking and risk management services to UK corporate customers.
organisation in the US measured by deposits.
Citizens provides Through its network of relationship managers across the country it retail and corporate banking services under the Citizens brand in distributes the full range of Corporate Markets products and Connecticut, Delaware, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New services to companies.
Jersey, New York state, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island and Vermont and the Charter One brand in Illinois, Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.
Retail Markets leads the co-ordination and delivery of our multiThrough its branch network Citizens provides a full range of retail brand retail strategy across our product range and comprises and corporate banking services, including personal banking, Retail including our direct channels businesses and Wealth residential mortgages and cash management.
In addition, Citizens engages in a wide variety of commercial Retail comprises both the Royal Bank and NatWest retail brands, lending, consumer lending, commercial and consumer deposit and a number of direct providers offering a full range of banking products, merchant credit card services, trust services and retail products and related financial services to the personal, premium investment services.
Citizens includes RBS Lynk, our merchant and small business markets across several distribution channels.
acquiring business, and Kroger Personal Finance, our credit card joint venture with the second largest US supermarket group.
In core retail banking, Retail offers a comprehensive product range across the personal and small business market: money RBS Insurance is the second largest general insurer in the UK, by transmission, savings, loans, mortgages and insurance.
It sells and underwrites retail and SME insurance over the telephone and internet, as well as through Customer choice and product flexibility are central to the retail 30 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review brokers and partnerships.
Direct Line, Churchill and Privilege sell Competition for corporate and institutional customers in the UK general insurance products direct to the customer.
Through its is from UK banks and from large foreign financial institutions International Division, RBS Insurance sells general insurance, who are also active and offer combined investment and mainly motor, in Spain, Germany and Italy.
The Intermediary and commercial banking capabilities.
In asset finance, the Group Broker Division sells general insurance products through competes with banks and specialised asset finance providers, independent brokers.
In European and Asian corporate and institutional banking markets the Group Manufacturing supports the customer-facing businesses and competes with the large domestic banks active in these provides operational, technology and customer support in markets and with the major international banks.
telephony, account management, lending and money transmission, global purchasing, property and other services.
In the small business banking market, the Group competes with other UK clearing banks, specialist finance providers and Manufacturing drives optimum efficiencies and supports building societies.
income growth across multiple brands and channels by using a single, scalable platform and common processes wherever In the personal banking segment the Group competes with UK possible.
It also leverages the Groups purchasing power and banks and building societies, major retailers, life assurance has become the centre of excellence for managing large-scale companies and internet-only players.
In the mortgage market and complex change.
the Group competes with UK banks and building societies.
The Groups life assurance businesses compete with Independent The expenditure incurred by Manufacturing relates to costs Financial Advisers and life assurance companies.
principally in respect of the Groups banking and insurance operations in the UK and Ireland.
These costs reflect activities In the UK credit card market large retailers and specialist card that are shared between the various customer-facing divisions issuers, including major US operators, are active in addition to and consequently cannot be directly attributed to individual the UK banks.
Competitive activity is across a number of divisions.
Instead, the Group monitors and controls each of its dimensions including introductory and longer term pricing, customer-facing divisions on revenue generation and direct loyalty and reward schemes, and packaged benefits.
In costs whilst in Manufacturing such control is exercised through addition to physical distribution channels, providers compete appropriate efficiency measures and targets.
For financial through direct marketing activity and the internet.
The market reporting purposes the Manufacturing costs have been remains competitive, both between issuers and with other allocated to the relevant customer-facing divisions on a basis payment methods.
management considers to be reasonable.
In Europe, Asia and the Middle East, the enlarged Group now ABN AMRO is a major international banking group with a competes in retail banking with local and international banks.
leading position in international payments and a strong In a number of these markets there are regulatory barriers to investment banking franchise with particular strengths in entry or expansion, and the state ownership of banks.
emerging markets, as well as offering a range of retail and Competition is generally intensifying as more players enter commercial financial services around the world via regional markets that are perceived to be fide-regulating and offer business units in Europe, the Netherlands, North America, significant growth potential.
In Wealth Management, The Royal Bank of Scotland International As discussed on page 28, ABN AMRO was acquired by the competes with other UK and international banks to offer offshore Consortium Banks in October 2007 through the Group's banking services.
Coutts and Adam & Company compete as subsidiary, RFS Holdings.
The ABN AMRO business units that private banks with UK clearing and private banks, and with international private banks.
Competition in wealth management will be retained by RBS are principally the global wholesale activities has intensified as banks have increased their focus on businesses and international retail businesses in Asia and the competing for affluent and high net worth customers.
In due course, these will be integrated with the Group's existing business and will further diversify the Group's RBS Insurance competes in personal lines insurance and, to a global reach.
limited extent, in commercial insurance.
There is strong competition from a range of insurance companies which now The Centre comprises group and corporate functions, such as operate telephone and internet direct sales businesses.
capital raising, finance, risk management, legal, communications Competition in the UK motor market remains particularly and human resources.
The Centre manages the Groups capital intense, and price comparison internet sites now play a major requirements and Group-wide regulatory projects and provides role in the marketplace.
RBS Insurance also competes with services to the operating divisions.
local insurance companies in the direct motor insurance markets in Spain, Italy and Germany.
Competition The Group faces intense competition in all the markets it serves.
In the UK, the Groups principal competitors are the other UK retail and commercial banks, building societies and the other major international banks represented in London.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Business review Business review continued In Ireland, Ulster Bank and First Active compete in retail and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies and affect earnings commercial banking with the major Irish banks and building reported by the Groups non-UK subsidiaries, mainly Citizens, societies, and with other UK and international banks and RBS Greenwich Capital and Ulster Bank, and may affect income building societies active in the market.
Competition is from foreign exchange dealing.
The performance of financial intensifying as UK, Irish and other European institutions seek to markets may cause changes in the value of the Groups expand their businesses.
The Group has implemented risk management methods to mitigate and control these and other In the United States, where competition is intense, Citizens market risks to which the Group is exposed.
However, it is difficult competes in the New England, Mid-Atlantic and Mid West retail to predict with accuracy changes in economic or market and mid-corporate banking markets with local and regional conditions and to anticipate the effects that such changes could banks and other financial institutions.
The Group also have on the Groups financial performance and business competes in the US in large corporate lending and specialised operations.
finance markets, and in fixed-income trading and sales.
Competition is principally with the large US commercial and The Groups business performance could be affected if its capital investment banks and international banks active in the US.
resources are not managed effectively The Groups capital is critical to its ability to operate its Risk factors businesses, to grow organically and to take advantage of Set out below are certain risk factors which could affect the strategic opportunities.
The Group is required by regulators in the Groups future results and cause them to be materially different UK and in other jurisdictions in which it undertakes regulated from expected results.
The Groups results are also affected by activities to maintain adequate capital resources.
The Group competition and other factors.
The factors discussed in this report mitigates the risk by careful management of its balance sheet and should not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive capital resources, through capital raising activities, disciplined statement of all potential risks and uncertainties.
capital allocation and the hedging of capital currency exposures.
The Group's business and earnings are affected by general Liquidity risk is inherent in the Groups operations business and geopolitical conditions Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to meet its The performance of the Group is influenced by economic obligations as they fall due.
This risk is inherent in banking conditions particularly in the UK, US and Europe.
Downturns in operations and can be heightened by a number of enterprise these economies could result in a general reduction in business specific factors such as an over reliance on a particular source of activity and a consequent loss of income for the Group.
It could funding, changes in credit ratings or by market-wide phenomena also cause a higher incidence of credit losses and losses in the such as market dislocation and major disasters.
The Groups Groups trading portfolios.
Geopolitical conditions can also affect liquidity management focuses on maintaining a diverse and the Groups earnings.
Terrorist acts and threats and the response appropriate funding strategy for its assets, in controlling the of governments in the UK, US and elsewhere to them could affect mis-match of maturities and from carefully monitoring its undrawn the level of economic activity.
The Groups business is also commitments and contingent liabilities.
exposed to the risk of business interruption and economic slowdown following the outbreak of a pandemic.
The Groups future earnings could be affected by market illiquidity Financial markets are sometimes subject to significant stress The financial performance of the Group is affected by borrower conditions where steep falls in perceived or actual asset values credit quality are accompanied by severe reduction in market liquidity, such as Risks arising from changes in credit quality and the recoverability recent events in the U. S. sub-prime residential mortgage market.
of loans and amounts due from counterparties are inherent in a In dislocated markets, hedging and other risk management wide range of the Groups businesses.
Adverse changes in the strategies may not be as effective as they are in normal market credit quality of the Groups borrowers and counterparties or a conditions.
Severe market events are difficult to foresee and, if general deterioration in UK, US, European or global economic they occur, could result in the Group incurring significant losses.
In conditions, or arising from systemic risks in the financial systems, 2007, the Group recorded significant write-downs on its credit could affect the recoverability and value of the Groups assets market positions, principally on its US sub-prime exposures.
The and require an increase in the provision for impairment losses and Group continues to have exposure to this market and as market other provisions.
conditions change the fair value of the Groups instruments could fall further.
Furthermore, recent market volatility and illiquidity has Changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, equity prices made it difficult to value certain of the Groups financial and other market factors affect the Groups business instruments.
Valuations in future periods, reflecting prevailing The most significant market risks the Group faces are interest rate, market conditions, may result in significant changes in the fair foreign exchange and bond and equity price risks.
Changes in values of these instruments.
In addition, the value ultimately interest rate levels, yield curves and spreads may affect the realised by the Group will depend on the market price at that time interest rate margin realised between lending and borrowing and may be materially lower than current fair value.
Changes in currency rates, particularly in the sterling-dollar factors could require the Group to recognise further write-downs and sterling-euro exchange rates, affect the value of assets and which may adversely affect the Groups future results.
32 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review The Groups insurance businesses are subject to inherent risks Future growth in the Groups earnings and shareholder value involving claims depends on strategic decisions regarding organic growth and Future claims in the Groups general and life assurance business potential acquisitions may be higher than expected as a result of changing trends The Group devotes substantial management and planning in claims experience resulting from catastrophic weather resources to the development of strategic plans for organic conditions, demographic developments, changes in mortality growth and identification of possible acquisitions, supported by and other causes outside the Groups control.
Such changes substantial expenditure to generate growth in customer business.
would affect the profitability of current and future insurance If these strategic plans do not meet with success, the Groups products and services.
The Group re-insures some of the risks earnings could grow more slowly or decline.
The risk of litigation is inherent in the Groups operations Operational risks are inherent in the Groups business In the ordinary course of the Groups business, legal actions, The Groups businesses are dependent on the ability to process a claims against and by the Group and arbitrations arise: the very large number of transactions efficiently and accurately.
outcome of such legal proceedings could affect the financial Operational losses can result from fraud, errors by employees, performance of the Group.
failure to document transactions properly or to obtain proper authorisation, failure to comply with regulatory requirements and The Group is exposed to the risk of changes in tax legislation and Conduct of Business rules, equipment failures, natural disasters its interpretation and to increases in the rate of corporate and or the failure of external systems, for example, the Groups other taxes in the jurisdictions in which it operates suppliers or counterparties.
Although the Group has implemented The Groups activities are subject to tax at various rates around risk controls and loss mitigation actions, and substantial resources the world computed in accordance with local legislation and are devoted to developing efficient procedures and to staff practice.
Action by governments to increase tax rates or to impose training, it is only possible to be reasonably, but not absolutely, additional taxes would reduce the profitability of the Group.
certain that such procedures will be effective in controlling each of Revisions to tax legislation or to its interpretation might also affect the operational risks faced by the Group.
the Group's results in the future.
Each of the Groups businesses is subject to substantial The Consortium Banks proposals for the restructuring of regulation and regulatory oversight.
Any significant regulatory ABN AMRO are complex and may not realise the anticipated developments could have an effect on how the Group conducts benefits for the Group its business and on the results of operations The restructuring plan is complex, involving substantial The Group is subject to financial services laws, regulations, reorganisation of ABN AMROs operations and legal structure.
administrative actions and policies in each location in which In addition, it contemplates activities taking place simultaneously the Group operates.
This supervision and regulation, in a number of businesses and jurisdictions.
Implementation of in particular in the UK and US, if changed could materially the reorganisation and the realisation of the forecast benefits affect the Groups business, the products and services offered within the planned timescales will be challenging.
Execution of or the value of assets.
the restructuring requires management resource previously devoted to Group businesses and the retention of appropriately skilled ABN AMRO staff.
The Group may not realise the benefits of the restructuring when expected or at all.
RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Business review
