Presentation of information In the Report and Accounts, and unless specified otherwise, to implement IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and the term company means The Royal Bank of Scotland Group Measurement, IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and plc, RBS or the Group means the company and its subsidiary Presentation and IFRS 4 Insurance Contracts from 1 January undertakings, the Royal Bank means The Royal Bank of 2005 without restating its 2004 income statement and balance Scotland plc and NatWest means National Westminster Bank Plc.
The date of transition to IFRS for the Group and the company and the date of their opening IFRS balance sheets The company publishes its financial statements in pounds was 1 January 2004. sterling or sterling.
The abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of pounds The Groups published 2004 financial statements were prepared sterling, respectively, and references to pence represent in accordance with then current UK generally accepted pence in the United Kingdom UK.
Reference to dollars or accounting principles UK GAAP or previous GAAP $ are to United States of America US dollars.
The comprising standards issued by the UK Accounting Standards abbreviations $m and $bn represent millions and thousands Board, pronouncements of the Urgent Issues Task Force, of millions of dollars, respectively, and references to cents relevant Statements of Recommended Accounting Practice represent cents in the US.
The abbreviation represents the and provisions of the Companies Act 1985. euro, the European single currency and the abbreviations m and bn represent millions and thousands of millions of euros, Acquisition of ABN AMRO respectively.
On 17 October 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. RFS Holdings, a company jointly owned by RBS, Fortis N. V. Fortis SA NV and Certain information in this report is presented separately for Banco Santander S. A. the Consortium Banks and controlled domestic and foreign activities.
Domestic activities primarily by RBS, completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. consist of the UK domestic transactions of the Group.
activities comprise the Groups transactions conducted through those offices in the UK specifically organised to In due course, RFS Holdings will implement an orderly service international banking transactions and transactions separation of the business units of ABN AMRO with RBS conducted through offices outside the UK.
retaining the following ABN AMRO business units: Continuing businesses of Business Unit North America: The geographic analysis in the average balance sheet and Business Unit Global Clients and wholesale clients in the interest rates, changes in net interest income and average Netherlands including former Dutch wholesale clients and interest rates, yields, spreads and margins in this report have Latin America excluding Brazil : been compiled on the basis of location of office UK and Business Unit Asia excluding Saudi Hollandi : and overseas.
Management believes that this presentation provides Business Unit Europe excluding Antonveneta.
more useful information on the Groups yields, spreads and Certain other assets will continue to be shared by the margins of the Groups activities than would be provided by Consortium Banks.
presentation on the basis of the domestic and foreign activities analysis used elsewhere in this report as it more closely Statutory results reflects the basis on which the Group is managed.
UK in this RFS Holdings is jointly owned by the Consortium Banks.
It is context includes domestic transactions and transactions controlled by the company and is therefore fully consolidated conducted through the offices in the UK which service in its financial statements.
Consequently, the statutory results of international banking transactions.
the Group for the year ended 31 December 2007 include the results of ABN AMRO for the period from 17 October 2007 to The results, assets and liabilities of individual business units 31 December 2007.
The interests of Fortis and Santander are are classified as trading or non-trading based on their included in minority interests.
Although this method may result in some non-trading activity being classified as trading, and vice versa, the Group believes that any resulting misclassification is not material.
International Financial Reporting Standards As required by the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the European Union IAS Regulation, the consolidated financial statements of the Group are prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee of the IASB together IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
It also complies with IFRS as issued by the IASB.
On implementation of IFRS on 1 January 2005, the Group took advantage of the option in IFRS 1 Firsttime Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards 28 RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review
