Board of directors and secretary 12 3 45 6 78 9 Chairman Executive directors Group Finance Director 1.
Sir Tom McKillop age 64 Group Chief Executive 3.
Sir Fred Goodwin age 49 C Appointed to the Board as Deputy Chairman in DUniv, FCIBS, FCIB, FIB, LLD Appointed to the Board in February 2006, Guy September 2005, Sir Tom is a non-executive director of C Whittaker joined RBS after spending 25 years with BP p. l. c. and president of the Science Council.
He was Appointed to the Board in August 1998, Sir Fred Citigroup.
He was formerly the Group treasurer based formerly chief executive of AstraZeneca PLC, and was is a Chartered Accountant.
He was formerly chief in New York and prior to that had held a number of previously president of the European Federation of executive and director, Clydesdale Bank PLC and management positions within the financial markets Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations and Yorkshire Bank PLC.
He is chairman of The Princes business based in London.
chairman of the British Pharma Group.
He is a trustee Trust, a non-executive director of Bank of China Limited of the Council for Industry and Higher Education.
and a former president of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
Chief Executive, Corporate Markets Chairman, RBS America and Chairman, Managing Board, ABN AMRO 4.
Johnny Cameron age 53 FCIBS Citizens Financial Group, Inc. 6.
Mark Fisher age 47 FCIBS Appointed to the Board in March 2006, Johnny 5.
Lawrence Fish age 63 Appointed to the Board in March 2006, Mark Fisher is a Cameron joined RBS from Dresdner Kleinwort Benson Appointed to the Board in January 1993, Lawrence Fish career banker having joined National Westminster Bank in 1998.
In 2000, he was appointed Deputy Chief is an American national.
He is a career banker and was Plc in 1981.
In 2000, he was appointed Chief Executive, Executive of Corporate Banking & Financial Markets previously a director of the Federal Reserve Bank of Manufacturing with various responsibilities including the CBFM with responsibility for the integration of the Boston.
He is a an incorporator of the Massachusetts integration of RBS and NatWest systems platforms.
NatWest and RBS Corporate Banking businesses.
Institute of Technology MIT, a trustee of The Brookings Mark Fisher is Chief Executive Officer of ABN AMRO In October 2001 he was appointed Chief Executive Institution, and a director of Textron Inc. and numerous and was appointed as Chairman of the Managing CBFM, subsequently renamed Corporate Markets community organisations in the USA.
Board in November 2007. in January 2006.
Chief Executive, Retail Markets Non-executive directors 9.
Gordon Pell age 58 FCIBS, FCIB 8.
Colin Buchan age 53 R Appointed to the Board in March 2000, Gordon Pell A, C, R Appointed to the Board in November 2001, Jim Currie was formerly group director of Lloyds TSB UK Retail Appointed to the Board in June 2002, Colin Buchan is a highly experienced senior international civil servant Banking before joining National Westminster Bank Plc was educated in South Africa and spent the early part who spent many years working in Brussels and as a director in February 2000 and then becoming of his career in South Africa and the Far East.
He was formerly director general at the Chief Executive, Retail Banking.
He is also a director considerable international investment banking European Commission with responsibility for the EUs of Race for Opportunity and a member of the FSA experience, as well as experience in very large risk environmental policy and director general for Customs Practitioner Panel.
He was appointed chairman of the management in the equities business.
He was formerly and Excise and Indirect Taxation.
He is currently a Business Commission on Racial Equality in the a member of the group management board of UBS AG director of Total Upstream UK Limited, The Met Office Workplace in July 2006 and deputy chairman of the and head of equities of UBS Warburg, and was the and Vimetco N. V. as well as an international adviser to Board of the British Bankers Association in September former chairman of UBS Securities Canada Inc.
2007. director of Standard Life plc, Merrill Lynch World Mining Trust Plc, Merrill Lynch Gold Limited, Royal Scottish National Orchestra Society Limited and World Mining Investment Company Limited.
Charles Bud Koch age 61 A A Chairman, C, N Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Bud Koch Appointed to the Board in March 2006, Bill Friedrich is Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Archie is an American national.
He has extensive professional the former deputy chief executive of BG Group plc.
He Hunter is a Chartered Accountant.
He was Scottish experience in the USA and is immediate past chairman previously served as general counsel for British Gas plc senior partner of KPMG between 1992 and 1999 and of the board of John Carroll University and a trustee of and is a former partner of Shearman & Sterling where president of The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Case Western Reserve University.
He was chairman, he practised as a general corporate lawyer working for Scotland in 1997 1998.
He has extensive professional president and chief executive officer of Charter One several of the world's leading financial institutions.
experience in the UK and North and South America.
He Financial, Inc. and its wholly owned subsidiary, Charter is currently chairman of Macfarlane Group plc, a One Bank, N. A. between 1973 and 2004.
He is also a director of Edinburgh US Tracker Trust plc and a director of Assurant, Inc and a public interest director governor of the Beatson Institute for Cancer Research.
of the Federal Home Loan Bank of Cincinnati.
Sir Steve Robson age 64 R A A Appointed to the Board in January 2006, Janis Kong Appointed to the Board in September 2004, Joe Appointed to the Board in July 2001, Sir Steve was formerly executive chairman of Heathrow Airport MacHale is currently the senior independent director is a former senior UK civil servant, who had Limited, chairman of Heathrow Express Limited and a and chairman of the audit committee of Morgan responsibility for a wide variety of Treasury matters.
She is currently a non-executive Crucible plc, a non-executive director and chairman of early career included the post of private secretary to director of Kingfisher plc and Portmeirion Group plc.
the remuneration committee of Brit Insurance Holdings the Chancellor of the Exchequer and secondment to She is also chairman of Forum for the Future and a plc, and a trustee of MacMillan Cancer Support.
He was also a second permanent member of the board of Visit Britain.
held a number of senior executive positions with J P secretary of HM Treasury, where he was managing Morgan between 1979 and 2001 and was latterly chief director of the Finance and Regulation Directorate.
He executive of J P Morgan Europe, Middle East and is a non-executive director of JP Morgan Cazenove Africa Region.
Holdings, Xstrata Plc, The Financial Reporting Council Limited and Partnerships UK plc, and a member of the Chairmans Advisory Committee of KPMG.
Peter Sutherland age 61 KCMG Group Secretary and General Counsel C, N, R Chairman C, N, R 18.
Miller McLean age 58 Appointed to the Board in January 2001, Bob Scott is Appointed to the Board in January 2001, Peter FCIBS, FIB an Australian national.
He is the senior independent Sutherland is an Irish national.
He is a former attorney C director.
He has many years experience in the general of Ireland and from 1985 to 1989 was the Miller McLean was appointed Group Secretary in international insurance business and played a leading European Commissioner responsible for competition August 1994.
He is a trustee of the Industry and role in the consolidation of the UK insurance industry.
He is chairman of BP p. l. c. and Goldman Sachs Parliament Trust, non-executive chairman of The He is a former group chief executive of CGNU plc now International.
He was formerly chairman of Allied Irish Whitehall and Industry Group, director of The Scottish Aviva plc and former chairman of the board of the Bank and director general of GATT and its successor, Parliament and Business Exchange and president of Association of British Insurers.
He is currently chairman the World Trade Organisation.
the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland.
of Yell Group plc and a non-executive director of Swiss Reinsurance Company and Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc.
He is also a trustee of the Crimestoppers A member of the Audit Committee Trust, an adviser to Duke Street Capital Private Equity C member of the Chairmans Advisory Group and a board member of Pension Insurance Corporation N member of the Nominations Committee Holdings LLP.
R member of the Remuneration Committee independent non-executive director RBS Group Annual Report and Accounts 2007 93 Governance
