Business review 10 11 We increased our pool of working and Financial strength to investment capital Schroders has a substantial pool of capital invest for the future to support the business, derived from retained earnings and the proceeds from the sale of the investment banking business in April 2000.
This capital is deployed in accordance with limits approved by the Board.
It is divided between: The profit of 299.7 million generated in the year was Regulatory and working capital used in a number of ways 716 million 2006: 654 million.
Distributions to shareholders This represents the Groups investment 80.3 million of the profit earned in the in the underlying operating companies year was distributed to shareholders via the and the capital required for the day to day payment of dividends and the repurchase management of the business, together of our own shares.
with retained profits awaiting distribution The dividends declared and paid in 2007, to the Group holding companies.
being the final dividend for 2006 and the interim dividend for 2007, came to 26.5 Investment capital consists of: pence per share or 74.9 million, an increase Fixed income and money market of 11.5 million on 2006.
Share buybacks net 371 million 2006: 312 million of inflows from the exercise of share options totalled 5.4 million in the year.
This comprises cash, money market A final dividend of 21.0 pence per share or investments and fixed income securities, 59.4 million for the year ended 31 December designed to give flexibility to react to the 2007 has been recommended by the Board.
changing requirements of the business.
The return on these assets in the year Investment in organic growth was 3.4 per cent.
2006: 4.3 per cent.. We are continually looking at ways of improving our product offering, investing Other investment capital in our people and increasing operational 609 million 2006: 477 million efficiency.
During the year we increased This comprises investments to support new average headcount across the business by products through short-term seed capital 172, whilst reducing our ratio of compensation investments as well as longer-term costs to operating revenue.
We invested investments in hedge, property and private 47.3 million in infrastructure projects.
The return for the year on these investments reflected in the income statement Investment in acquisitions was 17.4 per cent.
In February 2007, we acquired Aareal Asset The strength of our capital position enables Management, a pan-European property asset us to maintain our credit ratings, provides manager based in Germany, for an initial our clients and counterparties with continued consideration of 27.7 million.
This added confidence in the resilience of our business 1.3 billion of funds under management at over the long-term and gives us the flexibility acquisition.
The business was integrated to consider acquisition opportunities as they with our existing property business to create become available.
a pan-European property business with 9.2 billion of funds under management.
In November, subject to certain conditions, including regulatory approval, we reached agreement to acquire the Singapore-based private client advisory unit of the Commonwealth Bank of Australia for a consideration of approximately 5.0 million.
This transaction completed on 29 February 2008.
The unit will be managed as part of the Private Banking business segment.
Business review As a result many company schemes have We are well placed ceased to provide benefits and others have been closed to new members.
to take advantage of Unable, therefore, to rely on the state or their employers to provide adequate earningslonger-term changes related defined benefit pensions, many of todays workers are increasingly obliged to in our industry take personal responsibility for their savings through defined contribution schemes.
Key global demographic trends are changing These changes have significant implications the outlook for savings and therefore the for the nature of both institutional and retail long-term outlook for Schroders.
In the major western economies average We see the landscape changing for asset life expectancy has increased by over management businesses in the following 10 per cent.
in the period 1960 to 2005, areas: with further increases expected.
Taking Growth in products for the defined a retirement age of 65, life expectancy contribution sector to complement our post-retirement has nearly tripled in existing product range, reflecting the this period.
continued emergence and importance Birth rates are falling across the major of the individual in the savings sector: western economies.
Allied to increased Continued growth in demand for alternative life spans this will dramatically increase products as savers diversify their investment the ratio of non-working age individuals portfolios in pursuit of higher, risk adjusted, to those of working age 20-65 in the long-term returns: next 30-40 years.
Innovative and complex new products Increased life expectancy will require savers to cater for the needs of the instividual, to accumulate more assets before retirement for example, retail investors grouped in order to generate income that will last them together in defined contribution schemes through their retirement years.
At the same that consequently have resources similar time reduced birth rates will decrease the to institutions and who therefore expect supply of new workers to help fund longerinstitutional quality service and access: living retirees.
This will have a major impact Distribution partnerships becoming on the cost of state-provided pensions, and increasingly important within the industry suggests that few individuals in developed as the number of investors turning to economies will be able to rely solely on intermediaries for advice grows: and government pension schemes to fund their retirement.
Continued increase in demand for outcome oriented products and strategic solutions The weak equity markets in 2000-2003 as clients seek to minimise shortfall risks and changes in accounting practices left without sacrificing upside potential.
many defined benefit pension schemes underfunded and exposed to risks their sponsors may find difficult to control.
