Business review Geographic split of income Schroders is a global asset The majority of our income was earned outside the UK 70 per cent.. management company with over 200 years of experience UK 30% in the worlds financial markets.
Europe 39% Asia Pacific 21% Americas 10% We serve institutional and retail investors, alternative asset classes such as property, 2007 financial institutions and high net worth agriculture and commodities, private equity clients, providing them with a broad range and funds of hedge funds.
These asset We work with a number of different clients of investment products, to meet their classes have seen an increase in demand Our core skills in devising, producing and long-term investment goals.
Their attraction is based delivering products for clients across the on the opportunities that they offer to We believe that: full range of asset management activities provide uncorrelated sources of return the interplay between market economics allow us to meet the needs of a broad for portfolio diversification purposes and and long-term trends in demographics, spectrum of clients, which we group into: the prospect of generating superior risk investments and savings offers exciting adjusted returns.
growth prospects for the asset Asset Management management industry: Institutional where we manage assets, in Funds under management pooled or segregated form, on behalf of large our research-based approach, both corporate, local authority, central government fundamental and quantitative, allows and charitable entities, including both defined us to identify and exploit inefficiencies Equities 57% benefit and defined contribution pension inherent in the marketplace, using a Fixed income 9% funds.
Our Institutional business accounts disciplined investment process to add for 33 per cent.
Alternatives 11% value to client assets: of our total funds under management.
Multi-asset 16% our focus on asset management Private Banking 7% minimises conflicts of interest and aligns 31 December 2007 Retail where we manage assets on behalf of our objectives with those of our clients.
individuals, via mutual funds and investment trusts, to address their investment needs The breadth of our product range is designed Our goal is to be a pre-eminent provider of including defined contribution pension to accommodate a wide spectrum of investor active asset management services to our schemes, delivered in a variety of user-friendly needs and risk appetites and to provide worldwide clients and in doing so reward forms.
This business accounts for 45 per cent.
solutions to meet our clients investment our shareholders by growing returns on a of income and 40 per cent.
Our service offering extends from sustainable basis over the long-term.
We have developed strong benchmark products with limited risk, relationships with our distribution partners designed to deliver returns in excess of market A highly diversified business, by across the globe, from local banks and indices, to high alpha products designed to product, geography and client independent financial advisers to global exceed benchmarks by a greater margin but We provide our clients with varied solutions banks and insurance companies, through with higher associated risk.
We also provide to address their investment needs, allowing which we distribute a range of Schroders unconstrained products designed to deliver the flexibility to invest across a wide range of branded or sub-advised mutual funds.
returns independent of benchmarks and products, including: absolute return products that focus on capital a broad range of equity products Private Banking protection as well as growth.
covering different regions, industry Where we manage assets on behalf of Schroders is a dynamic organisation sectors, investment styles and risk reward high net worth individuals and family offices.
that prides itself on its innovation and characteristics.
Our approach is researchWe focus on growing and preserving wealth, specialisation.
Our goals are completely based using an extensive group of analysts utilising the knowledge of our economics and aligned with those of our clients the located around the world in markets in investment strategy teams, and using both creation of long-term value.
which we invest, combined with quantitative proprietary Schroders investment products research and risk management.
and external funds in structuring our clients We operate on a global scale with 37 offices portfolios, to provide a highly personal private fixed income securities in all major in 28 countries banking service to wealthy individuals and currencies including sovereign debt, Schroders accesses clients in the traditional their advisers.
We provide a full range high-grade corporate bonds, high-yield areas of the UK, Europe, North America of products including deposit-taking, instruments and emerging market debt.
and Japan, where the demand for asset cash management, custody and execution Todays fixed income markets demand a management services is long established, services, advisory and discretionary asset deep, global knowledge of credit markets as well as in the fast-growing savings pools management and specialised lending.
Private borne of local insight.
We have credit teams in emerging and more recently developed Banking accounts for 11 per cent.
of income located on the ground in Asia, the UK and economies in the Middle East, Asia Pacific and 7 per cent.
the Americas to support our fixed income and Latin America.
Business review 4 5 International Investment Centres All offices provide sales and distribution services Dubai Bermuda Buenos Aires Amsterdam Jersey Paris Beijing Shanghai Cayman Islands So Paulo Copenhagen Lisbon Rome Hong Kong Singapore Mexico City Frankfurt London Stockholm Jakarta Sydney New York Geneva Luxembourg Vienna Melbourne Taipei Philadelphia Guernsey Madrid Wiesbaden Mumbai Tokyo Gibraltar Milan Zurich Seoul Funds under management by client 2007 2006 Institutional 2007 53% 2006 60% Retail 2007 40% 2006 33% Private Banking 2007 7% 2006 7% Income by client 2007 2006 Institutional 2007 37% 2006 40% Retail 2007 51% 2006 47% Private Banking 2007 12% 2006 13% Business review We aim to provide excellent client service Schroders has developed under stable ownership for over 200 years and long-term thinking governs not only our approach to investing but also to building client relationships.
We operate in a highly competitive industry where clients have many choices.
We aim to excel in client service and offer partnerships of real value to the client over and above the immediate product we are providing.
Institutional clients will often come to us through their own adviser or consultant.
The assignments we are given by clients are typically highly specific and dovetail with their other investments in a range of asset classes and with the other managers they employ.
We are judged in relation to performance against client objectives and the quality of the client service and advice we provide.
In our Retail channel we work very closely with banks, insurance companies and independent financial advisers.
These intermediaries advise the ultimate client and we support them by designing products which meet their client needs.
In Private Banking we advise wealthy individuals directly.
Our high net worth clients are looking to maintain or grow their assets after taking into account inflation, taxes, fees and other charges.
We work with them in realising their goals using the full range of Schroders capabilities combined with thirdparty products.
We have a transparent organisational structure Asset Management To allow us to serve our clients effectively, we are organised into three main areas: Investment where we produce solutions and manufacture products to meet client needs All investment activities are managed within a single division with a clear objective of delivering performance which meets or exceeds client objectives.
Investment professionals are located in Europe, Asia and the Americas, close to the markets in which we invest.
The division plays a key role in product design, concentrating particularly on the risk reward features of each product and is responsible for delivering reliable and sustainable investment performance, reflecting specific investment objectives.
Our investment function encourages the sharing of portfolio and research excellence management across the organisation.
Business review 6 7 Distribution which is responsible for Key to our model is a philosophy that, led Product risk delivering products to institutional and by management, it is the responsibility of The risk of maintaining a very broad product retail clients all employees across the Group to ensure range across multiple asset classes, whilst We look to build successful, long-term that the control culture of Schroders is continuing to develop new products to meet relationships with clients across a wide spread embedded within our working practices changes in client demands.
of locations and markets by understanding and in everything that we do.
We have a dedicated product their investment requirements and ensuring development team with clear product that we provide suitable investment solutions.
We have a number of specific risks approval procedures which combines We design and develop innovative product associated with our business model representation from Investment, strategies that respond to client needs.
This which we manage actively Distribution and Infrastructure.
We also process is supported by sales and client Like any successful business we are have an established product review service teams which cover the full range of exposed to a range of risks.
These risks, if not process designed to ensure that we strategies, market segments, distribution managed properly, could lead to the Group appropriately manage our product range, channels, products and geographies.
not being able to meet its objectives.
Some including the continual assessment of of them, like the risks inherent in taking active capacity constraints.
Infrastructure which is responsible for the investment decisions on behalf of clients, are operational platform and ensures quality the risks we are in business to take.
Our focus Human resource risk assurance, control and efficiency is on managing risk rather than eliminating it.
There is an increasing requirement for This area provides and maintains the Others, like regulatory and compliance risk, scarce, specialist skills as the range of operating platform and services necessary are risks that we seek actively to avoid.
our product offering deepens and our to deliver our products to clients whilst We monitor performance across more investment and distribution strategies ensuring that we meet the high standards develop into more complex areas.
of quality assurance and control expected Risks are managed in a variety of different We have competitive remuneration by our clients and regulatory bodies.
Our ways, depending on the nature of the risk plans, with appropriate deferred benefits, administrative systems are concentrated and the areas potentially affected, to ensure targeted at key staff.
in four key centres London, Singapore, that wherever appropriate, their impacts Luxembourg and Switzerland.
This ensures Setting clear objectives and measuring are mitigated.
a wide reach across the globe while success in the annual review process delivering economies of scale in both front allows us to identify employee Our key risks, and the ways in which and middle offices and in the associated development initiatives which are we mitigate them, include: operations and administration platforms.
a motivational force in retaining Market risk talented executives.
Infrastructure responsibilities range from The risk that market conditions will lead Operations, Information Technology, Human to a reduction in revenues across asset Business continuity risk Resources and Facilities to Finance, Tax, classes through a decline in existing funds Underpinning our whole proposition is the Legal, Risk and Compliance.
In addition, this under management, a reduction in further need to ensure that in a global marketplace area manages all the Groups major projects investment flows mainly from retail clients we are able to continue to operate in and outsourcing arrangements.
and a decline in the valuation of principal difficult conditions.
Private Banking Continuity planning is in place across the We have a broad product range enabling Private Banking offers specialist financial business with clear identification of key us to provide clients with solutions tailored solutions to high net worth individuals, staff and their involvement in business to a variety of market conditions.
families and their advisers, across the globe, resumption plans, as well as regular We hedge our principal investments to utilising Schroders asset management skills testing of communication plans.
reduce market risk where possible and and external providers.
Dedicated relationship While the increase in the concentration monitor performance on a regular basis.
management is core to our activities to of global systems presents further risks, ensure that we gain a detailed understanding additional resilience and contingency Investment performance risk of our clients needs in order to provide arrangements are in place including the The risk to delivery of relative performance customised solutions geared to their financial relocation of the key computer servers and the delivery of performance on absolute goals.
Our Private Banking Service Centre in and back-ups away from London.
return funds, particularly in the current Zurich provides the integrated infrastructure challenging market environment.
resources to support this business.
Group-wide insurance is held against business interruptions that cause a loss We adhere to a clearly defined investment We actively manage risk of revenue.
process in all asset classes which is As an organisation, the management of risk combined with a programme of continuous is embedded in our corporate culture, in the Project risk review and improvement.
way we operate and the way we manage The risk that ineffective project implementation Individual portfolio performance, valuations all aspects of our business.
could lead to sub-optimal solutions being and risk profiles are monitored on a regular delivered on our key projects.
The senior management team, supported basis through the year, allowing issues in by a number of central risk management We have a dedicated Change Management these areas to be identified and mitigating functions, takes the lead role in ensuring Team overseeing all major projects, actions to be taken.
that proper controls are in place across the ensuring that a consistent Group-wide Recognising that not all products will business to maintain the quality standards rigour is brought to the initiation, approval outperform all of the time, we offer a expected by our clients and regulators and monitoring of projects.
diversified product set which reduces the across the globe.
We do not implement live projects before concentration of risk on the performance they have been fully tested.
of any one fund or asset class.
