Business review 12 13 range and new investment strategies, Our priorities as a means of maximising their savings consistent with their personal risk profiles.
We for 2008 have also been working with intermediaries to enhance the packaging of combined investments to provide a range of lifestyle savings products designed to suit different stages of life and financial circumstances.
Looking forward to 2008 We will continue to drive for operational We will continue to support our clients efficiencies and increased productivity, through the challenging market conditions particularly across our infrastructure, to that began in the second half of 2007, deliver both process consistency and cost offering a relationship of real value over effectiveness across our core operating and above the immediate product we are hubs.
This will ensure that we can continue providing.
In uncertain financial markets, to invest in those areas that are of strategic fulfilling our client requirements for good importance in delivering our long-term advice and maintaining solid investment growth ambitions.
performance, particularly on a risk adjusted We intend to continue the expansion of basis, will be paramount.
We will continue our global reach, whilst at the same time to help our clients to understand their risk consolidating and improving our position in management options and implement markets where we already have a presence.
solutions for their investment needs.
This In 2008, we expect to begin trading in India will include reviewing their asset allocations, and will be looking to strengthen our market where possible, and increasing the diversity position in North America and Asia Pacific of their investment portfolios.
through increased investment in people In order to offer further diversification of and products.
risk, we expect continued growth in our Our Private Banking division will seek Global Diversified Growth Fund, providing growth in both funds under management investment exposure to a range of asset and revenues.
classes, including alternatives, in such a way as to diversify asset class risk whilst We are well placed for further growth enhancing total expected return.
Products 2007 was a year of strong financial such as this will help us to meet the growing performance to the highest level in demand for specialist products for pension our 203-year history.
We saw improved fund trustees and plan sponsors.
performance in our core business areas with increased gross margins in Asset We plan to expand our offering of alternative Management and good growth in revenues investments, meaning greater levels of and profit from Private Banking.
accessibility for our clients in terms of investing in property, hedge funds of funds, private 2008 will undoubtedly be a more challenging equity, multi-manager, commodities and year.
However, our programme of investing in agriculture and absolute return products.
the business for the longer-term will continue In January 2008, we launched the Diversified and the Group is well positioned to meet these Completion Fund to offer alternative challenges, with a highly diversified business investments for pension funds.
These geographically by client and by product.
products allow individual investors greater exposure to a more diversified product
