DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS Directors and Managers Members of the Board come from a broad variety of backgrounds.
The Board can draw on a very extensive pool of knowledge and experience.
Baillie Gifford & Co, a leading UK investment management rm, who act as Managers and Secretaries to the Company have done so since its formation in 1909.
3 MM Gray 5 JPHS Scott Directors Michael Gray is 59 and joined the John Scott is a former international 1 Sir Donald MacKay Board in 2004 after a successful career investment banker who maintains a Sir Donald MacKay, the Chairman, is in printing and technology industries number of interests in the investment trust an economist with an extensive record where he gained valuable global business sector.
John is 54 and was appointed a in advising governments, organisations experience.
As chairman and chief Director in 2001.
He is a former executive and companies.
Sir Donald is 70 and was executive he led the growth of McQueen director of Lazard Brothers & Co. Limited.
appointed a Director in 1999 and became International over a 17 year period as it During his twenty years with Lazard, he was Chairman in 2003.
He is also Chairman evolved from being a printing company into involved with the merchant banks corporate of the Nomination Committee.
He was a global enterprise providing a range of advisory activities and its Asian businesses.
Professor of Political Economy at Aberdeen support services to technology companies.
He is currently a director of various University and Professor of Economics On McQueens acquisition, he became companies, including Martin Currie Paci c at Heriot-Watt University.
He is a former senior vice president of Sykes Enterprises Trust plc, JP Morgan Claverhouse Investment chairman of The Malcolm Group PLC and Inc. a global NASDAQ quoted outsourcing Trust plc, Xaar plc, Miller Insurance Services Scottish Enterprise and is currently a director services company.
He retired from Sykes and Schroder Japan Growth Fund plc.
In of Edinburgh New Income Trust plc.
in 1999 and currently has many business, addition, he is chairman of Dunedin Income 2 GA Ball community, charity and sporting interests Growth Investment Trust PLC and Endace Geoffrey Ball, the senior independent and responsibilities including being a Limited.
director, is a long-standing director who member of the Advisory Board of the 6 Lord Strathclyde also has considerable industrial experience Scottish Institute of Sport Foundation.
He is a Thomas Strathclyde, currently Leader of in the house building sector.
Geoffrey is former director of Scottish Enterprise and the the Opposition in the House of Lords, 63 and was appointed a Director in 1983.
He is executive chairman of Cala Group 4 WG McQueen Tom is 47 and was appointed a Director Ltd, having led the management buy out Gordon McQueen, the Chairman of the in 2004.
His parliamentary career to date in 1999.
He was appointed Chairman of Audit Committee, brings to the Board first includes extensive ministerial experience McCarthey and Stone on 2 February 2007. class financial and banking expertise.
at the Departments of Employment, the He was president of the House Builders Gordon is 60 and was appointed a Environment, Trade and Industry and the Federation of England and Wales from Director in 2001.
He was an executive Scottish Of ce.
Prior to entering politics 2001 to 2003 and he was a director of director of HBOS plc, Bank of Scotland in 1988 as a Government Whip, Lord The Standard Life Assurance Company for and Halifax plc, where his main role was Strathclyde worked in the City for the 13 years until 2001. chief executive, Treasury.
He is a director insurance brokers, Bain Dawes.
Lord of Alliance Trust PLC, JP Morgan Mid Cap Strathclyde is also chairman of London Investment Trust plc and Shaftesbury PLC.
based hedge fund manager Trafalgar Capital Management and a director of Galena Capital Management Limited and Marketform Limited.
He is also the president of the Quoted Companies Alliance.
06 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS AND MANAGERS 1 2 3 4 5 6 or advice of Baillie Gifford total over 50 Managers and Secretaries Management Details billion.
Based in Edinburgh, it is one of Scottish Mortgage is managed by Baillie Baillie Gifford & Co are appointed as the leading privately owned investment Gifford & Co, an investment management investment managers and secretaries to the management rms in the UK, with 30 rm formed in 1927 out of the legal rm Company.
The management contract can partners and a staff of around 500.
Baillie & Gifford, WS, which had been be terminated at 12 months notice.
Managers and Secretaries to the Company The manager of Scottish Mortgages since its formation in 1909.
Management Fee portfolio is James Anderson, a partner of Baillie Gifford where he is Chief Investment Baillie Gifford & Cos annual remuneration Baillie Gifford & Co are one of the largest Of cer and Head of the Global Team.
He is is 0.32% of total assets less current investment trust managers in the UK and ultimately responsible for stock selection and liabilities excluding short term borrowings currently manage eight investment trusts.
works closely with the other Heads of the for investment purposes, calculated and Baillie Gifford also manage unit trusts Investment Departments.
and open ended investment companies, together with investment portfolios on The rm of Baillie Gifford & Co are behalf of pension funds, charities and other authorised and regulated by the Financial institutional clients, both in the UK and Services Authority.
Funds under the management SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 07
