DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their discussed by the Board and Managers The discount after deducting borrowings Annual Report together with the results of the at every Board meeting.
The portion of at fair value : Company for the year to 31 March 2007. borrowings which is not invested in equities The total expense ratio: may be invested in xed interest securities.
Earnings per share: and Business Review Discount Objective Dividend per share.
The Board recognises that it is in the long Scottish Mortgage carries on business term interests of shareholders to reduce The one and five year records of the KPIs as an Investment Trust.
The investment discount volatility and believes that the prime are shown on pages 2, 3 and 17. objective is to maximise total return, whilst driver of discounts over the longer term is also generating real dividend growth, from In addition to the above, the Board performance.
The Board does not have a focused and actively managed global considers peer group comparative a precise discount target at which shares portfolio.
The equity portfolio is relatively performance.
A range of comparator will be bought back as it believes that the concentrated and investments are chosen groups are used including: a selected announcement of speci c targets is likely on their long term merits rather than with grouping of five best of breed trusts, a to hinder rather than help the successful reference to geographical asset allocation group of the five large AIC Global Growth execution of a buyback policy.
Future or the composition of an index.
investment trusts Large Trust Peer Group, a buybacks will be considered primarily by universe of global growth trusts as fide ned reference to the Companys discount relative Investment Strategy by Winter ood Securities, the AIC Global to its peers.
Scottish Mortgage is positioned as a truly Growth Sector and the larger Standard and active fund and does not attempt to track its During the year the Company bought back Poors universe of Global Growth Trusts.
Investments are chosen a total of 6,613,939 shares, 2,885,000 The Board also reviews the absolute and for inclusion within the equity portfolio by of which are held in treasury, the remainder relative discount.
At 31 March 2007 the looking closely at the merits of individual cancelled, increasing net asset value per discount was 10.7% compared to 8.8% for companies.
The investment approach share by 0.3%.
the weighted average of the AIC Global focuses on three points: Growth Sector.
Performance Taking a global perspective: At each Board meeting, the Directors Review consider a number of performance measures Maintaining a relatively concentrated A review of the main features of the year to assess the Companys success in equity portfolio: and and outlook is contained in the Chairmans achieving its objectives.
Statement and the Managers Review on Having a long term investment horizon.
The Further details of investment strategy can The key performance indicators KPIs used Boards main focus is on the investment be found in the Chairmans Statement on to measure the progress and performance return and approach.
Attention is paid to page 4 and the Managers Review on of the Company over time are established the integrity and success of the investment pages 8 to 10. industry measures and are as follows: approach and on factors which may have Gearing The movement in net asset value an impact on this approach.
Due regard per ordinary share after deducting Borrowings are invested in equity markets is paid to the marketing and promotion borrowings at fair value : when it is considered that investment of the Company, including effective grounds merit the Company taking a geared The movement in the share price: communication with shareholders and other position to equities.
Gearing levels, and the external parties.
The Board is updated The movement of net asset value and extent of equity gearing, both in absolute regularly on wider investment trust sector share price performance compared to terms and relative to the peer group, are issues.
Detailed papers are presented to the Benchmark: the Board at the Annual Strategy Meeting 18 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT where a wide discussion takes place on compromise the independence or Status development and strategic direction.
The contribution of Directors of an investment The Company is an investment company Companys brokers, UBS, present to the trust company, where continuity and within the meaning of section 266 of the Board on a regular basis and cover the experience can be a bene t to the Board.
Companies Act 1985. topics of sector developments, perception of Consequently, no limit has been imposed The Company carries on business as the Company and relevant strategic issues.
on the overall length of service.
All Directors an investment trust.
In the opinion of the are, however, required to retire and, if Principal Risks and Uncertainties Directors, the Company conducts its affairs appropriate seek re-election, at least every The principal risks facing the Company so as to enable it to obtain approval by three years.
Directors who have more than relate to the Companys investment activities HM Revenue and Customs as an investment nine years service submit themselves for and include market risk, interest rate risk, trust under section 842 of the Income and re-election annually.
credit risk, liquidity risk, foreign currency Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
The Company The Board is also adhering to the principles risk and loss of investment trust status.
An was approved as an investment trust for the explanation of these risks and how they are of the AIC Code in all material respects.
year ended 31 March 2006, subject to managed are contained in note 22 to the matters that may arise from any subsequent The Board accounts on page 42. enquiry by HM Revenue and Customs into The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys tax return.
The Company Financials the Companys affairs.
It has a number of will continue to seek approval under section matters reserved for its approval including There are four debentures in issue, all 842 of the Income and Corporation Taxes are listed and quoted on the London strategy, investment policy, currency Act 1988 each year.
hedging, gearing, treasury matters, dividend Stock Exchange and details are given on pages 39 and 44.
In addition, term bank and corporate governance policy.
Corporate Governance A separate meeting devoted to strategy is borrowings and loan facilities are in place which are also shown on pages 39 and held each year.
The Board also reviews the The Board is committed to achieving and financial statements, investment transactions, 44.
The financial highlights for the year demonstrating high standards of Corporate under review are as follows: the net asset revenue budgets and performance.
This statement outlines how timely information is provided to the Board value per share increased by 3.9% during the principles of the Combined Code on the year, compared to an increase in the to enable the Board to function effectively Corporate Governance published in 2003, and to allow Directors to discharge their benchmark of 3.9%, dividends increased by the Combined Code were applied 11.8% to 9.50p per share and the discount responsibilities.
The Board currently comprises six Directors, Compliance all of whom are non-executive.
The executive The Company has complied throughout Dividends responsibility for investment management has the year under review with the provisions The Board recommends a final dividend been delegated to the Companys Managers of the Combined Code except that no limit of 5.00p per ordinary share which, and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, and, has been imposed on the overall length of together with the interim of 4.50p already in the context of a Board comprised entirely service of Directors.
paid, makes a total of 9.50p for the year of non-executive Directors, there is no chief The Directors recognise the value of compared with 8.50p for the previous year.
The Senior Independent progressive refreshing of, and succession Director is Mr GA Ball.
If approved, the recommended final planning for, company Boards and the dividend on the ordinary shares will be The Directors believe that the Board has a Board composition is reviewed annually.
paid on 4 July 2007 to shareholders on the balance of skills and experience that enable However, the Board is of the view that register at the close of business on 8 June it to provide effective strategic leadership length of service will not necessarily 2007.
The ex-dividend date is 6 June 2007.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 19 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Attendance at Meetings Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee Number of meetings 7 2 2 Sir Donald MacKay 7 2 2 GA Ball 7 2 2 MM Gray 7 2 2 WG McQueen 7 2 2 JPHS Scott 6 2 2 Lord Strathclyde 7 2 2 and proper governance of the Company.
Nomination Committee that they are capable of devoting suf cient Information about the Directors, including time to the Company.
There were no The Nomination Committee consists of the their relevant experience, can be found on independent non-executive Directors and signi cant changes to the Chairmans other page 6. commitments during the year.
the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets on There is an agreed procedure for Directors Terms of Appointment and Re-elections an annual basis and at such other times as to seek independent professional advice, if Letters which specify the terms of may be required.
The Committee has written necessary, at the Companys expense.
appointment, are issued to new Directors.
terms of reference which include reviewing The letters of appointment are available for The Company also maintains Directors and the Board, identifying and nominating new inspection on request.
candidates for appointment to the Board, Board appraisal, succession planning and Under the provisions of the Companys Independence of Directors training.
The Committee also considers Articles of Association, a Director appointed All the Directors are considered by the whether Directors should be recommended during the year is required to retire and seek Board to be independent of the Managers for re-election by shareholders.
Appointment election by shareholders at the next Annual and free of any business or other of new Directors are considered by the General Meeting.
Directors are required relationship that could interfere with the Nomination Committee taking into account to submit themselves for re-election at least exercise of their independent judgement.
the need to maintain a balanced Board.
The once every three years and Directors who Mr GA Ball, who has served on the terms of reference are available on request have served for more than nine years offer Board for more than nine years, offers from the Company and on the Managers themselves for re-election annually.
The Board is of the view that length of subscribes to the view expressed in the AIC Performance Evaluation service will not necessarily compromise Code that long-serving Directors should the independence or contribution of The Nomination Committee met to assess not be prevented from being considered the performance of the Chairman, each Directors of an investment trust company, as independent.
Following a formal where continuity and experience can add Director, the Board as a whole and its performance evaluation, the Board has committees, after inviting each Director and signi cantly to the strength of the Board.
concluded that, notwithstanding his length the Chairman to consider and respond to of service, Mr Ball retains independence of The names of Directors retiring and offering a set of questions.
The appraisal of the character and judgement and his skills and themselves for re-election together with the Chairman was led by Mr GA Ball.
experience add to the strength of the Board.
reasons why the Board supports the reelections are set out on page 23.
The appraisals considered amongst other Meetings criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, There is an annual cycle of Board meetings Induction and Training the contribution of individual Directors and which is designed to address, in a systematic New Directors are provided with an the overall effectiveness of the Board and its way, overall strategy, review of investment induction programme which is tailored to the Committees.
Following this process it was policy, investment performance, marketing, particular circumstances of the appointee.
concluded that the performance of each revenue budgets, dividend policy and Regular brie ngs are provided on changes Director, the Chairman, the Board and its communication with shareholders.
The Board in regulatory requirements that could affect committees continues to be effective and considers that it meets suf ciently regularly the Company and Directors.
The Directors each Director and the Chairman remain to discharge its duties effectively.
The table receive other training as necessary.
above shows the attendance record for the Remuneration Board and Committee Meetings held during A review of the Chairmans and other Since all the Directors are non-executive, the the year.
All of the Directors attended the Directors commitments was carried out provisions of the Combined Code in respect Annual General Meeting.
and the Nomination Committee is satis ed 20 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT Directors Interests Nature Ordinary 25p shares held at Name of interest 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 Sir Donald MacKay Bene cial 2,469 2,469 GA Ball Bene cial 10,000 10,000 MM Gray Bene cial 272,900 272,900 Non-bene cial 12,500 12,500 WG McQueen Bene cial 1,500 1,500 Non-bene cial 3,000 3,000 JPHS Scott Bene cial 30,566 30,566 Lord Strathclyde Bene cial 3,142 3,142 The Directors at the year end, and their interests in the Company, were as shown above.
On 3 May 2007 Mr WG McQueen sold 3,000 shares in which he had a non-bene cial interest.
There have been no other changes intimated in the Directors interests up to 14 May 2007. of Directors remuneration are not relevant to Baillie Gifford & Co has been delegated place throughout the Companys financial the Company except to the extent that they responsibility for the design, implementation year and continue to be in place up to the relate speci cally to non-executive directors.
and maintenance of control policies and date of approval of this Report.
Consequently there is no requirement procedures to safeguard the assets of Internal Audit for a separate remuneration committee.
the Company and to manage its affairs The Audit Committee carries out an annual Directors fees are considered by the Board properly.
This responsibility also extends review of the need for an internal audit as a whole within the limits approved by to maintaining effective operational and function.
The Committee continues to believe shareholders.
The Companys policy on compliance controls and risk management.
that the compliance and internal control remuneration is set out in the Directors The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business systems in place within the Investment Remuneration Report on pages 25 and 26.
Risk & Internal Audit and Regulatory Risk Managers provide suf cient assurance that provide the Board with regular reports Internal Controls and Risk Management a sound system of internal control, which The Directors acknowledge their on Baillie Gifford & Cos monitoring safeguards shareholders investment and the programmes.
The reporting procedures for responsibility for the Companys system Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal of internal controls and for reviewing its these departments are fide ned and formalised audit function, speci c to the trust, within a service level agreement.
The system of internal controls is therefore considered unnecessary.
is designed to manage rather than eliminate Gifford & Co conducts an annual review Accountability and Audit of their system of internal controls which risk and can only provide reasonable but The respective responsibilities of the not absolute assurance against material is documented within an internal controls Directors and the Auditors in connection report FRAG21.
This report is independently misstatement or loss.
with the Financial Statements are set out on reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditors The Board con rms that there is an ongoing pages 27 to 29. and a copy is submitted to the Board.
process for identifying, evaluating and The accounts have been prepared on the managing the signi cant risks faced by the The Companys investments are segregated going concern basis as it is the Directors from those of Baillie Gifford & Co and their Company in accordance with the guidance opinion that the Company will continue in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for other clients through the appointment of The operational existence for the foreseeable Bank of New York as independent custodian Directors on the Combined Code.
The Directors con rm that they have An Audit Committee has been established reviewed the effectiveness of the system and A detailed risk map is prepared which in compliance with the Combined Code identi es the signi cant risks faced by the they have procedures in place to review its consisting of all directors.
Its authority and effectiveness on a regular basis.
Company and the key controls employed to duties are clearly fide ned within its written minimise these risks.
The practical measures to ensure compliance terms of reference which are available These procedures ensure that consideration with regulation and company law, and to on request from the Company and the provide effective and ef cient operations is given regularly to the nature and extent Managers website.
Mr WG McQueen of the risks facing the Company and that and investment management, have been is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The delegated to the Managers and Secretaries, they are being actively monitored.
Where Committees responsibilities which were changes in risk have been identi ed during Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of discharged during the year include: the Management Agreement.
The Board the year they also provide a mechanism monitoring and reviewing the integrity to assess whether further action is required acknowledges its responsibilities to supervise of the interim and annual financial and control the discharge by the Managers to manage the risks identi ed.
The Board statements and the internal financial con rms that these procedures have been in and Secretaries of their obligations.
controls: SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 DIRECTORS REPORT Major Interests in Shares No.
of ordinary Name 25p shares held % of issue D. C. Thomson & Company Limited 14,300,000 5.1 Prudential plc group of companies 10,477,844 3.7 Legal & General Group Plc 9,858,900 3.5 The above information has been intimated to the Company as at 14 May 2007. making recommendations to the with institutional shareholders and report As signatories of the Carbon Disclosure Board in relation to the appointment shareholders views to the Board.
The Project, the Managers consider the business of the external auditors and approving Chairman is available to meet with implications of carbon emissions when the remuneration and terms of their shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders making investment decisions and routinely engagement: wishing to communicate with any members engage with companies on their management of the Board may do so by writing to them of climate change risks and opportunities.
developing and implementing policy on at the address on the back cover.
the engagement of the external auditors Investment Managers to supply non-audit services: The Companys Annual General Meeting An Investment Management Agreement provides a forum for communication with all reviewing and monitoring the between the Company and Baillie Gifford shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for independence, objectivity and & Co set out the matters over which the effectiveness of the external auditors: each resolution is announced at the Meeting Managers have authority in accordance and is published on the Managers website.
reviewing the arrangements in place with the policies and directions of, and The notice period for the Annual General within Baillie Gifford & Co whereby its subject to restrictions imposed by, the Board.
Meeting is at least twenty working days.
staff may, in con dence, raise concerns The Management Agreement is terminable about possible improprieties in matters Shareholders and potential investors on not less than 12 months notice.
Details of financial reporting or other matters may obtain up-to-date information on the of the fee arrangements with Baillie Gifford insofar as they may affect the Company: Company from the Managers website.
& Co are shown on page 35. reviewing the terms of the Investment Voting Policy and Socially Responsible The Board considers the Companys Management Agreement: and Investment investment management and secretarial considering annually whether there is a The Company has given discretionary arrangements for the Company on an need for the Company to have its own voting powers to the investment managers, ongoing basis and a formal review is internal audit function.
The Managers vote conducted annually.
The Board considers, against resolutions they consider may amongst others, the following topics in its The Audit Committee considers the damage shareholders rights or economic review: the quality of the personnel assigned experience and tenure of the audit director interests.
The Company believes that it is to handle the Companys affairs: the and staff and the nature of services provided.
in the shareholders interests to consider investment process and the results achieved The Committee receives con rmation from environmental, social and governance factors to date: the administrative services provided the auditors that they have complied with when selecting and retaining investments by the Secretaries and the marketing efforts the relevant UK professional and regulatory and have asked the Managers to take these undertaken by the Managers.
Following the requirements on independence.
Non issues into account as long as the investment most recent review it is the opinion of the audit fees for the year to 31 March 2007 objectives are not compromised.
The Directors that the continuing appointment of were 520 and related to the certi cation Managers do not exclude companies from Baillie Gifford & Co as Managers, on the of results for the debenture trustees.
The their investment universe purely on the grounds terms agreed, is in the interests of shareholders Committee does not believe that this has of environmental, social and governance as a whole.
Investment performance over the impaired the auditors independence.
issues but adopt a positive engagement period under review has been excellent and Relations with Shareholders approach whereby matters are discussed with the Managers and Secretaries also continue management with the aim of improving the The Board places great importance on to maintain high standards in the provision of communication with shareholders.
The relevant policies and management systems.
The Managers policy has been reviewed Companys Managers meet regularly and endorsed by the Board.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT first being required to offer such shares to Directors Purchase of Shares existing shareholders in accordance with the Lord Strathclyde and Mr JPHS Scott retire by At the Annual General Meeting held on statutory pre-emption procedure.
rotation at the Annual General Meeting and 28 June 2006 the Company renewed its will offer themselves for re-election.
authority to purchase shares in the market, This power will last until the Annual in respect of up to 42,623,491 ordinary General Meeting of the Company to be Mr GA Ball, having served for more than shares equivalent to 14.99% of its then held in 2008 or on 26 December 2008, nine years, offers himself for re-election.
issued share capital, such authority to whichever is earlier.
Following formal performance evaluation, expire at the conclusion of the Annual The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares their performance continues to be effective General Meeting of the Company to be Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 as and each remains committed to the held in respect of the year ending 2007 amended Treasury Shares Regulations Company.
Their contribution to the Board is or 27 December 2007, whichever is came into force on 1 December 2003.
The greatly valued and the Board recommends earlier, unless previously varied, revoked or Treasury Shares Regulations give exibility their re-election to shareholders.
concerning what the Company can do Sir Donald MacKay retires having reached During the year to 31 March 2007 the with any of its ordinary shares which it the age of 70.
He is recommended by the Company bought back 6,613,939 may buy back.
The Company may now board for reappointment.
ordinary shares nominal value hold such shares in treasury and then 1,654,000, on the London Stock sell them at a later date for cash rather Disclosure of Information to Exchange, 2,885,000 are held in than simply cancelling them.
The Treasury Auditors treasury with the remainder cancelled.
The Shares Regulations require such sale to total consideration for these shares was be on a pre-emptive, pro rata, basis to The Directors who held of ce at the date 34,131,000.
Between 1 April 2007 and existing shareholders unless shareholders of approval of this Directors Report con rm the date of this report no further shares have agree by special resolution to disapply their that, so far as they are each aware, there been bought back.
Accordingly, special is no relevant audit information of which the resolution 11 will give the Directors power Companys auditors are unaware: and each The principal reasons for such share buy to sell ordinary shares held in treasury on a Director has taken all the steps that he ought backs are: non pre-emptive basis, subject always to the to have taken as a Director to make himself i to enhance net asset value for continuing limitations noted above.
Treasury shares are aware of any relevant audit information and shareholders by purchasing shares at explained in more detail under the heading to establish that the Company auditors are a discount to the prevailing net asset Purchase of Shares below.
The Directors aware of that information.
value: consider that the power proposed to be granted by Resolution 11 is advantageous Authority to Allot Shares and ii to manage imbalances between the should the shares trade at a premium to Disapply Pre-emption Rights supply of and the demand for the net asset value and natural liquidity is unable Companys shares which exacerbates Resolution 11, which is being proposed as to meet demand.
The Directors do not intend any discount of the quoted market price a special resolution and will therefore not to use this power to sell shares on a non preto the published net asset value per be passed unless 75% of those voting are emptive basis at a discount to net asset value.
in favour, seeks to give the Directors power to sell ordinary shares held in treasury The Directors believe that granting the The shares in question were purchased at see below for cash up to a maximum of power to sell treasury shares in the above a price after allowing for costs below the 7,036,529 in aggregate representing circumstances is in the best interests of net asset value either held in treasury or 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of shareholders as a whole and recommend that subsequently cancelled, thereby reducing the Company as at 14 May 2007 without shareholders vote in favour of the resolution.
the issued share capital see note 13 on SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT page 40.
As a result of such purchases the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority of the Creditor Payment Policy net asset value of the Company has increased Financial Services Authority, the maximum Directors Remuneration Report It is the Companys payment policy for the by approximately 0.3%.
price exclusive of expenses that may be forthcoming financial year to obtain the paid on the exercise of the authority shall be best terms for all business.
In general, the Resolution 10, which is being proposed an amount equal to the higher of a 105% of Company agrees with its suppliers the terms as a special resolution, will authorise the the average of the middle market quotations on which business will take place and it Company to make market purchases of its as derived from the Daily Of cial List of the is its policy to abide by these terms.
The own ordinary shares for cancellation or to London Stock Exchange for the shares over Company had no trade creditors at 31 be held in treasury.
The Company may hold the 5 business days immediately preceding March 2007 or 31 March 2006. bought-back shares in treasury and then: the date of purchase and b the higher of the a sell such shares or any of them for cash price of the last independent trade and the Auditors or its equivalent under the Treasury Shares highest current independent bid as stipulated The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, are willing Regulations : or by Article 5 1 of Commission Regulation EC to continue in of ce and in accordance 22 December 2003 implementing the Market b cancel such shares or any of them.
with section 385 and section 390A of Abuse Directive as regards exemptions for the Companies Act 1985 resolutions All buy backs up to the 10% issued share buy back programmes and stabilisation of concerning their reappointment and capital limit imposed by the Treasury Share financial instruments No.
The remuneration will be submitted to the Annual Regulations will initially be held in treasury minimum price again exclusive of expenses General Meeting.
while shares bought back in excess of that limit that may be paid will be 25p per share.
will be cancelled as before.
Shares will only Purchases of shares will be made within By order of the Board be re-sold from treasury at or at a premium to guidelines established, from time to time, by BAILLIE GIFFORD & Co the net asset value per ordinary share.
The Company does not have any Managers and Secretaries warrants or options in issue.
Your attention is 15 May 2007 Treasury shares do not receive distributions drawn to Special Resolution No.
10, in the and the Company will not be entitled to Notice of Annual General Meeting.
exercise the voting rights attaching to them.
This authority, if conferred, will be exercised The Directors are seeking shareholders only if to do so would result in an increase approval at the Annual General Meeting in net asset value per ordinary share for the to renew the authority to purchase up to remaining shareholders and if it is in the best 14.99% of the Companys ordinary shares interests of shareholders generally.
in issue at the date of the passing of the resolution, such authority to expire at the Recommendation Annual General Meeting of the Company to The Board unanimously recommends you be held in respect of the year ending 2008 to vote in favour of the resolutions to be or 26 December 2008, whichever is earlier.
proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Any such shares purchased shall either be cancelled or held in treasury.
