MANAGERS REVIEW Managers Review Managers Overview The outcome for the year was positive with think it is less vulnerable to permanent loss of What is becoming clear is that the value the NAV, share price and benchmark all capital than those managed with avoidance of the Emerging markets label is fast rising 3.9%.
However, it has been a year of volatility in mind.
The speci c attributes, roles during which months of steady equity market more con dence in the economic and limitations of the individual countries, progress have twice been interrupted by development of our preferred Emerging stock markets and corporate characteristics short but violent outbreaks of turbulence.
markets and stocks over the next decade that make up this huge eld are becoming In May and June of 2006 the damage or two than we have in traditionally more increasingly critical as their power and took several months to repair but thus far secure sectors and stocks that cannot escape in uence spreads.
Ironically the more the falls of late February and early March from the heavily indebted Anglo-American globalisation occurs, the greater the need have proved easier to overcome.
Indeed, consumer and the perhaps exaggerated to differentiate between Emerging markets.
from our own point of view, this most recent pro tability of the financial systems of much Even the four giant empires of China, India, outbreak of volatility has been fortuitous as of the developed world.
Russia and Brazil that are so frequently it enabled us to press on with the next stage linked by investors have profoundly different of our evolution towards a truly global and The changing nature of Emerging virtues and drawbacks.
Still more critically index insensitive portfolio.
market investment they will have very divergent impacts on the development of the global economy.
To take Over the last five years we have talked in The chance to do this was accentuated a comparatively simple example the fate of generic terms about Emerging markets.
by the strange way in which stock markets many industries and of in ationary pressures This shrewd marketing phrase has become operate today.
In outbursts of turbulence the throughout the world will be dominated a useful shorthand for what may be the common practice amongst investment banks, by the race between Chinese domestic most important development in the world hedge funds and the bulk of the investment demand and Russian resource supply in the economy in the last two hundred years.
The management industry is to consult their risk decades to come.
American and British increasing importance of China to global models in rather the same way as many policy makers will be virtually powerless to manufacturing and commodity demand, the newspaper readers consult their horoscopes in uence this balance.
challenge of Indian technology and service and with similar levels of success.
What sector skills and the resource bases of Russia you should sell is determined by what The imperative to think more speci cally and Brazil are transforming the patterns of has been volatile in the past even if the about the major developing economies is global growth.
From an investment point of conditions that led to this past volatility are redoubled by the shift in growth prospects view their importance may be even greater no longer present and despite the inevitable away from export and commodity strength as they are disruptive factors that upset herding and cascading of actions that this towards the domestic consumer and the the xed mind sets of many investors and provokes.
What this has tended to mean financial sector in so many emerging the extrapolations of so many in exible in recent years is that in periods of volatility economies.
This requires more analysis risk models.
This is an opportunity the like emerging market stocks and industrial of domestic economic management and of which seldom occurs.
We feel that we cyclicals are sold indiscriminately.
We think prospects than has been the case in our have a great chance to exploit these radical this presents opportunities if we are able to prior investments.
It also demands more changes as our Emerging market colleagues be both patient and moderately courageous.
detailed investigations of the competitive have great talent and experience and such We stress that we do not think that this advantages that are both more nebulous splendidly forthright views that dangerous makes our portfolio more risky: indeed we and more vital than in commodity preconceptions are regularly challenged.
companies driven by the comparative 08 ANNUAL REPORT 2007 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Tesco 2 Wolseley The dominant food retailer in the UK, with Ferguson is the largest subsidiary of Wolseley, growing positions in non-food and overseas.
the worlds leading distributor of heating and plumbing products.
2 1 simplicity of resource bases and low cost premium on Brazilian assets to decline.
Our attentions are becoming concentrated production.
On balance this is pushing us The most impressive achievement of last on stocks where international aspirations towards a slightly broader selection of stocks year came from CVRD which has deployed are high but where it is clearer to us that and markets in the emerging economies its huge cashows both in reinvestment in there is an ability to build market positions than has been the case.
This is a pragmatic high grade, low cost iron ore but has also either organically or via takeovers in which approach that we feel should over-ride succeeded in building a new oligopoly in scale is a more palpable bene t in driving excessive dogmatism about the level of the nickel market through its well-executed returns.
Where these conditions seem to be concentration of the portfolio or the ratings takeover of Inco of Canada.
We continue to in place we are prepared to be patient.
for which we are willing to pay.
feel this is a much superior business model The attraction of Tesco for us lies in the to the over-diversi ed approach favoured by gradual building of value in overseas We have, for instance, purchased individual the other major mining groups.
markets and the apparent acuteness of the stocks such as Walmex in Mexico or Infosys planned American venture in identifying an in India where we feel that the long-run UK reductions uncovered niche than in its now traditional competitive advantages are such that we UK dominance.
We have also added to The second major feature of the year under should not become too preoccupied by our holding in Wolseley as the problems review has been our vigorous pruning of UK the comparatively high ratings of current in the US housing market ought to offer equity holdings.
As we hope shareholders earnings on which they trade.
We are more opportunities for attractive acquisitions have become fully aware, the Board and also prepared to venture into countries at low prices.
Once again short term the Managers have worried that there was where volatility is likely to be a constant anxieties should be able to be turned to our still a lingering temptation to view the UK companion.
We think that Garanti Turkey advantage in an impatient world.
stocks as a separate portfolio and an index and Standard Bank South Africa are wellin uenced one at that.
We have therefore run parts of improving financial systems.
Our technology stocks taken the opportunity provided by a year of We will endeavour to view the inevitable general out-performance by British equities Last year we were hopeful that our mixed oscillations of political and economic and of remarkable sterling strength to cut fortunes in technology investing were set sentiment in such countries as at least as back our exposure.
We have made net to improve.
We nd ourselves in much likely to present opportunities rather than sales of 238m over the course of the year.
the same position this year.
Several of our evidence of a permanent deterioration in We consider the bulk of our change to have holdings have had a dif cult year in stock prospects.
Such ought to be the advantages been accomplished although we would also price terms but in the majority of cases we of long term and genuinely global suspect that there will be further sales in the are still minded to view this market disfavour investment portfolios.
This will largely be dependant as an opportunity to make additions rather Amongst the major developing economies on the actions and attitudes of the corporate than a prompt for sales.
This policy has we currently have the most exposure sector.
We have already reduced our once had some bene ts already as we have to Brazil.
This is partly in tribute to the large holding in Royal Bank of Scotland as managed to add to holdings at prices that excellent positioning and returns being regretfully we fear that the current proposals now appear to have been advantageous.
generated by its dominant companies and to take-over ABN-Amro offer a great deal Amazon would be a good example of this partly an acknowledgement that steady more to shareholders of the Dutch bank than policy.
We have also continued to add to and responsible economic management to long-standing supporters of RBS itself.
our stake in eBay where we feel temporary is allowing the extraordinarily high risk execution issues have unduly bothered the SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 09 MANAGERS REVIEW 1 Sandvik 2 John Deere Indian operations of Global Engineering John Deere large frame tractors, bringing success story Sandvik.
increased productivity to farmers throughout the world 1 2 market whilst the power of not just the eBay Given the dif culties involved we think for us over the last year.
We started buying brand itself but also of PayPal and Skype this is an area where it is more sensible Brazil local currency index linked bonds continue to develop pleasingly.
To us these to have a broader spread of investments on a 9.0% real yield.
Given the Brazilian seem to be terri c and sustainable franchises than we would normally propound.
This is macroeconomic improvements that we have that are considerably underestimated at particularly true of solar energy which has a already discussed above we felt this to be present.
still less developed technological road-map extremely attractive.
Yields have now fallen and industry structure than other segments.
to 6.5% which we consider to be still too Elsewhere we have been genuinely Here we have bought Q-Cells which is high if less extraordinary.
Sadly the general disappointed that SAPs revenue growth one of many strong German enterprises in compression of yields is making such has faltered despite the buoyant global the eld and which particularly appeals to opportunities increasingly scarce.
We have been pleased by us because it is both relatively technology the continued progress of Canon albeit agnostic and boasts a secure source of Overall re ections and future aided by the substantial fall in the yen.
In wind-power there is prospects are puzzled that we are struggling so much already one dominant supplier, Vestas of The last twelve months has seen far more to nd other Japanese stocks that appear Denmark, and we see little reason to be activity in the portfolio than we would its equal in either business attraction or sceptical of its continued health.
The third normally welcome although turnover at valuation despite the overall Tokyo market stock is a less direct bene ciary, John Deere, 34% remains low by industry standards.
which appears to us to be recovering from On this occasion we feel that the changes half a century of dif culties as bio-fuel ought to be greatly bene cial for the years Alternative energy requirements and agricultural in ation ahead.
We believe that we have increased After prolonged arguably too prolonged resuscitates long moribund farming demand.
the overall calibre of companies in which thought we have bought three stocks that are we invest and that we are obtaining better Over the course of time we would like directly or indirectly dominated by prospects value whilst being more directly exposed to see our investment in this area at least for the alternative energy sector.
The to the deeply exciting growth dynamics increase.
In the next 12 months we would appeal of this area no longer rests on the of the world economy.
After a prolonged like to double the 50m we had invested at one variable of oil and gas pricing but on period of stock market gains we are aware the year end.
Recent share price action has demands for energy security and concerns that complacency can set in amongst been too buoyant for us to want to achieve over climate change too.
This makes their investors and that volatility can ensue.
continued development more predictable we have concerns they are more focussed and less erratic.
Backing is now from across on the extended levels of pro tability in Fixed interest the political spectrum and from a wide the American and British nancials sectors geographical spread in a manner that was We have tried to apply the same principles than on the ne fundamental health of hitherto unlikely encompassing as it does to xed interest as we use in equities.
Whatever the George Bush and Australia.
Major utilities view our holdings as an integral part of precise nature of challenges to be faced rather than esoteric communities are now the the overall portfolio not as a portfolio to over the year ahead we remain con dent in dominant customer base.
exist in its own right or to be measured on our investment methodology and optimistic its own.
We are looking for major misThe most challenging part of this topic about the prospects for the next five years.
valuations to bene t our shareholders in the is assessing the competitive position of long term.
One opportunity has stood out individual companies and technologies.
