40 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Report of the Directors The Directors of Carillion plc present their annual report, together Profits and dividends with the audited financial statements for the year ended The consolidated income statement is shown on page 60.
Profit before tax was 94.4 million 2006: 68.1 million.
The Directors of the Company at the date of the approval of this A 2007 interim dividend of 3.5 pence per ordinary share Directors Report confirm, that, so far as they are individually 2006: 3.1 pence was paid in November 2007.
It is proposed aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the to pay a final dividend of 7.5 pence per ordinary share Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken 2006: 5.9 pence on 20 June 2008 to shareholders on all the steps that he or she ought to have taken as a Director to the register at the close of business on 25 April 2008.
The make himself or herself aware of any relevant audit information payment of these 2007 interim and final dividends amounts and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of to 39.4 million 2006: 25.3 million.
A dividend reinvestment plan DRIP will also be offered.
Principal activities and business review Carillion is a leading company delivering support services, Directors construction and public private partnership projects throughout The Directors of the Company who served during 2007 are shown the UK and in a number of overseas regional markets.
on page 49 of the Remuneration Report.
Biographical details for each Director at 31 December 2007 and for David Hurcomb who A review of the Groups businesses, financial performance and was appointed on 1 January 2008 are given on pages 38 and 39. future developments is contained in the Chairmans statement, Group Chief Executives review and the Operating and financial Mr Hurcomb will hold office until the Annual General Meeting at review.
which, being eligible, he offers himself for election.
Mr Hurcomb has a contract of service which is subject to one years notice of The following specific issues are discussed in the sections shown termination by the Company.
in brackets In accordance with the Articles of Association, Philip Rogerson the acquisition of Alfred McAlpine Chairmans statement and David Garman retire by rotation and, being eligible, offer and the Group Chief Executives review themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting on key objectives and performance in 2007 and 2008 objectives 7 May 2008.
Group Chief Executives review performance in the financial year Operating and The interests of the Directors and their families in the share financial review capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report treasury policy and risk management Operating and on page 55. financial review social, community and environmental issues Sustainability Employees review Information relating to employee numbers and remuneration is principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group Operating given in Note 6 on page 74. and financial review resources employees Group Chief Executives review and Employees are key to achieving Carillions business strategy and Report of the Directors the Group is committed to improving their skills through training financial risk Operating and financial review.
and development and nurturing a culture in which employees feel valued for their contribution and are motivated to achieve Analysis of turnover and net assets by business segment and their full potential.
geographical location are given in Note 2 on page 68.
Carillions core values of openness, collaboration, mutual Share capital dependency, sustainable profitable growth, professional delivery At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held and innovation have been developed to emphasise the changing on 14 January 2008 to approve the Alfred McAlpine acquisition, working practices required to succeed in an environment where the authorised share capital of the Company was increased to partnership and integrated solutions are becoming the norm.
At 5 March 2008, the issued ordinary share capital of the Company was It is Carillions aim to foster a working environment in which all 394,191,964 shares.
Carillion has only one class of shares, employees are treated with courtesy, dignity and respect.
Carillion with one vote for every share.
strives continually to eliminate all bias and unlawful discrimination in relation to job applicants, employees, business partners and members of the public.
Employees who become disabled are, wherever possible, retrained or provided with equipment so that they can continue their employment.
Section 04 Governance 41 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The objectives of Carillions Equal Opportunity and Diversity Additionally, Team Talk which is held monthly provides Carillion Policy are employees with a face-to-face communication with their line managers and facilitates two-way communication, discussion to have a workforce that represents and responds to the and feedback.
It focuses on local issues and key corporate diversity of customers and todays society messages and information.
improved safety and quality provided by a balanced and productive workforce One-to-one meetings between individual employees and their better public image and market position, leading to improved line managers are also held to discuss performance and progress.
links with the community in which Carillion works adherence to legal requirements Employees can also exchange best practice information via a Knowledge Management Forum on the Group intranet.
lower staff turnover, absenteeism and sickness levels leading to cost savings Carillion seeks to involve all employees in its leading edge to provide a fair working environment in which discrimination programmes to integrate safety into everything it does and will not be tolerated to improve its environmental performance, including the to create a working environment free from discrimination, understanding and application of the principles of sustainability.
harassment, victimisation and bullying Further information on Health and Safety is given in the Group to work towards finding ways for under represented groups Chief Executives review on page 18 and on Sustainability in the to fully realise their potential within the Carillion Organisation Sustainability review on pages 33 to 35. and to take reasonable steps to help such groups to ensure that all employees are aware of the Group Equal Carillion also involves, engages and consults with employees Opportunities and Diversity Policy and to provide any necessary through People Forums across the Group which give employees ongoing training to enable them to meet their responsibilities the opportunity to express their views on business issues.
under it Specifically, the objectives of the People Forums are to Carillion plc also recognises the merit of developing a workforce that incorporates the many diverse skills and backgrounds improve employee information and consultation available from within the total population and accordingly, will help employees feel more involved and valued strive to become an organisation that will recognise, value and support the continued education and development understand diversity and to provide its employees with genuine of employees opportunities to improve and reach their full potential.
improve business performance by enabling employees to be better aware of the business climate in which they operate Carillion places great importance on open and regular help employees to be responsive to and better prepared communication with employees through both formal and informal for change.
As part of this commitment, a Group newspaper, Spectrum, is produced on a regular basis for all employees.
Substantial share interests At 5 March 2008, the Company had received formal notification The views of employees on matters affecting their interests are of the following persons interested directly or indirectly in three also sought through The Great Debate.
This is a major exercise per cent or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the which was undertaken by the Group in each of the last five years Company being the threshold for notifications of interests in to capture the feelings and views of as wide a range of employees shares in the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UKLA : as possible.
These views are then taken into account in the development of work related initiatives as part of Carillions Number of shares held Percentage strategy to become an employer of choice.
In 2007, around Schroder plc 66,441,975 16.86 2,500 UK employees attended The Great Debate sessions.
Standard Life Investments Ltd 49,449,913 12.54 Carillion stages The Great Debate as part of the ongoing quest F & C Asset Management plc 14,247,566 3.61 for cultural change and to produce step changes which HBOS plc 14,036,048 3.56 UBS Investment Bank 13,424,716 3.41 raise understanding of what drives motivation, morale, engagement and performance allows employees to take ownership and be empowered to build and implement solutions demonstrates Carillions desire to change attitudes and behaviours based on listening to the views of its employees.
42 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Report of the Directors continued Policy for payment of suppliers It is the policy of the Group that each business agrees terms and conditions for transactions with its suppliers and for payment to be made on these terms providing the suppliers meet their obligations to the businesses satisfaction.
The Group as a whole does not apply a general recognised code with regard to the payment of all suppliers.
The Company does not have any trade creditors.
The number of days credit outstanding for the Group averaged 59 days at 31 December 2007 80 days at 31 December 2006.
Charitable and political contributions Payments for charitable purposes made by the Group during the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to 150,000 2006: 145,000.
The primary beneficiaries of these charitable donations were The Wildlife Trust, Business in the Community, the British Heart Foundation and CRASH, the construction and property industry charity for the homeless.
The Carillion Group also contributes more than one per cent of profits per annum in cash or in-kind staff time on community projects to community activities and is a member of the Business in the Community PerCent Club.
The Company and its subsidiaries made no political donations during the period under review.
Financial Instruments Information on the Carillion Groups use of financial instruments, financial risk management objectives and policies and exposure is given in Note 28 on page 93 of the consolidated financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held at 12 noon on Wednesday 7 May 2008 at Austin Court, 80 Cambridge Street, Birmingham B1 2NP.
The notice of the Annual General Meeting accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
Amongst the business to be transacted are proposals to i renew the authority for the Company to purchase its own shares.
As at 31 December 2007, the Company had authority from shareholders for the purchase of 28,124,273 of its own shares and ii amend the Companys Articles of Association for the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to shareholder approval.
Auditor Resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor and to authorise the Directors to determine its remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Approved by order of the Board.
