06 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 What we do Market sectors Carillions principal market sectors together 01. with their 2007 revenues in the UK, Middle East and Canada and the Caribbean are described in more detail on the following pages.
The overall outlook across these market sectors is positive.
In our UK and international support services sectors we continue to target revenue growth at stable margins of between four and five per cent.
In Private Finance, we continue to use the strong positions we have established in our chosen sectors in both the UK and Canada to win and deliver Public Private Partnership projects in which our equity investments create significant value for the Group.
2007 revenue In the Middle East, we are focused on revenue growth and expect to increase the revenue we generate in this region from the 2007 level of 337 million to over 600 million over the next two years, 458m at margins of some six per cent.
Defence In our UK construction sectors we are focused on improving In this sector we provide project finance, design, margins by maintaining a selective approach to the projects construction, maintenance, facilities management and we undertake.
consultancy services, together with integrated service solutions, which combine our wide range of skills and In Canada and the Caribbean, we expect to deliver healthy growth resources, to meet the specific needs of our Ministry in our construction services sectors at stable margins.
Overall, we expect to improve the combined margins of our In 2007, the revenue we generated from the Defence sector construction activities in the UK, Canada and the Caribbean and increased by 97 per cent to 458 million 2006: 232 million, the Middle East towards three per cent over the next three years.
as we benefited from full-year contributions from a number of Joint Venture contracts that were mobilised in 2006.
These include two Public Private Partnership projects the 12 billion Allenby Connaught project and the 0.9 billion Permanent Joint Headquarters project that are expected to generate in the region of 10 billion of revenue for Carillion over the next 35 years, and two support services contracts the Housing Prime and Regional Prime Central contracts, together worth in excess of 600 million to Carillion over seven years.
The outlook in this sector is for further growth.
In 2007, Carillion was awarded 100 million of construction work in association with our Regional Prime Central contract.
The 280 million Royal School of Military Engineering project, for which Carillion is the preferred bidder, is expected to reach financial close in 2008.
In addition, potential extensions to our Housing Prime and Regional Prime Central contracts, together with further major expenditure by the Ministry of Defence on upgrading military accommodation across our other projects, could increase contract revenues by up to a further 650 million.
Section 02 What we do 07 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 01.
RAF Valley, Anglesey, where Carillion 02.
Sandhill School, Barnsley, one of 13 provides support services as part of its new schools provided through a Carillion Regional Prime Central contract for the Public Private Partnership project.
The new Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, a Carillion Public Private Partnership project.
2007 revenue 2007 revenue 93m 200m Education Health In this sector we provide project finance, design, In this sector we provide project finance, design, construction, maintenance, facilities management and construction, maintenance, facilities management and consultancy services, together with integrated service consultancy services, together with integrated service solutions, which combine our wide range of skills and solutions, which combine our wide range of skills and resources, to meet the specific needs of our Local resources, to meet the specific needs of our NHS and Authority, University and private sector customers.
In 2007, we generated 93 million of revenue from the In 2007, we generated 200 million of revenue from the Education sector 2006: 162 million, with the reduction Health sector 2006: 229 million.
Overall, revenue from this due to the timing of construction contract starts and sector reduced, due to the timing of construction contract completions.
However, we reached financial close on starts and completions.
However, support services revenue two new contracts in 2007 the 76 million South from this sector increased substantially as a result of full-year Ayrshire Schools Public Private Partnership project and contributions from non-clinical facilities management in three the 175 million South Tyneside and Gateshead project, of our Public Private Partnership hospitals the John Radcliffe which is part of the UK Governments Building Schools for Hospital, Oxford, Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth the Future BSF programme.
We also won other new and Lewisham Hospital and from our 330 million contract contracts during 2007 for schools, colleges and universities to provide non-clinical facilities management for the Barts worth around 60 million.
During 2007 we were awarded our third Local Improvement Finance Trust LIFT project for Going forward, we expect the BSF programme, in which Dudley Infracare worth approximately 27 million.
some 45 billion has still to be invested, to be a major driver of growth.
During 2007, Carillion was shortlisted for three The outlook in this sector remains positive.
Carillion is the further BSF projects Nottingham, Tameside and Durham preferred bidder for two Independent Sector Treatment Centre together worth in the region of 850 million.
Since the year projects Hertfordshire and North London that are expected end, Carillion has been appointed as the preferred bidder to reach financial close in 2008 and generate some 300 for the 208 million Nottingham BSF project.
Following our million of revenue over the next five years.
We are also the appointment as a framework contractor for the 1.6 billion preferred bidder for a further five LIFT projects worth around Academy Schools programme, Carillion has been shortlisted 75 million.
We continue to target selected projects in the to provide Academy Schools in Nailsea, Somerset, and East Governments 7 billion investment programme for Public Basildon, Essex, which we estimate would generate up to Private Partnership hospitals and Carillion is currently 100 million of revenue.
With the UK Government also shortlisted for one project, North Bristol, worth around planning to commence a 10 billion investment programme 300 million.
As a framework contractor appointed by in primary schools in 2008, the outlook in this sector the Office of Government Commerce for public sector continues to be positive.
outsourcing, we also expect further opportunities to provide facilities management services for Primary Care Trusts.
08 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 What we do Market sectors continued 01.
2007 revenue 2007 revenue 837m 280m Facilities management and services Rail We provide public and private sector customers with a In this sector, we provide services for network wide range of facilities management and other support enhancements to Network Rail, the Channel Tunnel services for buildings and infrastructure, from single Rail Link CTRL, Passenger Transport Executives and services such as mechanical and electrical engineering Transport for London, and also maintenance services maintenance to fully integrated property lifecycle for the CTRL.
We generated 280 million of revenue from this sector in We generated 837 million of revenue from this sector in 2007 2006: 368 million.
As expected, the outlook in the 2007 2006: 656 million.
This substantial organic growth sector remained uncertain in 2007 and the overall decline in was due primarily to full-year contributions from major rail infrastructure investment experienced in 2006 continued new contracts won in the second half of 2006, including during the year.
a 110 million, five-year contract for Virgin Media and a 360 million, three-year contract for Norwich Union to However, in view of the investment proposed by Network manage insurance claims.
Rail in its 2007 Business Plan and the benefits of having restructured our rail business to reduce overheads and New order intake in 2007 remained healthy and we won focus on sustainable areas of the rail infrastructure sector, a number of new contracts for both private and public we expect to achieve modest growth in this sector in 2008. sector customers.
Our appointment as an Office of The proposed investment over the next two years, the last Government Commerce framework contractor for Local of the Office of Rail Regulations current five-year control and Central Government is a major market opportunity.
period, is expected to offer sufficient opportunities to more For example, in 2007 Carillion was awarded contracts by than offset the effect of losing around 80 million of annual Northamptonshire County Council and the Forensic Science revenue as a result of Carillion ceasing to provide track Service that are initially worth in excess of 60 million over renewal services to Network Rail from January 2008. four years, with the potential for this to increase as the scope of work develops under the terms of the framework contract.
We ended the year with an unprecedented level of opportunities for new orders that have since been converted into contracts worth around 0.9 billion in the first two months of 2008.
We expect to continue to benefit from these positive market conditions and deliver significant growth in this sector in 2008 and beyond.
Section 02 What we do 09 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 01.
Carillion provides routine management service for BTs 7,000 maintenance and incident support properties in the UK.
services for a substantial proportion of the UK motorways, trunk and local roads network.
The new St Pancras international station for which Carillion provided extensive rail infrastructure services.
The Hilton Hotel, Beetham Tower, Manchester, a Carillion building project completed in 2007.
2007 revenue 2007 revenue 276m 887m Roads Building In this sector we provide road management and Our building activities in the UK are focused on maintenance services to the Highways Agency and long-term key customers in selected sectors of the Local Highway Authorities, together with construction non-housing new-build market, including airport services for new roads and improvement schemes, developments, retail, offices, mixed used developments, primarily under the Governments Early Contractor nuclear, prisons, industrial and urban regeneration.
Revenue from UK building in 2007 was 887 million Revenue from this sector increased to 276 million in 2007 2006: 848 million.
Trading conditions across our key sectors 2006: 224 million, largely due to increased activity on ECI of the UK non-housing new-build market remained positive construction contracts and increased expenditure on road and we continued to focus on growing margins ahead of maintenance.
In 2007, Carillion secured a 20-year extension revenue through a selective approach to the projects we to its contract for maintenance of the 123 kilometres of undertake.
New order intake in 2007 reflected this selective the M40 between Junction 1, Denham, and Junction 15, approach, with significant new contracts secured for key Warwick, worth in the region of 100 million and a customers across our target sectors.
These included a preframework contract for the Midlands Highway Alliance, construction contract for BAA for the 300 million, second which comprises ten Local Highway Authorities and the satellite at Heathrow Terminal 5, a 90 million contract for the Highways Agency, worth up to an estimated 16 million first phase of the 2 billion Kings Cross Central Regeneration a year to Carillion.
project, a 70 million contract for the new Rolls Building in London, a 47 million contract for the Scottish Prison Service Going forward we have a healthy pipeline of new prospects, and a 20 million contract to provide new offices for the but we expect revenue from this sector to reduce slightly as Welsh Assembly.
In 2007, we were also appointed preferred we continue to apply a selective approach to the projects for bidder for the 155 million Lumiere Development in Leeds, which we bid, particularly in respect of new construction for which we were awarded the contract in March 2008. where we will remain focused on ECI road contracts.
Carillion continues to be an equity partner in a consortium that has The outlook for the UK non-housing, new-build market been shortlisted for the 5 billion Design, Build, Finance and remains positive, with real terms growth forecast over the Operate project for widening and maintaining the M25.
We shall continue to adopt a selective Our interests in this project lie in being an equity investor approach to the contracts we undertake in order to maintain and in providing road maintenance services over the life our focus on improving margins ahead of revenue.
The Highways Agency is expected to select a preferred bidder for this project during 2008.
10 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 What we do Market sectors continued 01.
2007 revenue 2007 revenue 239m 154m Civil engineering Public Private Partnership projects We provide civil engineering services, including Carillion has played a leading role in the development integrated solutions, for customers in a wide range of of the UK Private Finance Initiative since its inception sectors, notably transport infrastructure, marine works, in the early 1990s.
Today, we have strong positions in coastal and river defences, industrial developments, our chosen sectors of the Private Finance and Public water, wind energy, micro-tunnelling and piling.
Private Partnership projects market, namely Defence, Health, Education, Transport, Prisons and other In 2007, we generated 239 million of revenue from our Government accommodation in the UK and the civil engineering activities 2006: 241 million.
Revenue Health sector in Canada.
remained broadly unchanged as we continued to consolidate our activities in this sector through applying strict selectivity Our ability to win and deliver projects successfully, by criteria to the projects undertaken by our civil engineering integrating our skills and resources in project finance, design, business, which we acquired with Mowlem in 2006.
The construction, maintenance and facilities management, process of consolidation is now complete and the business continues to create substantial value for the Group, through is moving forward following a number of notable successes the equity we invest in these projects and also from providing in 2007.
These included new contracts for transport construction, maintenance and facilities management services infrastructure projects including the Rugby Western Bypass over the life of concession contracts, typically 25 to 35 years.
and Bedford Western Bypass, together worth around 55 million, a 19 million contract for London City Airport At 31 December 2007, we had a portfolio of 23 financially and an 11 million contract for Northumberland Water.
closed projects, in which we had invested, or had commitments to invest, 175 million of equity.
The Directors We believe the outlook for our civil engineering business is valuation of these investments at 31 December 2007 was positive and we expect continuing opportunities for growth 266 million, based on discounting the cash flows from in 2008 in our chosen areas of this market, particularly these investments at an average of eight per cent, which highways, the water sector, wind farms and rail civil reflects the different discount rates applied to equity invested engineering.
in projects that are in operation and projects that are still under construction.
Carillion has also played a leading role in establishing the value of equity investments in Public Private Partnership projects through a number of equity sales, which have helped to create a strong secondary market for these investments and demonstrate the significant value being created for shareholders.
The overall outlook in our chosen sectors of the Public Private Partnership projects market is for continuing growth, both in the UK and Canada, and we expect to continue to build a portfolio of good quality investments.
Section 02 What we do 11 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 01.
Lyme Regis, where Carillion has 03.
Marsa Plaza, part of the Dubai carried out extensive sea defence works.
Festival City development, being built by Al Futtaim Carillion.
The new John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, a recent Carillion Public Private 04.
The Royal Ottawa Hospital, Carillions Partnership project and an outstanding first Public Private Partnership hospital example of sustainable development.
2007 revenue 2007 revenue 342m 186m Middle East Canada and the Caribbean Our well-established Joint Venture businesses in In Canada we have market leading positions in Public the Middle East provide construction and facilities Private Partnership hospital projects and in road management services for high quality developments maintenance.
In the Caribbean we have well established in Dubai and Oman and in 2008 we will extend our positions in building and civil engineering.
operations to Abu Dhabi and Egypt.
We generated revenue of 186 million from this region in In 2007, Carillions share of the revenues of these Joint 2007 2006: 163 million, with growth driven primarily by Venture businesses was 342 million 2006: 274 million, Public Private Partnership projects and road maintenance in which has more than doubled over the last three years 2005: Canada and general construction in the Caribbean.
Over the next two years we expect a further a Carillion Joint Venture completed the new William Osler substantial increase in revenue to over 600 million, at Hospital in Toronto, our second Public Private Partnership margins of around six per cent.
This strong growth reflects hospital in Canada, which moved successfully into the both the high level of demand in our principal market sectors operational phase, with Carillion providing non-clinical facilities and our robust business model in the region, in particular management.
A Carillion Joint Venture also achieved financial the strong relationship we have with the Al Futtaim Group, close on a third Public Private Partnership hospital in Canada, a key Joint Venture partner and customer.
the 200 million Sault Area Hospital, which is now under construction.
In the Caribbean, we continued to make progress In 2007, Al Futtaim Carillion was appointed preferred bidder in our construction and facilities management markets.
for two major contracts a 220 million contract for the first phase of the 2 billion Cairo Festival City project and a The outlook in our principal markets in this region is positive.
250 million contract for the initial phase of the 10 billion In Canada, we are shortlisted for two more Public Private Al Raha Beach development in Abu Dhabi for Aldar, one of Partnership hospitals, the Niagara and Woodstock hospitals in the Emirates premier developers.
Al Futtaim Carillion also Ontario, estimated to be worth up to 450 million of revenue, signed a new framework agreement for the next phase of and in which we would invest up to 14 million of equity.
Dubai Festival City, worth around 3.5 billion over the With opportunities to bid for further Public Private Partnership next six years.
hospitals and road maintenance contracts in Canada and to build on the progress we have made in the Caribbean, We are well positioned to build on our success in 2007 with we expect continuing growth in 2008. potential framework agreements for the remainder of Cairo Festival City, worth around 1.8 billion, and for a second major project for Aldar in Abu Dubai the 250 million Racetrack Hotel on Yas island which is expected to start in early 2008.
We also expect opportunities to secure further phases of the Al Raha Beach development in Abu Dhabi and a number of major projects for established customers in Dubai, including Union Properties, Emaar and Dubal.
12 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Section 03 03 Our performance 14 Five years of growth 15 Chairmans statement 16 Group Chief Executives review 20 Operating and financial review 22 Support services 24 Public Private Partnership projects 26 Middle East construction services 28 Construction services excluding the Middle East 33 Sustainability review A Carillion Joint Venture is providing new accommodation and other facilities for the British Army across the South of England through a Public Private Partnership project.
Section 03 Our performance 13 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 22% growth in underlying earnings per share during the year to 28.9 pence
