38 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Governance Board of Directors 01 02 03 04 05 01.
David Garman Chairman Senior Independent Age 63.
Philip was appointed to the Board in October 2004 Non-Executive Director becoming Chairman in May 2005.
Appointed to the Board in September 2004, David Nominations Committee.
Philip is also Chairman of Aggreko plc, is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member THUS Group plc and Northgate plc and a Non-Executive Director of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
David is Group Chief of The Davis Service Group plc.
He was an Executive Director of Executive of TDG plc which he joined in 1999 from Associated BG plc from 1992 to 1998, latterly as Deputy Chairman.
British Foods plc where he was an Executive Director, having previously held senior positions in a number of leading UK 02.
John was appointed Group Chief Executive in January 05.
David Hurcomb 2001 having formerly been Vice President, Integrated Facilities Executive Director Management, Europe, the Middle East and Africa of Johnson Age 44.
David was appointed to the Board on 1 January 2008.
He is Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Forum, David has responsibility for Carillions Building business.
A graduate Vice-Chairman of the CBIs Public Services Strategy Board and engineer and chartered accountant, he joined Carillion in March a member of the CBIs Presidents Committee.
He is also a 2005 from Balfour Beatty Plc.
From 1990 to 2003, David was Non-Executive Director of Tomkins plc.
employed in a number of senior positions by Mansell plc, latterly as an Executive Director.
Prior to 1990, David worked for KPMG.
Richard Adam Group Finance Director Age 50.
Richard Adam was appointed Group Finance Director in April 2007.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG in 1982 and gained broad experience in a number of public and private company finance director roles from the age of 30.
Immediately prior to joining Carillion, Richard was Group Finance Director of Associated British Ports Holdings plc.
He is also a Non-Executive Director and the chairman of the Audit Committee of SSL International plc.
Section 04 Governance 39 Carillion plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 06 07 08 09 10 06.
Vanda Murray OBE Executive Director Non-Executive Director Age 53.
Don was appointed to the Board in September 2006 Age 47.
Vanda was appointed to the Board in June 2005 and and is responsible for Carillions Services businesses.
He joined is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Carillion from Johnson Controls Inc in 2002, having held a Committees.
Vanda is Non-Executive Chairman of Eazyfone number of senior positions in Johnson Controls and prior to Limited, Deputy Chairman Elect of the North West Development that in Mowlem plc.
Don was also a Director of Aspire Defence Agency, a Director of The Cheshire Building Society and is a Fellow Finance PLC, a Joint Venture between Carillion, Kellogg Brown of the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Vanda was a Director of and Root and HSBC to deliver Project Allenby Connaught, the Ultraframe plc prior to its takeover in 2006 and was previously Ministry of Defences largest Estates Public Private Partnership Chief Executive of Blick plc and until April 2007, was a trustee and contract to date.
Non-Executive Director of The Manufacturing Institute.
She was appointed OBE in 2002 for Services to Industry and to Export.
David was appointed to the Board in November 2005 Executive Director and is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Age 56.
Roger joined Tarmac Construction as Contracts Director Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
David is Chairman in 1989 subsequently becoming Managing Director of Tarmac of Hoseasons Holdings Ltd and a Non-Executive Director of Micro Civil Engineering, International and Rail.
Roger was appointed Focus International plc, Ludorum plc and Cineworld Group plc.
to the Board of Carillion plc in May 1999 and has Groupwide He is also Chairman of the Board of Trustees for Make a Wish responsibility for infrastructure, international, commercial and Foundation UK.
Before taking up these appointments, David health and safety matters.
He is a Fellow of the Institution held senior positions in a number of services sector companies, of Civil Engineers and was a member of the Government including Chief Financial Officer for Le Meridien Hotels and Taskforce on Modern Apprenticeships.
Resorts Limited, Chief Financial Officer for Thomson Travel Group Holdings plc and Group Finance Director of Avis Europe plc.
Steve Mogford Non-Executive Director Age 51.
Steve was appointed to the Board in September 2006 and is a member of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Steve is Chief Executive of Selex Sensors and Airborne Systems SpA, a Finmeccanica company, which he joined in May 2007.
From April 2000 to May 2007, he was a Director of BAE Systems plc with responsibility latterly for UK naval sector consolidation.
