211729 SJP R&A 2007 Cov:JR0530 Report & Accounts 2007 Cover 16 3 08 11:30 Page 2 About Us St. Jamess Place is a leading company in the expanding wealth management market.
We seek to provide trusted face-to-face advice to all our Our Approach to Investment Management clients, which is based on their individual needs and cirWe do not employ in-house fund managers because we cumstances and takes into account their financial objecbelieve that no single investment house can have tives.
We provide a highly professional service delivering a monopoly of investment expertise.
We therefore carereliable and personal advice designed to suit individual fully select a number of external managers to manage requirements.
The cornerstone of this approach is the Investment Committee who manage the fund manThe UK economy has enjoyed a strong period of growth agers on behalf of our clients.
We retain an independin recent times, and as a result it is forecast that the UK ent investment consulting firm, Stamford Associates, will have the highest concentration of high net worth who play a crucial role in selection and management.
The majority of these This approach gives us both the flexibility to respond to individuals have an increasing need for advice as financial market conditions as they change and also the certainty markets become ever more complex and governments that we are employing the best fund managers for our and employers continue to transfer the burden of proviclients.
Our Corporate Objective We believe we are uniquely positioned to succeed in this Our goal is to be acknowledged as the UKs most sucmarket because of two fundamental principles that have cessful wealth management adviser.
As such we were underpinned our business from day 1: the strength of the delighted that at the end of 2007 the readers of the relationship between our advisers and their clients: and Daily Telegraph voted St. Jamess Place Wealth our approach to investment management.
Partner Client Relationships Our advisers, members of the St. Jamess Place Partnership, build relationships with clients that last.
Partners work with clients to help them realise their long term aims, supporting them over the years as their circumstances and priorities change.
Advice is face-to-face and focused on the personal needs of each individual client as Partners recognise that no one clients objectives or circumstances are the same as another.
The relationships between Partners and clients endure because they are founded on mutual respect and trust.
