Report of the Directors The directors have pleasure in submitting their report and Major Interests in Shares and Voting Rights accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended As far as the directors are aware as at 31 December 2007, 31 December 2007.
Temasek Holdings Private Limited Temasek was the only shareholder that had an interest of more than 10 per cent in the Activities Companys issued ordinary share capital carrying a right to vote The Company is the holding company for the Standard Chartered at any general meeting of the Company.
Group of companies the Group which are principally engaged in the business of banking and the provision of other financial As at 26 February 2008, the Company had been notified by the services.
following companies of their interests in the total voting rights of the Company: Business Review A fair review of the business performance of the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2007, the position of the Percentage Percentage of voting Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal Number of of voting rights ordinary rights risks and uncertainties facing the Group can be found in the Shareholder shares Direct Indirect Chairmans Statement on pages 8 and 9, the Group Chief Temasek 268,197,219 19.03 Executives Review on pages 10 to 15, the Key Performance Legal & General Indicators on pages 16 and 17 and the Business, Financial and Group PLC 57,361,033 4.08 Risk Reviews on pages 18 to 61, all of which are incorporated into this report by reference.
The Company has been notified that Temaseks interest in the total voting rights of the Company is held indirectly through Fullerton Share Capital Management Pte Ltd, Dover Investments Pte Ltd and other subsidiaries During the year 9,012,891 ordinary shares were issued under of Fullerton Management Pte Ltd. the Companys employee share plans at prices between nil Loan Capital and 1064 pence and 15,928,740 ordinary shares were issued Details of the loan capital of the Company and its subsidiaries under the Companys share dividend scheme.
Further details of these issues of ordinary shares and other Directors matters relating to the Companys share capital, including The directors of the Company are listed on pages 62 and 63. information on the structure, and rights and obligations attaching Mr Peace was appointed as Deputy Chairman and the Senior to each class of the Companys shares, can be found Independent Director and Mr Mittal was appointed as an in note 38. independent non-executive director, both with effect from At the annual general meeting AGM in May 2007 the 1 August 2007.
Mr Bullock was appointed as Group Executive shareholders granted authority for the Company to buy Director with effect from 6 August 2007.
Mr Nargolwala resigned back up to 138,476,606 of the Companys ordinary shares as a director on 6 September 2007. approximately 10 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary Mr Peace, Mr Mittal and Mr Bullock will offer themselves for share capital as at 19 March 2007.
In addition, the shareholders election by the shareholders at this years AGM.
Mr DeNoma, granted authority for the Company to buy back up to all of the Miss Gooding, Mr Markham, Mr Sands and Mr Stocken will retire Companys issued preference share capital.
The Company from office by rotation and will offer themselves for re-election did not purchase any of its own shares during the period at this years AGM, in accordance with the Companys articles and therefore these authorities remained in force at of association.
Sir CK Chow, will step down from the Board at the conclusion On 25 May 2007 the Company issued 7,500 7.014 per cent nonof this years AGM.
cumulative redeemable preference shares of $5 each.
These US dollar preference shares were issued in the form of American Directors Interests Depository shares and further details can be found in note 38 to The directors beneficial interests in the ordinary shares of the the accounts.
Company as at 31 December 2007 are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 85.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend for 2007 of 56.23 cents Qualifying Third Party Indemnities per ordinary share which, if approved at the 2008 AGM, will be The Company has granted qualifying third party indemnities to paid on 16 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at 7 March the directors of the Company and the directors of Standard 2008.
The 2007 interim dividend of 23.12 cents per ordinary Chartered Bank.
These indemnities remain in force at the date share was paid on 10 October 2007, making a total dividend of of this report.
Risk Management The ordinary shareholders will again be offered the choice to The risk management objectives and policies of the Group, receive their cash dividends in either sterling, Hong Kong dollars including its policy for hedging risk, are set out in the Risk Review or US dollars.
It is also intended that the share dividend alternative on pages 43 to 61 and the Groups exposure to credit risk is to the cash dividend will be offered during 2008. set out in note 49, liquidity risk in note 47 and market risk on page 56.
Company only risks are managed as a part of overall Group risks, all of which are incorporated by reference to this report.
Significant Contracts and Agreements There were no contracts of significance during the year in which any of the directors were materially interested.
com 65 Corporate Governance Report of the Directors continued Related Party Transactions sharesave schemes and share in the success of the Group.
Details of transactions with directors and officers and other Further details of the sharesave schemes are given on page related parties are set out in note 52 to the accounts.
Continuing Connected Transactions The Groups employment policies are designed to accommodate By virtue of its shareholding of more than 10 per cent in the the relevant social, statutory and market conditions and Company, Temasek and its associates are related parties and practices in each country where the Group operates whilst connected persons of the Company for the purposes of the UK encouraging equal opportunities and diversity.
The Group is Listing Rules and the Listing Rules of The Stock Exchange of Hong committed to communicating effectively with its employees on a Kong Limited the HK Listing Rules respectively together, the wide range of issues.
Employees are kept informed through Rules.
Neither Temasek nor its associates are related parties for briefings given to managers who are in turn encouraged to hold the purposes of IAS 24. subsequent meetings with staff.
In addition, circulars, publications and videos are used to disseminate information.
The Rules are intended to ensure that there is no favourable treatment to Temasek or its associates as defined under the The Group recognises its social and statutory duty to employ Rules as a result of such shareholding, to the detriment of other disabled people and has followed a policy in the United Kingdom shareholders in the Company.
Unless transactions which the by providing, wherever possible, the same employment Company and its subsidiaries undertake with Temasek or its opportunities for disabled people as for others.
If employees associates are specifically exempt under the Rules or the become disabled every effort is made to ensure their employment subject of a specific waiver, they may require a combination continues, with appropriate training where necessary.
Further of announcement, reporting, shareholder approval and or details of the Groups employees can be found in the Business disclosure.
To ensure transparency, the Rules also impose Review on pages 18 to 33. additional reporting and disclosure requirements on the The Group has measured employee engagement for the last Company in respect of certain non-exempt and other seven years using the Gallup Organizations Q12 survey.
transactions with Temasek or its associates.
The annual survey provides important feedback to managers In 2007, the Group entered into certain connected transactions and teams and internal research has demonstrated a strong with Temasek and its associates in the normal course of its relationship between high engagement and increased business business that are not exempt and are subject to the annual performance.
In 2007, 95 per cent of employees voluntarily took reporting and or shareholders approval requirements of the HK part in the survey.
At the 2007 AGM, shareholders gave authority for Areas of Operation the Company to enter into certain ongoing transactions and The Group has over 1,600 branches and outlets.
Further details this authority will expire on 3 May 2010.
Further details of of the branches and outlets can be found on the Companys transactions undertaken with Temasek and its associates during website at: www.
com 2007 are set out in the Supplementary Financial Information on pages 162 and 163.
Major Customers Taken together, the five largest customers of the Group account The independent non-executive directors of the Company for 2.31 per cent of the total interest income and other operating confirm that the continuing connected transactions have income of the Group in the year ended 31 December 2007. been entered into by members of the Group with Temasek or its associates: Creditor Payment Policy Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms in the ordinary and usual course of business of the Group: and conditions with their suppliers in the economies where they either on normal commercial terms or, if there are not sufficient conduct business and for bringing those terms and conditions to comparable transactions to judge whether they are on normal the attention of the supplier.
It is the Groups policy to pay commercial terms, on terms that are no less favourable to the creditors in accordance with the agreed terms and conditions, Group than terms available to or from as appropriate independent provided the supplier has complied with them.
third parties: and Standard Chartered PLC is a holding company and does not in accordance with the relevant agreement governing them trade.
Therefore, it is not considered meaningful to give a number on terms that are fair and reasonable and in the interests of of days purchases outstanding for the Company as at the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
For the Groups operations in the United Kingdom, there were 35 days purchases outstanding as at For the purposes of Rule 14A.
38 of the HK Listing Rules, the 31 December 2007.
Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its associated firms Community Investment together KPMG, has performed certain agreed-upon The Group is committed to building a sustainable business and a procedures on the aforementioned continuing connected more sustainable society.
It recognises its responsibility to invest transactions for the year ended 31 December 2007, in the communities where it operates.
In 2007, the Group made in accordance with International Federation of Accountants a total investment of $24.5 million in the communities in which it Related Services 4400 Engagement to Perform Agreed-Upon Procedures Regarding Financial Information.
This includes direct financial support of $18.2 million to various community programmes and non-governmental Employee Engagement organisations, of which $4.5 million was given to United Kingdom The Group employs 70,000 staff in over 50 countries and registered charities, focusing on supporting their work outside the territories.
The average number of people employed by the United Kingdom.
Group in the United Kingdom during the year was 1,400 and their total remuneration for the year was $368 million.
Employees In addition to many initiatives at a global, regional and local level in all the countries and territories where the Group operates have the Group operates four major programmes: Living with HIV, the opportunity to participate in the Groups all-employee Seeing is Believing, Empowering Women and Employee 66 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Volunteering.
Further details of community projects can be found in the Business Review on pages 18 to 33.
HIV AIDS Policy The Group is committed to addressing social, health and human rights issues confronting its employees, their families and the communities in which it operates.
The Group recognises that the principal competitive advantage of any business is gained through its employees, and this advantage is only sustainable if they are healthy, skilled and motivated.
HIV AIDS directly and indirectly impacts the Groups staff and therefore its business.
The Groups policy on HIV AIDS has been adopted across all the countries in which the Group operates and applies to all staff and their families in a manner consistent with existing medical cover.
A copy of the Groups HIV AIDS policy is available to shareholders on the Companys website at: www.
com sustainability Environmental Policy The Group recognises that it should minimise any adverse impact of the conduct of business on the environment.
It therefore aims to manage its businesses with regard to the use of energy and other resources and by disposing of waste responsibly, by encouraging its customers to ensure that their products, processes and businesses do not damage the environment unnecessarily and by taking environmental considerations into account in business decisions.
A copy of the Groups environmental policy is available to shareholders on the Companys website at: www.
com sustainability Social, Ethical and Environmental SEE Responsibilities A report on SEE responsibilities can be found on page 72 and further details of the Groups policies on SEE risk can be found on the Companys website: www.
com sustainability Auditor Having reviewed the independence and the effectiveness of the external auditors, a resolution will be proposed at the 2008 AGM to reappoint KPMG as auditor to the Company.
So far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all steps that he or she ought to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of, and to establish that the auditors are aware of any relevant audit information.
Annual General Meeting The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon UK time 7.00 pm Hong Kong time on Wednesday 7 May 2008 at The Plaisterers Hall, One London Wall, London EC2Y 5JU.
Details of the business to be transacted at the AGM are included in the Notice of AGM.
By order of the Board Annemarie Durbin Group Company Secretary 26 February 2008 www.
