Risk Review Except where indicated # the Risk Review is an integral part of the audited financial statements.
Risk Management Review operational, regulatory and reputational risks which arise as The credit environment in the majority of the Groups a normal consequence of any business undertaking.
core markets remained generally benign throughout 2007, As part of this framework, the Group uses a set of principles notwithstanding the turbulent market conditions in some western that describe the risk management culture the Group wishes to markets in the second half of the year triggered by the sub-prime sustain.
All risk decisions and risk management activity should mortgage crisis in the United States.
The Groups strategy to be in line with, and in the spirit of, the risk principles of the Group.
pursue growth in Asia, Africa and the Middle East has resulted The principles of risk management followed by the Group include: in no direct exposure to US sub-prime mortgages and extremely limited indirect exposure.
Balancing risk and reward: risk is taken in support of the requirements of the Groups stakeholders, in line with the The Groups liquidity remains strong and is being used to Groups strategy and within its risk appetite: strengthen relationships with key clients and to continue to support growth opportunities.
Responsibility: given the Group is in the business of taking risk, it is everyones responsibility to seek to ensure that risk taking Market risk is tightly controlled using Value at Risk VaR is both disciplined and focused.
The Group takes account of its methodologies complemented by stress testing.
VaR increased social, environmental and ethical responsibilities in taking risk to in 2007 as a consequence of increased volatility and growth in produce a return: the financial markets business of the Wholesale Bank.
Accountability: risk is taken only within agreed authorities and The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains robust with new where there is appropriate infrastructure and resource.
All risk provisions continuing at a low level.
The absolute level of taking must be transparent, controlled and reported: recoveries in 2007 was lower than in recent years due to a lower stock of problem accounts after several years of benign Anticipation: the Group looks to anticipate future risks and credit conditions, and good progress in management of these seeks to ensure awareness of all risks: and accounts.
Forward credit portfolio quality indicators remain stable.
The Wholesale Banking asset backed securities portfolio includes Competitive advantage: the Group seeks competitive mortgage backed securities and collateralised debt obligations.
advantage through efficient and effective risk management This portfolio, representing around two per cent of assets, has and control.
been affected by the market dislocation but has had limited Ultimate responsibility for the effective management of risk rests impact on the Groups performance.
The asset backed with the Board of Standard Chartered PLC.
Acting within an securities portfolio continues to be closely monitored and authority delegated by the Board, the Audit and Risk Committee proactively managed.
ARC, whose members are all Non-Executive Directors of the In 2007, the Consumer Banking credit portfolio performance Company, reviews specific risk areas and monitors the activities continued to be driven primarily by country specific factors.
of the Group Risk Committee GRC and the Group Asset and Total net loan impairment as a percentage of loans and Liability Committee GALCO.
advances improved marginally year-on-year and gross nonperforming loans were significantly lower than at last year end.
The Boards remit for management of credit risk, country risk, There was a material improvement in Taiwans loan impairment market risk, operational risk, regulatory risk and reputational risk as compared to 2006 due to a more favourable consumer is delegated to the GRC.
The Consumer Banking portfolios in Singapore All the Group Executive Directors GEDs of Standard Chartered also performed particularly well in terms of delinquency and PLC, members of the Standard Chartered Bank Court and the impairment.
Economic conditions, in part resulting from political Group Chief Risk Officer are members of the GRC.
This instability, led to a deterioration in credit quality in Pakistan Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer.
GALCO, through authority delegated by the Board, is responsible Good progress is being made on the integration of risk controls for the maintenance of capital ratios and the establishment and processes into the two acquisitions, Union in Pakistan and of, and compliance with, policies relating to balance sheet Hsinchu in Taiwan.
management including management of the Groups liquidity, The requirements of Basel II are broadly consistent with our capital adequacy and structural foreign exchange rate risk.
established approaches to risk measurement: the Group strongly supports the principle of a more risk sensitive approach to capital GALCO membership consists of all the GEDs of Standard adequacy, facilitated by the Basel II framework.
Accordingly, we Chartered PLC and members of Standard Chartered Bank are pleased to have received from the Financial Services Authority Court.
The committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director.
FSA in the United Kingdom approval to use the Advanced The committee governance structure seeks to ensure that risk Internal Ratings Based approaches for the calculation of credit management standards and policies are cascaded down risk capital, covering the vast majority of our assets globally.
through the organisation from the Board through the GRC and We have also received a similar approval from the Hong Kong the GALCO to functional, regional and country level committees.
Monetary Authority in respect of our business there.
Management Information is communicated through the country, regional is working closely with other regulators to ensure that the Group and functional committees to the Group level committees, is well placed to benefit from the local rollout of Basel II.
which seeks to ensure that key risk issues are addressed at Risk Governance the appropriate level and to provide assurance that standards Through its risk management framework the Group seeks to and policies are being followed.
efficiently manage credit, market, country and liquidity risk, which arise directly through the Groups commercial activities, as well as 43 www.
com Financial and Risk Review Risk Review continued Risk Governance continued The following diagram illustrates the high level committee structure.
Group risk committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Audit and Risk Committee Standard Chartered Bank Court Group Asset and Liability Committee GALCO Group Risk Committee GRC Consumer Banking Risk Wholesale Banking Risk Liquidity Capital Committee Committee Tax Management Management Management Committee Committee Committee Group Market Risk Group Credit Committee Committee Group Compliance and Group Reputaional Risk and Regulatory Risk Committee Responsibility Committee Other Risk Type Group Operational Risk Committee Committee The Groups Risk Management Framework RMF identifies the Individual GEDs and members of the Standard Chartered Bank risk types, each of which is managed by a designated Risk Type Court are accountable for risk management in their businesses Owner RTO.
The RTOs, who are all approved persons under and support functions, and for countries where they have the FSA regulatory framework, have responsibility for establishing governance responsibilities.
This includes: minimum standards and governance and for implementing implementing the policies and standards as agreed by the governance and assurance processes.
The RTOs report up GRC across all business activities: through specialist risk committees to the GRC or GALCO.
managing risk in line with appetite levels agreed by the GRC: and The GED Risk and the Group Chief Risk Officer, together with Director, People, Property and Assurance and Group Internal developing and maintaining appropriate risk management Audit, provide assurance, independent from the businesses, infrastructure and systems to facilitate compliance with risk policies.
that risk is being measured and managed in accordance with The Group Executive Director with responsibility for Risk GED the Groups standards and policies.
Risk and the Group Chief Risk Officer manage a Risk function which is independent of the origination and sales functions of the Risk management framework businesses.
The Risk function performs the following core activities: informs and challenges business strategy, material discussions and processes to encourage rigour, quality, optimisation and Risk types transparency in relation to risk efficiency: eg.
Credit, Market, Operational, independently controls the risk management processes which Liquidity and Reputational seeks to ensure discipline and consistency with risk standards, policy and risk appetite: advises on risk management frameworks, the structuring of Risk Management Standards Global Policies and Procedures products and transactions and on the assessment and measurement of risk: facilitates and manages risk processes which seeks to ensure Wholesale and Consumer Banking Policies and Procedures operational efficiency, effectiveness and best practice: and communicates with stakeholders to demonstrate compliance with requirements in relation to risk management.
Countries Local Policy Addenda and Procedures 44 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Assurances Risk Appetite The diagram below illustrates the stress testing framework, Risk appetite is an expression of the amount of risk the Group is which has been implemented to meet the following requirements: prepared to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The Groups enable the Group to set and monitor its risk appetite: risk appetite defines the acceptable level of earnings volatility.
Recognising a range of outcomes as business plans are identify key risks to the Groups strategy, financial position, implemented, risk appetite reflects the Groups capacity to and reputation: sustain potential losses at varying levels of probability, based assess the impact on the Groups profitability and business on available capital resources.
plans: The Group has defined its risk appetite in the context of three seek to ensure effective governance, processes and systems key criteria: the overall capacity to take risk: balancing the are in place to co-ordinate and integrate stress testing: expectations of all key stakeholders: and support for the inform senior management: and Groups credit rating.
The Group uses a range of quantitative risk indicators including capital ratios, profitability, return on equity, portfolio credit risk The stress testing forum is led by the Risk function with profile and market risk VaR, through which senior management participation from the businesses, Finance and Group Treasury.
monitor the Groups risk profile.
In addition to financial measures Its primary objective is to seek to ensure the Group understands of risk, the Group also controls risk through concentration caps the earnings volatility and capital implications of given stress and underwriting policies.
Measures vary by country, business scenarios.
A key responsibility of the stress testing forum is to and product area.
generate and consider pertinent and plausible scenarios that have the potential to adversely affect the Group.
The annual business planning and regular performance management processes aim to ensure the expression of In view of recent market turbulence, stress testing activity has risk appetite remains appropriate.
been intensified at country, business and Group levels, with specific focus on certain asset classes, client segments and the Stress Testing potential impact of macro economic factors.
Stress tests have Stress testing and scenario analysis are used to assess the taken into consideration possible future scenarios that could financial and management capability of the Group to continue arise as a result of prevailing market conditions.
The stress tests operating effectively under extreme but plausible trading provide the Group with an understanding of the way in which conditions.
Such conditions may arise from economic, its portfolios may react to stress events and the management legal, political, environmental, and social factors.
actions that would need to be taken if these scenarios unfold.
Stress testing and scenario analysis help to inform management The results confirm that the Groups geographic and business with respect to: diversity reduce the impact at a Group level with no material vulnerabilities in the short-term in the Groups overall portfolio.
the identification of potential future risks: the setting of the Groups risk appetite: the nature and dynamics of the risk profile: the robustness of risk management systems and controls: the adequacy of contingency planning: and the effectiveness of risk mitigants.
Stress testing framework Country Stress Testing Stress Testing Forum Business Stress Scenario Management Risk Type Owners, Chief Risk Officers, Risk types Analysis Testing Selection Action Group Risk, Global Research and eg.
Credit, Market, Operational, Regional Representatives Liquidity and Reputaional Risk Type Stress Testing 45 www.
com Financial and Risk Review Risk Review continued Credit Risk derivatives are only used in a controlled manner and within a preCredit Risk Management defined volatility expectation.
Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial instrument Securities will cause a financial loss for the Group by failing to discharge Within Wholesale Banking, the Underwriting Committee approves an obligation.
the portfolio limits and parameters by business units for the Credit exposures include both individual borrowers and groups underwriting and purchase of all pre-defined securities assets to of connected counterparties, and portfolios in the banking and be held for sale.
The Underwriting Committee is established trading books.
under the authority of the GRC.
The business operates within set limits, which include country, single issuer, holding period The Group Chief Credit Officer GCCO is the RTO for credit risk.
The Underwriting Committee approves The standards and Group-wide credit policies recommended by underwriting applications.
Day to day credit risk management the GCCO are considered and approved by the GRC, which activities are carried out by Markets & Institution Risk also oversees the delegation of credit authorities.
Management MIRM whose activities include oversight and Policies and procedures that are specific to each business are approval of temporary excesses within the levels as delegated established by both Consumer and Wholesale Banking.
These by the Underwriting Committee.
are consistent with the Group-wide credit policies, but are Issuer risk monitoring is performed by Group Market Risk, whilst adapted to reflect the different risk environments and portfolio the counterparty pre-settlement and settlement risk arising on characteristics.
There are Chief Risk Officers for both the the sale and purchase of securities is monitored by MIRM.
The Consumer and Wholesale Banking businesses, who have price risk in respect of these assets is controlled by the Market their primary reporting line into the Group Chief Risk Officer.
This ensures the independence of the Risk function from the origination and sales functions.
Wholesale Banking Credit Risk Credit risk is managed through a framework which sets out Risk Mitigation policies and procedures covering the measurement and Collateral types which are eligible for risk mitigation include: cash: management of credit risk.
There is a clear segregation of residential, commercial and industrial property: fixed assets such duties between transaction originators and the approvers as motor vehicles, aircraft, plant and machinery: marketable in the Risk function.
securities: commodities: bank guarantees and letters of credit.
The Group also enters into collateralised reverse repurchase An alphanumeric grading system is used for quantifying the agreements.
Risk mitigation policies control the approval of risk associated with a counterparty.
The grading is based on a collateral types.
probability of default measure, with customers analysed against a range of quantitative and qualitative measures.
The numeric Collateral is valued in accordance with the Groups risk mitigation grades run from 1 to 14.
Counterparties with lower credit grades policy, which prescribes the frequency of valuation for different are assessed as being less likely to default.
An A to C scale is collateral types.
The valuation frequency is driven by the level assigned to the original numeric rating scale, to enable more of price volatility of each type of collateral.
granular mapping of the probability of default, which results Collateral held against impaired loans is maintained at fair value.
in more refined risk assessment, risk control and pricing.
A The valuation of collateral is monitored regularly and is backcounterparty with an A suffix has a lower probability of default tested at least annually.
Credit grades 1A to credit Concentration Risk grade 12C are assigned to performing customers while credit Credit concentration risk in the Wholesale Banking portfolio is grades 13 and 14 are assigned to non-performing managed through the Credit Issues Forum, which is chaired by or defaulted customers.
the Wholesale Bank Chief Risk Officer and comprises members There is no direct relationship between the Groups internal credit of senior management from the Risk function and the business.
grades and those used by external rating agencies.
The Groups Various concentration dimensions are assessed including credit grades are not intended to replicate external credit grades, industry sector, geographic spread, credit rating, customer although as the factors used to grade a borrower are often segment and exposure to single counterparties or groups similar, a borrower rated poorly by an external rating agency of related counterparties.
is typically rated in the lower rank of the Groups internal Credit concentration risk in Consumer Banking is managed within credit grades.
exposure limits set for each product segment in each country.
In addition to nominal aggregate exposure, expected loss is These limits are reviewed at least annually and are approved by used in the assessment of individual exposures and for portfolio the responsible business and risk officer in accordance with their delegated authority level.
Expected loss is the long-run average credit loss across a range of typical economic conditions.
It is used in the delegation Derivatives of credit approval authority and must be calculated for every The credit risk arising from derivatives is managed as part of transaction to determine the appropriate level of approval.
the overall lending limits to banks and customers.
The amount Significant exposures are reviewed and approved centrally of credit risk is the current positive fair value of the underlying through a Group or regional level credit committee.
These contract together with potential exposures from future market committees derive their authority from GRC.
The Group further limits its exposure to credit losses in the event of default by entering into master netting agreements To assist risk officers in monitoring the portfolio, various with certain market counterparties.
As required by IAS 32, internal risk management reports are available on a regular exposures are not presented net in the financial statements basis, providing individual counterparty, counterparty group as in the ordinary course of business they are not intended and portfolio exposure information, credit grade migration to be settled net.
information, the status of accounts showing signs of weakness Where appropriate, derivatives are used to reduce credit risks in or financial deterioration and updates on credit markets.
Due to their potential impact on income volatility, Ratings Based IRB portfolio metrics are widely used.
46 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Credit Risk continued The total Consumer Banking portfolio has grown by $3.6 billion Consumer Banking Credit Risk since December 2006.
The majority of the growth has been in the Credit risk in Consumer Banking is also managed through a SME business, with nearly half of that growth coming from Korea.
framework of policies and procedures.
Credit origination uses The Singapore mortgage portfolio also grew significantly, fuelled standard application forms, which are processed in central units by a buoyant property market.
using largely automated approval processes.
Where appropriate Growth in the Wholesale Banking customer portfolio was to the customer, the product or the market, a manual approval $12.9 billion, or 21 per cent.
Over 40 per cent of that growth process is in place.
As with Wholesale Banking, origination and was in Asia Pacific, widely spread across a number of countries approval roles are segregated.
The significant growth in Americas, UK & Europe To aid Credit Managers in portfolio management, regular primarily reflects the increased contribution from the Global internal risk management reports contain information on key Markets products.
environmental and economic trends across major portfolios Exposures to banks grew by 79 per cent.
This reflects the and countries, portfolio delinquency and loan impairment Groups strong liquidity position, with much of that liquidity performance, as well as IRB portfolio metrics including placed with high quality bank counterparties.
The growth was migration across credit grades and other trends.
well spread across geographies, with about two-thirds of it in Credit grades within Consumer Banking are based on a Asia Pacific.
probability of default calculated using advanced IRB models.
Single borrower concentration risk has been mitigated by For portfolios where such models have not yet been developed, active distribution of assets to banks and institutional investors.
the probability of default is calculated using portfolio delinquency The Group has achieved additional risk distribution through flow rates.
An alphanumeric grading system identical to that credit default swaps and synthetic risk transfer structures.
of the Wholesale Banking business is used as an index of The Wholesale Banking portfolio remains well diversified across portfolio quality.
both geography and industry, with no significant concentration Loan Portfolio within the industry classifications of Manufacturing: Financing, Loans and advances to customers have grown by $16.5 billion insurance and business services: Commerce: or Transport, to $157.0 billion.
Total loans and advances to banks include $2,314 million held at fair value through profit or loss.
Amounts have been re-presented following a re-analysis of acquired loan portfolios.
Total loans and advances to customers include $1,194 million held at fair value through profit or loss.
Total loans and advances to banks include $1,340 million held at fair value through profit or loss.
48 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Maturity Analysis Approximately 51 per cent of the Groups loans and advances the Other and SME loans in Consumer Banking have short to customers are short term having a contractual maturity contractual maturities, typically they may be renewed and of one year or less.
The Wholesale Banking portfolio is repaid over longer terms in the normal course of business.
predominantly short term, with 79 per cent of loans and advances The following tables show the maturity of loans and advances to having a contractual maturity of one year or less.
In Consumer customers by each principal category of borrowers business Banking, 61 per cent of the portfolio is in the mortgage book, or industry: traditionally longer term in nature and well secured.
com Financial and Risk Review Risk Review continued Problem Credit Management and Provisioning Consumer Banking Within Consumer Banking, an account is considered to be both loans for which payments are current and loans overdue delinquent when payment is not received on the due date.
For delinquency reporting purposes, the Group follows industry The PIP is set with reference to past experience using a flow standards, measuring delinquency as of 30, 60, 90, 120, and rate methodology, as well as taking account of judgemental 150 days past due.
Accounts that are overdue by more factors such as the economic and business environment in core than 30 days are closely monitored and subject to specific markets, and the trends in a range of portfolio indicators.
include flow rates across all delinquency buckets, portfolio loss The process used for raising provisions is dependent on the severity, collections and recovery performance trends.
For mortgages, individual impairment provisions IIP Non-performing loans are loans past due by more than 90 days are generally raised at 150 days past due based on the difference or have an individual impairment provision raised against them.
between the outstanding amount of the loan, and the present The cover ratio reflects the extent to which the gross nonvalue of the estimated future cash flows which includes the performing loans are covered by the individual and portfolio realisation of collateral.
For other secured loans where the impairment provisions.
collateral value is typically realised in less than 12 months, loan impairment is calculated using the forced sale value of the The table below sets out the total non-performing loans collateral without further discounting.
For unsecured products, in Consumer Banking, which includes $517 million 2006: individual provisions are raised for the entire outstanding amount $909 million of net individually impaired loans note 21. at 150 days past due.
For all products there are certain accounts, The significant decrease in non-performing loans is a result such as cases involving bankruptcy, fraud and death, where the of improved conditions in Taiwan, strong performance in loss recognition process is accelerated.
Singapore, and improvements in SME portfolio quality in Korea.
A portfolio impairment provision PIP is held to cover the The following table sets out the total non-performing portfolio in inherent risk of losses which, although not identified, are known Consumer Banking: through experience to be present in the loan portfolio.
PIP covers 2007 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 65 61 166 336 475 56 126 38 1 1,324 Individual impairment provision 24 26 38 125 329 19 75 18 1 655 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 41 35 128 211 146 37 51 20 669 Portfolio impairment provision 412 Net non-performing loans and advances 257 Cover ratio 81% 2006 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 80 100 202 531 821 48 98 24 5 1,909 Individual impairment provision 29 38 67 239 387 17 62 10 3 852 Non-performing loans net of individual impairment provision 51 62 135 292 434 31 36 14 2 1,057 Portfolio impairment provision 448 Net non-performing loans and advances 609 Cover ratio 68% Individual impairment provisions relating to the finalisation of acquisition fair values have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Gross nonperforming loans within Other Asia Pacific have been increased by $153 million to reflect additional non-performing loans identified as part of these fair values.
50 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Wholesale Banking In Wholesale Banking, accounts or portfolios are placed operations, sales of assets or subsidiaries, realisation of collateral on Early Alert when they display signs of weakness or financial or payments under guarantees.
Cash flows from all available deterioration, for example where there is a rapid decline in the sources are considered.
In any decision relating to the raising of clients position within the industry, a breach of covenants, provisions, the Group attempts to balance economic conditions, non-performance of an obligation, or there are issues relating local knowledge and experience, and the results of independent to ownership or management.
Where it is considered that there is no realistic prospect Such accounts and portfolios are subject to a dedicated process of recovering an element of an exposure against which an with oversight involving senior officers from the Risk function impairment provision has been raised, then that amount will and Group Special Asset Management GSAM, the specialist be written off.
Account plans are re-evaluated and remedial actions are agreed and monitored.
Remedial actions include, but As with Consumer Banking, a PIP is held to cover the inherent are not limited to, exposure reduction, security enhancement, exit risk of losses which, although not identified, are known through of the account or immediate movement of the account into the experience to be present in any loan portfolio.
In Wholesale control of GSAM.
Banking, the PIP is set with reference to past experience using loss rates, and judgemental factors such as the economic Loans are classified as impaired and considered non-performing environment and the trends in key portfolio indicators.
where analysis and review indicates that full payment of either interest or principal is questionable, or as soon as payment of The cover ratio reflects the extent to which gross non-performing interest or principal is 90 days overdue.
Impaired accounts are loans are covered by individual and portfolio impairment provisions.
managed by GSAM which is independent of the main businesses At 75 per cent, the Wholesale Banking non-performing portfolio of the Group.
Where any amount is considered uncollectable, an is well covered.
The balance uncovered by individual impairment individual impairment provision is raised, being the difference provision represents the value of collateral held and or the between the loan carrying amount and the present value of Groups estimate of the net value of any work-out strategy.
The following table sets out the total non-performing portfolio Future cash flows are estimated by taking into account the in Wholesale Banking, which includes net individually impaired individual circumstances of each customer and can arise from loans of $372 million 2006: $538 million note 21 : 2007 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 92 26 23 47 358 27 147 79 193 992 Individual impairment provision 50 18 21 12 235 25 122 48 87 618 Non-performing loans and advances net of individual impairment provision 42 8 2 35 123 2 25 31 106 374 Portfolio impairment provision 124 Net non-performing loans and advances 250 Cover ratio 75% 51 www.
com Financial and Risk Review Risk Review continued Wholesale Banking continued 2006 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Loans and advances Gross non-performing 167 69 29 110 626 24 121 100 152 1,398 Individual impairment provision 130 46 25 46 238 22 114 58 151 830 Non-performing loans and advances net of individual impairment provision 37 23 4 64 388 2 7 42 1 568 Portfolio impairment provision 95 Net non-performing loans and advances 473 Cover ratio 66% Individual impairment provisions relating to the finalisation of acquisition fair values have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
Gross non-performing loans within Other Asia Pacific have been increased by $375 million to reflect additional non-performing loans identified as part of these fair values.
2007 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 22 7 1 5 11 13 18 15 2 94 Recoveries provisions no longer required 25 9 4 3 5 7 11 14 17 95 Net individual impairment credit charge 3 2 3 2 6 6 7 1 15 1 Portfolio impairment provision 26 Net impairment charge 25 2006 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Gross impairment charge 14 9 2 7 3 9 10 19 7 80 Recoveries provisions no longer required 50 6 8 3 11 19 18 6 49 170 Net individual impairment credit charge 36 3 6 4 8 10 8 13 42 90 Portfolio impairment provision 2 Net impairment credit 92 52 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Movement in Group Individual Impairment Provision The following tables set out the movements in the Groups total individual impairment provision against loans and advances: 2007 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2007 159 84 92 285 625 39 176 68 154 1,682 Exchange translation differences 2 5 1 6 5 3 5 1 20 Amounts written off 161 62 92 128 468 84 115 19 54 1,183 Recoveries of acquisition fair values 98 98 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 34 12 16 42 19 12 1 3 139 Discount unwind 4 4 4 21 28 1 1 2 1 66 Other 2 1 7 10 New provisions 113 52 109 119 484 98 170 35 2 1,182 Recoveries provisions no longer required 67 40 67 19 99 33 49 22 17 413 Net charge against credit to profit 46 12 42 100 385 65 121 13 15 769 Provisions held at 31 December 2007 74 44 59 137 564 44 197 66 88 1,273 2006 Asia Pacific Middle Other East & Americas Hong Asia Other UK & Kong Singapore Malaysia Korea Pacific India S Asia Africa Europe Total $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Provisions held at 1 January 2006 279 140 96 361 179 40 64 60 167 1,386 Exchange translation differences 7 6 29 8 1 2 1 9 57 Amounts written off 119 108 51 64 403 64 88 17 48 962 Recoveries of acquisition fair values 106 106 Recoveries of amounts previously written off 49 8 11 8 18 17 12 2 3 128 Acquisitions 463 144 607 Discount unwind 2 2 4 32 7 1 2 2 52 Other 63 14 1 1 67 20 New provisions 126 71 94 131 403 76 79 44 9 1,033 Recoveries provisions no longer required 111 32 60 56 37 31 33 18 51 429 Net charge against credit to profit 15 39 34 75 366 45 46 26 42 604 Provisions held at 31 December 2006 159 84 92 285 625 39 176 68 154 1,682 Amounts have been restated as explained in note 51 on page 154.
com Financial and Risk Review Risk Review continued # Asset Backed Securities # Total exposures to Asset Backed Securities At 31 December 2007, the Group had the following exposures to asset backed securities prior to writedowns noted below: Asset Securitisation Purchased from Percentage Group Whistlejacket Total of Portfolio $million $million $million % Residential Mortgage Backed Securities RMBS 607 1,316 1,923 33 Collateralised Debt Obligations CDO 219 491 710 12 Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities CMBS 830 308 1,138 19 Other Asset Backed Securities Other ABS 970 1,115 2,085 36 2,626 3,230 5,856 100 # Writedowns of Asset Backed Securities Asset Securitisation Group Available Purchased from Tradingfor-sale Whistlejacket Total $million $million $million $million 2007 Charge to available-for-sale reserves 38 45 83 Charge to the profit and loss account 44 122 116 282 2008 Charge to available-for-sale reserves 21 15 36 Charge to the profit and loss account 13 13 Movements from 1 January 2008 to 31 January 2008.
This relates to the loss incurred on the exchange of capital notes held in Whistlejacket.
The credit quality of the asset backed securities remains strong.
12 per cent of the overall portfolio is in CDOs.
This includes $291 With the exception of those securities which have been subject to million exposures to Mezzanine and High Grade CDOs, of which an impairment charge, 98 per cent of the overall portfolio is rated $122 million have been fully provided for in the profit and loss A, or better, and 86 per cent of the overall portfolio rated at AAA.
The remainder of the CDOs have a weighted average The portfolio is broadly diversified across asset classes and credit rating of AAA.
geographies and there is no direct exposure to the US sub- 19 per cent of the overall portfolio is in CMBS, of which $159 prime market.
million is in respect of US CMBS.
The weighted average credit 33 per cent of the overall portfolio is invested in RMBS, with a rating of the CMBS is AA.
weighted average credit rating of AAA.
Over 60 per cent of the 36 per cent of the overall portfolio is in Other ABS, which includes underlying residential mortgage exposures were originated in securities backed by credit card receivables, bank collateralised 2005 or earlier years.
loan obligations and student loans, with a weighted average credit rating of AAA.
54 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Country Risk Country Risk is the risk that the Group will be unable to obtain Cross border exposure to countries in which the Group does payment from its customers or third parties on their contractual not have a significant presence predominantly relates to money obligations as a result of certain actions taken by foreign market and global corporate activity.
This business is originated governments, chiefly relating to convertibility and transferability in the Groups key markets, but is conducted with counterparties of foreign currency.
domiciled in the country against which the exposure is reported.
The GRC is responsible for the Groups country risk limits and Cross border exposures to USA, Korea and Hong Kong have delegates the setting and management of the country limits to increased by more than $3 billion each since 2006.
Growth in the Deputy Group Chief Risk Officer and Group Country the US was due to a steady increase in non-US dollar funded Risk department.
lending to US corporates and banks.
General business growth in Korea, and in particular an increase in business with Korean The business and country Chief Executive Officers manage counterparties in the Groups key markets outside of Korea, has exposures within these limits and policies.
Countries designated led to an increase in Koreas cross border exposure.
The increase as higher risk are subject to increased central monitoring.
in cross border exposure to Hong Kong was driven by business Cross border assets comprise loans and advances, interest growth, including some large Corporate Finance transactions, bearing deposits with other banks, trade and other bills, and increased lending to Chinese subsidiaries of Hong Kong acceptances, amounts receivable under finance leases, domiciled customers.
certificates of deposit and other negotiable paper and investment The following table, based on the Groups internal country risk securities where the counterparty is resident in a country other reporting requirements, shows cross border outstandings than that where the assets are recorded.
Cross border assets where they exceed one per cent of the Groups total assets.
also include exposures to local residents denominated in currencies other than the local currency.
com Financial and Risk Review Risk Review continued Market Risk The Group recognises market risk as the exposure created Stress scenarios are regularly updated to reflect changes in by potential changes in market prices and rates.
The Group is risk profile and economic events.
GMRC has responsibility for exposed to market risk arising principally from customer driven reviewing stress exposures and, where necessary, enforcing transactions.
The objective of the Groups market risk policies reductions in overall market risk exposure.
GRC considers and processes is to obtain the best balance of risk and return stress testing results as part of its supervision of risk appetite.
while meeting our customers requirements.
The stress testing methodology assumes that scope for Market risk is governed by the GRC, which agrees policies and management action would be limited during a stress event, levels of risk appetite in terms of VaR.
The Group Market Risk reflecting the decrease in liquidity that often occurs.
Committee GMRC provides market risk oversight and guidance VaR is calculated as the Groups exposure as at the close of on policy setting.
Policies cover both trading and non-trading business, London time.
Intra-day risk levels may vary from books of the Group.
The trading book is defined as per the FSA those reported at the end of the day.
handbook, Prudential Sourcebook for Banks, Building Societies and Investment Firms BIPRU.
This is more restrictive than the Trading, non-trading and total VaR have increased in 2007 broader IAS 39 definition, as the FSA only permits certain types compared to 2006 due to increased market volatility following of financial instruments or arrangements to be included within the sub-prime credit crisis in August 2007.
This surfaced in the the trading book.
Limits by location and portfolio are proposed US sub-prime mortgage market and spilled over into wider global by the businesses within the terms of agreed policy.
Trading VaR has also increased due to the expansion of the Commodities and Equities trading businesses throughout Group Market Risk GMR approves the limits within delegated 2007, and further due to the inclusion of credit spread risk in authorities and monitors exposures against these limits.
interest rate risk VaR from August 2007.
Additional limits are placed on specific instruments and position concentrations where appropriate.
Sensitivity measures are used in addition to VaR as risk management tools.
For example, 2007 Revenue Distribution interest rate sensitivity is measured in terms of exposure to a one basis point increase in yields, whereas foreign exchange, 70 commodity and equity sensitivities are measured in terms of the 60 underlying values or amounts involved.
Option risks are controlled through revaluation limits on underlying price and volatility shifts, 50 limits on volatility risk and other variables that determine the 40 options value.
30 Value at Risk 20 The Group measures the risk of losses arising from future potential adverse movements in market rates, prices and 10 volatilities using a VaR methodology.
0 -5 -4 -5 0-5 5-10 10-15 15-20 20-30 VaR is calculated for expected movements over a minimum of $ million one business day and to a confidence level of 97.5 per cent.
This confidence level suggests that potential daily losses, in excess of the VaR measure, are likely to be experienced six times per year.
2006 Revenue Distribution The Group uses historic simulation as its VaR methodology with an observation period of one year.
Historic simulation involves 90 80 the revaluation of all unmatured contracts to reflect the effect 70 of historically observed changes in market risk factors on the 60 valuation of the current portfolio.
50 The Group recognises that there are limitations to the VaR 40 methodology including the possibility that the historical data 30 may not be the best proxy for future price movements.
20 10 VaR models are back tested against actual results to ensure 0 pre-determined levels of statistical accuracy are maintained.
-4 -2-4 -2-0 0-2 2-4 4-6 6-8 8-10 10-12 12-14 14-16 16-18 $ million Losses beyond the confidence interval are not captured by a VaR calculation, which therefore gives no indication of the size of unexpected losses in these situations.
GMR, therefore, complements the VaR measurement by regularly stress testing market risk exposures to highlight potential risk that may arise from extreme market events that are rare but plausible.
Stress testing is an integral part of the market risk management framework and considers both historical market events and forward looking scenarios.
Ad hoc scenarios are also prepared reflecting specific market conditions.
A consistent stress testing methodology is applied to trading and non-trading books.
56 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Number of days Number of days 1 3 0 4 4 18 72 31 72 79 62 51 13 20 12 7 3 2 4 1 Trading and Non-trading VaR at 97.5%, 1 day 2007 2006 Average High Low Actual Average High Low Actual Daily value at risk $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Interest rate risk 12.2 19.6 7.0 17.1 10.5 13.9 7.6 9.3 Foreign exchange risk 3.2 7.2 1.7 4.4 2.6 4.8 1.1 1.5 Commodity risk 0.6 3.5 0.2 0.6 Equity risk 0.6 1.9 1.4 Total 12.9 20.0 7.5 18.6 10.6 14.0 8.0 10.3 Trading VaR at 97.5%, 1 day 2007 2006 Average High Low Actual Average High Low Actual Daily value at risk $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Interest rate risk 6.2 11.9 2.8 11.0 3.5 5.3 2.5 3.9 Foreign exchange risk 3.2 7.2 1.7 4.4 2.6 4.1 1.4 1.5 Commodity risk 0.6 3.5 0.2 0.6 Equity risk 0.6 1.9 1.4 Total 7.0 12.5 3.5 12.5 4.3 5.6 3.1 4.0 The total VaR shown in the tables above is not a sum of the component risks due to offsets between them.
Interest rate risk VaR includes credit spread risk.
This represents the actual one day VaR as at 31 December.
The highest and lowest VaR are independent and could have occurred on different days.
The average daily income earned from market risk related activities is as follows: 2007 2006 $million $million Interest rate risk 2.3 1.8 Foreign exchange risk 3.0 2.0 Commodity risk 0.1 Equity risk Total 5.4 3.8 Non-trading VaR at 97.5%, 1 day 2007 2006 Average High Low Actual Average High Low Actual Daily value at risk $million $million $million $million $million $million $million $million Interest rate risk 9.5 16.8 6.5 14.7 9.0 10.7 7.0 8.0 This represents the actual one day VaR as at 31 December.
The average daily income earned from non-trading market risk related activities is as follows: 2007 2006 $million $million Interest rate risk 1.7 1.3 Management Committee by Group Treasury.
Further analysis Interest rate risk from across the non-trading book portfolios is of structural risks can be found in note 48 on page 149. transferred to Global Markets where it is managed by local ALM desks under the supervision of local Asset and Liability Equity risk relating to private holdings is not included within the Committees.
The ALM desks deal in the market in approved VaR and is separately managed through delegated limits for both financial instruments in order to manage the net interest rate investment and divestment, and is also subject to regular review risk subject to approved VaR and risk limits.
VaR and stress tests are applied to non-trading book interest Derivatives rate exposure in the same way as for the trading book.
Derivatives are contracts whose characteristics and value derive from underlying financial instruments, interest and exchange rates Foreign exchange risk on the non-trading book portfolios or indices.
They include futures, forwards, swaps and options is minimised by match funding assets and liabilities in the transactions.
Derivatives are an important risk management same currency.
tool for banks and their customers because they can be used Structural foreign exchange risks are not included within the VaR to manage market price risk.
The market risk of all products, and arise from net investments in non-US dollar currency entities.
including derivatives, is managed in essentially the same way These are managed separately under the Group Capital as described above.
com Financial and Risk Review Risk Review continued Derivatives continued responsible for setting liquidity limits, proposing liquidity risk The Groups derivative transactions are principally in instruments policies and practices, assisting in cross-business and crosswhere the mark-to-market values are readily determinable by geography liquidity discussions and helping establish country reference to independent prices and valuation quotes or by using balance sheet targets.
Liquidity in each country is managed by standard industry pricing models.
the Country ALCO within the pre-defined liquidity limits set by the LMC and in compliance with Group liquidity policies and local The Group enters into derivative contracts in the normal course of regulatory requirements.
business to meet customer requirements and to manage its own exposure to fluctuations in market price movements.
Policies and procedures Due to the diversified nature of the Groups business, the Groups Derivatives are carried at fair value and shown in the balance policy is that liquidity is more effectively managed locally, insheet as separate totals of assets and liabilities.
Each ALCO is responsible for ensuring that the country fair value gains and losses depends on whether the derivatives is self-sufficient and is able to meet all its obligations to make are classified as trading or held for hedging purposes.
payments as they fall due by operating within the liquidity limits The Group applies a future exposure methodology to manage set for the country.
counterparty credit exposure associated with derivative The Group liquidity risk management framework requires limits transactions.
to be set for prudent liquidity management.
There are limits on: Hedging the mismatch in local and foreign currency behavioural In accounting terms under IAS 39, hedges are classified into three cash flows: types: fair value hedges, predominantly where fixed rates of the level of wholesale borrowing to ensure that the size of this interest or foreign exchange are exchanged for floating rates: funding is proportional to the local market and the Groups cash flow hedges, predominantly where variable rates of interest local operations: or foreign exchange are exchanged for fixed rates: and hedges of net investments in overseas operations translated to the parent commitments, both on and off balance sheet, to ensure there companys functional currency, US dollars.
are sufficient funds available in the event of drawdown on these commitments: The Group uses futures, forwards, swaps and options the advances to deposits ratio to ensure that commercial transactions in the foreign exchange and interest rate markets advances are funded by stable sources: to hedge risk.
the amount of medium term funding to support the asset The Group occasionally hedges the value of its foreign currency portfolio: and denominated investments in subsidiaries and branches.
Hedges may be taken where there is a risk of a significant exchange rate the amount of local currency funding sourced from foreign movement but, in general, management believes that the Groups currency sources.
reserves are sufficient to absorb any foreseeable adverse In addition, the Group prescribes a liquidity stress scenario that currency depreciation.
assumes accelerated withdrawal of deposits over a period of The effect of exchange rate movements on the capital risk asset time.
Each country has to ensure that cash inflows exceed ratio is mitigated by the fact that both the underlying net asset outflows under such a scenario.
value of these investments and the risk weighted value of assets All limits are reviewed at least annually, and more frequently if and contingent liabilities follow substantially the same exchange required, to ensure that they are relevant given market conditions rate movements.
Compliance with limits is monitored The Group may also, under certain individually approved independently on a regular basis by Group Market Risk.
circumstances, enter into economic hedges which do not Limit excesses are escalated and approved under a delegated qualify for IAS 39 hedge accounting treatment, and which authority structure and reviewed by ALCO.
Excesses are are accordingly marked to market through the profit and loss also reported monthly to LMC and GALCO which provide account creating an accounting asymmetry.
These are entered further oversight.
into primarily to ensure that residual interest rate and foreign In addition, regular reports to the ALCO include the following: exchange risks are being effectively managed.
information on the concentration and profile of debt maturities: Liquidity Risk and Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group either does not have depositor concentration report to monitor reliance on large sufficient financial resources available to meet all its obligations individual depositors.
and commitments as they fall due, or can only access these financial resources at excessive cost.
The Group has significant levels of marketable securities, principally government securities and bank paper, which can be realised in It is the policy of the Group to maintain adequate liquidity at the event that there is a need for liquidity in a crisis.
In addition, all times, in all geographic locations and for all currencies, each country and the Group maintain a liquidity crisis management and hence to be in a position to meet all obligations as they plan which is reviewed and approved annually.
The liquidity crisis fall due.
The Group manages liquidity risk both on a short management plan lays out trigger points and actions in the event term and medium term basis.
In the short term, the focus is of a liquidity crisis to ensure that there is an effective response on ensuring that the cash flow demands can be met through by senior management in case of such an event.
asset maturities, supported by customer deposits and wholesale raisings where required.
Primary sources of funding A substantial portion of the Groups assets are funded by GALCO is the responsible governing body that approves the customer deposits made up of current and savings accounts Groups liquidity management policies.
The Liquidity Management and other deposits.
These customer deposits, which are widely Committee LMC receives authority from GALCO and is 58 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 # diversified by type and maturity, represent a stable source of Regulatory Risk funds.
Country ALCO monitors trends in the balance sheet and Regulatory risk includes the risk of non-compliance with ensures that any concerns that might impact the stability of these regulatory requirements in a country in which the Group deposits are addressed effectively.
ALCO also reviews balance operates.
The Group Compliance and Regulatory Risk function sheet plans to ensure that asset growth plans are matched by is responsible for establishing and maintaining an appropriate growth in the stable funding base.
framework of Group compliance policies and procedures.
Compliance with such policies and procedures is the The Group maintains access to the inter-bank wholesale funding responsibility of all managers.
markets in all major financial centres and countries in which it # operates.
This seeks to ensure that the Group has flexibility Reputational Risk around maturity transformation, has market intelligence, maintains Reputational risk is the risk of failure to meet the standards of stable funding lines and is a price maker when it performs its performance or behaviours, expected by stakeholders in the interest rate risk management activities.
way in which business is conducted.
It is Group policy that, at all times, the protection of the Groups reputation should Liquid assets to total assets ratio take priority over all other activities, including revenue generation.
The holdings of liquid assets in the balance sheet reflect the prudent approach that is inherent in the Groups liquidity policies Reputational risk will arise from the failure to effectively mitigate and practices.
Whilst liquidity is managed in-country, compliance one or more of country, credit, liquidity, market, regulatory and with these policies and practices results in substantial holdings operational risk.
It may also arise from the failure to comply of liquid assets as a Group.
The following shows the ratio of the with Social, Environmental and Ethical standards.
All staff are liquid assets to total assets: responsible for day to day identification and management of reputational risk.
2007 2006 % % From an organisational perspective the Group manages Liquid assets to total assets ratio 23.9 21.7 reputational risk through the Group Reputational Risk and Responsibility Committee GRRRC and Country Management Liquid assets is the total of Cash less restricted balances, net interbank, Committees.
Wholesale Banking has a specialised Responsibility Treasury bills and Debt securities less the asset backed securities portfolio.
and Reputational Risk Committee which reviews individual # Operational Risk transactions.
In Consumer Banking, potential reputational Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss due to an risks resulting from transactions or products are reviewed event or action resulting from the failure of internal processes, by the Product and Reputational Risk Committee.
Issues are people and systems, or from external events.
The Group seeks then escalated to the GRRRC.
to ensure that key operational risks are managed in a timely and A critical element of the role of the GRRRC is to alert the Group to effective manner through a framework of policies, procedures and emerging or thematic risks.
The GRRRC also seeks to ensure that tools to identify, assess, monitor, control and report such risks.
effective risk monitoring is in place for Reputational Risk and The Group Operational Risk Committee GORC supervises reviews mitigation plans for significant risks.
and directs the management of operational risks across the At a country level, the Country CEO is responsible for the Groups Group.
GORC is also responsible for ensuring adequate and reputation in their market.
The Country CEO and their appropriate policies and procedures are in place for the Management Committee must actively: identification, assessment, monitoring, control and reporting of operational risks.
promote awareness and application of the Groups policy and procedures regarding reputational risk: Group Operational Risk is responsible for setting the Operational Risk policy, defining standards for measurement and for encourage business and functions to take account of the Operational Risk capital calculation.
A Group Operational Groups reputation in all decision making, including dealings Risk Assurance function, independent from the businesses, with customers and suppliers: is responsible for deploying and assuring the operational risk implement effective in-country reporting systems to ensure management framework, and for monitoring the Groups key they are aware of all potential issues: and operational risk exposures.
This unit is supported by units within the Wholesale Banking and Consumer Banking businesses promote effective, proactive stakeholder management.
which have responsibility for ensuring compliance with policies # Monitoring and procedures in the business, monitoring key operational risk Group Internal Audit is a separate Group function that reports exposures, and the provision of guidance to the respective to the Group Chief Executive and the ARC.
Group Internal Audit business areas on operational risk.
provides independent confirmation that Group and business standards, policies and procedures are being complied with.
Where necessary, corrective action is recommended.
com Financial and Risk Review
