Senior Management Standard Chartered Bank The directors of Standard Chartered Bank comprise the executive directors of Standard Chartered PLC and the following three senior executives: Jaspal Bindra Dr Tim Miller Joined Standard Chartered in 1998.
He is a director of Standard Joined Standard Chartered in 2000.
He is Director, People, Chartered Bank and Chief Executive Officer Asia.
He has Property and Assurance and has responsibility for Human previously held the positions of General Manager, South East Resources, Corporate Real Estate, Compliance and Regulatory and South Asia, Global Head Client Relationships and Regional Risk, Legal, Global Research and Operational Excellence.
He is a director of Standard Chartered He also has functional responsibility for Internal Audit and the Bank Hong Kong Limited, Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Corporate Secretariat.
He was previously Group Head of Human Berhad, Standard Chartered Bank Taiwan Limited, Scope Resources.
He is non-executive Chairman of Standard Chartered International Private Limited and Chairman of Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited and a non-executive director of Michael Thai Public Company Limited, Prime Financial Holdings Limited Page International plc.
Age 50. and Scope International Malaysia Sdn Bhd.
Mike Rees Joined Standard Chartered in 1990.
He is a director of Standard Chartered Bank and Chief Executive Officer Wholesale Bank.
He has previously held the positions of Chief Financial Officer of Group Treasury, Regional Treasurer in Singapore and Group Head of Global Markets.
Group Management Committee The Group Management Committee as at 26 February 2008 comprises the directors of Standard Chartered Bank and the following senior executives: Tracy Clarke David Edwards Joined Standard Chartered in 1985.
She is Group Head of Human Joined Standard Chartered in 1999.
He is President and Chief Resources.
She has previously held the positions Executive Officer of Standard Chartered First Bank Korea Limited.
of Group Head Corporate Affairs, Head of the Group Chief He has previously held the positions of Chief Operating Officer of Executives Office and other banking roles in the UK and Hong Wholesale Bank, Group Head Risk and Group Special Assets Kong.
She is a non-executive director of eaga plc.
Management, Regional General Manager Middle East and South Asia and Group Head Risk Management.
Richard Goulding Joined Standard Chartered in 2002.
He is Group Chief Risk Jan Verplancke Operating Officer.
He was previously the Chief Operating Officer of Joined Standard Chartered in 2004.
He is Chief Information Officer Wholesale Bank.
Prior to joining the Group he was Chief Operating for the Group and is responsible for all systems development, Officer of the Old Mutual Group and before that technology support and banking operations.
was a member of the Global Executive Board of UBS investment Prior to joining the Group he was Chief Information Officer EMEA banking division.
Vis Shankar Joined Standard Chartered in 2001.
He is Group Head Origination & Client Coverage and is Executive Chairman of Principal Finance and Chairman of the Private Bank.
He has previously held the position of Group Head, Corporate Finance.
He is a member of the Board of the Inland Revenue Authority of Singapore, on the Board of Trustees of Sinda, Singapore and Chairman of Nuovobanq, Seychelles.
64 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007
