23001 62-63. qxp:Layout 1 14 3 08 03:50 Page 62 Board of Directors E Mervyn Davies CBE John Peace Peter Sands Gareth Bullock Appointed to the Board on Chairman Deputy Chairman and Group Chief Executive 6 August 2007.
He is Group Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 14 May Senior Independent Director Executive Director with responsibility 16 December 1997.
Appointed as Group Chief Appointed to the Board on for growth and governance in appointed as Chairman on Executive on 20 November 2006.
He is Chairman Africa, the Middle East, Europe and 20 November 2006.
Immediately Immediately prior to this he had of Experian Group Limited and the Americas and for Risk and prior to this he had been Group been Group Finance Director since Burberry Group plc.
He is also Special Asset Management.
He Chief Executive since 28 November his appointment to the Board and Chairman of the Board of joined Standard Chartered in 1996 2001.
Before his appointment as was responsible for Finance, Risk, Governors of Nottingham Trent and was appointed as a director of Group Chief Executive he was the Strategy and Technology and University, Deputy Lieutenant for the Standard Chartered Bank in 2003. executive director with responsibility Operations.
Before his appointment County of Nottinghamshire, a Fellow His previous senior appointments for Hong Kong, China and North to the Standard Chartered PLC of the Royal Society of Arts and include Group Head of Strategy, East Asia and for Group-wide Board he was a director with Chairman of The Work Foundation.
Group Chief Information Officer Technology and Operations.
He is worldwide consultants McKinsey Previously he was Group Chief and CEO Africa.
He is Chairman a non-executive director of Tesco & Co.
He had been with McKinsey Executive of GUS plc from 2000 of Mcashback Limited and is a PLC and Tottenham Hotspur plc since 1988, where he worked until 2006, having been a director of non-executive director of Fleming and is Chairman of Fleming Family extensively in the banking and GUS since 1997.
Family & Partners Limited and of & Partners Limited.
He is also technology sectors in a wide range Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc.
Chairman of the Governments of international markets.
Age 54. Business Council for Britain and the Chair of Council of Bangor University.
Val Gooding CBE Rudy Markham Ruth Markland Sunil Mittal Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board 1 August 1 January 2005.
He is Chairman and Group Executive Officer of BUPA and non-executive director of Legal of the Board of Trustees of the CEO of Bharti Enterprises and a non-executive director of and General Group Plc and of WRVS and a non-executive director President of the Confederation of J Sainsbury plc and of the Lawn United Parcel Service, Inc. and of The Sage Group plc.
He sits on various Tennis Association and of the BBCs is a member of the Board of she was Managing Partner Asia for boards and councils including the Executive Board.
She is also the Financial Reporting Council.
the international law firm Freshfields Prime Minister of Indias Council a Trustee of the British Museum.
Previously he was Chief Financial Bruckhaus Deringer.
Age 55. on Trade and Industry, the India Previously she was Director, Asia Officer of Unilever.
Advisory Council of the Harvard Pacific with British Airways.
Age 57. Business School and the Singapore-India Partnership Foundation.
He is the recipient of Padma Bhushan, one of the highest civilian awards in India.
62 Standard Chartered Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23001 62-63. qxp:Layout 1 14 3 08 03:52 Page 63 Mike DeNoma Richard Meddings Sir CK Chow Jamie Dundas Appointed to the Board on 12 May Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 2000.
He is Group Executive 16 November 2002.
He is Chairman Director with responsibility for appointed as Group Finance Executive Officer of MTR of Jupiter Investment Management the Groups Consumer Banking Director on 20 November 2006 Corporation Limited of Hong Kong Holdings Limited and a business worldwide and leads and is responsible for Finance, and is non-executive Chairman of non-executive director of Drax the Groups Strategy function.
Corporate Treasury and Corporate Standard Chartered Bank Hong Group plc.
He is also Chairman He joined Standard Chartered Development.
He is a member of of Macmillan Cancer Support.
in 1999 with responsibility for to this he was Group Executive the Hong Kong Tourism Board, the Previously he was Chief Executive Consumer Banking in Asia.
Director responsible for growth Council of the Chinese University of Officer of the UK property company He is also a director of Standard and governance across Africa, the Hong Kong and the Council of the MEPC and Finance Director of Chartered Bank Hong Kong Middle East, Pakistan, the United Hong Kong General Chamber of the Airport Authority Hong Kong.
Limited, of MasterCard Asia Pacific Kingdom, Europe and the Americas Commerce.
Pte Ltd and of the International and before that was responsible for Chief Executive Officer of GKN Centre for Missing and Exploited Risk, Special Assets Management plc and Brambles Industries plc.
Children, and is a member of the and Legal & Compliance.
Before He is based in Hong Kong.
Age 57. board of Singapore Management his appointment to the Standard University.
He is based in Chartered PLC Board he was Chief Singapore.
Operating Officer, Barclays Private Clients at Barclays PLC and prior to that Group Financial Controller at Barclays PLC.
Board Committees Audit and Risk Committee Rudy Markham Chairman John Peace Jamie Dundas Ruth Markland Lord Turner Board Nomination Committee Mervyn Davies Chairman Paul Skinner Oliver Stocken Lord Turner John Peace Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 1 June Appointed to the Board on Jamie Dundas 3 November 2003.
He is Chairman of Home 1 August 2006.
He is a nonRudy Markham of Rio Tinto plc and is a nonRetail Group plc, Deputy Chairman executive director of United Ruth Markland executive director of the Tetra of 3i plc and Chairman of Oval Business Media plc, Siemens Board Remuneration Laval Group and LAir Liquide SA.
Limited and Stanhope Group Holdings plc and Paternoster UK Committee He is also a member of the board Holdings Limited.
He is also Chairman of the Ruth Markland Chairman of INSEAD and of the Defence Chairman of the Trustees of the Overseas Development Institute, Val Gooding Board of the UK Ministry of Natural History Museum.
Previously the Climate Change Committee and Paul Skinner Defence.
Previously he was a he was Group Finance Director of of the Economic and Social Oliver Stocken director of The Shell Transport Barclays PLC.
Research Council, and is a member Lord Turner and Trading Company plc and of the Board of Trustees of Save the Group Managing Director of the Children Fund UK.
Previously he Sustainability and Royal Dutch Shell Group of was Director General of the CBI Responsibility Committee companies where he was CEO and Vice Chairman of Merrill Lynch Mervyn Davies Chairman of its global Oil Products business.
Jamie Dundas Val Gooding Oliver Stocken Also a director of Standard Chartered Bank.
