t o o u r s H a r e H o l d e r s On the whole, 2007 was another successful year enhancement initiative that includes expansive water parks, adults-only for our company despite the numerous challenges areas, resort-style pools and more.
With record net income of $2.4 billion, Premium passengers can choose to escape completely on Princess or $2.95 per share, we remained the worlds most Cruises or enjoy a more traditional cruise experience on holland profitable vacation company.
Our revenues grew America line, which continues to exceed guest expectations with its by 10 percent to $13 billion, hitting an all-time high.
$425 million Signature of Excellence program featuring an exclusive We rebounded from weakness in the Caribbean and concierge level, culinary arts center and show kitchen, among other experienced continued growth in Europe.
Our manageable costs were kept well under For the wealthiest segment of the population, The Yachts of control as unit operating costs, excluding fuel and Seabourn will indulge the most discriminating guest.
With a 1:1 guestcurrency, increased just one percent, significantly to-crew ratio, Seabourn is recognized as the ultimate luxury cruise below over all inflation.
Although escalating fuel vacation experience.
prices tempered our financial results we still Based on the current newbuilding program, our North American managed a 6 percent improvement in brands are set to grow at a pace of 3 percent over the next 4 years.
With earnings over 2006. only 3 percent of the North American population taking a cruise vacation Our North American cruise each year, we continue to tap the increasing wealth and maturation of business was bolstered by a strong the North American population.
European season and a solid Alaska glOBAl gROW Th season, however, pricing pressure in growing our business internationally is critical to the companys future.
the Caribbean early in the year hindered In 2007 nearly one-third of our passengers and 46 percent of our operating performance.
Demand for Caribbean cruises strengthened revenues were sourced from outside the United Statesthe highest considerably as the year progressed and we see this trend continuing percentage in the companys history.
The luxury segment of our North American business persion efforts are working.
formed exceptionally well throughout the year.
last year, we carried 20 percent more Europeans than in 2006, Our European cruise business continued to benefit from strong sourced primarily from the United Kingdom, germany, Italy, France and European consumer demand and had another banner year, absorbing Spain.
In Europe, market penetration continues, with more consumers substantial new capacity and producing significant increases in operating than ever embarking on cruise vacations.
Yet despite these gains, the income.
We also benefited from the continuing strength of the euro overall penetration rate for cruises is still remarkably lowjust 2 perand sterling.
cent in the UK and under 1 percent in germany, Italy, France, and Spain.
Our strong cash flow allowed us to return more value to our shareThis vast potential market bodes well for the future of our business.
holders in 2007, through increased dividends and our stock repurchase given the increasing strength of the European marketplace, we program.
Our board of directors approved two dividend increases in have 13 ships on order for our European companies with annual capacity 2007, bringing the quarterly dividend to $0.40 per share.
Over the past growth of 14 percent expected over the next four years.
The low market three years, Carnival Corporation & plc has more than tripled its quarterly penetration levels leave our company well positioned to absorb these dividend while funding an aggressive newbuilding program and maincapacity increases as we enhance international awareness of our brands.
taining a high investment-grade credit rating.
In addition, we purchased Capacity in the UK is set to grow by 12 percent annually during the another 9 million shares of our stock this year, bringing the total to 37 next four years.
We expect 2008 in particular to be a banner year for million shares since our buyback program began three years ago.
growth in the UK as we introduce 26 percent more capacity.
No company is better positioned to capitalize on the tremendous potential in STRATEgIC INITIATIvES While I am pleased by our 2007 financial performance, the ongoing that region than Carnival Corporation & plc, which operates P&O Cruises, Cunard line and Ocean villagethe UKs most recognizable success of our multi-brand global marketing strategy has resulted in a substantial increase in our cruise passengers as a record 7.7 million and successful brands.
germany is also poised for substantial growth, and Carnival has the consumers embarked on Carnival-branded cruise vacations all over the world.
two leading cruise lines that cater to german-speaking clientelethe AIDA Cruises brand, aimed at the contemporary, active vacationer, Our ship building program fuels our global marketing strategy, as we build innovative vessels for our various brands.
During the past year which will experience a 25 percent annual increase in capacity in the german market over the next four years, and Costa Cruises, a more traCarnival Corporation & plc took delivery of five vessels and ordered eight new ships.
Currently, we have 22 ships on order scheduled for ditional cruise product which also maintains a strong german presence.
Costa Cruises remains the principal operator in Southern Europe.
delivery between now and 2012, representing a collective investment of $13 billion.
Through 2011, the line is expected to experience annual growth of 9 percent, sourcing its guests primarily from Italy, France and Spain, NORTh AmERICA solidifying Costas role as the regions leading cruise operator.
last year nearly two-thirds of our passengers came from the United last year, we added Ibero Cruises to our portfolio of European brands.
States, the worlds number one cruise market.
We maintain the broadBased in Spain, Ibero Cruises is a leading operator offering affordable est array of cruise products in North America, and currently have nine quality cruise vacations to the Spanish speaking population.
Its twovessels on order for the four brands that market primarily to this ship fleet will be expanded this year when Carnival Cruise lines region.
Celebration transfers to its fleet.
We plan to continue expanding the Carnival Cruise lines, our contemporary, family-oriented Fun Ibero Cruises brand in this high growth market.
Ship brand, launched Evolutions of Fun, a $250 million product 2 | CARNIvAl CORPORATION & PlC growing our business internationally is critical to the companys future.
Clearly, our international expansion efforts are working.
micky Arison Asia and the Pacific Rim remain a vastly underserved region with millions of potential cruise vacationers and may represent the next great area of opportunity for expansion for our company.
Recognizing Asias tremendous market potential, in 2006 we deployed the Costa Allegra on five-day cruises from Shanghai.
We will bolster our presence in the region in march 2009 with the Costa Classica, which will offer fourto 14-day Asian cruises departing from the regions most popular homeports.
With expansion plans for both P&O Australia and Princess Cruises, we will also double our capacity in Australia, where our brands already carry 80 percent of all Australian cruise passengers.
With many international economies thriving, more of the worlds citizens have the financial freedom to participate in a greater variety of And while we look for ways to enhance the bottom line, there is one area that is beyond our controlthe cost of fuel, which continues leisure activities, including first-time travel.
A cruise is a great opportunity to see a variety of historic destinations for the first time.
We continue to weigh heavily on our financial results.
In 2008, higher fuel prices are forecast to increase fuel expenses by approximately $400 million comto position the company to maximize the tremendous potential that these emerging economies provide.
pared to 2007, reducing earnings by $0.50 per share.
As you can see, weve made significant progress taking the cruise A WORD OF ThANKS vacation concept, pioneered in North America, and successfully adaptIn 2007, the managers of our various brands in North America and ing it internationally.
We continue to dedicate our efforts to expanding Europe rose to meet many challenges and delivered exceptional results our global reach, as cruising becomes a viable option for an increasing while continuing to expand our global footprint.
I take this opportunity percentage of the worldwide population.
to thank them, along with all of our employees, both shipboard and OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITY shoreside, for their hard work in delivering exceptional cruise experiences for our guests.
I also want to thank our board for their contributions in hand in hand with our operating performance is a continuing commitment to be responsible corporate citizens, especially when it comes to meeting the increasing pressures and time commitments required to fulfill their responsibilities.
Our commitment to health, environment, safety and security starts I would like to recognize the contributions of two individualsBob Dickinson and Peter Ratcliffewho retired from their chief executive with actively maintaining our ISO14001 Environmental management System certifications and is demonstrated by a wide range of actions, officer posts at Carnival Cruise lines and Princess Cruises, respectively.
Through dedicated service and hard work, these outstanding individuincluding deploying the first prototype exhaust gas scrubber system in Alaska in an effort to reduce air emissions.
als guided our company to unprecedented heights.
Their contributions to the Carnival organization were immeasurable.
Bob and Peter will We have made great strides in this area and will continue to dedicate our efforts toward even more progress.
This year we will publish continue to provide guidance while serving on our board of directors.
We were saddened to learn of the recent passing of a long-time our third annual Environmental management Report as we endeavor to improve our transparency in publicly reporting the details of our on going board member, maks Birnbach.
maks served on our board from 1990 to 2003.
Our condolences and thoughts go to his family and many commitment to the environment.
We have also begun to broaden our scope to include sustainability reporting.
As an initial step, the corporate friends as we remember maks for his wit and wisdom.
And, finally, a word of thanks to our valued shareholders for their responsibility reports published by two of our brands, Costa and AIDA, will be used over time as models for similar reporting by all of our brands.
continued support and, of course, the millions of guests worldwide who choose a Carnival brand for their vacation.
We look forward to 2008 OUTlOOK welcoming you aboard one of our ships soon.
As we face an uncertain economic environment in 2008, we believe Carnival Corporation & plc is well positioned.
Our geographically diverse portfolio of brands is spread over multiple price points, offering consumers worldwide an unparalleled variety of cruise products.
Further, our brands superior product quality and tremendous value provide additional resiliency in uncertain economic times.
micky Arison In todays competitive economic climate, we continue to seek ways Chairman and CEO to reduce costs, including extending economies of scale for our portfolio of brands and achieving improved efficiency through shared services and best practices.
