Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 38 Statement of Directors responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and those International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Company and of the Group and the financial performance and cash flows of the Company and of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently, in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandab le information: and provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to und erstand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and state that the Company has complied with IFRSs, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial s tatements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors believe that they have complied with these responsibilities.
The accounts are published on the www.
com website, which is a website maintained by SVG Advisers Limited SVGA, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of SVGA.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of the maintenance and integrity of these websites and accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that have occurred to the accounts shown on the websites from this published Report and Accounts.
Visitors to the websites need to be aware that legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the accounts may differ from legislation in their jurisdiction.
