Overview SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 10 Business review The Business review provides Investment objective shareholders with an overview SVG Capitals investment objective is to achieve capital of SVG Capitals: appreciation by investing principally in private equity funds that are managed or advised by Permira, a leading Investment objective international private equity specialist.
Investment policy In addition, SVG Capital invests in private equity funds that invest in Japan, North America, Asia and the life sciences Key Performance Indicators sectors, and in unquoted and quoted businesses through specialist funds and co-investments alongside these funds.
Strategy The Company may also invest in other private equity related assets and alternative asset classes.
Marketplace To complement this investment objective and create capital Financial review and income for the Company, its fund management business structures, markets, manages and advises products for Investment portfolio review investment in private equity, private equity related assets, alternative asset classes and in public equity using private 20 Largest underlying companies equity techniques.
SVG Advisers Contractual arrangements Investment policy Risks and risk management The Company invests principally in private equity funds managed or advised by Permira, which provide it with exposure to a portfolio of companies that are diversified by vintage year, size, geography and industry sector.
Under current legislation, the Company operates so as to ensure that, at the point of acquiring or adding to its investment in any company or group, its holding in that company or group does not exceed 15% by value of its overall investments.
In order to enhance shareholder returns, the Company has a desired average level of gearing of approximately 20% over time.
Key Performance Indicators The Groups Key Performance Indicators are: Financial 6 Shareholder total return 1 3.2%p.
3% Since May 1996 Year to 31 December 2007 Long-term net IRRs of the portfolio of underlying private equity funds 20.1%p.
Since inception of underlying funds 1983 More information on non-financial KPIs are contained in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on page 41.
6 Source: Bloomberg 7 Including the 31 December 2007 Directors unaudited valuation of SVG Advisers 8 Including the 31 December 2007 Directors unaudited valuation of SVG Advisers and the 7.5p dividend paid to shareholders in May 2007
