SVG Capital plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Overview Business review Corporate information Financial information Company information 11 Strategy Investing in international private equity Description Progress The Companys core investment focus is on international 43% of the portfolio is invested in European companies private equity and within that, its primary focus is on with 39% invested in multinational companies, the majority Europe and to a lesser extent Asia.
of which either are headquartered in Europe or have significant European operations.
The remainder of the portfolio is split between Asia 14% and North America 4%.
Majority of the portfolio is focused Description Progress The Companys investments are focused on one, Permira Funds represented 77% of SVG Capitals investment highly rated manager, Permira, an international private portfolio at 31 December 2007. equity specialist.
Diversification Description Progress The remainder of the Companys portfolio is invested in or During the year the Company made five new commitments committed to funds investing in North America, Asia and the totalling 130.3 million.
life sciences sectors and in unquoted and quoted businesses through specialist funds and co-investments alongside these funds.
The Company may also invest in other private equity related asset classes and alternative asset classes.
Building a successful fund management business Description Progress SVG Capitals fund management business, SVG Advisers, Funds and commitments under management now was established in 2001 with the strategy of providing stand at b4.4 billion, a 33% increase over the year.
intelligent solutions for mid-sized institutions and high-netDuring the year the team raised: worth investors for investing in private equity or public b700 million structured private equity fund of funds, equity using private equity techniques.
This is an excellent SVG Diamond III business in which we will continue to invest for growth.
9 b339 million for the Schroder Private Equity Fund of Funds IV 70.8 million for the Strategic Recovery Fund II, which invests in UK listed companies that could benefit from strategic, operational or management initiatives b40 million raised through a joint venture with Key Capital to invest in Collateralised Fund Obligations b10 million for the SVG European Focus Fund, which will invest in no more than 35 companies publicly listed on Continental European stock markets The team currently manage seven diversified private equity fund of funds, five single manager funds all investing in Permira Funds and five funds investing in public equities using private equity techniques.
