14 Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Board of Directors Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Lord Harris of Peckham 64 Martin Toogood 60 Chairman and Chief Executive Non-Executive Director Lord Harris is now in his 50th year in carpet Martin Toogood has wide retail experience at retailing and is one of the best known names the highest level in several companies including in the business.
He was Chairman and Chief BhS, Habitat, Heals and B&Q, where he was Executive of Harris Queensway plc from 1964 Chief Executive.
Martin joined the Board in 2002. until the company was taken over in 1988.
Until spring 2007 he was Chairman CEO of ILVA, Lord Harris was also a Non-Executive Director the Danish furniture retailer while it embarked on of Great Universal Stores plc for 18 years, retiring a programme of international expansion.
from the GUS Board in July 2004.
Lord Harris was a Non-Executive Director of Matalan Baroness Noakes 58 from October 2004 to 2006 and became a Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director of Arsenal Holdings plc and Arsenal Football Club plc in November 2005.
Baroness Noakes, a chartered accountant, joined the Board in 2001.
Sheila is a Non-Executive John Kitching 56 Director of Hanson plc, Imperial Chemical Industries plc and the English National Opera, CEO Europe and a trustee of the Reuters Founders Share John Kitching joined Carpetright on its formation Company.
Previously she was with KPMG for 30 in 1988, having occupied a number of senior years and was the Senior Non-Executive Director management roles within Harris Queensway.
Sheila chairs the Audit He was appointed Sales Director in 1992 and and Nomination Committees and is the Senior Managing Director in 1996.
John has overall Independent Director.
responsibility for European operations and was appointed Chief Executive, Europe in June Simon Metcalf 64 2005.
John has been appointed Chief Executive Non-Executive Director of Storey Carpets Ltd which was acquired in May 2007.
Simon Metcalf joined the Board in 2004.
He is a chartered accountant and worked in corporate Ian Kenyon 45 finance as a director of County Bank and its successor organisations for over 25 years, Group Finance Director latterly as Vice Chairman of Hawkpoint Partners.
Ian Kenyon joined Carpetright as Group Finance He is currently a Non-Executive Director of The Director in August 2005.
He trained as a Collinson Group, Professional Travel Insurance chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse and Limited, XSN Group plc and a number of other then spent five years with the printing company private companies.
He is a trustee of the St Ives before joining Kingsher as Financial Bankside Gallery.
Simon chairs the Controller for Superdrug in 1994.
became Finance Director for MVC and then following a spell integrating Castorama into Guy Weston 46 Kingsher he was appointed Finance Director Non-Executive Director for Kingsher Electricals based in Paris in 2000.
He joined J Sainsbury plc as Commercial Finance Guy Weston joined the Board in February 2005.
Director in 2002 and took up the role of Director Guy began his career as a management tutor of Financial Reporting in 2004. and business analyst before entering the food and beverage industry, working for R Twining Christian Sollesse 48 & Co. Jacksons of Piccadilly and The Ryvita Company.
Currently, Guy is Chairman of Heals Managing Director UK and RoI PLC and Wittington Investments Ltd, a director Christian Sollesse joined Carpetright in 1995 of the Thrombosis Research Institute and having worked for many years in senior retail a Trustee of the Gareld Weston Foundation.
management roles in Harris Queensway and Harris Interiors.
Christian was appointed Sales Geoff Brady 53 Director in 1997 with responsibility for sales and Non-Executive Director retail management.
In June 2005 Christian was appointed Managing Director UK and Republic of Geoff Brady, who joined the Board in March Ireland, taking responsibility for trading operations.
2007, has had a career of over 25 years in the retail sector including CEO Allied Carpets plc, Martin Harris 38 MD Daimler Chrysler, Retail UK and Commercial Director Superdrug plc.
Until recently he Group Commercial Director was a Deputy Chairman of Matalan and a Martin Harris joined Carpetright in 1991, having Non-Executive Director of Floors-2-Go, prior to been a director of Harveys Furnishing Group both companies return to private ownership.
Martin became Marketing Director in He is currently a Non-Executive Director of 1997, resigning to become a Non-Executive Biofuels Corporation plc and Saul D. Harrison Director in 1998.
In November 2002 Martin & Sons plc.
resumed executive director responsibilities as Buying Director and was appointed Commercial Director when he assumed responsibility for Marketing.
Martin took on responsibility for supply chain and logistics in June 2005 and is overseeing the move to Carpetrights new central distribution centre and ofces.
