Directors JOHN REEVE, Chairman, MARTIN R RILEY, aged aged 63, was appointed a 64, was appointed a director director in 1992.
He has over 35 formerly executive years experience in chairman of the Willis stockbroking and fund Group, group managing management in the City and director of Sun Life is a former director of Assurance Society and a Henderson Crosthwaite Ltd, member of the boards of Guinness Mahon & Co Ltd the Association of British Insurers and the and Barlows PLC.
He is currently chairman of SR International Insurance Society.
He is a director of Europe Investment Trust PLC and Howard a number of other companies.
Investment Company Ltd and a director of Bonfield Asset Management Ltd and various private RICHARD W JEWSON, investment companies.
aged 63, was appointed a director in 2001.
He first FIELD L J WALTON, aged worked in the timber and 67, was appointed a director building material supply in 1983.
He started his industry, becoming career in engineering managing director of management and moved to Jewson the builders the City as an analyst with merchants for twelve years Cazenove in 1971. from 1974, and then managing director and Subsequently he held a chairman of its parent company Meyer number of positions in fund International PLC from which he retired in 1993. management.
He is currently a consultant to He is currently chairman of Raven Russia Limited MacArthur & Co. Limited, a former chairman of and Archant Limited, and a non-executive director Biofuels Corporation PLC and a non-executive of Grafton Group PLC, Clean Energy Brazil PLC director of a number of engineering and trust and other private companies.
He is also a director of Harrods Group Trustees Ltd. JUNE F fide MOLLER, Independent non-executive director and member of the audit aged 60, was appointed a committee and nomination committee.
She is a Chairman of the audit committee and Senior Independent non-executive director of Director.
Derwent London PLC, Archant Limited and a former managing director of Carlton Communications PLC.
She was previously a non-executive director of J Sainsbury PLC, Cookson Group PLC and BT PLC.
