Report of the directors The directors present their report and accounts It is the Companys policy to invest no more than for the year ended 31 December 2007.
15% of its gross assets in other listed investment companies including listed investment trusts.
BUSINESS REVIEW The Company maintains a diversified portfolio of Introduction investments, typically comprising in the region of This business review forms part of the Directors 70-80 holdings, but without restricting the Report.
Its function is to provide a balanced and Company from holding a more or less comprehensive review of the Companys concentrated portfolio from time to time as performance and development during the year circumstances require.
and its position at the year end.
The review also The Companys long term investment strategy covers the principal risks and uncertainties faced emphasises: by the Company and sets out key performance Achieving a portfolio yield of between 120- indicators used to measure, monitor and manage 140% of that of the FTSE All-Share Index the Companys business.
Stocks of companies that are out of favour Business of the Company and whose share prices do not match our The Company carries on business as an assessment of their long term value investment trust and was approved by HM From time to time fixed interest holdings or non Revenue & Customs as an investment trust in equity interests may be held on an opportunistic accordance with Section 842 of the Income & basis.
Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the year ended 31 December 2006.
In the opinion of the directors Derivative instruments are not normally used but in certain circumstances, and with the prior the Company has subsequently conducted its affairs so that it should continue to qualify.
approval of the Board, their use may be considered either for hedging purposes or to The Companys principal business activity of exploit a specific investment opportunity.
investment management is sub-contracted to Liquidity and borrowings are managed with the Investec Investment Management Limited IIM aim of increasing returns to shareholders.
The under the ultimate supervision of the board of Companys gearing range total gross assets less directors.
The Company has one active wholly cash, divided by total net assets may fluctuate owned subsidiary company, whose principal between 75% and 130%, based on the current activity is investment dealing and one dormant balance sheet structure, with an absolute limit of subsidiary.
A review of the business is given in the Risk is managed through diversification of Chairmans statement and the Managers report.
The results of the Group are shown on page 28. holdings, investment limits set by the Board and appropriate financial and other controls relating Investment Objective and Policy to the administration of assets.
The Companys investment objective is to provide growth in income and capital to achieve a long Investment Approach term total return greater than the benchmark The investment approach of our Manager is FTSE All-Share Index, through investment premised on a contrarian view on the timing of primarily in UK securities.
The Companys policy buy and sell decisions, buying the shares of is to invest in a broad spread of securities with companies when sentiment towards them is at or typically the majority of the portfolio selected near its worst, and selling them as fundamental from the constituents of the FTSE 100 Index.
profit improvement and or re-evaluation of their The UK equity element of the portfolio will be long-term prospects takes place.
mostly invested in the FTSE All-Share Index: The belief is that repeated investor behaviour in however, exceptional positions may be driving down the prices of out-of-favour sanctioned by the Board and up to 10% of the companies to below their fair value will offer portfolio may be held in listed international investment opportunities provided a typical equities in developed economies.
The Company emotional response to both good and bad news may continue to hold securities that cease to be can be avoided.
This will allow the Company to quoted or listed if the manager considers this to purchase shares at significant discounts to their be appropriate.
There is an absolute limit of 10% fair value and sell them as they become more on individual stocks with a maximum exposure to fully valued, principally as a result of predictable a specific industrial or commercial sector of patterns in human psychology.
25%, in each case irrespective of their weightings in the benchmark index.
Temple Bar Investment Trust 17 Report of the directors continued The Managers process is designed to produce Performance best ideas to drive active fund management In the year to 31 December 2007 the net asset within a rigorous control framework.
The value total return of the Company decreased by framework begins through narrowing down the 4.33% compared with the total return by the universe of stocks by passing those companies Companys benchmark index of 5.32%.
The with a market capitalisation above 100m Chairmans Statement on pages 7 to 8 and the through a screening process which highlights managers report on pages 10 to 13 include a the weakest performing stocks.
This isolates review of developments during the year together opportunities with attractive sentiment with information on investment activity within characteristics which are then in turn scrutinised the Companys portfolio and an assessment of in greater detail to identify investment future developments.
Key Performance Indicators The process is very much bottom-up, and can The key performance indicators KPIs used to result in large sector positions being taken if determine the progress and performance of the enough stocks of sufficient interest are found Company over time and which are comparable to within one sector.
However, top down risk those reported by other investment trusts are set analysis is undertaken to identify potential out below:- concentration of risk and to factor this awareness into portfolio construction.
The Net asset value total return relative to the FTSE portfolio comprises stocks which have been All-Share Index purchased for different reasons and at different Performance attribution times.
In general, because of the bottom-up Discount on net asset value approach to stockpicking, each of these reasons is independent of the other and the portfolio, Earnings and dividends per share therefore, is not excessively vulnerable to longerTotal expense ratio term macro trends.
Cash is a residual of the process and normally will not exceed 5% of the While some elements of performance against portfolio value.
KPIs are beyond management control they provide measures of the Companys absolute and The approach to stock selection and portfolio relative performance and are, therefore, construction is driven by four core beliefs: monitored by the Board on a regular basis.
Markets overreact to news on the upside and Net Asset Value Total Return the downside.
The Manager aims to be sceptical of the crowd and aware of investor In reviewing the performance of the assets of the psychology, which often causes overvaluation Companys portfolio the Board monitors the net asset value in relation to the FTSE All-Share of those stocks that are deemed to have good Index.
During the year the net asset value total prospects and an undervaluation of those return of the Company fell by 4.33% compared which are out of favour.
with a total return rise of 5.32% by the FTSE All- 2.
There are few companies which sustain below Share Index.
normal profits over the longer term.
Weaker Performance Attribution companies tend to leave an industry, thus The purpose of performance attribution analysis improving the balance of supply and demand, are bid for or management is changed.
is to assess how the Company achieved its Similarly, there are few companies which can performance relative to its benchmark index.
sustain supernormal profits over the longer Details of the attribution analysis for the year term.
Such profits tend to be competed or ended 31 December 2007 are given in the regulated away.
Fundamental valuation is the key determinant Discount on Net Asset Value of stock prices over the long-term.
In other words cheap stocks will outperform The Board monitors the premium discount at expensive stocks.
which the Companys shares trade in relation to the assets.
During the year the shares traded at 4.
Diversification is an important control.
an average discount to NAV of 6.6%.
This Particular companies or sectors can be out of compares with an average discount of 3.5% in favour for a considerable time.
the previous year and reflects a combination of 18 Temple Bar Investment Trust poor short term performance and a general Investment Strategy widening of discounts in the income and growth An inappropriate investment strategy on matters sector.
The Board and Manager closely monitor such as asset allocation or the level of gearing both movements in the Companys share price may lead to underperformance against the and significant dealings in the shares.
In order to Companys benchmark index or peer companies, avoid substantial overhangs or shortages of resulting in the Companys shares trading on a shares in the market the Board asks shareholders wider discount.
The Board manages such risks by to approve resolutions which allow for the buy diversification of investments through its back of shares and their issuance which can investment restrictions and guidelines, which are assist in the management of the discount.
monitored and reported on by the Manager.
The Regular demand generated by monthly Manager provides the directors with regular and investment in the Savings Scheme and the use of accurate management information including marketing and promotional activity also assist in absolute and relative performance data, keeping the discount at an acceptable level.
attribution analysis, revenue estimates, liquidity reports, risk profile and shareholder analysis.
The Earnings and Dividend Per Share Board monitors the implementation and results It remains the directors intention to distribute of the investment process with the investment over time by way of dividends substantially all of Manager, who attends Board meetings.
the Companys net revenue income after expenses Periodically the Board holds a separate meeting and taxation.
The Manager aims to maximise total devoted to strategy.
returns from the portfolio and attaches great Income Risk Dividends importance to dividends in achieving total return.
The portfolio will typically provide a yield premium Generating the necessary level of income from to the market.
The final dividend recommended portfolio investments to meet the Companys for the year is 21.07p per ordinary share which expenses and to provide adequate reserves from brings the total for the year to 30.98p per which to base a sustainable programme of ordinary share, an increase of 6.0%.
This increase increasing dividend payments to shareholders is exceeds the RPI inflation of 4.1% by a comfortable subject to the risk that income generation from margin and is the 24th consecutive year in which investments fails to meet the level required.
The the Company has increased the overall level of its Board monitors this risk through the receipt of dividend payment.
detailed income reports and forecasts which are considered at each meeting.
As at 31 December Total Expense Ratio TER 2007 the Group had distributable revenue The TER is an expression of the Companys reserves of 27.9 million before declaration of management fees and all other operating the final dividend for 2007. expenses including tax relief where allowable Share Price Risk but excluding interest payments as a percentage of average month end net assets over the year.
The Companys share price and discount to net The TER for the year ended 31 December 2007 asset value are monitored by the Manager and was 0.44% 2006 0.47%.
The Board reviews considered by the Board at each meeting.
Some each year a comparison of the Companys TER short term influences over the discount may be with those of its peers.
At the present time the exercised by the use of share repurchases at Company has one of the lowest TERs in the acceptable prices: however, market sentiment is income and growth sector of investment trust beyond the absolute control of the management companies.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Accounting, Legal & Regulatory The principal risks facing the Company fall under In order to qualify as an investment trust the the general categories of strategy, operational Company must comply with Section 842 of the and management risks.
With the assistance of Income & Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Were the the Manager the Board has drawn up a risk Company to breach Section 842 it might lose matrix which identifies the key risks to the investment trust status and, as a consequence, Company under these broad headings.
The Board gains within the Companys portfolio would be reviews and agrees policies, which have remained subject to capital gains tax.
The Section 842 unchanged since the beginning of the accounting qualification criteria are, therefore, monitored by period, for managing these risks, as summarised the Board at each meeting.
The Company must also comply with the provisions of the Companies Acts and, since its Temple Bar Investment Trust 19 Report of the directors continued shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, PERSONAL EQUITY PLANS ISAs the UKLA Listing Rules.
A breach of the The Company has conducted its investment policy so Companies Acts could result in the Company as to remain a qualifying investment trust under the being fined or subject to criminal proceedings.
ISA and Personal Equity Plan regulations.
It is the Breach of the UKLA Listing Rules could result in intention of the Board to continue to satisfy these the Companys shares being suspended from regulations.
Listing which in turn would breach Section 842.
The Board relies on the services of its company SHARE CAPITAL secretary, Investec Investment Management There were no ordinary shares allotted during the Limited, and its professional advisers to ensure year.
compliance with the Companies Acts and the UKLA Listing Rules.
DIRECTORS The directors of the Company during the year Corporate Governance and Shareholder were as stated below and their interests in the Relations ordinary share capital of the Company are as Details of the Companys compliance with follows.
Each of the directors held office corporate governance best practice including throughout the year except for Mr Allen who information on relations with shareholders, are retired on 24 September 2007. set out in the corporate governance report on 31 December 1 January pages23to25.
2007 2007 Control Systems Risk G J Allen N A 1,369 Disruption to, or failure of, IIMs accounting, J F fide Moller 1,980 1,211 dealing or payments systems or the custodians R W Jewson 4,383 3,113 records could prevent accurate reporting and J Reeve 32,892 30,550 monitoring of the Companys financial position.
M R Riley 15,000 15,000 Details of how the Board monitors the services F L J Walton 6,724 6,724 provided by IIM and its associates and the key elements designed to provide effective internal All the above interests are beneficial.
None of the control are included within the internal control directors had at any date any interest in either of section of the corporate governance report on the Companys debenture stocks.
On 17 January 2008 Mr Reeve acquired a further Other Risks 138 ordinary shares in the Company through his regular monthly saving in an ISA.
On 22 January Other risks to which the Company is exposed and 2008 Mr Jewson and Mrs fide Moller acquired a which form part of the market risks referred to further 36 and 72 ordinary shares respectively in above are included in note 22 to the financial the Company through their regular monthly statements together with summaries of the savings in the Temple Bar Investment Trust policies for managing these risks.
No other changes in the interests comprise: market price risk, interest rate risk, shown above occurred between 31 December 2007 liquidity risk and counterparty risk.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing No other person was a director during any part process for identifying, evaluating and managing of the year.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance The directors retiring by rotation and or in with the Turnbull guidance on internal controls.
compliance with the provisions of the AIC Code are Mr Reeve, Mr Walton, Mr Jewson and ORDINARY DIVIDENDS Mr Riley.
Each of these directors being eligible, An interim dividend of 9.91p per ordinary share the Board recommends their re-election.
In was paid on 28 September 2007 2006: 9.35p making these recommendations the Board has and the directors are recommending a final carefully reviewed the composition of the Board dividend of 21.07p per ordinary share 2006: as a whole and borne in mind the need for a 19.88p, a total for the year of 30.98p 2006: proper balance of skills and experience.
Subject to shareholders approval, the Board does not believe that length of service per final dividend will be paid on 31 March 2008 to se detracts from the independence of a director, shareholders on the register on 14 March 2008. particularly in relation to an investment trust, and on that basis considers that the directors standing for re-election are independent.
It is 20 Temple Bar Investment Trust confirmed that, following formal evaluation, the continued appointment of the Manager on the performance of each director continues to be terms set out above is in the best interests of effective and each continues to demonstrate shareholders.
DONATIONS There were no contracts subsisting during or at No political or charitable donations were made the end of the year in which a director of the during the year 2006: Nil.
Company is or was interested and which are or DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO were significant in relation to the Companys AUDITORS business.
No director has a service contract with the Company.
The directors are not aware of any relevant information of which the auditors are unaware PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS and have taken all the steps that they ought to The Companys policy is to obtain the best have taken as directors in order to make possible terms of payment from suppliers for all themselves aware of any relevant audit forms of business.
All terms agreed with information and to establish that the Companys suppliers have been complied with during the auditors are aware of that information.
There were no trade creditors at the year end.
AUDITORS A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS auditors to the Company will be proposed at the As at 12 February 2008 the following company Annual General Meeting on 31 March 2008. had indicated an interest in 3% or more of the issued ordinary shares of the Company.
DIRECTORS AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE % THE COMPANYS OWN SHARES Legal & General Group plc 4.11 The directors consider it desirable to give the MANAGEMENT CONTRACT Company the opportunity to buy back shares in circumstances where the shares may be bought The Company has a management agreement for a price which is below the net asset value per with Investec Investment Management Limited share of the Company.
The purchase of ordinary IIM for the provision of investment shares is intended to reduce the discount at management, secretarial, accounting and which ordinary shares trade in the market administrative services to the Company and its through the Company becoming a new source of subsidiaries.
The agreement is subject to one demand for ordinary shares.
The rules of the UK years notice of termination by either party.
Listing Authority provide that the maximum price IIM receives an investment management fee of which can be paid by the Company is 5% above 0.35% per annum, payable quarterly, based on the average of the market value of the ordinary the value of the investments including cash of shares for the five business days before the the Company.
Investments in funds managed by purchase is made.
the Investec Group are wholly excluded from this It is expected that any shares bought back charge.
60% 2006: 60% of the investment pursuant to this authority will be cancelled rather management fee payable to IIM is charged by the than being held in Treasury.
The appropriate Company to capital and the remaining 40% resolution is set out in the notice of meeting on 2006: 40% to the revenue account on the basis page 47. of the expected long term division of returns.
The investment management fee charged for the year ended 31 December 2007 amounted to By order of the Board of Directors 2,041,000 2006: 1,960,000 excluding value M K Slade added tax.
For Investec Investment Management Limited IIMs performance under the contract and the Secretary contract terms are reviewed at least annually.
12 February 2008 This covers, inter alia, the performance of the Manager, their management processes, investment style, resources and risk controls.
As noted in the Chairmans Statement, while the recent performance of the Company has not been good, it remains more satisfactory over longer periods.
In the opinion of the directors the Temple Bar Investment Trust 21
