Managers report Temple Bar had a very poor year in 2007, when The underperformance was attributable to the net asset value fell by 7.6%, significantly other groups, and to our decision not to include underperforming our benchmark, the FTSE mining stocks in the portfolio.
Although the Company had The outcome was mixed in the general retailers comfortably outperformed the index in and media group, with the strong performances aggregate over the previous four year period, the of Reuters, BSkyB and N Brown being more than 2007 outcome undid all of the good work.
outweighed by the weaknesses of Daily Mail & We commented in previous reports that many General Trust, ITV, Kingfisher, DSG International companies were generating profits far in excess and a number of smaller retailers.
of their long term averages when compared with We analysed our exposure to retail, and our their sales and capital employed.
Investors were sector investment track record, with particular awarding excessively high ratings to these focus upon two themes.
Firstly, whether investing profits, causing shares to become overvalued in a in out-of-favour retail stocks is trickier than strong bull market for equities.
We believed that investment in analogous situations in other parts our investment policy of locating out-offavour, of the market?
Secondly, whether the retail sector undervalued, companies would avoid much of is experiencing significant structural adjustments, this over-valuation.
or the recent weakness of consumer spending, However, investments in out-of-favour companies and severe negative sentiment towards retailers, have recently proven to be very problematic.
is simply an unpleasant but ultimately selfAlthough we know that most industries and many correcting period in the cycle?
companies have reasonably predictable cycles of The two largest structural changes for retailers in success and failure, we cannot accurately predict recent years have been the growth of internet the timing of the cycles.
Nor can we know how retailing increasing price transparency and onmuch a share price, which typically leads the line competition and heightened competition business cycle, will decline before recovery.
Specialist Consequently we often buy early into recovery sellers of products such as CDs, DVDs and books situations.
Over the years, we have successfully have encountered superstores discounting their invested in companies and sectors to create a best-sellers, while their back catalogues have balanced portfolio of stocks at various, profitable, been attacked by specialist internet businesses stages of recovery.
We were damaged in 2007 such as Amazon.
The retailers have had difficulty when many of our holdings, big and small, in in managing this mix of deflation and, in some numerous sectors, remained out of favour.
cases, volume declines, and their own At the beginning of the year, our portfolio was simultaneously increasing cost bases.
broadly divided into five groups.
The largest by Electrical retailing has proved particularly far included some of the dominant companies in vulnerable with many customers happy to trial the FTSE 100, such as Vodafone, Royal Dutch products in stores prior to on-line purchase, or Shell and HSBC.
We felt they had been using on-line prices as a base for in-store overlooked by most investors, who had preferred haggling.
Traditional store-positives, such as stocks more likely to benefit from corporate technical advice and easy returns, now seem to activity.
The second group was life assurance be lowly valued by customers.
stocks, a sector that stood out as having been While these negatives might be countered in a fide-rated despite announcing good operating cyclical upturn, they clearly create great results.
The third group was media and retail vulnerabilities in tougher periods.
However, not all stocks operating at relatively low profit margins retail businesses underperformed under the but, we believed, with good potential for pressure of the factors outlined above.
The fourth group included some of them are beneficiaries of these trends.
companies generally acknowledged to be well For example, N Brown, another portfolio company, managed, and with reasonable long-term growth has grown strongly in the last few years as a prospects, but temporarily underperforming significant portion of its customers have migrated through cyclical pressures, including Signet, to its internet service.
Despite this, in the past few Carnival and Compass.
The fifth group was a months, even these retailers, and their shares, selection of smaller companies which we believed have struggled in weakening trading conditions.
were likely to deliver sizeable growth in Our conclusion is that all sectors constantly face profitability, over time.
some structural concerns and we can see no Overall, the large companies and life assurance reason why investing in out of favour retailing holdings were fairly neutral to our performance.
stocks should, in theory, be any less profitable 10 Temple Bar Investment Trust than in other sectors.
With hindsight, perhaps we 2007 would be below the markets forecasts.
too readily invested in retailers, and should have Subsequent profit downgrades undoubtedly held our fire.
But we purchased all the retailers affected the companys share price, but the at multi-year lows relative to the FTSE All-Share major damage was inflicted by investors Index, and often at 75% or more declines from reluctance to pay up for long-term growth.
consensus forecasts for pre-tax profit in the year ending July 2008 fell by approximately 10% over Our strategy in retailers during the year was to the year with further deterioration projected for concentrate on stocks most affected by cyclical 2009, Wolseleys share price fell from the 14 pressures.
This resulted in sales of HMV and February peak to a November trough below Woolworths, purchases of Signet and a 6.50.
The change in the value of the company maintained position in Kingfisher.
We also sold implies that its long term outlook, reflected by N Brown and Mothercare, but the overriding the share price, has significantly altered.
factor in these decisions was their relatively high However, our analysis does not support such a ratings.
Signets powerful market position in pessimistic outlook.
speciality jewellery, and the lack of serious competition from either the internet or Our smaller company portfolio, although well superstores, should enable it to bounce back diversified, was hit very badly by investors fears of strongly when trading conditions improve.
widespread fallout from the sub-prime mortgage Similarly, Kingfishers market leading position in crisis, the demise of Northern Rock and the DIY should be secure and, with a new chief subsequent tightening of banks balance sheets.
executive due, we believe that the weak In the wider market, from August, investors operational performance at its B&Q chain could avoided stocks with unfavoured characteristics: be turned around.
It is also very possible that its too much debt, exposure to the cyclical parts of impressive portfolio of market positions the US and UK economies and sensitivity to worldwide could generate significant interest rising raw materials prices.
companies, the negative share price effects of Our position in DSG International Dixons might these characteristics were magnified.
look incongruous in light of our explanation of Developing fears of a UK and US recession, and where we see most value amongst retailers.
We the withdrawal of much of the financing behind would plead a special case here, with newly the takeover boom, could result in a continued arrived senior management likely to review key fide-rating of small companies.
However, we areas, such as the number of stores, the possible maintain that the sector will always provide good merger of brands and, perhaps, the geographical investment opportunities, and that our holdings areas covered.
The portfolios long-term growth companies For example, we believe that the new became increasingly friendless through some management team at JJB Sports is capable of weak operational performance but, mostly, bringing its retail operating margin much closer through an exaggerated fide-rating of their to the level of its largest competitor.
Investors simultaneously downgraded outcome is not dependent upon a large increase their expectations of future profitability, while in sales, but on continuing improvement in applying lower earnings multiples.
This doublesourcing, a reduction in heavy discounting, discounting makes little sense, unless companies increasingly attractive store layouts and a move long-term futures are very bleak.
Our analysis from low margin tertiary brands to own-label or does not support such gloomy assessments.
The fast growing leisure club Wolseley offers a good illustration of doubledivision offers competitive subscription fees, and discounting.
We began adding the companys benefits from sharing rental costs with the retail shares to the portfolio mid-year, when their price units.
As these clubs mature towards peak had already slipped significantly from a February profitability, we believe the market will recognise 2007 high of above 14 and most commentators their superior operating characteristics.
The consensus was that this wellchief executive has clear views on the companys managed company could withstand a building long term value.
In June, in a joint venture with and contracting slowdown in the US, while an Icelandic company, he purchased almost 30% continuing to build strong market positions of JJB at 275p a share a level from which the through acquisitions and organic growth around shares have since halved.
Price targets above 16 were Mining has been our bete noire in recent years.
However, as US growth The sector performed extraordinarily strongly in deteriorated, Wolseley warned that profitability in 2007, and seven mining stocks were in the top Temple Bar Investment Trust 11 Managers report continued thirty FTSE 100 performers.
We have written in The pain is increased by its unknown duration: detail on this subject in previous years, and there is never a sign to announce that it will soon retain our view that commodity prices have been be over.
Indeed, the pain could increase if the UK subject to a medium term imbalance of supply and US enter a period of recession.
But we are and demand, attributable to under-investment in hopeful that much potential bad news is already the last decade of the 20th century and the priced-in, and that is the reason why many stocks phenomenal growth of China in the first decade have fallen 50% or more from their 2007 highs.
These factors have been Alternatively, worst fears of recession will not be exacerbated by massive speculative investment fulfilled if, as is likely, monetary authorities in the mining sector.
Throughout this extended intervene to maintain economic stability.
period we have been concerned that commodity Certainly, investment on the basis of worst case prices would, at some point, be driven down by scenarios would have missed a large percentage increased supply and or diminishing demand.
of the markets returns over many years.
Although we have been consistently wrong about In managing the portfolio without attempting to the sector, we know that what goes up very gauge the depth of an economic downturn, we quickly in the stock market tends to come down continually review our holdings for two major equally quickly when perceptions change.
threats to fulfilment of a companys long term Interestingly, commodity prices did not rise overall value.
First, is the risk that the industry in which in 2007.
For example, the Dow Jones Industrial the company operates has undergone major Metals Index actually fell by 8.2% in sterling structural changes.
This could limit future gains terms, but the bull argument for mining stocks in margin or returns on capital employed.
subtly altered to support the thesis of sustainably Second, we are alert to the risk of bankruptcy.
If high commodity prices, rather than the previous we maintain belief in the long term value of a argument of much higher prices in the near future company, we calibrate purchases, buying more as but a likely decline following this spike.
This the share price falls.
change was reflected in much higher ratings for However, while we always consider these risks, the stocks.
Perhaps the mining sector will prove an they cannot be fully eliminated.
Even if we exception to the up-and-down tendency, but we wished to avoid heavily indebted companies, prefer to stick with the averages.
there is no clear amount of debt which might be regarded as acceptable, because an apparently Attribution Analysis % reasonable amount can quickly become onerous Total return of FTSE All-Share Index 5.32 upon significant deterioration in underlying Relative return from the portfolio 7.97 trading.
Conversely, some of the most spectacular stock market performers are Performance on total assets 2.65 companies recovering from highly indebted Income distributed to shareholders 2.95 positions.
When the risk reward balance is right, Expenses 0.44 we should be comfortable investing in these Finance costs 0.77 situations.
However, we must always remember the unfortunate experience typified by Jessops: 6.81 the possibility of significant capital loss.
Impact of gearing & valuation While the market may doubt the long-term health of debt on portfolio balance 0.81 of certain companies or industries, some assessments have proven to be spectacularly Change in Net Asset Value wrong.
For example, in the late 1990s, many per Ordinary Share 7.62 investors forecast the demise of tobacco stocks, as percentage of opening NAV just prior to their eight-year bull run.
Conversely, many businesses appearing to have secure Investment in out-of-favour stocks is not for the futures can be pressured by unexpected change.
However, no investment process We would generally prefer to be invested in areas provides good long-term gain without where there is much doubt over an industrys intermittent pain.
If painless out performance future, where the negatives appear significantly were possible, the opportunities would quickly be overemphasised and where great benefits follow arbitraged away.
Sometimes the pain is intense positive surprises, provided these factors are enough to make even the most ardent believers more than proportionately factored into share doubt the continuing potential of this investment prices.
We certainly believe this to be usually style, and certainly intense enough to dissuade more attractive than exposure to a high flying faint-hearts from entering the fray.
12 Temple Bar Investment Trust industry, where companies viewed as invulnerable they wish to lend, and the terms at which they to negative surprises can suffer profits downturns will do so.
Strong banks may also develop a and fide-ratings a toxic cocktail.
funding advantage allowing them to borrow money at lower rates than their weaker Some of our holdings are affected by fears of competitors in the retail deposit market and the structural decline.
For example, publishers of wholesale market.
Finally, if conditions continue local newspapers, such as Daily Mail & General to deteriorate, stronger banks may gain Trust, Trinity Mirror, and Johnston Press are opportunities to purchase weaker banks, thus considered anachronistic given the ease and further strengthening their competitive positions.
speed with which news can be accessed through alternative media.
These arguments should We believe that, among UK listed banks, HSBCs clearly not be ignored but are, in our opinion, strong balance sheet and large size provides many largely discounted in the companies share of these attributes, and it is now our biggest bank prices.
Additionally, we are not convinced that holding.
In the UK banking market, we believe the the declines are clear cut.
withdrawal of the ultra aggressive Northern Rock from the mortgage market is good news for other The circulation of paid-for local newspapers has large mortgage lenders, enabling them to increase declined significantly over the last thirty years, but their margins after years of erosion.
To benefit this has not proved a good indicator of industry from this change, we have switched our holding in profitability.
Many local papers are now distributed Royal Bank of Scotland into a mix of HBOS and free of charge, with revenues entirely dependent Lloyds TSB.
Unfortunately, neither of these banks upon advertising.
Local trading is still the preserve offers a pure play on the mortgage and savings of these papers.
Despite worries over the ubiquity market, given Lloyds TSBs large presence in of the internet, little market share appears to have unsecured loans and HBOSs strong growth in been lost in either recruitment or property corporate lending.
The companies most exposed to this area are responding to competition by investing Despite the years ups and downs, the portfolios heavily in improvements to their printed content, composition is largely unchanged, with the while growing their on-line capabilities.
We are majority still invested in mega caps the largest confident that if our theses are correct we will be stocks in the market.
The success of our investment in Vodafone The sub-prime crisis in the US was the financial clearly illustrates how changing sentiment can story of the year and its effects and reach were affect the valuation of a company, regardless of larger and wider than was generally forecast.
In 2006, the shares were Although we had correctly avoided Barclays friendless.
The market distrusted senior Bank, as we were concerned that its balance management, believed that its acquisition policy sheet was over exposed to risky areas of the was misguided, judged the core business to be market, we believed that other banks had been under great pressure, and ignored the share buymore prudent.
However, it seems that most banks back scheme, the impressive dividend growth and had loosened their lending criteria in recent the low rating of the shares.
Within a year, this times, and had some exposure to sub-prime sentiment had turned.
Management was lauded mortgages through various asset classes.
for its strategic vision, and the shares had moved significantly higher.
As often happens, there was Following the crisis, the banking sector is hugely no clear catalyst for the change in sentiment out of favour investors are worried about other and, in fact, forecast earnings decreased slightly unattractive assets that may still sit on or even over the period.
Longer term views on banks have also changed, with concerns that their 2007 was a poor year for shareholders in Temple recent business models of originating assets eg Bar, and we apologise for that.
Our confidence in mortgages and then distributing them to our chosen investment style, preferring out of unsuspecting buyers is no longer viable.
This favour companies, is shaken by the experiences may be the case, but the banks excellent record of last year but not diminished.
We are confident of product innovation highlights the dangers of that the stocks in the portfolio offer good longbetting against them.
In the long term, the term value, and that this value will ultimately be banking sector simply cannot be entirely recognised by the market.
Alastair Mundy Our thoughts are that the credit crunch will leave Investec Investment Management Limited the best banks with strong balance sheets, and in 12 February 2008 an excellent position to pick and choose to whom Temple Bar Investment Trust 13
