DIRECTORSREPORT THEBUSINESS Principal Activity and Investment Status The Company is registered as a Public Limited Company in terms of the Companies Act 1985.
The Company is an investment company under Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985.
In the opinion of the Directors, the Company has directed its affairs so as to be able to seek approved investment status from the HM Revenue & Customs under section 842 Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988 for the accounting year ended 30 April 2007 and subsequently.
Approval, as an investment trust, has been received from HM Revenue & Customs for all accounting periods to 30 April 2004 contained in the Taxation of Capital Gains Act 1992 which exempts approved investment trusts from corporation tax on their chargeable gains.
Business Review A fair review of the development and performance of the business of the Company, the position of the Company at the year end, and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company is contained in the Business Review on pages 10 to 16.
Further detailed information is provided in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 and 5 in the Investment Managers Report and Portfolio Review on pages 20 to 24.
FINANCIAL Share Capital Changes in the share capital of the Company are set out in Note 10 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Net Asset Value The net asset value of the Ordinary Shares as at 30 April 2007 was 359.24 pence per share.
Going Concern The Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, as such, a going concern basis is appropriate in preparing the Financial Statements.
Dividend Policy Section 842 of The Income and Corporation Taxes Act requires that TEMIT must not retain in excess of 15% of gross taxable income from shares and securities.
It is the Companys policy to distribute 90% of gross taxable income from shares and securities, when possible, and retain 10% and aim for a sustainable dividend.
This policy is consistent with TEMITs investment objective of long-term capital appreciation.
The Directors propose an ordinary dividend of 3.13 pence per Ordinary Share making a total dividend for 2007 of 16.78 million.
If approved, this will be payable on 3 October 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close of business on 31 August 2007.
Creditor Payment Policy Investment transactions are settled by the Company in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market.
While the Company follows no formal code, its policy is to agree the terms of payment at the start of business and ensure that the supplier is aware of the terms of payment.
Payment is made in accordance with these terms provided that the supplier is also complying with all relevant terms and conditions.
For the year ended 30 April 2007 the number of trade brokers creditors days was 1 day 2006: 1 day.
32 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Auditors RSM Robson Rhodes LLP have merged their practice with that of Grant Thornton UK LLP, with the successor firm being Grant Thornton UK LLP.
RSM Robson Rhodes LLP have resigned as auditors and Grant Thornton UK LLP expressed their willingness to be appointed.
The Directors have appointed Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors prior to the Annual General Meeting and accordingly a resolution for the re-appointment of Grant Thornton UK LLP as auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors were unaware and that each Director had taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors were aware of that information.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Financial Statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in accordance with applicable United Kingdom law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare the financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU.
The financial statements are required by law and IFRS as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position of the Company and the performance for that period.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether the financial statements have been prepared in accordance with IFRS, as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for the system of internal control, for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and the Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Annual Report is available on the Companys website www.
The maintenance and integrity of the Companys website is the responsibility of the Directors.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the information contained in the financial statements since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of the financial statements and other information included in annual reports may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 33 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED DIRECTORS Directors The Board currently comprises seven Non-Executive Directors, six of whom are independent from Franklin Templeton Investments, the group of companies associated with the Companys Investment Manager.
The Chairman is NonExecutive and independent from the Investment Manager.
The Directors biographies are set out on pages 6 to 9.
The following were Directors during the year to 30 April 2007: Sir Ronald Hampel Sir Peter Burt Peter A Smith Peter C Godsoe OC Charles B Johnson Andrew S B Knight Sam L Ginn resigned 28 September 2006 Neil A Collins appointed 28 September 2006 Mr Johnson is a Director and shareholder of Franklin Resources, Inc.
He is also a Director of Templeton Worldwide Inc, the parent company of TAML.
He is therefore not an independent Director.
The Companys Articles of Association require newly appointed Directors to submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting and Directors are then subject to re-election at intervals of no more than three years.
The Companys Articles of Association also provide that Directors, upon attainment of 70 years of age should retire from office, and may offer themselves for re-election at each Annual General Meeting.
This is in accordance with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, which recommends that Directors over the age of 70 should offer themselves for re-election every year.
All Directors serving longer than nine years must offer themselves for annual re-election.
Sir Ronald Hampel 75 and Charles B Johnson 74 offer themselves for re-election as Directors as they are over 70 years of age.
Charles B Johnson is also standing for re-election by virtue of the Listing Rules requirement for non-independent Directors to be re-elected annually.
The Board recommends the re-election of Sir Ronald Hampel and Charles B Johnson whose biographies are set out in this Annual Report as they continue to provide the Company with valuable guidance, experience and support.
Each Director has a letter of appointment from the Company.
Other than previously stated, no Director was a party to or had an interest in any contract or arrangement with the Company at any time during the year.
The Directors meet quarterly and retain full and effective control over the Company through the monitoring of the management team of TAML the Investment Manager, and FTIML the Secretary and Administrator.
The Board is responsible for investment policy and has a schedule of matters reserved for the resolution of the Directors for safeguarding shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The primary focus of the Directors at the quarterly board meetings is a review of the investment performance of the Company and associated matters such as gearing, asset allocation, marketing investor relations, peer group information and industry issues.
The Board also reviews the investment mandate and long-term investment strategy and performance of the Company and the appropriate guidelines within which the Investment Manager should operate.
34 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC The table below lists the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there were 5 Board Meetings, 3 Audit Committee Meetings and 1 Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meeting.
Nomination and Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Director Attended Meetings Attended Meetings Attended Sir Ronald Hampel 5 N A 1 Sir Peter Burt 5 3 N A Sam L Ginn 1 N A 1 Peter C Godsoe, OC 5 3 N A Charles B Johnson 5 N A N A Andrew S B Knight 4 N A N A Neil A Collins 3 1 N A Peter A Smith 5 3 N A Sam L Ginn resigned on 28 September 2006.
Neil A Collins was appointed on 28 September 2006.
Nomination and Remuneration Committee The Board established a Nomination & Remuneration Committee in February 2002, which currently comprises Sir Ronald Hampel Chairman and Sir Peter Burt appointed 28 September 2006.
Sam L Ginn was a member until his resignation from the Board on 28 September 2006.
The role of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee is to review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that seem appropriate, to consider the rotation and renewal of the Board, approve the candidate specification for all Board appointments, approve the process by which suitable candidates are identified and short listed, and to nominate candidates for consideration by the full board, whose responsibility it is formally to make appointments.
In addition, the Committee reviews the level of Directors fees periodically relative to other comparable companies and in the light of the Directors responsibilities.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee is available to shareholders on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on page 1.
Performance Evaluation The Board has undertaken a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors including the Chairman.
The Board has also considered the independence of each Director.
The evaluation of the Board, of its Committees, and the performance of individual Directors, is carried out first through discussions between the Chairman and each Director on an individual basis.
The Chairman has been evaluated by his fellow Directors, led by Peter Smith, the Senior Independent Director.
Thereafter the Board meets as a group to review the findings.
The performance and cost of service providers are considered as regular items annually on the Boards agenda.
Information and Professional Development The Board is supplied, via the Company Secretary, with regular information to enable the Directors to discharge their duties.
The Company Secretary provides the Board with regular updates on regulatory issues and on the latest corporate governance rules and guidelines.
Remuneration Details of the remuneration policy are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Boards policy is that the remuneration of Non-Executive Directors should reflect the experience of the Board as a whole and be fair and comparable to that of other investment trusts similar in size, capital structure and investment objective.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 35 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED The fees for the Non-Executive Directors are currently determined within the limits set out in the Companys Articles of Association, and they are not eligible for bonuses, pension benefits, share options, long-term incentive schemes or other benefits in accordance with other long standing investment trusts.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, together with details of the remuneration of each Director who served in the year is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 42.
Apart from the Directors, TEMIT itself has no employees and therefore no retirement or health scheme obligations, or policies in respect of employment, including the employment of disabled persons.
No Director had notified the Company of any beneficial interest including any family interest existing either at the beginning or at the end of the year to 30 April 2007 in the Companys Ordinary Shares save for the following Directors: 30 April 2007 30 April 2006 Sir Ronald Hampel Ordinary Shares 21,618 21,618 Sir Peter Burt Ordinary Shares 4,000 4,000 Andrew S B Knight Ordinary Shares 11,000 11,000 Neil A Collins appointed 28 September 2006 Ordinary Shares 7,000 N A The Company has not received notification of any changes in the above interests as at 9 August 2007.
Substantial Shareholdings As at 9 August 2007 the Company had been notified that the following were interested in 3% or more of the issued share capital of the Company.
Percentage Number of of issued Name Ordinary Shares Share Capital City of London 73,122,793 14.64 Carrousel Capital Limited 25,642,075 5.20 Legal & General Investment Management 20,348,635 4.12 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 19,810,236 4.02 Lloyds TSB Group plc 18,108,611 3.67 Rensberg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 15,515,694 3.15 36 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC SERVICEPROVIDERS Investment Manager During the year, Templeton Asset Management Ltd. TAML acted as Investment Manager to the Company under an investment management agreement and received from the Company a monthly fee at an annual rate of 1.00% of the trading net assets of the Company.
The investment management agreement between the Company and TAML is of an unlimited duration and may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to TAML of an amount up to one years management fee.
Compensation is not payable if at least one years notice of termination is given.
The Board keeps under review the performance and contractual arrangements of TAML as Investment Manager to the Company.
In the opinion of the Directors, the continuing appointment of TAML on the agreed terms is in the best interests of the shareholders as a whole.
The Directors believe that TAML is well positioned to act as Investment Manager to the Company and well resourced to identify attractive investment opportunities.
Secretarial and Administration Managers During the year FTIML acted as secretary and administrator of the Company.
The fee paid to FTIML for this is an annual rate of 0.20% of the trading total net assets of the Company, payable monthly.
The agreement between the Company and FTIML may be terminated by either party but in certain circumstances the Company may be required to pay compensation to FTIML of an amount up to one years secretarial and administration fee.
The Directors also keep under annual review the performance of FTIML as Secretarial and Administration Managers.
Custodian JP Morgan Chase Bank acts as global custodian to the Company and receives a fee for the provision of custody and nominee services to the Company under a custody agreement which contains provision for the exclusion or limitation of liability as set out in the custody agreement.
The custody agreement may be terminated by either party giving the other 60 days notice.
Corporate Governance The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Shareholders for good governance and this statement describes how the Company applies the principles identified in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003.
It also makes reference to the Companys adherence to the Code of Corporate Governance of the Association of Investment Companies AIC.
Compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 The Board considers that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003 throughout the year ended 30 April 2007.
AIC Code of Corporate Governance The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Board considers that the Company adheres to the principles and follows the recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance and where appropriate, it provides explanations why and or detailed the steps it intends to take to bring the Company into line in the future.
By reporting against the AIC Code and by following the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide, the Company is meeting its obligations under the Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules and as such the Company is not required to report further on issues contained in the Combined Code which are not relevant to the Company as explained in the AIC Guide.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 37 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Additional Information for New Zealand Shareholders As a result of a new requirement for Overseas Issuers listed on the New Zealand Stock Exchange, the following should be noted by New Zealand Shareholders: a The corporate governance rules and principles in TEMITs home exchange jurisdiction in the United Kingdom may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchange corporate governance rules and the principles of the Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
b Investors may find more information about the corporate governance and principles of TEMITs home exchange in the United Kingdom in the above Corporate Governance statement and online at www.
Schedule of Reserved Matters The Board has formally adopted a Schedule of Reserved Matters which details the matters which the Board has agreed are specifically reserved to them for their collective decision.
These matters include, inter alia, approval of the interim and financial statements, recommendation of the final dividend, approval of any preliminary announcements of the Company, approval of any changes to the Companys investment objective and or policy, appointment or removal of the Companys Investment Manager or its Secretary and Administrator, Board membership and Board committee membership and any major changes to the investment objective, philosophy or policy of the Company, other than any such changes delegated to the Investment Manager under the Investment Management Agreement.
The day to day investment management of the portfolio of the Company is delegated to the Investment Manager who manages the portfolio in accordance with the investment objectives of the Company as set by the Board.
Social, Environmental & Ethical Policy As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or environmental responsibilities.
Its ethical policy is focused on ensuring that its funds are properly managed and invested within the guidelines approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on the policies and controls in place.
The Investment Manager invests in companies that it considers to be well managed and subject to appropriate corporate governance.
A well-managed company is considered to be one which complies with all the relevant legislation and which meets the social and environmental requirements of the country in which it operates.
It is important to recognise that local laws and requirements of emerging markets do not necessarily equate with those of developed countries.
Institutional Shareholder Voting Policy As an institutional investor, the Company recognises its responsibility that the companies in which it invests should aspire to appropriate levels of corporate governance.
As a matter of policy, the Company aims to utilise its votes in shares held in the relevant underlying portfolio companies at the annual general meetings of these companies.
Contact with Shareholders The Chairman of the Company is available for any shareholder questions and he has regular meetings with the Companys major shareholders.
Furthermore, the members of the Board are available during the year for any significant matters arising and are usually present in person at the Annual General Meeting.
At each Annual General Meeting of the Company, Dr Mark Mobius, the investment manager, briefs shareholders on the investment outlook of the Company.
In addition, on behalf of the Board, he has periodic meetings with the Companys major shareholders to discuss aspects of the Companys performance.
Shareholders may contact the members of the Board via Client Dealer Services at FTIML using the contact details provided on page 1.
38 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Accountability and Audit In 1994 the Board established an Audit Committee, which currently comprises Peter A Smith Chairman, Sir Peter Burt, Peter C Godsoe and Neil Collins.
The Audit Committee plays an important role in the appraisal and supervision of key aspects of the Companys business including financial reporting and internal controls.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will attend the Companys Annual General Meeting and will be prepared to respond to questions which may be raised by Shareholders on matters within the Audit Committees responsibilities.
The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the Investment Manager and its Compliance Officer, who report as to the proper conduct of business in accordance with the regulatory environment in which both the Company and the Manager operate.
The Companys external auditors also attend the Committee at its request, at least once a year, and report on their work procedures, the quality of the Companys accounting procedures and their findings in relation to the Companys statutory accounts.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee include review of the internal financial controls, accounting policies, financial statements, the management contract, the auditors appointment and remuneration.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee reflect the recommendations of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2003.
A copy of the terms of reference of the Audit Committee is available to shareholders on request via Client Dealer Services at Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited using the contact details provided on page 1.
Non-audit work undertaken by Grant Thornton UK LLP for the year ended 30 April 2007 on behalf of TEMIT includes assistance with the adoption of IFRS, calculation of the year end corporation tax liability, and review of the October 2006 Interim Report.
An engagement letter is issued for all non-audit work and subsequently reviewed by the Audit Committee to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the auditors is safeguarded.
Risk Management Objectives and Policy The Company invests in equities and other investments for the long-term so as to secure its investment objectives as stated on page 17.
This creates potential exposure to the following risks: Market Price, Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Liquidity and Fair Value risks.
The Companys policy and objectives in relation to such risks is disclosed in Note 17 of the Notes to the Financial Statements.
Internal Control The Board is ultimately responsible for ensuring that a sound system of internal controls of the Company is maintained to safeguard Shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Audit Committee undertakes an annual review of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls and the Directors believe that an appropriate framework is in place to meet the requirement of ensuring that a sound system of internal controls is in place by the Company.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing risks that the Company is exposed to.
This process is conducted throughout the year and has been conducted up to the date of signing of this report.
The Board has identified risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as areas for the extended review and, if relevant, necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
It has, however, to be understood that systems of internal control, however carefully designed, operated and supervised, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Company does not have its own internal audit function but places reliance on the internal audit, compliance and other control functions of its service providers.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 39 DIRECTORSREPORT CONTINUED Authority to Purchase Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 28 September 2006, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its Ordinary Shares in the market.
This authority will expire at the conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Prior to 21 May 2007, no Ordinary Shares were purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from doing so by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
However, following the announcement of the Capital Reorganisation on 21 May 2007, the Company received a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority permitting Ordinary Shares to be bought during the close period and has since operated an active buy-back policy such that in the period from 22 May 2007 to 9 August 2007, the Company bought back and cancelled 43,119,258 Ordinary Shares.
At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company held on 27 July 2007, a Special Resolution was passed authorising the Company to purchase its Ordinary Shares in the market up to the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2008.
Purchases will only be made for cash at a cost which is below the prevailing net asset value per share.
Under the rules of the UK Listing Authority, the maximum price which may be paid is the higher of a 5% above the average market value of the shares for the five business days before the purchase is made and b that stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buy-back and Stabilisation Regulation.
The minimum price payable for the Ordinary Shares will be 25 pence per share.
Purchases will be funded either by using available cash resources, by selling investments in the portfolio or by borrowing.
The authority to purchase shares will only be exercised if to do so would be in the best interests of Shareholders generally.
Other than in accordance with a dispensation from the UK Listing Authority, no shares will be purchased by the Company during periods when the Company would be prohibited from making such purchases by the rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Directors envisage seeking the renewal of the relevant authority in 2008 and in each succeeding year.
ANNUALGENERALMEETING Ordinary Business Grant Thornton UK LLP will be re-appointed as Auditors.
This follows its appointment to fill a casual vacancy created by the resignation of RSM Robson Rhodes LLP on 23 July 2007.
RSM Robson Rhodes LLP resigned due to the merger of its audit operations with Grant Thornton UK LLP.
Special Business The Special Business to be dealt with at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company relates to amendments to the Companys Articles of Association.
Amendments to Articles of Association Your Directors have been reviewing the Companys Articles of Association in light of general legislative developments.
A special resolution is to be proposed at this years Annual General Meeting to adopt changes to the existing Articles of Association to allow electronic communications with Shareholders, to provide that Scottish courts will have exclusive jurisdiction in the event of litigation and disputes, to update the insurance and indemnity provisions in light of the Companies Audit, Investigation and Community Enterprise Act 2004 and to adopt such other changes to the Articles of Association in light of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in force to date.
The results of the votes on the resolutions at the Annual General Meeting will be published on the Companys website www.
40 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC Recommendation The Directors believe all the Resolutions proposed are in the best interests of the Company and the shareholders as a whole and recommend all shareholders to vote in favour of all the Resolutions, as they intend to do so in respect of their own shares.
By Order of the Board Registered Office 5 Morrison Street Edinburgh EH3 8BH UK Sara A MacIntosh for and on behalf of Franklin Templeton Investment Management Limited Secretary 14 August 2007 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 41
