MANAGERSREPORT&PORTFOLIOREVIEW 30 APRIL 2007 OVERVIEW  Most emerging markets recorded positive performances The Companys performance, relative to the MSCI during the reporting period.
A favourable Emerging Markets Index, benefited from underweight macroeconomic environment coupled with significant positions in Taiwan and Russia as well as an overweight liquidity drove equity prices up.
Latin American markets exposure to Croatia.
Good stock selection in Taiwan, were the top performers as they benefited from relatively Russia and South Korea further enhanced relative strong commodity prices, growing foreign reserves, lower performance.
A zero weighting in Israel also supported interest rates and solid domestic demand in the regions performance as that market underperformed the major economies.
In Europe, however, Russia and benchmark index during the period.
In Taiwan, the Turkey underperformed their regional peers.
Political largest contributors to performance were the Companys uncertainty led to some short-term selling in Turkey absence from stocks such as High Tech Computer and towards the end of the period.
Asian markets, on the United Microelectronics and underweight holdings in other hand, recorded mixed performances with strong Taiwan Semiconductor.
In Russia, underweight gains seen in China while South Korea and Thailand exposures to Gazprom and Surgutneftegaz no holdings experienced declines.
In Thailand, a military coup, as well as an overweight exposure to Norilsk Nickel capital controls, bomb blasts and new restrictions on contributed to relative performance.
In South Korea, an foreign ownership in listed companies in selective sectors underweight position in Samsung Electronics and an rattled investor confidence in equity investments.
overweight position in SK Corporation helped the In South Africa, a consumer boom, propelled by low portfolio.
By sector, underweight exposures to the borrowing rates and greater domestic demand, led to semiconductor and technology hardware and equipment higher corporate earnings in related companies.
industries as well as good stock selection in automobile However, a weaker Rand eroded the markets GBP gains.
While there were substantial downturns in May June As regards negative impacts on the portfolio, an 2006 and February March 2007, most markets overweight exposure to Hungary and underweight rebounded as investors used the correction as an position in Mexico resulted in negative attribution effects.
opportunity to build positions at more attractive prices.
The Companys holdings in India and Poland also had In a bull market that has run for nearly four years with an adverse impact on relative performance.
Overweight few interruptions, corrections such as these can positions in PKN Orlen, Gedeon Richter and MOL be expected.
detracted from relative performance because the stocks 20 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC underperformed the MSCI Emerging Markets Index.
The PORTFOLIOCHANGES& Company continued to favour these stocks due to their INVESTMENTSTRATEGIES strong market positions and attractive valuations.
In During the reporting period, the Company made India and Mexico, zero exposure to outperforming stocks significant investments in Russia and Turkey.
Russian such as America Movil, Reliance Industries and Infosys purchases included: Gazprom, the largest natural gas Technologies had a negative impact on performance company in the world by reserves and production: relative to the benchmark index.
These stocks were not Norilsk Nickel, which is among the largest platinum held in the portfolio due to the availability of more companies and nickel producers in the world: and attractive stocks in the emerging market universe.
Lukoil, a major integrated oil and gas company in By industry, holdings in capital goods companies and Russia.
In Turkey, the Company added: Turkcell, utilities underperformed.
a leading provider of mobile communications services: Akbank, one of the largest commercial banks in Turkey: and Tupras, the countrys largest industrial company with a dominant market share in oil refining.
Additional purchases were also made in Pakistan, India, Poland, Indonesia and Brazil as the Company continued to search for companies trading at attractive valuations.
Exposure to the oil and gas, coal, aluminium, diversified metals and mining and precious metals and minerals sectors was increased as these stocks are expected to benefit from greater revenues and earnings as a result of relatively high commodity prices.
The interim correction in commodity prices during the period provided the Company with an opportunity to build positions at lower prices.
In addition to the Russian and Turkish additions, the Company added Vale Do Rio Doce, one of the worlds largest iron ore producers that is also engaged in various mining activities, Aluminum Corporation of China Chalco, Chinas leading producer TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 21 MANAGERSREPORT&PORTFOLIOREVIEW CONTINUED of alumina and primary aluminium products, PTT, a ASIA major integrated gas company in Thailand, and Yanzhou China was among the strongest performing markets Coal, one of the most profitable coal producers in China.
globally as strong fund flows and continued investor interest in one of the worlds fastest growing economies One of the largest sales during the year was in Pliva, a propelled stock prices.
Chinas Gross Domestic Product Croatian pharmaceutical company which was the subject GDP accelerated to 11.1% in the first quarter of 2007 of a takeover battle with the price going far higher than heightening concerns that the Chinese government would the Companys sell limit.
This subsequently eliminated implement additional tightening measures.
Soon after in exposure to the Croatian market.
The Company also April, the Peoples Bank of China raised the reserve divested its holdings in LG Card, a consumer finance requirement ratio by 50 basis points to 10.5% as efforts company in South Korea, following a tender offer, to curb liquidity continued.
This was the sixth increase in during the reporting period.
In comparison, GDP grew 10.7% in Because certain stocks approached their sell targets, 2006.
A clear indication of Chinas robust trade sector exposure to South Korea, South Africa and Taiwan was and attraction to foreign investors is its growing foreign reduced during the period.
The Companys investments exchange reserves.
The worlds largest reserves increased in the packaged foods and meats, chemicals and by US$135.7 billion to US$1.2 trillion in the first quarter.
construction industries were trimmed via the sale of CJ China also signed a free trade agreement covering 60 Corporation, a food producer in South Korea, LG service industries within the ASEAN bloc.
The agreement Petrochemical, a commodity chemical producer engaged came into effect on 1 July 2007. in manufacturing of ethylene and ethylene derivative The South Korean economy grew 4.0% in the first three products, and Daewoo Shipbuilding, a South Korean months of the year mainly due to strong exports, capital shipbuilder.
In South Africa and Taiwan, key sales investment and consumer expenditure.
GDP grew 5.0% included Nedbank, a South African bank with operations in 2006 with the South Korean government expecting in commercial banking, investment banking and asset 2007 GDP growth to be 4.5%.
Moreover, inflation management, and President Chain Stores, a major retail remained benign in 2007, allowing the central bank to chain operator in Taiwan.
leave interest rates unchanged during the first three months of the year.
While there have been some concerns over the strengthening Won and its impact on the countrys export competitiveness, the Free Trade Agreement FTA reached between South Korea and the US could provide exporters with a competitive edge.
However, the FTA has yet to be ratified by the US Congress and the Korean National Assembly.
The Thai economy grew 4.2% in the fourth quarter of 2006 as political uncertainty and weak domestic demand slowed economic recovery.
While GDP grew 5.0% in 2006, it is expected to slow down this year due to reduced export growth and sluggish private investment.
The Thai government also remained concerned about the strengthening Baht which could adversely impact export demand.
Japan and Thailand signed a free trade agreement in early April 2007 which will cut tariffs on a wide range of goods.
The Thai Cabinet has ratified the deal and approval from Japans parliament is expected shortly.
With a new, unelected interim government, more policy surprises can be expected which could lead to further bouts of volatility in the stock market during 2007.
22 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC LATINAMERICA SOUTHERN EASTERNEUROPE International confidence in the region, especially Brazil, In Europe, the Russian market lagged its regional was high.
A loosening monetary policy, growing foreign counterparts as a correction in oil prices during the reserves and implementation of fiscal incentives aimed at period led investors to adopt a more cautious approach boosting economic growth and investment led investors and lock in gains made in the last few years.
However, to remain positive on the countrys prospects.
a recovery in oil prices towards the end of the period International reserves totalled US$121.8 billion at the provided investors with some comfort.
Moreover, the end of April 2007 due to stronger inflows in foreign country continued to report strong economic data direct investment FDI, portfolio investments and shortincluding a 6.7% GDP growth in 2006 together with term accounts.
The economy grew a revised 3.7% year US$31 billion in foreign direct investment, more than on year in 2006, higher than 2005s adjusted 2.9% double the amount received in 2005.
The benefits of this growth.
Key drivers included robust domestic demand, could bode well for the stock market in the longer term.
particularly, household consumption and investment.
Turkeys GDP grew 6.1% year on year in 2006 mainly due to robust external demand.
The current account and trade deficit numbers improved in 2006, evidence of the countrys successful structural reforms over the last few years.
FDI inflows totalled US$20.2 billion in 2006, more than double the US$9.8 billion in the preceding year.
In politics, given the ruling Justice and Development Party AKP s majority in parliament, it was almost a certainty that its nominated Foreign Minister, Abdullah Gul, would emerge as the new president.
However, the opposition partys boycott of the elections, led the Constitutional Court to annul the results.
The ruling party is now pushing for a constitutional amendment to allow the public as opposed to the parliament to elect the new president.
TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 MANAGERSREPORT&PORTFOLIOREVIEW CONTINUED Takingalong-termview, emerging  .
made fundamental improvements to their economies and OUTLOOK these changes are here to stay.
In addition to the Emerging market sovereign spreads have declined to near traditional emerging markets, the larger frontier markets all-time lows, reflecting investors assessments that the are also beginning to look interesting.
fundamentals of emerging markets are strong.
In a bull market that has run for about four years with only one In general, the strong fundamental outlook for emerging major correction in 2006, fund inflows can be expected markets remains intact.
Investors should expect volatility, and are, in fact, healthy.
The Manager continues to as is the nature of these markets, but the Manager monitor the markets and look to possibly increase the expects long-term investors to be well rewarded.
Finally, Companys investments in stocks which the Manager as value investors the Manager continues to focus on deems to be oversold due to poor market sentiment those companies that have the best earnings and rather than weak fundamentals.
Taking a long-term view, dividends, in relation to their prices.
emerging markets continue to offer investors with an attractive investment destination.
Moreover, these markets continue to report strong macroeconomic J Mark Mobius, Ph.
D. growth and are implementing structural reforms.
The role of emerging markets in the global economy has grown significantly in recent years.
These countries have 14 August 2007 24 TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC FINANCIALSUMMARY 26 PortfolioSummary 27  31  32 DirectorsReport 42  44    46 IncomeStatement 47 BalanceSheet 48  49 CashFlowStatement 50 AccountingPolicies 53  TEMPLETON EMERGING MARKETS INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 25
