Governance Financial Statements 31 Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in presenting the Annual Report and financial Property, plant and equipment statements of The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC for the 52 weeks ended Movements in property, plant and equipment are set out in note 13 to the 31 March 2007. financial statements.
In the opinion of the Directors the current open market value of the Groups interests in freehold land and buildings exceeds the book Principal activities and review of the business value by 31.4m at 31 March 2007.
It is expected that any capital gains The principal activity of the Group continues to be the provision of mobile would either be covered by capital losses or carried forward for relief against communication products and services and xed line communication services.
For the purposes of segmental reporting, operations are classied into three divisions, being Distribution, Telecoms Services and Dealer.
The subsidiary Significant shareholdings undertakings principally affecting the results or net assets of the Group in the No interests appeared on the Register of Members nor had any been notied period are listed in note 14 to the financial statements.
to the Company in accordance with sections 198 to 208 of the Companies Act 1985 on 4 June 2007.
A detailed review of the business is contained in the Business Review on pages 10 to 16 in accordance with section 234ZZB of the Companies Act The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the Remuneration Report 1985.
Our responsibilities under s234ZA of the Companies Act have been on pages 25 to 30. included in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities set out on page 32.
Going concern Results On the basis of current financial projections and facilities available, the The profit before taxation for the financial period decreased from 81.0m Directors are satisfied that the Group has adequate resources to continue in in the prior period to 68.4m.
An interim dividend of 1.0p per share operation for the foreseeable future and consequently the financial statements 2006 0.75p was paid in the period.
The Directors recommend the continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
payment of a final dividend of 2.25p per share 2006 1.75p.
Subject Auditors to shareholders approval at the Annual General Meeting, the intended Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in ofce payment date of the final dividend will be on 3 August 2007 to as auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the shareholders on the register at the close of business on 6 July 2007. forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are provided in note 31 to the financial statements.
By order of the Board Directors The Carphone Warehouse Group PLC The names and brief biographical details of the Directors are shown on 1 Portal Way page 21.
Particulars of Directors remuneration, interests in the shares of London W3 6RS the Company and its subsidiaries, and interests in share options are given T S Morris in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 30.
Company Secretary Employment of disabled people 4 June 2007 It is the Groups policy to encourage application for employment from disabled people and to assist with their training and career development, having regard to particular aptitudes and abilities.
Every endeavour is made to nd suitable alternative employment and to re-train any employee who becomes disabled while serving the Group.
Employee involvement The Group places significant emphasis on its employees involvement in the business at all levels.
Managers are remunerated according to results wherever possible and all employees are kept informed of issues affecting the Group through formal and informal meetings and through the Groups internal publications.
Members of the management team regularly visit all Group locations and discuss matters of current interest and concern with employees.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy is to agree terms of transactions, including payment terms, with suppliers and, provided that suppliers perform in accordance with the agreed terms, it is the Groups normal practice that payment is made accordingly.
Details of the average credit period taken on trade payables are provided in note 19 to the financial statements.
Donations The Group made charitable donations of 117,000 during the period 2006 107,000.
No political donations were made during either period.
Contracts with controlling shareholders There are no material contracts with controlling shareholders, except as disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 30.
Share capital Details of the movements in authorised and issued share capital during the period are provided in notes 23 and 24 to the financial statements.
