Report of the Directors The directors present the audited accounts of the Group 92.9% of the Companys assets are currently invested in and their report for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Pan-European listed property securities, 0.2% in Asian Group comprises TR Property Investment Trust plc the securities with the balance in directly owned UK real estate.
The review of the business The Company is total return focused and future growth and of the Company, recent events and outlook are contained capital appreciation potential is generally regarded more within the Chairmans Statement, on pages 5 to 8, which highly than immediate initial yield or discount to asset value.
forms part of this Report of the Directors by reference.
The investment selection process seeks to identify well Status managed companies of all sizes, especially those with a The Company is an investment company, as defined in focus on a particular type of real estate business.
Section 266 of the Companies Act 1985, and operates as The Company is a dedicated investor in real estate and real an investment trust in accordance with Section 842 of the estate securities and will continue to adhere to this strategy.
Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
It is required to seek HM Revenue & Customs approval of its status as an Revenue and Dividends investment trust under the above-mentioned Section 842 2007 2006 Change every year, and this approval will continue to be sought.
Total earnings per share 69.25p 81.29p -14.8% HM Revenue & Customs approval of the Companys status Revenue earnings per share 4.09p 3.44p 18.9% as an investment trust has been received in respect of the Dividends per share 4.10p 3.40p 20.6% year ended 31 March 2006.
The directors are of the Total earnings per share, which include capital gains on opinion that the Company has subsequently conducted its investments, are lower than the prior year but still affairs in a manner which will enable it to continue to gain produced a total return of 31.8%.
The Company has no employees and the 'close company' provisions do not apply.
Revenue earnings have increased by 18.9%.
Although gross revenue has grown by around 13%, expenses have Business Review increased at a lower rate, of around 10%, resulting in the The following review is designed to provide information greater positive impact at net level.
primarily about the Companys business and results for the year ended 31 March 2007 and covers: The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 2.40p per share.
Subject to approval at the AGM, the Objective and Strategy dividend will be paid on 31 July 2007 to shareholders on Revenue and Dividends the register at 29 June 2007.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 27 June 2007.
Capital Return Property Valuation An interim dividend of 1.70p per share was paid on Performance Measurement KPI 8 January 2007.
The total dividend in respect of the year Financial Instruments and Management of Risk is, therefore, 4.10p per share.
Share Buy-back Activity The dividends shown in the Group Statement of Changes in Management Arrangements and Fees Equity for the year are those dividends which have actually Basis of Accounting and IFRS been approved in the period, i. e. the final dividend relating to the financial year ended 31 March 2006 1.90p per share Environmental Policy and the interim dividend for this period 1.70p per share.
A full review of the portfolio and our managers view on the outlook for the coming financial year are covered in Capital Return the Managers Report on pages 9 to 17.
2007 2006 Change NAV per share 290.78p 224.11p 29.7% Objective and Strategy Share price 256.50p 209.50p 22.4% The objective of TR Property Investment Trust plc is to Growth in asset value resulted in an increase of the maximise the shareholders total returns by investing in property shares and property on an international basis.
shareholders funds by more than 29%.
The Benchmark returned 24.5% on a price only basis.
TR Property Investment Trust 25 Report of the Directors continued Details of the investments are shown within the Managers Management Arrangements and Fees Report on pages 9 to 17.
Investment management services have been provided by Thames River Capital LLP Thames River, accounting Property Valuation and administrative services by BNP Paribas Fund Services Valuations of all the Groups properties as at 31 March UK Limited, custodial services by JPMorgan Chase and 2007 have been carried out by external independent corporate secretarial services by Henderson Secretarial valuers.
These valuations have been adopted in the Services throughout the year.
Details of the values and changes in fixed the corporate secretarial services have been provided by assets are shown in note 10 to the financial statements.
Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited.
Performance Measurement The significant terms of the fund management agreement The directors consider performance measured against the with Thames River are as follows: Benchmark to be the key performance indicator for the Company.
Notice Period The investment management agreement IMA For the year to 31 March 2007 the Benchmark was the provides for termination of the agreement by either S&P Citigroup European Property Index in Sterling the party without compensation on the provision of not less Citigroup Index.
Management Fee On a total return basis the Company returned 31.8% A base management fee of 0.70% pa on the against the Benchmark total return of 27.5%.
The Companys net asset value is payable quarterly in Companys figures are stated after taking account of the advance to the Investment Manager.
For the period up performance fee.
to 31 March 2009 a rebate has been secured which With effect from 1 April 2007 the Benchmark is the FTSE will reduce the management fee to 0.40% pa on that EPRA NAREIT Europe Index in Sterling.
This index, portion of the Companys net asset value which calculated by FTSE, is free float based and currently has exceeds 450 million.
The fee is based on the 100 constituent companies.
Companys net asset value determined in accordance with the Association of Investment Companies AIC Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk method of valuation on the last day of March, June, By its nature as an investment trust, the Company is September and December respectively.
exposed to market price risk, foreign currency risk and The management fee includes a number of services interest rate risk.
The Companys policies for managing such as administrative services and company secretarial these risks are outlined in note 11 to the financial services which are provided by third parties.
Further information on the management of Company has a direct contractual relationship with the risk and internal controls is contained in the Corporate parties providing these services and the fees incurred Governance Report on pages 30 to 35. are deducted from the gross fees due to Thames River.
This affords the Company a high degree of Share Buy-back Activity transparency and control in respect of these services.
The Board has not set a specific discount at which shares will be repurchased.
However, there has been considerable Performance Fee activity in recent years and around 159 million ordinary In addition to the management fee, the Board has shares have been repurchased since the Board first took agreed to pay the Investment Manager a performance the decision to buy back shares in 1999.
During the year related fee in respect of a performance period if certain to 31 March 2007, the Company repurchased 9.25 million performance objectives are achieved.
shares at an average cost of 249.4p per share creating a surplus of just under 1p per share for the remaining A performance fee will become payable if the total shareholders funds.
return of Group equity shareholders funds, as defined in the IMA with Thames River, at 31 March each year outperforms the total return of the Companys Benchmark plus 2% the hurdle rate : this 26 TR Property Investment Trust Report of the Directors continued outperformance expressed as a percentage will be account in decision-making.
We recognise that good known as the percentage outperformance.
Any fee environmental management can play a part in overall risk payable will be the amount equivalent to the Group management and also have a financial impact in terms of equity shareholders funds at 31 March each year, savings through energy and water efficiency.
Where multiplied by the percentage outperformance, then appropriate, our managers will engage with investee multiplied by 15%.
companies to raise concerns about environmental matters.
So far as our direct property investments are concerned, The maximum performance fee payable in any period will the Company conducts environmental audits prior to be 1% of the Group equity shareholders funds as purchase to identify possible contamination or materials defined.
If any fee exceeds 1% of Group equity considered environmentally harmful.
We will take remedial shareholders funds, such excess will be carried forward action or enforce tenant obligations to do so wherever and applied to reduce any percentage underperformance appropriate.
We and our advisers assess the in future performance periods.
At 31 March 2007, an environmental impact of our properties on an ongoing excess of 5.8m is being carried forward.
basis and will take all necessary action to comply with our If the total return of Group equity shareholders funds for environmental responsibilities.
any performance period is less than the hurdle rate for the Annual General Meeting relevant performance period, such underperformance The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on expressed as a percentage will be carried forward.
The Notice of Meeting fee will be payable unless the total return on Group equity is set out on pages 54 and 55, and an explanation of the shareholders funds outperforms the hurdle rate, after business to be conducted is given on pages 56 and 57. taking into account any accumulated percentage underperformance for previous periods to the extent it is Two items of Special Business are to be proposed at the not offset by the overperformance offset described above.
Resolution 9 will be proposed as an ordinary resolution and resolution 10 will be proposed as a special Basis of Accounting and IFRS resolution.
On the basis of the Boards expected long term split of returns, in the form of capital gains and income in equal Resolution 9 Increase in the Aggregate Directors proportions, the Group charges 50% of finance costs to Remuneration Permitted by the Companys Articles of capital.
One-third of the management fee is deemed to Association relate to the administration of the Company and is Under the Companys Articles the maximum aggregate charged to revenue.
The remainder is split on the same amount of fees that can paid to the directors of the basis as finance costs and 50% charged to capital.
Resolution 9 proposes that this overall result is that two-thirds of the management fee is aggregate figure be increased to 250,000 pa. charged to revenue and one-third to capital.
All performance fees are charged to capital.
Resolution 10 Authority to Purchase Own Shares The Companys Articles permit the Company to purchase its Environmental Policy own shares out of capital profits.
Under the Listing Rules of The Company considers that good corporate governance the Financial Services Authority a company is permitted to extends to policies on the environment and has therefore purchase up to 14.99% of its issued equity share capital adopted an environmental policy in respect of its through market purchases pursuant to a general authority investments in both physical property and listed property granted by shareholders in general meeting.
Within the context of the overall aim of the Company to maximise shareholders returns, we will seek The current authority which permits the Company to to limit our own and our investee companies impact on purchase up to 14.99% of its issued ordinary shares the environment.
We will comply with all relevant expires at the conclusion of the forthcoming AGM.
The legislation relating to our operations and activities.
Board believes that the Company should continue to have authority to make market purchases of its own ordinary We review the environmental statements and behaviour of shares for cancellation.
The Board is therefore seeking to all the companies in which we invest and take these into TR Property Investment Trust 27 Report of the Directors continued renew its power to make market purchases of ordinary There were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of shares.
Accordingly, a special resolution to authorise the the year in which a director of the Company is or was Company to make market purchases of up to 14.99% of materially interested and which is or was significant in the Companys issued ordinary share capital at the date of relation to the Company's business.
No director has a the AGM, such purchases to be cancelled, is proposed.
contract of service with the Company.
Based on the number of shares in issue at the date of this Payment of Suppliers Report, 14.99% of the Companys issued ordinary share It is the Company's payment policy for the current financial capital is equivalent to 49,496,980 ordinary shares, year to obtain the best possible terms for all business.
The provided there is no change in the issued share capital Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on which between the date of this Report and the AGM to be held business will take place and it abides by these terms.
There were no trade creditors at 31 March 2007.
Any purchase of shares would be made at a discount to Share Capital Changes the prevailing net asset value, thus enhancing the net At 1 April 2006 the Company had 343,850,000 ordinary asset value of the remaining shares.
The terms of the shares in issue.
During the financial year under review, the resolution will restrict the price payable to the effect that it Company made market purchases for cancellation of could not be less than 25p per share being the nominal 9,250,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each representing value and not more than 5% above the average of the approximately 2.7% of the issued share capital as at closing mid-market quotations for the five business days 31 March 2006: the aggregate consideration paid by the immediately preceding the date on which the Company Company was 23,069,000.
The number of ordinary agrees to buy the shares concerned.
Recommendation Since 1 April 2007, and up to the date of this document, The directors consider that the resolutions are in the the Company has made further market purchases for interests of the Company and shareholders taken as a cancellation of 4,400,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence whole and recommend that all shareholders vote in favour each: the aggregate consideration paid by the Company of the resolutions, as the directors intend to in respect of was 10,720,000. their own beneficial holdings of ordinary shares amounting, in aggregate, to 205,693.
At the AGM in 2006 the directors were given power to buy back 51,543,115 shares of 25 pence each.
Since the Other Statutory Information AGM the directors have bought back 13,650,000 shares Directors Interests in Shares under this authority.
The outstanding authority is therefore The directors interests in the share capital of the Company 37,893,115 shares.
This authority will expire at the 2007 are shown in the table below: AGM.
The Company will seek to renew the power to make market purchases of ordinary shares at this years AGM.
31 March 1 April 2007 2006 Ordinary Ordinary Substantial Shareholdings shares shares of 25p of 25p % of With beneficial interest: Shareholder voting rights C M Burton 22,000 22,000 M & G Investment Management Ltd 4.39 J H M Newsum 31,193 31,193 P L Salsbury 55,000 55,000 Legal & General Investment Management Limited UK 4.07 R A Stone 80,000 80,000 P H Wolton 7,500 7,500 Mr. Salsbury purchased a further10,000 shares on 6 June 2007, increasing Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company, his holding to 65,000 shares.
There have been no other changes in the directors interests between the end of the financial year and the date of at 31 May 2007, are set out above.
28 TR Property Investment Trust Report of the Directors continued In addition, at 31 May 2007 the following shareholders held each director has taken all the steps a director might over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the % of Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Shareholder voting rights Shareholder Information TR Property ISA PEP and Shareplan Schemes 6.57 Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 5.46 Further information on the Company can be found on JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 5.42 pages 58 to 60 and on the inside back cover.
Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 4.26 F&C Investment Management Limited 3.39 Going Concern UBS Wealth Management Limited 3.31 The directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts ISAs PEPs as the assets of the Company consist mainly of securities The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it has to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the adequate financial resources to continue in operational Individual Savings Accounts and Personal Equity Plans existence for the foreseeable future.
Registered Auditor Directors Indemnity A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Directors and officers liability insurance cover is in place Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of forthcoming AGM.
Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs which they may incur relating to the defence of any proceedings brought against them arising out of their positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Articles of Association, the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to them in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 309B of the Companies Act 1985, have been in force since January 2007 and currently remain in force.
Directors Statement as to Disclosure of Information to Auditors The directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the Report of the Directors are listed on pages 22 and 23 of these financial statements.
Each of these directors confirms that: to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and TR Property Investment Trust 29 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Corporate Governance the directors appointments also provide that a director shall be subject to election at the first AGM after Corporate Governance Report appointment and to re-election at least every third year The Board of Directors the Board the directors is thereafter.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, accountable to shareholders for the governance of the all directors must retire by the next AGM after they attain Companys affairs.
Application of the AIC Codes Principles The director retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM is This statement describes how the principles of the Mr Stone who, being eligible, offers himself for reCombined Code on Corporate Governance the Code election.
Mr Salsbury has served on the Board for more issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2003 than nine years.
In accordance with the Combined Code have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
In on Corporate Governance, he will stand for annual reapplying the principles of the Code, the directors have also election by shareholders and offers himself for re-election taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance at the forthcoming AGM.
published by the AIC, which established the framework of best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust The Board has considered the continued appointment of companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid Mr Salsbury, who has served on the Board for ten years.
down by the two Codes and there are some areas where He has no other links to the Investment Manager.
The the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust Board subscribes to the AIC Code view that length of companies.
tenure is not in itself felt to be an issue, rather the directors contribution.
The Board is conscious of the The directors believe that during the period under review need to maintain continuity on the Board and believes they have complied with the provisions of the Code, that retaining directors with sufficient experience of both insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the Company and the markets is of great benefit to the provisions of the AIC Code.
Moreover, long-serving directors are less From 1 April 2007 the Company will report against the likely to take a short-term view.
The Board has concluded revised Combined Code published in June 2006. that Mr Salsbury continues to make a valuable contribution and, notwithstanding his length of service, Composition and Independence of the Board believes that he remains independent in character and The Board currently consists of five directors, all of judgement.
Accordingly, all five directors are regarded as whom are non-executive and are independent of the being free of any conflicts of interest and no issues in Investment Manager.
None of the directors has any other respect of independence arise.
links to the Investment Manager: they all have other professional employment.
The Chairman is Mr Salsbury.
A senior independent director has not been identified as the Board considers Directors that all the directors have different qualities and areas of All the directors held office throughout the year.
expertise on which they may lead when issues arise, and Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject to whom concerns can be conveyed.
The directors to the Articles of Association, the Combined Code as biographies, on page 23, demonstrate the breadth of revised in July 2003 and the AIC Code of Corporate investment, commercial and professional experience Governance.
relevant to their positions as directors of the Company.
The Articles of Association require that up to one-third of After 5 years on the Board, Mr Newsum has decided to the directors must retire every year and that every director retire at the AGM in order to concentrate on other must retire by rotation at least every three years.
may then offer themselves for re-election.
The terms of 30 TR Property Investment Trust Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Hugh Seaborn FRICS will be appointed to the Board with The provision of non-audit services by the Companys effect from the meeting of the Board on 24 July.
Auditors is considered and approved by the Audit Mr Seaborn has considerable experience in the property Committee on a case-by-case basis.
arena: he is the CEO of the Portman Estate, Deputy The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP Chairman of the Westminster Property Owners Association is independent of the Company.
and a member of the Council and Audit Committee of the Duchy of Lancaster.
In accordance with the Articles of Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys Association a resolution to elect Mr Seaborn as a director Auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are given the opportunity to speak to the Committee members Board Committees without the presence of the representatives of the The Board has established an Audit Committee as set out Investment Manager.
The Management Engagement Committee, which also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Committee, The Auditors appointment during the year was formally was formed in November 2006.
Further details are set out reviewed.
A number of firms were invited to make a formal below.
The Board does not have a Nominations Committee.
tender and present their proposal for audit services to the This function is carried out by the Board as part of the Board.
After careful consideration the Board decided to agenda of regular Board meetings when required.
recommend the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as Auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all the The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at members of the Board.
The Committee Chairman is the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one Management Engagement Committee Committee member has recent and relevant financial The Management Engagement Committee MEC was experience.
formed in November 2006 comprising the Chairman and The Committee has written terms of reference, which all directors of the Company.
clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be The Committee meets at least on an annual basis, towards found on the website, are available on request and will the end of the financial year.
The Management also be available for inspection at the AGM.
Engagement Committee met once during the year, The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the following adoption of the terms of reference at the internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider November Board meeting.
and recommend to the Board for approval the contents of The Management Engagement Committee reviews, on an the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, and annual basis, the performance of Thames River Capital to review the accounting policies and significant financial LLP and its continued suitability to manage the Companys reporting judgements.
In addition, the Committee reviews portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of the Investment the Auditors independence, objectivity, effectiveness, Management Agreement, to ensure they are competitive appointment, remuneration, the quality of the services of and fair and in the best interests of the shareholders, and the service providers to the Company, and, together with to negotiate terms where appropriate.
At the Management the Investment Manager, reviews the Companys Engagement Committee meeting in March 2007, the compliance with financial reporting and regulatory Committee confirmed that Thames River Capital LLP requirements.
Representatives of the Investment should be retained as the Investment Manager for the Managers, Administrators and Corporate Secretarys financial year ending 31 March 2008. internal audit and compliance departments may attend these meetings at the Chairmans request.
TR Property Investment Trust 31 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board Chairman has put in place, and carried out, an appraisal has delegated to external third parties the custodial services process.
This was implemented by way of a questionnaire which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day and interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the accounting, company secretarial services, administration and Chairman, the interview was conducted by the Chairman registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered of the Audit Committee.
The process is considered by the into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the Board to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for services offered, including the control systems in operation improving the functioning and performance of the Board insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These and the Committees, the contribution of individual contracts are reviewed annually by the Management directors, as well as building on and developing individual Engagement Committee.
In addition to the reviews by the Management The Chairman confirms that, in the light of the formal Engagement Committee the Board reviews and considers performance evaluation, the performance of each of the performance reports from the Investment Manager at each directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular reports commitment to his or her role, including commitment of time from the Administrator and Corporate Secretary and the for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
Investment Manager also reports to the Board on the The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience, performance of all other third party service providers.
ages and length of service to ensure it operates effectively.
The Management Engagement Committee also reviews, The performance of the Company is considered in detail at on an annual basis, the directors fees.
The results of the each Board meeting.
most recent review are set out below and in the Directors In particular, it is considered that each of the directors Remuneration Report on page 24. makes a significant contribution to the affairs of the As highlighted last year in the Chairmans Statement, the Company and that directors seeking re-appointment at the level of service received by some holders in the PEPs ISAs Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting merit reand Share Plans had not been satisfactory.
BNP Paribas appointment by shareholders.
committed to take action to improve their service, and this Directors Remuneration has been monitored closely by the Investment Manager and Directors remuneration is considered by the Management the Board.
During the year the Board undertook a formal Engagement Committee.
The Management Engagement review of the PEP ISA and Shareplan administrators and a Committee determines and approves directors fees number of organisations were invited to submit detailed following proper consideration, having regard to the level proposals and demonstrate their systems.
After careful of fees payable to non-executive directors in the industry consideration, it was decided that BNP Paribas should generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect remain as the PEP ISA and Shareplan provider.
BNP of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time Paribas will be extending their service by introducing web committed to the Companys affairs.
In the recent review based access for plan holders later in the year.
external advice was also taken.
Tenure Policy The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate No director has a contract of employment with the fees payable to the Board to a total of 150,000 per Company.
Directors terms and conditions for appointment annum.
This limit has not been changed for many years.
are set out in letters of appointment which are available The directors are proposing a resolution at the for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company forthcoming AGM to increase this aggregate amount to and will be available at the AGM.
Detailed information on the Performance Evaluation remuneration arrangements for the directors of the In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Company can be found in the Directors Remuneration Audit Committee and of the individual directors, the Report on page 24.
32 TR Property Investment Trust Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Appointment of New Directors investment restrictions, performance, corporate The directors have determined that, due to the size of the governance and Board membership and appointments.
Board and the independence of each of its members, there In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, is no requirement for a separate Nominations Committee.
all directors have full and timely access to relevant The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is information.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the responsible for succession planning.
The Board has an Companys investment performance and considers open mind regarding the use of external recruitment financial analyses and other reports of an operational consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, nature.
The Board monitors compliance with the chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the Directors Training Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises When a new director is appointed, he she is offered the management of the investment portfolio, which is training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also contractually delegated to the Investment Manager.
provided on a regular basis with key information on the Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting investments and any investments in in-house funds directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance statutory and industry matters.
of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
Board Meetings The number of meetings of the Board and Committees Further details of the Boards consideration of key held during the year under review, and the attendance of operational matters is contained in the Business Review individual directors, are shown below: section of the Report of the Directors on pages 25 to 27.
Meetings Internal Controls Board Audit MEC The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups No.
of meetings in the year 6 2 1 Peter Salsbury 6 2 1 systems of internal controls and for reviewing their Caroline Burton 6 2 1 effectiveness.
The Investment Manager is responsible for Jeremy Newsum 5 1 1 the day to day investment management decisions on Richard Stone 5 2 1 Peter Wolton 6 2 1 behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial services have both been outsourced.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, directors also attend a number of informal meetings to The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the represent the interests of the Group.
Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are maintained, and the financial information used within the The Board business and for publication is reliable.
Control of the risks The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of identified, covering financial, operational, compliance and the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are risk management, is embedded in the controls of the monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework Group by a series of regular investment performance and which has been agreed with the Managers.
Additional attribution statements, financial and risk analyses, Fund meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a Manager reports and quarterly control reports.
Key risks formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its have been identified and controls put in place to mitigate decision, which are categorised under various headings, them, including those not directly the responsibility of the including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial Investment Manager.
reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, TR Property Investment Trust 33 Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a Relations with Shareholders continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Corporate Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium by Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, which the Company communicates with shareholders is and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to provide from them.
The control systems are designed to provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Companys reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material activities and their results.
This information is supplemented misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, by the daily calculation and by the publication at the London risk of failure to achieve objectives.
Stock Exchange of the net asset value of the Companys ordinary shares and a monthly factsheet.
As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit At each AGM a presentation is made by the Fund Manager Committee does not consider it necessary for the following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have Company to establish its own internal audit function.
the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and Instead, the Audit Committee relies on FRAG and other the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM.
All internal control reports received from its principal service shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
providers, particularly the Investment Manager, to satisfy It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and itself as to the controls in place.
The Auditors also review Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders FRAG and internal control reports.
so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance The Board has established a process for identifying, of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the Group.
The process is subject to regular review by the registered address given on page 59.
Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code published in September General presentations are given to both shareholders and 1999 the Turnbull Guidance.
analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All meetings between the Fund Manager and shareholders The Board undertakes an annual review of the Groups are reported to the Board.
system of internal controls, and the business risks have been analysed and recorded in a risk map that is reviewed Socially Responsible Investment regularly.
The Board receives each quarter a formal report Good corporate governance extends to a companys policies from each of the Investment Manager, the Administrator on the environment, employment, human rights and community and the Corporate Secretary detailing the steps taken to relationships.
Corporations are playing an increasingly monitor the areas of risk, including those that are not important role in global economic activity and the adoption directly their responsibility, and which report the details of of good corporate governance enhances a companys any known internal control failures.
The Board also has economic prospects by reducing the risk of government direct access to company secretarial advice and services and regulatory intervention and any ensuing damage to its provided by Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited, business or reputation.
which, through its nominated representative, is responsible Policies relating to physical property either held directly or for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are by the companies in which we invest, is described in the followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
Directors Report under Environmental Policy on page 27.
Voting Policy The Companys objective remains the long-term The Board has approved a corporate governance voting maximisation of shareholders total return.
policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
34 TR Property Investment Trust Report of the Directors continued Corporate Governance Compliance Statement present information, including accounting policies, in a The directors acknowledge that the Company did not manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and comply with the following provisions of the Combined Code understandable information: in the year ended 31 March 2007. provide additional disclosures when compliance with the A.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable and the Board the directors do not feel it is users to understand the impact of particular necessary to appoint a chief executive.
transactions, other events and conditions on the Groups financial position and financial performance: A.
3.3 A senior independent director has not been and identified as the Board considers that all the directors have different qualitities and areas of state that the Group has complied with IFRS, subject to expertise on which they may lead when issues arise any material departures disclosed and explained in the and to whom concerns can be conveyed.
4.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations The directors are responsible for keeping proper Committee.
This function is carried out by the Board accounting records which disclose with reasonable as part of the agenda of regular Board meetings accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company when required.
and of the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 B.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
The functions of a Remuneration responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company Committee are carried out by the Management and of the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps Engagement Committee.
for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors Responsibilities Statement The directors are responsible for preparing in respect of By order of the Board each financial year, the Report of The Directors, a For and on behalf of Remuneration Report and the Company and Group Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited financial statements in accordance with applicable UK law Secretary and IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
7 June 2007 The Report of the Directors including the Chairmans Statement on pages 5 to 8 and the Directors Remuneration Report have been drawn up and prepared in accordance with and in reliance upon English company law and the liabilities of the directors in connection with these reports shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions provided by such law.
The directors are required to prepare Company and Group financial statements for each financial year which present fairly the financial position of the Company and of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: TR Property Investment Trust 35
