Report of the Directors The directors present their report, This Annual Report has been prepared Directors interests together with the audited financial for, and only for, the members of the The interests all beneficial of those statements of the Company and Company as a body, and no other persons who were directors at the its subsidiaries for the year ended persons.
The Company, its directors, end of the year in the ordinary share 31 December 2007. employees, agents or advisers do not capital of the Company, together with accept or assume responsibility to any comparatives for the previous year Principal activities other person to whom this document is or the date of appointment, were as Tullett Prebon plc operates as an shown or into whose hands it may follows: intermediary in wholesale financial come and such responsibility is 2007 2006 markets facilitating the trading activities expressly disclaimed.
of its clients, in particular commercial the statements concerning the risks Keith Hamill 80,299 58,299 and investment banks.
In certain product and uncertainties facing the Group in Terry Smith 8,805,779 8,805,779 areas the customer base also includes this Annual Report involve uncertainty Paul Mainwaring 20,000 financial institutions and other since future events and circumstances David Clark professional investors.
The main can cause results and developments to Michael Fallon 2,000 2,000 subsidiary undertakings through which differ materially from those anticipated.
Richard Kilsby the Group conducts its business are The forward-looking statements reflect 1 Rupert Robson 7,000 set out in note 37 to the consolidated knowledge and information available at financial statements.
the date of preparation of this Annual Notes: Report and the Company undertakes no 1 Appointed 4 January 2007 Results and dividends obligation to update these forward- 2 The Tullett Prebon plc Employee Share Ownership The results for the year are set out in looking statements.
Nothing in this Trust previously the Collins Stewart Tullett plc Employee Share Ownership Trust recognised the consolidated income statement on Annual Report should be construed as a 4,387,061 shares at 31 December 2007 2006: page 30. profit forecast.
The beneficiaries of the trust are the employees of the Group, including the executive The directors recommend a final dividend Directors directors.
Under Schedule 13 of the Companies Act 1985 the executive directors are deemed to for the year of 8.0p per ordinary share.
The directors who served throughout the be interested in these shares.
The final dividend, if approved, will be year, except as noted, were as follows: Directors share options are set out in the Report on paid on 22 May 2008 to ordinary Directors Remuneration, including changes which shareholders whose names are on the Keith Hamill have occurred since the end of the financial year.
Non-executive Chairman Terry Smith Substantial interests Tullett Prebon plc paid a final dividend Chief Executive At the date of this document, the for 2006 of 6.0p per ordinary share and following not being directors, their an interim dividend for 2007 of 4.0p per Paul Mainwaring families or persons connected, within ordinary share.
Finance Director section 346 of the Companies Act David Clark 1985 had notified the Company that Business review Senior Independent Non-executive they were interested in 3% or more of The information that fulfils the Director the voting rights of the issued ordinary requirements of the Business Review share capital of the Company: can be found on pages 4 to 12.
The Michael Fallon Business Review is incorporated into Independent Non-executive Director % this Report of the Directors by reference.
Aviva plc 10.42 Richard Kilsby It includes an analysis of the Lloyds TSB Group plc 9.98 Independent Non-executive Director development and performance of the Deutsche Bank AG 9.23 Group during the year, and the position Rupert Robson Legal & General Group plc 4.07 of the Group at the end of the year, Independent Non-executive Director OppenheimerFunds, Inc: Baring including financial and non-financial appointed 4 January 2007 Asset Management 3.10 performance indicators and a description John Spencer of the principal risks and uncertainties Independent Non-executive Director facing the Group, is included in the resigned 7 June 2007 Business Review.
Bernard Leaver Independent Non-executive Director resigned 7 June 2007 Louis Scotto Resigned 2 February 2007 David Clark was appointed Senior Independent Non-executive Director on 18 June 2007.
Biographical details of the directors who are in office at the date of this annual report are set out on page 13.
14 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 Capital structure The nature of the Groups activities is Health and safety policy Details of the authorised and issued such that it has a minimal direct effect The Board has a policy of adopting share capital, together with details of on the environment.
However, the Board procedures appropriate to its activities, the movements in the Companys has agreed that it will seek to adopt to monitor, maintain and, where relevant, issued share capital during the year are policies to safeguard the environment improve health and safety standards shown in Note 26.
The Company has to meet statutory requirements or to safeguard the Groups staff.
one class of ordinary shares, which where such policies are commercially carry no right to fixed income.
Where practical, waste paper Policy of payment to suppliers share carries the right to one vote at is recycled and some energy saving It is the Groups policy that all general meetings of the Company.
transactions are settled in accordance with relevant terms and conditions There are no specific restrictions on the Staff of business agreed with the supplier, size of a holding nor on the transfer of It is the Groups policy to give appropriate provided all such terms and conditions shares, which are both governed by the consideration to applications for have been complied with.
The Company provisions of the Articles of Association employment from all persons, having does not have any trade creditors.
The Directors regard to their particular aptitudes.
are not aware of any agreements For the purposes of training, career Special business at the Annual between holders of the Companys development and promotion, the Group General Meeting shares that may result in restrictions is committed to fairness and its policy At the Annual General Meeting to be on the transfer of securities or on is not to discriminate against any held on 15 May 2008 Resolutions 8 voting rights.
persons with regard to, inter alia, gender, to 12 will be proposed under special age, disability, sexual orientation, business.
Details of employee share schemes are religious or political beliefs but to set out in Note 28. develop and promote based on individual Under Resolution 8 it is proposed to grant ability and the needs of the business.
the directors authority to allot unissued No person has any special rights of shares in the capital of the Company control over the Companys share capital Applications for employment by disabled up to a nominal amount of 17,747,402 and all issued shares are fully paid.
persons are always fully considered, representing approximately 33% of the bearing in mind the aptitudes of the issued share capital of the Company as With regard to the appointment and applicant concerned.
In the event of at the date of this document.
replacement of directors, the Company members of staff becoming disabled is governed by its Articles of Association, every effort is made to ensure that their Resolution 9 seeks to renew, in accordance the Combined Code, the Companies employment with the Group continues with section 89 of the Companies Act Acts and related legislation.
The Articles and that any appropriate training, 1985, the directors authority to allot themselves may be amended by special support and necessary adjustments further shares for cash, without first resolution of the shareholders.
The to the role are arranged.
It is the policy offering them to existing shareholders powers of directors are described in the of the Group that the training, career under the statutory pre-emption Boards terms of reference, which are development and promotion of disabled procedure.
It is also proposed that available on the Companys website, persons should, as far as possible, be any shares which are purchased by and in the Corporate Governance Report identical to that of other employees.
the Company, held in treasury and on page 19. subsequently resold for cash will be The Group has a policy of keeping covered by this authority.
This authority Under its Articles of Association, the employees informed about major is limited to the issue of equity Company has authority to issue developments in the business.
In securities in connection with rights 284,699,450 ordinary shares.
particular, announcements are made issues, open offers or similar issues and available to employees through the otherwise up to a nominal amount of Social, environmental and Companys intranet when made 2,662,110 representing approximately ethical matters available to the public.
The ownership 5% of the Companys issued share The Board has adopted policies with of shares in the Company is encouraged capital as at the date of this document.
regard to the social, environmental by the Board, who consider share and ethical matters which affect the ownership as an important aspect of business.
These govern, amongst other incentivising employees and aligning things, the type of business which is their interests with other shareholders.
transacted, the way in which business The adoption of an all-employee SAYE is conducted and the approach to plan is proposed as Resolution 11 at the training and incentivising staff.
Companys forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 15 Report of the Directors continued Resolution 10 seeks to obtain authority Employee contributions Adjustments of options for the directors to purchase up to The maximum amount an employee Subject to the approval of HMRC, 21,296,881 ordinary shares, being 10% may save monthly over the threeif there is a capitalisation, a rights of the share capital in issue at the date year or five-year period is 250 per issue, a consolidation, a subdivision, of this document.
The Board can impose a a reduction or any other variation in that may be paid under the authority lower savings limit.
the share capital of the Company, will be limited to the higher of 105% of the Board may make the adjustments the average middle market quotations Leavers it considers appropriate to the of the Companys shares as derived An option holder who ceases to number of ordinary shares under from the Daily Official List of the London be an employee of the Group in option and the option price.
Stock Exchange for the five business certain circumstances for example days prior to any purchase and that due to injury, disability, redundancy, General provisions stipulated by Article 5 1 of the Buyback retirement or following a change of Options are personal to option and Stabilisation Regulation 2003 control of the employing company or holders and, except on the death of exclusive of expenses payable by the transfer of the employing business an option holder, cannot be assigned, Company in connection with the or a takeover or winding-up of the transferred or charged.
The minimum price which Company may exercise the option may be paid for an ordinary share will within six months after ceasing to The rules of the Plan can be amended be 25p exclusive of expenses payable be an employee.
However, by the Company in connection with the no amendment to the advantage purchase.
The directors will exercise If an option holder dies, his personal of option holders can be made this authority only if they are satisfied representatives may exercise the without the prior approval of the that any purchase will be in the interests option within 12 months of the earlier shareholders in general meeting of shareholders.
of the date of death or the bonus if the amendment relates to the date of the option.
provisions in the rules relating to: It is not the directors present intention to allot any ordinary shares or to If an option holder ceases to be who can participate: purchase any ordinary shares in the an employee of a member of the the limits on the number of market except to satisfy share options Group for any other reason the ordinary shares that can be that may be exercised under the option will lapse.
acquired under the Plan in total Companys share option schemes.
The and or by each option holder: authorities contained in Resolutions 8 Limits on the issues of shares to 10 will expire at the conclusion of The use of new issue ordinary shares the basis for determining an the Annual General Meeting to be held under the Plan is limited to 10% option holders entitlement to in 2009 or on 1 July 2009 whichever of the issued share capital of the and the terms on which ordinary is the earlier.
Company from time to time, taking shares can be acquired under into account shares issued or to be the Plan: and Resolution 11 seeks approval for the issued over the previous ten year any adjustment in the event of establishment of an employee share period under any other employees a variation in the share capital option scheme, the Tullett Prebon share scheme s adopted by the of the Company, unless the Sharesave Plan the Plan.
Ordinary shares subject amendment is necessary or terms of the Plan are as follows: to options that have lapsed or been desirable in order to obtain or surrendered would be excluded maintain HMRC approval of the Eligibility when calculating this limit.
Plan, or is minor and made to All eligible employees of Tullett Prebon benefit the administration of the plc and its participating subsidiaries Exchange of options Plan, to take account of a change who have been employed for a If there is a change of control of the in legislation or to obtain or minimum period selected by the Company following a general offer to maintain favourable tax, exchange Board not exceeding five years acquire the whole of its issued share control or regulatory treatment would be entitled to participate capital or all the ordinary shares, for option holders or for any in the Plan.
All employees eligible or following a compromise or member of the Group.
to participate must do so on similar arrangement, option holders may be terms, although that entitlement given the opportunity to exchange Additional schedules to the rules may vary by reference to levels their options for options over ordinary of the Plan can be adopted by the of remuneration, length of service shares in an acquiring company.
Board to operate the Plan in overseas or any similar factors.
For so long as the Plan is intended to remain approved by HMRC, no amendment to a key feature of the Plan may be made without prior HMRC approval.
No options can be granted more than 10 years after the date of adoption of the Plan.
16 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 Resolution 12 seeks authority to adopt Proxies There are safeguards which will new articles of association the New Under the CA 2006, proxies are apply when directors decide whether Articles with effect from 1 October 2008. entitled to speak at general meetings to authorise a conflict or potential The New Articles update the Companys under the Current Articles, they can conflict.
These include, first, only current articles of association the Current do so only with the permission of independent directors i. e. those Articles primarily to take account of the Chairman and to vote on a show who have no interest in the matter changes in English company law brought of hands under the Current Articles being considered will be able to take about by certain provisions of the they are only entitled to vote on a the relevant decision, and second, Companies Act 2006 CA 2006 that poll.
The CA 2006 allows multiple in taking the decision the directors will be in force by or on 1 October 2008. proxies to be appointed provided must act in a way they consider, that each proxy is appointed to in good faith, will be most likely to The principal changes introduced in the exercise the rights attached to a promote the Companys success.
New Articles are set out below.
Other different share or shares held by the The directors will be able to impose changes, which are of a minor, technical shareholder.
The New Articles reflect limits or conditions when giving or clarifying nature and also some more these new rules, as appropriate.
authorisation or subsequently if they minor changes which merely reflect think this is appropriate.
changes made by the CA 2006 have not Vacation of office of director been noted.
The New Articles include updated It is proposed to include provisions wording which tightens up the relating to confidential information, Articles which duplicate circumstances in which a director attendance at board meetings and statutory provisions must vacate office where the director availability of board papers to protect Provisions in the Current Articles has become physically or mentally a director from being in breach which replicate provisions contained ill.
The changes apply a test of of duty if a conflict of interest or in the CA 2006 are in the main whether in the opinion of a medical potential conflict of interest arises.
amended to bring them into line practitioner the director is rendered These provisions will only apply with the CA 2006.
Certain examples incapable by his illness of acting as where the position giving rise to the of such provisions, including a director for more than three potential conflict has previously provisions as to the convening and months or is personally prevented been authorised by the directors.
notice of general meetings and from exercising any powers or rights proxies, are detailed below.
Electronic and web communications Provisions of the CA 2006 which came Convening and notice of Directors interests into force in January 2007 enable general meetings The CA 2006 sets out directors companies to communicate with It is proposed that the provisions in general duties.
The provisions largely members by electronic and or website the Current Articles dealing with codify the existing law, but with communications.
The New Articles the convening of general meetings some changes.
Under the CA 2006, continue to allow communications and the length of notice required from 1 October 2008, a director to members in electronic form and, to convene general meetings be must avoid a situation where he has, in addition, they also permit the amended to conform to the new or can have, a direct or indirect Company to take advantage of the provisions in the CA 2006.
In particular, interest that conflicts, or possibly new provisions relating to website a general meeting other than an may conflict with the Companys communications.
Before the Company annual general meeting to consider interests.
The requirement is very can communicate with a member by a special resolution can be convened broad and could apply, for example, means of website communication, on 14 days notice whereas previously if a director becomes a director of the relevant member must be asked 21 days notice was required.
another company or a trustee of individually by the Company to agree another organisation.
The CA 2006 that the Company may send or supply Quorum requirements allows directors of public companies documents or information to him The CA 2006 provides that in general to authorise conflicts and potential by means of a website, and the terms the quorum for a general conflicts where the articles of Company must either have received meeting be calculated by reference association contain a provision to a positive response or have received to the numbers of qualifying persons this effect.
The CA 2006 also allows no response within a period of 28 who are present at the meeting, the articles of association to contain days beginning on the date on which which includes an individual who is other provisions for dealing with the request was sent.
The Company a member of the Company, a person directors conflicts of interest to will notify the member either in authorised under S323 of the avoid a breach of duty.
The New writing, or by other permitted means CA 2006 to act as the representative Articles give the directors authority when a relevant document or of a corporation, and a person to approve such situations and to information is placed on the website appointed as proxy of a member.
As include other provisions to allow and a member can always request a before, it is proposed that the quorum conflicts of interest to be dealt with hard copy version of the document for a general meeting will be two but, in a similar way to the current position.
in line with the CA 2006, the New Articles make clear that there will be no double counting for qualifying persons who are representatives of the same corporation or proxies of the same member.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 17 Report of the Directors continued Directors indemnities Auditors The CA 2006 has in some areas A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & widened the scope of the powers Touche LLP as the auditors will be of a company to indemnify directors.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual In particular, a company can now General Meeting.
indemnify a director of a company that is a trustee of an occupational Disclosure of information to the auditors pension scheme against liability Each of the persons who is a director incurred in connection with the at the date of approval of this annual companys activities as trustee of report confirms that: that scheme.
This is reflected in the New Articles.
The opportunity is also so far as the director is aware, there being taken to clarify that, subject to is no relevant audit information of the applicable legislation, the Company which the Companys auditors are may grant indemnities to directors unaware: and of associated companies.
the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a General director in order to make himself Generally the opportunity has been aware of any relevant audit taken to bring clearer language into information and to establish that the New Articles and in some areas the Companys auditors are aware to conform the language of the New of that information.
Articles to the language of the CA 2006.
This confirmation is given and should A copy of the proposed New Articles be interpreted in accordance with the is available for inspection at the provisions of S234ZA of the Companies Companys registered office until the Act 1985. date of the Annual General Meeting and copies will be available at the By order of the Board Annual General Meeting.
The Directors consider that the passing of the resolutions contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting is in the best interests of shareholders as a Alistair Peel whole, and therefore recommends that Company Secretary shareholders vote in favour of them.
11 March 2008 For this forthcoming Annual General Meeting shareholders will be able to utilise the CREST proxy voting service to lodge their proxy votes.
Details of how this will operate are included in the notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting at the back of this report and accounts and on the proxy form.
Political and charitable donations During 2007 no political donations were made by the Group 2006: nil.
Charitable donations amounting to 9,000 2006: 27,000 were made to various charities globally.
18 Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007
