Board of Directors Keith Hamill aged 55 Chairman Paul Mainwaring aged 44 Richard Kilsby aged 56 Keith Hamill joined the Board of Finance Director Independent Non-executive Director Collins Stewart Tullett plc as Chairman Paul Mainwaring trained as a chartered Richard Kilsby joined the Board on in September 2000, and remains accountant with Price Waterhouse, 3 June 2005 and is Chairman of the Chairman of Tullett Prebon plc.
He also qualifying in 1987, and obtained an Audit Committee and a member serves as Deputy Chairman of Collins MBA from Cranfield School of of the Remuneration and Nominations Stewart plc.
He is currently Chairman of Management in 1991.
He is also a Non-executive Travelodge, Heath Lambert and Alterion 2000, he worked for Caradon plc in a Director of Collins Stewart plc and Nonplc and Pro-Chancellor of Nottingham number of financial roles, including executive Chairman of 888 Holdings plc.
He is a chartered accountant three years as Finance Director of MK He has formerly held many positions and worked for Price Waterhouse from Electric.
In 2000, he was appointed in finance and the City including: Vice 1975 to 1988, becoming partner in 1987. as Group Finance Director of TDG plc.
Chairman of the virt-x stock exchange Subsequently he was Director of He was appointed as Group Finance created by the merger of the Swiss Financial Control at Guinness, Finance Director of Mowlem plc in 2005.
He Exchange with Tradepoint, Chief Director of United Distillers, Forte plc was appointed to the Collins Stewart Executive of Tradepoint an AIM quoted and WH Smith.
He was also previously Tullett plc Board of directors on electronic exchange, and an Executive a member of the Urgent Issues Task Force 10 October 2006 and became Finance Director of the London Stock Exchange of the Accounting Standards Board and Director on 13 November 2006. responsible for listing, secondary Chairman of the CBI Financial Reporting regulation and the introduction of the Panel.
He is Chairman of the Nominations David Clark aged 60 Senior SETS trading system.
He was previously Committee and a member of the Independent Non-executive Director an audit partner at Price Waterhouse.
David Clark worked for Bankers Trust, Commerzbank and Midland Bank Rupert Robson aged 47 Independent Terry Smith aged 54 Chief Executive before being appointed Treasurer, Non-executive Director Terry Smith started his career with Europe of HSBC Holdings in 1992.
In Rupert Robson was appointed to the Barclays Bank and became a stockbroker 1995 he joined Bankgesellschaft Berlin Board in January 2007.
He is a member in 1984 with W Greenwell & Co.
He was AG becoming Managing Director of of the Audit, Remuneration and top rated bank analyst in London from Bankgesellschaft Berlin UK plc until Nominations Committees.
He has held 1984 to 1989, during which period he June 1999.
He was Senior Adviser to the a number of senior roles in City also worked at BZW and James Capel.
Major Financial Groups Division of the institutions, most recently Global Head, In 1990 he became head of UK Company Financial Services Authority until March Financial Institutions Group, Corporate Research at UBS Phillips & Drew, a position 2003.
He is Non-executive Chairman Investment Banking and Markets at he left in 1992 following the publication of Charity Bank and a Non-executive HSBC between 2003 and 2006 and, of his best selling book, Accounting Director of Caf Bank and Westpac prior to that, Head of European Insurance, for Growth.
He joined Collins Stewart Europe Limited.
He was appointed as a Investment Banking at Citigroup Global shortly after and became a Director Non-executive Director of Tullett Liberty Markets.
He is Chairman of Charles in 1996.
He is an Associate of the in September 2000 and to the Collins Taylor Consulting plc, Chairman of Chartered Institute of Bankers, has an Stewart Tullett plc Board on 10 March Silkroutefinancial Group Ltd and a nonMBA from The Management College, 2003.
He is a member of the Audit, executive director of Tenet Group Ltd. Henley and is qualified as a Series 7 Remuneration and Nominations Registered Representative and a Series Committees.
24 General Securities Principal with the NASD.
In addition to acting as Michael Fallon MP aged 55 Chief Executive of Tullett Prebon plc, Independent Non-executive Director he is Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
Michael Fallon joined the Board in September 2004 and is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations Committees.
He is a Director of Just Learning Ltd, a company which builds and operates nurseries, and the Conservative MP for Sevenoaks.
He is also a member of the Treasury Select Committee of the House of Commons, and chairs the Treasury sub-committee, responsible for overseeing HM Revenue and Customs.
He was Opposition spokesman on Trade and City matters from 1997-1998.
He was previously a Director of Quality Care Homes PLC and Bannatyne Fitness Ltd. Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2007 13
