Directors Report The directors present the audited accounts of the Group and The Company has the power under its Articles of Association to their report for the year ended 31 December 2007. borrow up to 100% of adjusted total of capital and reserves.
Essentially this allows the Board to seek to improve Activities and Business Review performance through gearing by borrowing amounts equivalent A review of the business is given in the Chairmans Statement on in value to shareholders funds.
In practice the Board would pages 4 to 6 and in the Business Review on pages 7 to 17. not, other than in exceptional circumstances, borrow more than 20%, including the Companys issues of 144 million of xed Status debt.
Over the past five years gearing as dened on page 3 has Witan Investment Trust plc the Company is incorporated in varied between 0% and 15%.
On occasions, the Company has England and Wales and domiciled in the United Kingdom.
It is held small net cash positions.
an investment company as dened in section 266 of the Companies Act 1985 and operates as an investment trust in The Boards policy on dividends is to grow the dividend at least accordance with section 842 of the Income and Corporation in line with ination.
HM Revenue & Customs approval of the Companys status as an investment trust has been received in Discount management can also have an impact on shareholder respect of the year ended 31 December 2006, although approval returns.
Shares are bought back when they stand at a significant for that year may be subject to review should there be any discount with the objective, subject to market conditions, of subsequent enquiry under Corporation Tax Self Assessment.
The keeping the discount to net asset value at less than 10%: this Company will continue each year to seek approval as an policy has the impact of improving net asset value per share and investment trust under section 842 of the Taxes Act.
bringing the share price closer to that of the net asset value, all other things being equal.
Further, the Board has an active Subsidiary Company marketing programme designed to promote and seek demand for The Company has one subsidiary company, Witan Investment Witan shares.
Services Limited, which provides marketing services to the Company and executive management and marketing services to Investment risk is managed through: third party investment trust clients.
Witan Investment Services The selection of different investment managers with different Limited is authorised by the Financial Services Authority to mandates.
Details of the managers, their mandates and the value manage savings schemes for investors.
of funds under management are set out on pages 8 and 14.
The broad adherence to a global geographic benchmark, Investment Policy ensuring diversity.
Details of major investment sectors and Witans objective is to be the first choice for wealth creation shareholdings are set out on pages 18 and 19. through equity investment.
This means that Witan will seek to Monitoring of investment manager performance and portfolios.
outperform global stock markets, consistently adding value in the Investment manager performance against their benchmarks is long term for its investors.
Witan invests primarily in global set out on page 14. equities: the minimum equity level is set at 80% of net assets Monitoring of asset allocation, currency exposures and gearing although in practice, in recent times, it has been over 95%.
Board actively investigates alternative assets and new investment techniques and will use them if, in the Boards view, they provide During the year the Company invested its assets with a view to the potential to enhance shareholder returns, as evidenced by the spreading investment risk and in accordance with the investment in a currency fund in 2006. investment policy as set out above.
In particular it has maintained a diversied portfolio, of which the analysis on 20 page 18 and the commentary in the Business Review on pages 7 Revenue and Dividend to 17 provide illustration.
The portfolio has been actively The profit for the year was 76.0 million, of which 27.1 million managed by the investment managers, under the direction of is attributable to revenue 2006: 132.8 million, of which 27.6 the Chief Executive officer.
The directors have received regular million was attributable to revenue.
The profit for the year reports on investment activity and portfolio construction, both attributable to revenue has been applied as follows: at and outwith the regular meetings of the Board.
000 Distributed as dividends: First interim of 4.10p per ordinary share ISAs and PEPs paid on 7 September 2007 10,024 Second interim of 5.80p per ordinary share With effect from 6 April 2008: payable on 3 April 2008 12,849 the annual Individual Savings Account ISA investment Retained earnings 4,264 allowance will be increased to 7,200: and 27,137 all existing PEP accounts will automatically become Stocks and The directors have declared a second interim dividend instead of Shares ISAs and will be subject to ISA rules and regulations.
a final dividend in order to ensure that, as in previous years, the The Company intends to continue to manage its affairs so that its distribution is made to the shareholders before 5 April.
The investments fully qualify for a stocks and shares component of Company intends to grow the dividend at least in line with an ISA.
Substantial Shareholdings Directors As at 6 March 2008, the following had notied the Company of The current directors of the Company are shown on page 2. interests in the Companys voting rights: All the directors held ofce throughout the year under review, % AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 15.8 with the exception of Mr Bevan and Mr Boyle who were Legal & General Group plc 5.2 appointed directors on 1 February 2007.
The above percentages are calculated by applying the shareholdings as notied to the Company to the issued ordinary share capital as at Mr R W C Colvill retired from the Board at the conclusion of the 6 March 2008.
Annual General Meeting on 30 April 2007. Business Review At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, Mr Watson and The Company is required by the Companies Act to set out in this Mr Bruce will retire by rotation in accordance with the report a fair review of the business of the Group during the Companys Articles of Association.
Mr Henderson, Mr Jones and financial year ended 31 December 2007 and of the position of the Mr McGrath will also stand for re-election, having served as Group at the end of the year and a description of the principal directors for more than nine years.
risks and uncertainties facing the Group business review.
The information that fulls the requirements of the business review The non-executive directors have reviewed their independence can be found within the Business Review on pages 7 to 17. in the context of the Combined Code, as revised in June 2006, and by reference to the AICs Code of Corporate Governance.
All Assets the directors are wholly independent of all the investment At 31 December 2007 the total net assets of the Group were managers.
The non-executive directors are of the opinion that 1,219.3 million 2006: 1,348.5 million.
At this date the net each of them is independent in character and judgement and asset value per ordinary share was 545.7p 2006: 517.1p.
that there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect their judgement.
21 Directors Report continued Mr Henderson was formerly a partner of Cazenove & Co. the rm Audit Remuneration which for many years acted as the Companys stockbroker.
Number of meetings Board Committee Committee 10 4 4 However, he did not have responsibility for or involvement with H M Henderson 9 4 4 Cazenoves role with the Company, being for many years J Horsburgh 10 4 responsible for aspects of Cazenoves fund management division.
R W C Colvill 2 of 3 2 of 2 Mr Henderson, Mr Jones and Mr McGrath have served on the A W Jones 10 4 R H McGrath 10 4 Board for more than nine years.
Accordingly, they will stand for R A Bruce 9 4 election by the shareholders each year for as long as they continue A Watson 9 3 J E B Bevan 9 to serve on the Board.
The Board is rmly of the view, however, R W Boyle 9 4 that length of service does not of itself impair a directors ability to Not a member of the Committee but in attendance by invitation for act independently: rather, their longer perspective adds value to all or part of the meetings.
the deliberations of a well-balanced investment trust company All the then directors attended the Annual General Meeting in April board.
The Board considers Mr Henderson, Mr Jones and and the Boards away day in May.
Mr McGrath to be independent.
Their roles and contributions will, however, be reviewed rigorously each year.
Directors Interests The interests of the directors in the share capital of the At the beginning of the year the membership of the Audit Company were as follows: Committee included Mr Colvill Chairman, Mr Bruce and 31 December 2007 Mr Watson.
Mr Boyle was appointed to the Audit Committee on Ordinary shares: beneficial Non-beneficial H M Henderson 722,732 471,500 1 February 2007 and became Chairman on 30 April 2007 on the J Horsburgh 80,000 retirement of Mr Colvill.
At the beginning of the year the A W Jones 97,536 R H McGrath 27,688 1,006 membership of the Remuneration Committee included Mr Jones R A Bruce 3,127 290 Chairman and Mr Henderson.
Mr McGrath was appointed to A Watson 25,000 J E B Bevan the Remuneration Committee on 6 February 2007.
Mr McGrath R W Boyle 2,978 is the non-executive director who leads on marketing matters 959,061 472,796 but the Board has decided not to establish a permanent committee to cover this area of the business.
1 January 2007 Ordinary shares: beneficial Non-beneficial H M Henderson 722,732 455,000 As noted above, Mr Henderson was formerly a senior executive J Horsburgh 80,000 at Cazenove and a partner in its predecessor rm.
As one of a A W Jones 97,536 R H McGrath 27,688 754 number of institutional investors, the Company purchased in R A Bruce 3,100 215 2001 a holding of shares in Cazenove Group plc Cazenove A Watson 25,000 J E B Bevan see note 10 v on page 45.
Subject to this exception, no R W Boyle director was a party to, or had an interest in, any contract or R W C Colvill 22,035 36,082 arrangement with the Company at any time during the year or 978,091 492,051 to the date of this report.
With the exception of Mr Horsburgh, on appointment on 1 February 2007. no director has a service contract with the Company.
Mr Colvill retired from the Board on 30 April 2007.
Mr McGraths non-beneficial interests increased to 1,060 shares as a result of regular investment through the Jump share plan and Mr Bruces nonThe number of formal meetings during the year of the Board beneficial interests increased similarly to 300 shares.
No other changes in the interests of the directors have been notied since the year end.
No and its Committees, and the attendance of the individual director had an interest in the secured bonds, debenture stock or directors at those meetings, is shown in the table that follows.
preference shares of the Company.
Also, in 2006 the Company established an Directors and ofcers liability insurance cover is in place in investment mandate in respect of currency management.
This respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of Association mandate is structured differently to the others in that it is provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an invested, via a loan note, in a managed fund.
Further, since 2007 indemnity for directors and ofcers of the Company in respect two of the other investment mandates have been held through of costs, losses or liabilities which they may incur in the pooled vehicles.
These arrangements are not subject to specic discharge of their duties or the exercise of their powers, investment management agreements as they are in effect direct including any liabilities relating to the defence of any investments.
However, the terms on which these investments proceedings brought against them which relate to anything done were made are similar to what is described above in respect of the or omitted, or alleged to have been done or omitted, by them as portfolios of directly held investments.
Each of the investment ofcers or employees of the Company.
managers is entitled to a base management fee, calculated according to the value of the assets under management, and or Directors Fees a performance fee, calculated according to investment The report on the directors remuneration is set out on pages 26 performance, over a rolling three year period, relative to the and 27. benchmark applicable to the relevant investment mandate.
Each of the performance fees is subject to a cap, except in respect of the Corporate Governance investments in the fund covering Australasia and the currency A corporate governance statement is set out on pages 28 to 31. note, and each management agreement can be terminated on one The report of the Audit Committee is set out on page 32. months notice.
The base management fee rates range from nil to 0.89 per cent per annum and the performance fees range from nil Financial Instruments and the Management of Risk to 25 per cent per annum of the relevant outperformance.
All the By its nature as an investment trust, the Company is exposed to fees are payable quarterly in arrears.
The performance fees are market price risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk, liquidity payable on a pro rata basis, after a minimum initial period of one risk and credit risk.
The Companys policies for managing these year, and after three years are calculated on a rolling three year risks are outlined in note 14 to the accounts on pages 46 to 52. basis.
Fees were subject to VAT as applicable.
Investment Managers The average aggregate base management fee, including the Until 31 August 2004, investment management, UK custodial, investments in pooled vehicles and the currency note, calculated accounting, administrative and company secretarial services were on a size-weighted basis according to the value of the funds provided to the Company by Henderson Global Investors under management, was 0.21 per cent as at 31 December 2007 Holdings plc and its subsidiaries Henderson Global and 0.16 per cent as at 31 December 2006.
The investments in Investors and by BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited.
the fund covering Australasia and the currency note are subject to uncapped performance fees of 20% of outperformance.
In 2004 the Board reviewed the Companys asset allocation policy Excluding these two investments, the maximum performance and agreed to appoint investment managers for eight different fees payable, if each of the other investment mandates performs investment mandates.
Henderson Global Investors was appointed to at least the extent that the relevant cap applies, would result to three of the investment mandates and five new investment in total fees of 0.76 per cent being paid based on the value of managers were appointed in respect of the other five investment the funds under management at 31 December 2007. mandates.
Investment management agreements were negotiated and signed in respect of each of the eight investment mandates The Company has contracted separately with other parties for and the revised arrangements came into effect on 1 September the various supporting services that it requires.
One of the investment managers was replaced and an contracts are with BNP Paribas Securities Services SA for global additional global manager was appointed during 2007.
A similar custody, with BNP Paribas Fund Services UK Limited for investment management agreement was put in place for this new investment administration and accounting, and with Henderson 23 Directors Report continued Global Investors for company secretarial services.
Since of 37,346,388 of its own ordinary shares, representing 14.3% of the November 2005 the Company has had a lease on ofce premises ordinary shares in issue at 31 December 2006.
These purchases, at 14 Queen Annes Gate, London SW1H 9AA.
The Companys which cost 180.7 million excluding stamp duty, were funded from registered ofce remains as 4 Broadgate, London EC2M 2DA.
On 3 January 2008, at a General Meeting of the Company called for the purpose, a special It is the opinion of the directors that the continuing resolution was passed giving the Company authority, until the appointment of the various investment managers is in the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2008, to make interests of the Companys shareholders as a whole and that market purchases for cancellation of the Companys ordinary the terms of engagement negotiated with them are competitive shares up to a maximum of 33,473,494 shares being 14.99% of the and appropriate to the investment mandates.
The Board, issued ordinary share capital as at 3 January 2008.
A further assisted by its advisers, carried out a rigorous and extensive 1,891,482 shares have been bought back between the year end and selection process in 2004.
It reviews the appointments of the the date of this report, of which 1,770,482 have been bought back investment managers on a regular basis and makes changes as since the General Meeting on 3 January 2008. appropriate.
The Board considers that the Company should continue to have The investment managers may use certain services which are paid authority to make market purchases of its own ordinary shares for for, or provided by, various brokers.
In return they may place cancellation.
Accordingly, a special resolution will be proposed at business, including transactions relating to the Company, with the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to authorise the these brokers.
Company to make market purchases for cancellation of up to 14.99% of the ordinary shares in issue at the date of the Annual Articles of Association General Meeting equivalent to 33,208,099 ordinary shares if there It is proposed to make certain changes to the Companys Articles is no change in the issued ordinary share capital between the date of Association in order to reect the provisions of the of this report and the Annual General Meeting.
Under the Listing Companies Act 2006 in so far as they apply or may apply to the Rules of the UK Listing Authority this is the maximum percentage Company.
Accordingly, a special resolution will be put to the of its equity share capital that a company may purchase through Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 April 2008.
Details of the market pursuant to such authority.
the changes are set out in the notes to the Notice of Annual General Meeting, on pages 58 to 60.
The directors believe that buying back the Companys own shares in the market, at appropriate times and prices, is in the best Share Buy-Backs interests of shareholders generally.
The Company will make The Companys Articles of Association permit the Company to purchases, within guidelines set from time to time by the Board purchase its own shares and to fund such purchases from its and if or when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of accumulated realised capital profits.
maximising the benefit to the remaining shareholders.
The Company announced in December 2004 its intention to buy back At the Annual General Meeting in April 2007 a special resolution shares proactively in order to maintain an appropriate level of was passed giving the Company authority, until the conclusion of discount, with the aim, over three years, of moving the level of the Annual General Meeting in 2008, to make market purchases for the discount to below 10% as calculated by valuing the cancellation of the Companys ordinary shares up to a maximum Companys debt on a fair value basis.
The directors will not use of 37,653,782 shares being 14.99% of the issued ordinary share this authority unless to do so would result in an increase in the capital as at 30 April 2007.
As at 31 December 2007 the Company net asset value per ordinary share.
Shares will not be bought at a had valid authority, outstanding until the conclusion of the price that is less than 25p the nominal value or more than 5% Annual General Meeting in 2008, to make market purchases for above the average middle market price of the shares over the cancellation of 9,887,602 shares.
During the year ended preceding five business days.
The directors intend to seek a fresh 31 December 2007 the Company purchased for cancellation a total authority at the Annual General Meeting in 2009.
24 The Company has not to date had authority to buy back its Directors Statement as to the Disclosure of Information to preference shares for cancellation.
The Board considers that it is the Auditors appropriate to have such authority in place, in respect of both Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report the classes of preference shares in issue, and a resolution to confirms that: provide this authority will be put to the Annual General Meeting 1 so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit on 28 April 2008.
The authority will be used only when the information of which the Company's auditors are unaware: Board considers it to be in the interests of the shareholders and generally to exercise it.
2 the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant New Zealand Listing audit information and to establish that the Company's Since 8 March 2006 the Companys shares have been listed on auditors are aware of that information.
the New Zealand Stock Exchange, in the category of Overseas This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in Listed Issuer.
accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
Payment of Suppliers It is the Companys payment policy for the financial year to Donations 31 December 2008 to obtain the best terms for all business.
In No donations were made to political parties during the year.
No general, the Company agrees with its suppliers the terms on donations were made to charities during the year.
which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
At 31 December 2007 the Company had no trade creditors 2006: none.
By order of the Board Independent Auditors G S Rice Resolutions to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the For and on behalf of Companys auditors, and to authorise the directors to determine Henderson Secretarial Services Limited, their remuneration, will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual Secretary General Meeting.
