Directors H M Henderson J Horsburgh A W Jones MA, FREng, R H McGrath Age 55 Appointed Age 52 Jim Horsburgh FRAeS, FIEE, CIM Age 61 Rory McGrath a director in 1988, was appointed a director Age 68 Alan Jones was was appointed a director in Harry Henderson became and Chief Executive officer appointed a director in 1996.
He was formerly Chairman in March 2003. with effect from February 1996 and became Chief Executive of He was formerly a partner 2004.
He is responsible for Chairman of the H. Young Holdings plc, of Cazenove & Co. and the overall management of Remuneration Committee a marketing company.
He has over 25 on its formation in Mr McGrath is a director executive at Cazenove years experience of December 2003.
He was of Witan Investment Group plc, retiring in 2002. investment management.
formerly Chief Executive of Services Limited.
Mr Henderson is Chairman He was formerly with BICC plc.
He is Chairman of Witan Investment Schroder Investment of The Manchester Airport Services Limited.
He is also Management Limited Group plc and is a director a director of Cadogan where he was UK of Agustawestland NV.
is a former member of The Mr Horsburgh is a director Financial Reporting of Witan Investment Council.
R A Bruce MA, MBA A Watson BSc Econ, J E B Bevan MA R W Boyle MA, FCA Age 58 Andrew Bruce ASIP, Barrister-at-Law, Age 47 James Bevan was Age 60 Robert Boyle was appointed a director FSI Hon appointed a director on was appointed a director in 2002.
He is Group Age 62 Tony Watson was 1 February 2007.
He Credit Risk Director at appointed a director in CIO, CCLA Investment qualied as a Chartered Barclays PLC where he has February 2006.
Before Accountant with responsibility for asset appointed Senior joining CCLA in November Coopers & Lybrand and quality and credit risk Independent Director on 2006, he was the Chief retired in 2006 from across the Barclays Group.
He Investment officer at  He is also a non-executive retired in January 2006 Abbey.
He was Chairman of the director of Clearstream after an executive career of was Chief Investment PwC European International.
38 years in the investment officer for Barclays Entertainment & Media management industry.
Stockbrokers and Barclays Industry practice for Most recently he was Chief Personal Investment 12 years.
He has been a Executive of Hermes Management, having non-executive director and Pensions Management joined BZW in 1988, chairman of the audit Limited.
Mr Watson was following postgraduate committee of Maxis formerly Managing research in applied Communications Berhad.
Director of AMP Asset economics and asset He is a non-executive Management plc.
He is a allocation at Cambridge director of Prosperity non-executive director of University.
Voskhod Fund Limited, an Hammerson plc and of AIM company, and is the Vodafone Group Plc and independent member of the Chairman of the Trustees of audit committee of the the Marks & Spencer National Trust.
Pension Scheme and of Strategic Investment Board Limited Northern Ireland.
He is a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
Members of the Audit Committee which is chaired by Mr Boyle.
Members of the Remuneration Committee which is chaired by Mr Jones.
