The Company does not have an internal audit function.
It Exercise of Voting Powers delegates to third parties the management of its investments It is the Boards view that in order to achieve longterm success and most of its other operations and employs only a companies need to maintain high standards of corporate governance small staff.
The investment managers and certain other key and corporate responsibility.
Therefore the Board encourages its contractors are subject to external regulation and most have investment managers to vote proxies in the best long term interest of compliance and internal audit functions of their own.
The Witan shareholders and in accordance with their own investment Companys investments are held on its behalf by a global philosophies.
The Companys UK equity managers expect UK custodian.
A specialist firm of investment accountants and companies to comply with the Combined Code, including the administrators is responsible for investment administration, for Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control, or to provide adequate maintaining accounting records and for preparing financial explanation of any area in which they fail to comply whilst accounts, management accounts and other management recognising that a different approach may be justied in special information.
The investment performance of the investment circumstances.
Elsewhere, it can be more difficult to vote shares as managers, both individually and collectively, is measured for each country has its own rules and practices regarding shareholder Witan by a company that is independent of all the investment notication, voting restrictions, registration conditions and share managers.
The corporate company secretary is a company with blocking, including, for example, dealing constraints.
Therefore, long experience in servicing investment trusts.
The whilst the Board has agreed general policies with the non-UK appointment of these and other professional contractors managers, they do use their discretion in applying these in provides a clear separation of duties and a structure of internal individual circumstances.
controls that is balanced and robust.
The Board will continue to monitor its system of internal control in order to provide Statement of Compliance assurance that it operates as intended and the directors will The directors consider that the Company has complied during review at least annually whether a function equivalent to an the year ended 31 December 2007 with all the relevant internal audit is needed.
provisions set out in the Code, with the exception that the Board did not appoint a senior independent director until after Going Concern the year end Code Provision A.
The directors consider that The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities that are the Company has complied throughout the year ended readily realisable and, accordingly, the Company has adequate 31 December 2007 with the AIC Code.
financial resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Therefore, the directors believe that it is New Zealand Listing appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in It should be noted that the UK Codes of Corporate Governance preparing the accounts.
may materially differ from the New Zealand Stock Exchanges corporate governance rules and principles of the Corporate Best Practice Code.
Investors may nd more information at www.
co. uk Warning to Shareholders Over recent months many companies have become aware that their shareholders have received unsolicited phone calls or correspondence concerning investment matters.
These are typically from overseas based brokers who target UK shareholders offering to sell them what often turn out to be worthless or high risk shares in US or UK investments.
They can be very persistent and extremely persuasive.
Shareholders are therefore advised to be very wary of any unsolicited advice, offers to buy shares at a discount or offers of free company reports.
Please note that it is very unlikely that either the Company or the Companys Registrar, Computershare Investor Services PLC, would make unsolicited telephone calls to shareholders and that any such calls would relate only to ofcial documentation already circulated to shareholders and never in respect of investment advice.
If you are in any doubt about the veracity of an unsolicited phone call, please call either the Company Secretary or the Registrar at the numbers provided on page 64.
