DIRECTORS REPORT DIRECTORS REPORT 08 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 DIRECTORS REPORT CONTENTS INTRODUCTION of our business organisation and the various Introduction 08 In this section, we have applied the best responsibilities and processes in place for practice principles of an operating and ensuring the integrity of financial information, Goals, strategy and financial review and discuss the main trends internal controls and risk management.
performance measurement 09 and factors underlying the development, Business environment 13 performance and position of AstraZeneca In the therapy area and geographical and Business organisation 17 in 2007. financial reviews, we report on our financial Board of Directors at performance during 2007 at a global level, in 31 December 2007 18 We provide an overview of our goals and different geographical areas and at a product Chief Executive Of cer, strategy for creating enduring value for level.
We also report in detail on the progress delegation of authority and shareholders, patients and other stakeholders of our pipeline and developments in relation to Senior Executive Team 20 and explain how our progress towards our marketed products such as new indications, Our resources, skills and capabilities 21 achieving our objectives is measured.
We regulatory lings and clinical trial data.
Medicines 21 also describe the signi cant progress made Research and development 23 towards realising our biologics and vaccines We also provide information throughout the strategy with the acquisition of MedImmune, business review about our approach to R&D governance and portfolio management 27 Inc. as well as the resources that we bring managing the challenges and opportunities Development pipeline to bear and how they are aligned to the associated with our corporate responsibility at 31 January 2008 28 achievement of our strategic objectives.
to ensure that, alongside our commitment to Sales and marketing 31 competitiveness and top-tier performance, Intellectual property 33 To that end, we summarise the opportunities we continue to be led by our core values to Supply and manufacturing 33 and challenges of the environment in which achieve sustainable success.
People 35 we operate, including the world market for pharmaceuticals, biologics and vaccines: the Further information about our commitment Main facilities 37 competitive and regulatory environment: and to high ethical standards and our Corporate governance the principal risks and uncertainties we face, performance is available on our website, and managing risk 38 as well as the importance of intellectual astrazeneca.
Cardiovascular CV medicines 50 property rights.
Gastrointestinal GI medicines 53 The Shareholder Information, Risk and We provide information about the ways in Corporate Information sections starting on Neuroscience medicines 56 which our medicines are differentiated and pages 186, 193 and 200 respectively, are Oncology medicines 59 effective, as well as details about our research incorporated into this report.
Respiratory and In ammation and development, sales and marketing, R&I medicines 63 and supply and manufacturing activities The glossary on page 202 provides a useful Infection medicines 66 worldwide, including our 2007 performance guide to terms, as well as acronyms and in these areas.
abbreviations, used in this report.
Other businesses 68 Geographical review 69 We also highlight the importance of In the global community 73 leadership, effective decision-making and Environmental review 75 risk management, and include a summary Financial review 77 ASTRAZENECA IN BRIEF We discover, develop, manufacture and market prescription pharmaceuticals, biologics and vaccines for important areas of healthcare: Cardiovascular, Gastrointestinal, Neuroscience, Oncology, Respiratory and Inflammation, and Infection.
Broad product range, including many world leaders and a number of key products: Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel and Symbicort.
Active in over 100 countries with growing presence in important emerging markets: corporate office in London, UK: major R&D sites in Sweden, the UK and the US.
With the acquisition of MedImmune, we have a world-class biologics and vaccines capability.
Over 67,000 employees 55% in Europe, 30% in the Americas and 15% in Asia, Africa and Australasia.
Around 13,000 people in our R&D organisation and 17 principal R&D centres in eight countries.
Alongside our commitment to high performance and competitiveness, we continue to be led by our core values to deliver sustainable success.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 09 GOALS, STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT CREATING VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS BY MAKING THE Strategic initiatives include: MOST MEANINGFUL DIFFERENCE TO PATIENT HEALTH Reviewing our Operations manufacturing THROUGH GREAT MEDICINES.
GOALS AND STRATEGY Grow the business Our overall goal is to create enduring value We continue to drive the levels of commercial Ef ciency programmes in support functions for shareholders by being one of the excellence that will maintain our position such as Information Systems, Finance, best-performing pharmaceutical companies among the industry world leaders.
HR and in the area of procurement.
and making the most meaningful difference to patient health through great medicines.
Our goals are to: Promote a culture of responsibility and accountability Our strategy centres on four main priorities: Deliver overall sales growth in line with We aim to create an organisation that is market growth.
recognised not only for the skills, experience Strengthen the pipeline and quality of our people, but also for the We are focused on improving the speed and Achieve our sales growth targets in integrity with which we conduct our business.
quality of our R&D and gaining access to the key markets.
right external opportunities to broaden our Our goals are to: research base, to make us one of the fastest Pro tably launch our own and our and most productive companies in the industry.
Achieve an upper quartile industry ranking for employee engagement.
Our goals are to: Strategic initiatives include: Ensure that a culture of ethics, integrity Achieve a median eight-year product Actively and rigorously developing our and compliance is embedded in all of development cycle for small molecule brands to bring further bene ts to patients, our business practices.
medicines and biologics by 2010. and maximising the commercial potential of our range of products.
Ensure that our reputation is favourable Deliver two new molecular entity NME and supports our continued success.
Driving high standards of sales force effectiveness, marketing excellence and Strategic initiatives include: In order to achieve these target NME customer support by working closely launches per year, ensure that we have with patients and their healthcare Investing in leadership development.
10 or more NMEs in phase III development providers to understand what they need by 2010. and what they value.
Driving the accountability of managers for the performance of their people.
Our strategic initiatives include: Building on our leadership positions in existing markets and expanding our Integrating corporate responsibility Improving R&D quality and speed through presence in important emerging ones.
considerations into everyday business leading-edge science, effective risk thinking and decision-making.
management and decision-making and Reshape the business overall business ef ciency.
We are working to create an organisation with the exibility and financial strength to adapt Maximising the value of our biologics quickly and effectively within a challenging business, MedImmune, and continuing and rapidly changing business environment.
to build a major presence in this fastgrowing sector.
Our goals are to: Investing in attractive external opportunities Maintain our gross pro t margin.
to enhance our internal innovation through partnerships, alliances and Ef ciently deliver on our R&D investment.
acquisitions that further strengthen our pipeline of new products.
Achieve upper quartile industry performance in relation to our selling, general and administrative SG&A costs.
Achieve our target for procurement savings.
DIRECTORS REPORT 10 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 GOALS, STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT CONTINUED PERFORMANCE Speci c measures that our Board and SET Promote a culture of responsibility Each business function such as R&D, use when assessing business performance, and accountability: Operations is subject to an annual budget or that are otherwise judged to be helpful in The effectiveness of our leaders and our and target-setting process, including forecasts enabling shareholders better to understand performance management programmes for the following four years together with and evaluate our business, are described at all levels.
sensitivity and risk analyses, quarterly updates and illustrated throughout this report.
of the forecast for the current year and regular Our levels of employee engagement.
Reviews are undertaken regularly Examples of measures in each of our four in each part of the business in order to main priority areas include: Cases of occupational illnesses and monitor and assess progress against business accidents with serious injury.
Longer-term, 10 year Strengthen the pipeline: forecasts are developed as part of our annual The value of our pipeline.
Ranking in Dow Jones World strategy review.
The number of new drugs entering the Measuring performance development pipeline.
The number of animals used in R&D.
The Companys quarterly internal report uses a range of measures that correspond to the The number of development projects The number of con rmed breaches of four main priorities of our strategy.
external sales and marketing regulations provides Board and Senior Executive Team or codes.
SET members with shared insight into R&D investment in US dollar terms.
current progress against short-term financial Potential impact on climate change.
and nonfinancial objectives and current year Progress against development milestones.
milestones for longer-term strategic goals.
Improvements in our product The means of measuring performance development cycle times for small in these areas range from quantitative, molecules and biologics.
comparative performance measures to more qualitative analysis.
Together, they provide the The attrition rate for development projects.
framework for consistently monitoring and reporting our progress towards achieving our Grow the business: objectives and, ultimately, delivering enduring Sales value growth at constant shareholder value.
Reputation and responsibility measures are Global sales and prescription share also included to re ect the importance of trends for key products.
integrating consistent behaviours across all of our business activities.
Market share percentages for key products.
In relation to our overall goal of creating The number of life cycle projects delivered.
enduring value for shareholders by being one of the best-performing pharmaceutical Reshape the business: companies, shareholder value is tracked Gross margin, cost and operating margin using the following metrics: percentages progression over time.
The R&D investment to sales ratio.
The progress of productivity initiatives.
The performance data shown in the therapy area reviews on pages 50, 53, 56, 59, 63 and 66 and the geographic sales performance in the Geographical Review on page 69 are shown in both reported and underlying performance.
Reported performance takes into account all the factors including those which we cannot in uence, principally currency exchange rates that have affected the results of our business.
Underlying performance shows sales growth at constant exchange rates CER to re ect the volume and price changes of the geographic and therapy areas and individual products by excluding the effects of exchange rate movements.
Underlying CER growth is calculated by retranslating the current year performance at the previous years exchange rates and adjusting for other exchange effects, including hedging.
DIRECTORS REPORT 12 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 GOALS, STRATEGY AND PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT CONTINUED 1 REPORTING PERFORMANCE NON-FINANCIAL ASTRAZENECA EMPLOYEES: ACCIDENTS ASTRAZENECA EMPLOYEES: CASES OF 2 WITH SERIOUS INJURY PER MILLION HOURS OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESSES PER MILLION HOURS 07 2.65 07 0.99 06 2.37 06 0.97 05 2.54 05 1.34 SALES AND MARKETING: NUMBER OF NUMBER OF ANIMALS USED IN RESEARCH 3 CONFIRMED BREACHES 000 07 32 07 285 06 44 06 288 05 56 05 267 4 GLOBAL WARMING POTENTIAL EMISSIONS 2007 2006 2005 COequivalents million tonnes 1.29 1.31 1.43 2 Index tonnes $m sales 44 50 60 OZONE DEPLETION POTENTIAL EMISSIONS 2007 2006 2005 CFC11-equivalents million tonnes 36 40 56 Index kg $m sales 1.2 1.5 2.3 1 Data excludes MedImmune.
2 With and without days lost.
3 Of codes or regulations ruled by external bodies.
4 Figures are calculated in line with the Greenhouse Gas GhG Protocol guidance ghgprotocol.
Source for calculation of CFC gures is AstraZeneca sales data.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 13 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT In this Business Environment section, unless WORLD MARKETS BIOLOGICS AND VACCINES otherwise speci ed, sector-wide market data The world pharmaceutical market in 2007 The biopharmaceuticals industry develops those data not speci c to AstraZeneca or any was valued at $629 billion.
This represents vaccines and medicines based on proteins of our products are based on moving annual an increase in constant US dollar terms of such as monoclonal antibodies MAbs, often total MAT data for the third quarter of 2007, 6% over the year, down from 7% during referred to as large molecules in comparison and the 2006 comparisons are based on 2006.
The US is still the worlds largest to chemical compounds that are usually MAT data for the fourth quarter of 2006. pharmaceutical market, accounting for much smaller.
In 2007, biological products $286 billion 45% of total sales.
US growth contributed to about 24% of the sales of the GROWING DEMAND FOR HEALTHCARE fell to 6% in 2007 from 8% in 2006, as top 100 drugs worldwide 20% in 2006 and There remains a strong fundamental demand growth driven by the 2006 Medicare Part D some forecasters predict that this proportion for healthcare that underpins the industrys prescription drug bene t scheme peaked, could grow to about 37% by 2012.
The rate future growth prospects.
Although this growth so removing a counter to the impact on of growth for biological products together is slowing as a result of increased pressure on market value of increasing cost-containment with vaccines has been faster than the small healthcare budgets in certain key established pressures from payers, continuing patent molecule segment during the last few years markets and evolving generic competition, expiries for branded medicines and the and this trend has been forecast to continue speci c elements that continue to contribute consequent increase in the use of generic in the immediate future.
Some forecasters to the strength of the industry include: pharmaceuticals.
Japan is the second largest predict that the compound annual growth pharmaceutical market with sales of $57 billion rate for the biopharmaceutical market could The increasing number of people who 9% of worldwide sales.
Market growth be 13% in the period up to 2010. can access the highest standards of during 2007, on a constant exchange rate healthcare, especially among the elderly, basis, was 2%, up from 1% in 2006.
Biological products are, in general, more who represent a rising proportion of complex to manufacture compared to small developed nations populations.
Europe accounts for 30% of the world molecule drugs because they are effectively market and experienced growth of 6% in made by generating biological material from Many diseases are under-diagnosed, 2007, up from 5% in 2006.
Growth across cells or other living tissue, rather than through sub-optimally treated or do not have major markets in Europe ranged from -1% the process of chemical synthesis used for effective therapies.
in Italy to 10% in Spain, with Germany, small molecule pharmaceuticals.
Essential France and the UK showing growth of 4%, for this biological manufacturing is a high The demand for healthcare will be met not 6% and 5%, respectively.
degree of fermentation, puri cation and only by existing therapies but also by new formulation expertise, which biotechnology ones originating from advances in both the Asia Paci c and Latin America accounted for companies have typically developed as a understanding of the biology of disease and 7% and 4%, respectively, of worldwide sales.
result of their work and investment over a the application of new technologies.
Innovative Notable growth from countries in these regions number of years.
The regulatory regimes for new products have been launched by the in 2007 came from China sales of $13.1 billion, biosimilars or follow-on biological products industry in recent years, which are both growth of 22%, Brazil sales of $9.6 billion, similar versions of existing biological changing therapeutic approaches and growth of 10%, Korea sales of $9.5 billion, products are also far less developed than improving the quality of life for patients.
growth of 10% and India sales of $6.4 billion, those for generic pharmaceutical drugs, growth of 12%, which ranked ninth, 10th, although in Europe and increasingly in the In addition, fast-developing economies such 11th and 15th respectively in world markets.
US, formal paths leading to the approval of as China and India continue to offer new biosimilars are being evaluated by regulatory opportunities for the industry to gain access authorities.
These factors can help produce to an expanding number of patients who can longer product life cycles for biological drugs bene t from medicines.
Pharmaceutical compared to traditional pharmaceutical companies that are able to make ef cient products.
Biopharmaceuticals typically have investment decisions, fully utilise their intellectual a higher success rate from when a biological property and manage relationships with their drug is tested in man for the first time until it is stakeholders should be well positioned to approved for marketing.
This is particularly the bene t from the demand for healthcare and case up to the end of phase I development the new opportunities for the industry.
when biological drugs often have a more predictable pharmacokinetic and toxicity pro le compared with small molecule pharmaceuticals at the same stage of development.
DIRECTORS REPORT 14 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED THERAPY AREA ENVIRONMENT Gastrointestinal GI are signi cant differences in the pattern According to the World Health Organization The world GI market is valued at $37 billion, and severity of disease between Asian and WHO, the greatest burden of disease is in of which the proton pump inhibitor PPI market Western populations.
Whilst breast, prostate non-communicable disease.
In the West ie Europe and colorectal cancers are common in the such as malignant tumours, ischaemic heart and North America combined, according to West, gastric and liver cancers are more disease, diabetes, cerebrovascular disease, different estimates, between 10% and 20% prevalent in Asia.
chronic obstructive pulmonary disease of adults suffer from gastro-oesophageal COPD, schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and re ux disease GERD.
The prevalence rate Respiratory & Inflammation R&I asthma are signi cant contributors.
However, of GERD in Asia is lower but increasing.
The respiratory world market value is communicable diseases are also increasing, $48 billion.
The WHO estimates that 100 due primarily to emerging bacterial and viral In spite of effective treatments with PPIs, million people worldwide suffer from asthma resistance and an increase in incidence of around 40% of patients do not achieve full and more than twice that from COPD, tuberculosis, and remain a major cause of relief from symptoms.
which is currently the fifth leading cause of disease in the developing world.
death in the world with further increases in Neuroscience the prevalence and mortality of the disease Our resources, skills and experience are The neuroscience market value totals predicted for the coming decades.
The focused on the following therapy areas, which approximately $120 billion.
It comprises in ammatory market is estimated to be together represent a signi cant proportion of psychiatry market value $53 billion, worth $17 billion, with nearly 50% being for the worldwide burden of disease: neurology market value $35 billion, analgesia the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis.
Biological market value $27 billion and anaesthesia therapies dominate the in ammatory market Cardiovascular CV market value $4 billion.
The medical need in terms of sales value.
CV disease claims more lives each year continues to be signi cant in all of these than the next four leading causes of death areas.
It accounts for 17 million deaths The world market value for the treatment of worldwide annually, making it the greatest Depression and anxiety disorders remain infection is $67 billion, with anti-bacterials risk to life for most adults.
CV is also the under-diagnosed and under-treated, with accounting for approximately half and single largest therapy area in the global 15% of the population suffering from major anti-virals a quarter of this value.
World healthcare market, with a world market value depression on at least one occasion in demand for antibacterial antibiotics remains of $145 billion.
One in three adults has some their lives.
Schizophrenia affects around high, due to escalating resistance and the form of CV disease, including diseases 1% of the population, and 17 million increased risk of serious infections in both such as high blood pressure market value people suffer from bipolar disorder across immunosuppressed patients and ageing $51 billion, abnormal levels of blood the major markets.
The need for new, effective cholesterol market value $34 billion, anti-virals, either for prevention or as thrombosis including heart attacks and Alzheimers disease affects approximately treatment, is apparent in many viral stroke market value $19 billion and diabetes 24 million people worldwide today, with syndromes where there are currently few market value $23 billion.
High blood pressure this number predicted to reach 40 million satisfactory options.
For instance, the and abnormal levels of blood cholesterol are by 2020.
Further, current therapy has a hepatitis C virus infects an estimated well known to damage the arterial wall and modest symptomatic effect and does not 170 million people worldwide, but therapy thereby to lead to atherosclerosis.
The most signi cantly modify the course of this for the strains that predominate in the US important and frequent manifestations of progressive neuro-degenerative disorder.
and Western Europe require 12 months atherosclerosis are heart attacks and stroke treatment and produces a durable cure in due to thrombin formation in association with Chronic pain, which affects over 20% of only 50% of patients.
Respiratory syncytial ruptured atherosclerotic plaque.
Diabetes is the population, is a signi cant medical virus RSV is the most common cause of associated with an increased risk for a number need, with pain management the most infant hospitalisation in the US.
of serious, sometimes life-threatening common reason for seeking medical care.
Approximately one-half of all infants are complications, including heart attack, stroke, infected with RSV during the first year of life blindness, kidney disease, nervous system Cancer and nearly all children in the US have been disease and amputations.
Heart disease The world market value for cancer therapies infected by the time they reach their second death rates among adults with diabetes are is $39 billion and increasing strongly.
Unlike other viral infections, there is two to four times higher than the rates for dramatic advances in treatment, cancer no natural immunity created by RSV, so adults without diabetes.
Diabetes is the most remains the second highest cause of death repeated infection is likely and common.
rapidly increasing risk factor for CV disease, in developed countries, and epidemiological Additionally, tuberculosis remains a worldwide driven by a dramatic increase in obesity on a evidence points to this trend now emerging threat and is newly diagnosed in approximately worldwide scale.
In the US, 21 million people in the less developed world.
At present two million people every year in India alone suffer from diabetes and two in five people with cancer accounts for 7.6 million or 13% of and over eight million people worldwide.
diabetes still have poor cholesterol control, all deaths worldwide annually, with these one in three have poor blood pressure control numbers projected to continue rising, Information about the medicines we have or and one in five have poor glucose control.
resulting in an estimated nine million deaths are developing in the above disease areas from cancer in 2015 rising to 11.4 million in and our 2007 product performance is set 2030.
Globally, lung cancer kills more people out on pages 50 to 68. than any other tumour type.
However, there DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 15 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED CHALLENGES FOR THE INDUSTRY Demonstrating economic benefit Competition The fundamentals of the world pharmaceuticals Effective treatments can help to save Our main competitors are other international, market remain robust, providing the industry healthcare costs by reducing the need for research-based pharmaceutical companies with broad potential for driving business more expensive care, such as hospital stays that also sell innovative, patent-protected, growth.
Nevertheless, as with any industry, or surgery, and so it is important that we prescription medicines.
In common with alongside the opportunities, our business demonstrate the economic as well as the other companies, following patent expiry, environment also presents a number therapeutic value of medicines to those who our products also compete with generic of challenges.
The most successful pay for healthcare.
This requires time and pharmaceuticals principally on price, since pharmaceutical companies will be those that money.
During development and throughout generic manufacturers do not bear the same recognise and manage these challenges the life cycle of a medicine, as well as high costs of R&D that we do.
Nor do they appropriately and effectively.
traditional clinical trials designed to establish typically invest as signi cantly in safety safety and ef cacy, we conduct studies to monitoring or marketing as we do.
The Pressure on costs demonstrate added medical bene ts, industrys intellectual property base is As described earlier in this section, the cost-effectiveness, cost-bene t and medical increasingly being challenged by generic demand for healthcare is growing, driven by outcomes such as survival and quality of life companies seeking an early entry into large increasing and ageing populations, alongside improvements.
These research efforts also markets.
It is increasingly complex to enforce a greater expectation of better health than help to ensure we can target our treatments patent rights and other intellectual capital in ever before.
The world population has doubled at those patients who will bene t most.
certain markets, especially those where in the last 50 years from three billion to six practices are in place to encourage broad billion and is expected to reach nine billion R&D productivity access to medicines.
In most major markets, ageing Improving R&D productivity continues to be established regulatory systems for biosimilars populations are leading to increased a priority across the industry.
At the same of biological products or vaccines, several incidence of chronic diseases, such as time, our regulators are setting increasingly countries, including the US, are considering cancer and diabetes, which require longhigh hurdles for the approval of new medicines.
regulatory structures that might allow for an term management.
Chronic disease is on the Backed by the application of new technologies abbreviated marketing approval mechanism increase in middle-income countries too, and and different ways of working including akin to the mechanism for generic is also beginning to have an impact in the strategic alliances to broaden the base for pharmaceuticals.
disease research and drive further cost ef ciencies the industry is working to Competition also comes from collaborations Expenditure on healthcare typically represents maintain a ow of innovation whilst effectively and partnerships between traditional between 6% and 15% of a countrys gross meeting the requirements of our regulators.
pharmaceutical companies and smaller domestic product GDP, with developed biotechnology and vaccine companies.
countries towards the top end of that range Patient safety Increasingly, as pharmaceutical companies and developing and middle-income countries Patient safety continues to be a fundamental seek to expand their pipeline, they are able spending less.
As a proportion of this, consideration at all stages of pharmaceutical to gain access to promising new product expenditure on medicines developed by the R&D and beyond.
Decisions on acceptable candidates by partnering with these smaller pharmaceutical sector is usually between bene t risk pro les for medicines have the companies that may lack some of the 10% and 20% of the healthcare budget, and potential to be positively or negatively affected infrastructure for growth that a larger company is therefore still less than 2% of GDP in most by a number of factors.
Nevertheless, the growing demand pre-clinical data, preand post-marketing for healthcare means ever-increasing pressure clinical data and regulatory decisions Reputation and responsibility on the budgets of those who pay for it.
re ecting societys concerns and aspirations.
Stakeholder expectations of the industry Healthcare systems, whether based on Further information can be found on pages regarding corporate responsibility continue public or private funding, have a duty to 193 to 199 Risk.
to vary from country to country.
Nevertheless, spend their limited financial resources wisely a global business means global visibility and and cost-containment therefore continues to there are a number of issues relating to our be a fundamental consideration.
business that have the potential to impact reputation anywhere in the world.
These The research-based pharmaceutical industrys include access to medicines, patient safety challenge is to manage the associated exacerbated by some high-pro le withdrawals downward pressure on the price of its of marketed medicines in recent years, products, whilst continuing to invest in the transparency of information, sales and discovery, development, manufacturing and marketing practices, research ethics, human marketing of new medicines.
These issues must be managed appropriately, and emerging issues successfully identi ed and managed, to ensure a continued licence to operate from society.
DIRECTORS REPORT 16 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT CONTINUED Regulatory approvals process and The manufacturing processes for chemical WE BELIEVE THAT continuing product regulation products, and even more so for biological ASTRAZENECA HAS The pharmaceutical industry is one of the products and vaccines, can be very complex most regulated of all industries and the and must be conducted under rigorous THE RIGHT STRATEGY number and impact of these regulations standards of quality.
Manufacturing plants AND THE RESOURCES, continue to grow.
The process of developing and processes are subject to periodic a new pharmaceutical or biological product, inspections by regulators to ensure that SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES from discovery to marketing approval, can manufacturers are complying with prescribed WE NEED TO MANAGE THE typically take between eight and 12 years.
Regulators have the Through all stages of drug development and power to require, if they believe action is CHALLENGES AND MAKE post-marketing surveillance, safety, ef cacy, warranted, changes and improvements, to THE MOST OF THE quality and patient risk management continue halt production and impose conditions that to be a priority focus, both for the industry must be satis ed before production can OPPORTUNITIES OF OUR and for our regulators.
Regulatory standards also evolve BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT TO review and approval is a complex and time over time as the industry develops new consuming process, typically taking between manufacturing techniques, so a process that DRIVE CONTINUED SUCCESS six months and two years.
In recent years, may have been acceptable at one time may AND DELIVER ENDURING regulatory processes have become subject subsequently require changes.
to more conditions including patient risk SHAREHOLDER VALUE.
management plans, patient registries, We participate in various industry associations post-marketing requirements, and conditional and other external organisations on a global and limited approvals.
basis, and engage with regulatory authorities in many different parts of the world about In addition to safety and ef cacy, pre-approval proposed new regulations, standards and regulation covers every aspect of the processes that are aimed at improving the product including the chemical composition, regulatory approval process or addressing manufacturing, quality controls, handling, the impact of new technology.
Regulators packaging, labelling, distribution, promotion welcome this dialogue with industry and, in and marketing.
many instances, actively seek manufacturers views, for example, the European Medicines After a product has been approved and Agencys similar Pipeline project and the launched, all aspects relating to its safety, Critical Path Initiative of the US Food and ef cacy and quality must continue to meet Drug Administration FDA, which seek to regulatory requirements.
Strict procedures modernise the scienti c process through must be in place to appropriately monitor, which a drug is transformed from a proof of evaluate and report potential adverse concept discovery into a medical product.
Where drug-related adverse reactions occur or it is judged that they may Price regulation occur, changes may be required to the Prescription medicines are subject to prescribing advice and to the product government controls on price and approval.
Depending on the country, fines reimbursement, which operate in most and other penalties may be imposed for countries in which we sell our products.
failure to adhere to the conditions attached This often presents a complex matrix of to the approval.
This may include product different pricing systems across countries, recalls or a requirement that letters be which, combined with the ambitions in most sent to prescribers and other medical markets to limit pharmaceutical expenditure, practitioners.
In extreme cases, the approval puts pressure on drug prices and volumes.
may be revoked, resulting in withdrawal of This may be further complicated by currency the product from sale.
Marketing and uctuations within regions.
As downward promotional activities are also tightly pressure on pricing and price differentials controlled by regulations and self-regulating between countries increases, cross-border codes of ethical marketing practices.
movement of products is also rising.
The principal aspects of price regulation in the US, the EU and Japan are described in the Sales and Marketing section on page 31.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 17 BUSINESS ORGANISATION This section describes in broad terms how BOARD OF DIRECTORS the Company is organised in terms of the overall structure and principal roles and BOARD OF DIRECTORS responsibilities of the Board, the Board Board Committees Committees and other signi cant bodies Non-Executive Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Audit Committee, with authority delegated from the Board or Remuneration Committee, the Chief Executive Of cer, such as the Chief Executive Officer and other Nomination Committee Senior Executive Team SET and the R&D Executive Directors and Science Committee Executive Committee.
ASTRAZENECA PLC BOARD COMPOSITION, Chief Executive PROCESSES AND RESPONSIBILITIES Officer The Board comprises three Executive Directors and nine Non-Executive Directors.
Senior Executive The membership of the Board at 31 December Team 2007, and information about individual Directors is shown on pages 18 and 19.
R&D Executive Committee All Directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
The NonExecutive Directors have a responsibility to bring independent, objective judgement to bear on Board decisions, which includes BALANCE OF NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS LENGTH OF TENURE OF constructively challenging management and AND EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS helping to develop the Companys strategy 3 1 as well as scrutinising the performance of INDEPENDENT 6 1 0-3 YEARS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS management.
The Non-Executive Directors 1 3-6 YEARS NON-INDEPENDENT 3 also have various responsibilities concerning 6-9 YEARS 3 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS 3 2 the integrity of financial information, internal EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS CHAIRMAN controls and risk management.
At the end of every Board meeting the 1 Companys Non-Executive Directors meet As determined by the Board in accordance with the UK Combined Code.
without the Executive Directors present in order to review and discuss any matters that have arisen during the meeting and or such GENDER SPLIT GEOGRAPHICAL MIX OF other matters as may appear to the OF DIRECTORS NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Non-Executive Directors to be relevant to 4 them in properly discharging their duties MALE EUROPE FEMALE UK 2 in an independent manner.
In order to ensure 3 9 US that the Board has good visibility in respect 3 of the key operating decisions of the business, members of the SET routinely attend Board meetings on a rotational basis and the Board regularly meets and consults other senior employees throughout the year.
Further details about the members and R&D EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The R&D Executive Committee is chaired responsibilities of the SET are described The R&D Executive Committee oversees and by John Patterson, Executive Director, on page 20.
Further information about the prioritises an integrated portfolio of both Development.
Its other members are operation of the Board and its committees small molecule and biological discovery and currently the Executive Vice-President, can be found in the Corporate Governance development projects from across the Group Discovery Research: the President, Research and Managing Risk section on pages 38 whether originating from our own R&D and Development, MedImmune: the President to 49. activities or from external sources.
It takes and Chief Executive Of cer, North America and a view across all therapy areas and makes Executive Vice-President, Global Marketing: decisions based on therapeutic need, the Senior Vice-President, Strategic Planning market opportunity and technical risk.
It is also and Business Development: the Vice-President, charged with establishing a portfolio review Corporate Strategy and R&D Finance: and process intended to ensure that internal the Vice-President and Head of Development and external opportunities are reviewed Projects.
Further information about the R&D using the same criteria and that there is a Executive Committee can be found in the clear externalisation strategy aligned with the R&D Governance and Portfolio Management disease area strategies.
DIRECTORS REPORT 18 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 BUSINESS ORGANISATION CONTINUED BOARD OF DIRECTORS AT 31 DECEMBER 2007 LOUIS SCHWEITZER 65 DAVID BRENNAN 54 SIMON LOWTH 46 Non-Executive Chairman Executive Director and Executive Director and Chairman of the Nomination Committee and Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer member of the Remuneration Committee Appointed as a Director 14 March 2005.
Appointed Chief Executive Of cer 1 January Also has overall responsibility for Information Non-Executive Chairman of Renault SA since 2006.
Member of the Executive Board of the Services.
Finance Director, Scottish Power plc April 2005.
Chairman and Chief Executive Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers 2005-2007 and Executive Director, Corporate Of cer of Renault SA 1992-2005.
Honorary Board member Strategy and Development, Scottish Power of the Management Board of Renault-Nissan of the US CEO Roundtable on Cancer, Board plc 2003-2005.
Chief Financial Of cer and member of the European Federation for Industrial Practice, McKinsey & Company Executive Vice-President 1988-1990 and Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations 2000-2003.
President and Chief Operating Of cer 1990- EFPIA.
Executive Vice-President, North 1992, Renault SA.
Non-Executive Director America, AstraZeneca PLC 2001-2005. of BNP-Paribas, Electricit fide France, Veolia Chairman of the Board of the Southeastern Environnement, Volvo AB and LOral.
ViceChapter of the American Heart Association Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Philips 2004-2006.
MARCUS WALLENBERG 51 JOHN VARLEY 51 JOHN BUCHANAN 64 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Appointed as a Director 6 April 1999.
Formerly Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and a Director of Astra AB appointed 18 May and Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee 1989.
Chairman of Skandinaviska Enskilda Appointed as a Director 26 July 2006.
ViceExecutive Director of Barclays Bank plc Executive Director and Group Chief Financial Chairman of Telefonaktiebolaget LM Ericsson.
and Barclays plc since 1998 and Group Of cer of BP p. l. c. 1996-2002.
Member of Chairman of the Board of Electrolux AB.
President of the the UK Accounting Standards Board 1997- Non-Executive Director of Stora Enso Oyj and Employers Forum on Disability and member 2001.
Senior Independent Director of BHP the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
of the International Advisory Panel of the Billiton Plc.
Deputy Chairman of Vodafone Chairman of International Chamber of Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Chairman of Smith & Nephew plc.
and Trustee of St. Dunstans, Trustee of Thornton Smith Plevins Young Peoples Trust and Chairman of Business Action on Homelessness.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 19 BUSINESS ORGANISATION CONTINUED JOHN PATTERSON CBE FRCP 59 HKAN MOGREN KBE 63 MICHELE HOOPER 56 Executive Director, Development Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Senior Non-Executive Director Member of the Science Committee Member of the Nomination Committee Member of the Audit Committee and Appointed as a Director 1 January 2005.
Formerly the Nomination Committee Fellow of the Royal College of Physicians.
Chief Executive Of cer and a Director of Appointed as a Director 1 July 2003.
President Director of the British Pharma Group.
Member and Chief Executive Of cer of Stadtlander Non-Executive Director of Cobham plc.
of the Board of Directors of Investor AB and Drug Company 1998-1999.
Corporate Non-Executive Director of Amersham plc Groupe Danone.
Director of the Marianne Vice-President and President, International 2001-2004.
President of the Association and Marcus Wallenberg Foundation.
Businesses of Caremark International Inc. of the British Pharmaceutical Industry Member of the Royal Swedish Academy 1992-1998.
Member of the Supervisory of Engineering Sciences.
Non-Executive Director Board of the UK Medicines Control Agency of PPG Industries, Inc.. Non-Executive 1990-1994.
Executive Vice-President, Director of Warner Music Group, Inc..
Product Strategy & Licensing and Business Development, AstraZeneca PLC 1999-2004.
DAME NANCY ROTHWELL 52 JANE HENNEY 60 BO ANGELIN 58 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Science Committee and Member of the Audit Committee, Member of the Science Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee the Nomination Committee and Appointed as a Director 24 July 2007.
Also the Science Committee Professor of Clinical Metabolism at Karolinska has responsibility for overseeing Corporate Appointed as a Director 24 September 2001.
Institutet and Head of the Department of Responsibility.
MRC Research Professor and Currently Professor of Medicine, University of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes Deputy President and Deputy Vice Chancellor Cincinnati.
Prior appointments include: Senior at the Karolinska University Hospital in at the University of Manchester.
Trustee of Vice-President and Provost for Health Affairs, Stockholm, Sweden.
Member of the Board Cancer Research UK and the Campaign University of Cincinnati Medical Academic of Karolinska Institute.
Member of the Nobel for Medical Progress, Chair of the Research Health Center: Deputy Director, US National Assembly and of the Swedish Royal Academy Defence Society, Chair of the Wellcome Trust Cancer Institute: Deputy Commissioner for of Sciences.
Member of the Medical Nobel Public Engagement Strategy Panel.
Council Operations, US Food and Drug Administration: Institute.
Prior appointments include Chairman member of the Biotechnology and Biological and Commissioner of Food and Drugs, US of the Nobel Committee for Physiology Sciences Research Council.
Prior appointments Food and Drug Administration.
include: President of the British Neuroscience Director of AmerisourceBergen Corporation Association and Council member of the and CIGNA Corporation.
Other board Medical Research Council.
appointments include The Commonwealth Other of cers of the Company at 31 December Fund and China Medical Board.
2007 included members of the Senior Executive Team, as set out on page 20, and: GRAEME MUSKER Group Secretary and Solicitor Appointed as Company Secretary 6 June 1993.
DIRECTORS REPORT 20 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 BUSINESS ORGANISATION CONTINUED CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY AND SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM DAVID BRENNAN SIMON LOWTH JOHN PATTERSON CBE FRCP Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Executive Director, Development TONY ZOOK DAVID SMITH DAVID MOTT President and Chief Executive Of cer, Executive Vice-President, Operations President and Chief Executive Of cer, North America and Executive MedImmune Vice-President, Global Marketing LYNN TETRAULT BRUNO ANGELICI JAN LUNDBERG Executive Vice-President, Executive Vice-President, Europe, Japan, Executive Vice-President, Human Resources and Corporate Affairs Asia Paci c and Rest of the World Discovery Research CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER The roles of the Board and the relationship meets once a month to consider and decide AND DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY between each of the Boards committees, the major business issues.
Typically, it also The Chief Executive Of cer has been delegated Chairman, the Chief Executive Of cer and the reviews those matters that are of a size or authority from, and is responsible to, the Senior Executive Team are documented, as importance to require the attention of, or Board of AstraZeneca PLC for directing are the Boards delegated authorities and that are reserved to, the Board before such and promoting the pro table operation and reserved powers, the means of operation matters are submitted to the Board for development of the Company, consistent of the business and the roles of corporate review and decision.
with the primary aim of enhancing long-term functions.
Further information can be found shareholder value, in relation to all matters save on pages 38 to 49.
During 2007, Jonathan Symonds, formerly those which have been speci cally reserved for Chief Financial Of cer, resigned to pursue his the Board.
Further information on the operation SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM SET career outside AstraZeneca.
Simon Lowth of the Board can be found on page 38.
The Chief Executive Of cer has established was appointed as our new Chief Financial and chairs the SET pictured above.
Of cer and joined the Company and the The Chief Executive Of cer is responsible Although the Chief Executive Of cer retains Board in November 2007.
Also during the to the Board for the management and full responsibility for the authority delegated year, Martin Nicklasson, formerly Executive performance of the Companys businesses to him by the Board, the SET is the vehicle Vice-President, Global Marketing, resigned within the framework of Company policies, through which he has chosen to exercise to pursue his career outside AstraZeneca reserved powers and routine reporting certain of that authority in respect of the and Tony Bloxham, formerly Executive requirements.
He is obliged to refer certain Companys business including MedImmune, Vice-President, Human Resources, retired.
major matters fide ned in the formal delegation Arrow Therapeutics, KuDOS, Aptium Their responsibilities have been assumed by of the Boards authority back to the Board.
The SET normally Tony Zook and Lynn Tetrault, respectively.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 21 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES MEDICINES When we first launched Seroquel, our short to medium term is being driven by five Differentiated and effective treatment for schizophrenia, it was particularly key products, Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Our track record of pharmaceutical innovation welcomed by patients and physicians for the Seroquel and Symbicort, all launched over spans seven decades and includes many bene ts it offered in terms of effective control the last 12 years.
Backed by our successful world-leading medicines that continue to make coupled with a favourable side-effect pro le.
mature brands such as Pulmicort, Zoladex, a difference for millions of patients worldwide.
More recently, in response to the need for Seloken Toprol-XL, Atacand and Merrem, a wider choice of medicines that offer more these five key products provide the platform Our medicines are targeted at important convenient dosing, we introduced Seroquel for our continued success whilst we enhance areas of healthcare.
Several of them are XR extended release tablets, a once-daily our pipeline for the future by improving world leaders and all of them are designed therapy for adults.
Seroquel is also used internal innovation and productivity and to be innovative, effective and offer added to manage both bipolar mania and bipolar accessing external innovation potential.
bene ts for patients, such as reduced side depression, helping more people around the effects or better ways of taking the treatment.
world to lead normal lives.
Further information Details of our major products are shown In many cases, they are built on decades of about our range of Neuroscience therapies in the therapy area sections starting on shared knowledge among our scientists and can be found on page 56. page 50. on partnerships between people working in the laboratories and those working with Gastro-oesophageal re ux disease often Ensuring patient safety doctors, patients and our other stakeholders called heartburn can signi cantly affect the Ideally, a medicine would target only the to gain the insight we need to maintain a sufferers quality of life and, if left untreated, disease that it is intended to treat and would ow of new, targeted medicines that make can cause serious problems such as stomach not have any other unintended effects.
ulcers or cancer of the oesophagus.
In reality, however, despite the best efforts We introduced the worlds first proton pump of scientists, such a medicine does not yet These relationships have helped us develop inhibitor, Losec, a breakthrough treatment exist and all medicines have possible side families of medicines generation by at the time, and have since developed an effects that some patients might experience.
generation such as the hormone-based improved therapy, Nexium, which provides Healthcare professionals, in consultation cancer treatments we have discovered since healing and symptom relief in more patients with their patients, must weigh the bene ts the 1970s, including Nolvadex tamoxifen, and in a shorter time.
Further information of a medicine against its possible side effects Faslodex, Zoladex and Arimidex.
Among about our Gastrointestinal therapies can be and decide the acceptable level of risk.
other bene ts, these have played a part in found on page 53. increasing the five year survival rate for women The safety of the patients who take our with breast cancer from under 70% 50 years Although there are other statins on the market, medicines is a fundamental consideration ago to around 90% today.
our version, Crestor, is increasingly recognised throughout all of our activities.
We aim to as being particularly valuable for high-risk minimise the risks and maximise the bene ts Even after a new medicine is launched, patients because of its powerful effect in of each of our medicines, throughout their we continue to explore all the ways it can lowering low-density lipids bad cholesterol discovery, development and beyond.
After be used to get the most bene t for patients.
and raising high-density lipids good launch, we actively monitor the use of all our We have clearly fide ned life cycle management cholesterol.
Crestor was recently approved medicines to ensure that we become aware programmes for our marketed products in the US as an adjunct to diet for slowing of any side effects not identi ed during the designed to optimise both the bene t they the progression of atherosclerosis in patients development process.
Clinical trials, although bring to patients lives and their commercial with elevated cholesterol and is the only extensive, cannot replicate the complete potential within the timeframe that patent statin with a broad atherosclerosis indication range of patient circumstances that exist protection is available to us.
Further information about our among much larger and more diverse patient Cardiovascular therapies can be found on populations.
Rare side effects can often only For example, originally introduced for treating page 50. be identi ed after a medicine has been asthma, Symbicort is now also used to launched and used in far greater numbers combat chronic obstructive pulmonary Our acquisition of MedImmune, Inc. in 2007 of patients and over longer periods of time.
disease, the fifth greatest cause of death brought some signi cant biopharmaceutical We have comprehensive and rigorous systems worldwide.
We also continued to look at products into our portfolio.
Synagis is the in place for detecting and rapidly evaluating how we could further improve Symbicort standard of care for respiratory syncytial virus such effects, including mechanisms for as an asthma therapy and we now market RSV prevention and has helped to protect highlighting those that require immediate Symbicort Maintenance and Reliever Therapy over one million babies around the world attention.
We also strive to identify whether Symbicort SMART.
Symbicort SMART from serious RSV disease.
FluMist, the first particular types of patients may be more represents a change in medical practice intranasal in uenza vaccine to be approved susceptible to the risks associated with because it puts patients more in control of in the US, represents the first innovation in a particular treatment, and what the early their variable disease by combining both u vaccination in more than 60 years.
indicators of this might be, so that side effects the maintenance therapy and rapid relief can be avoided or minimised in these patients.
treatment in a single inhaler, instead of the Our portfolio of marketed medicines is highly usual two.
Further information about our competitive and includes 11 products with range of Respiratory medicines can be sales of over $1 billion each.
Growth in the found on page 63.
DIRECTORS REPORT 22 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED We have an experienced, in-house team of At AstraZeneca, our challenge is to balance study, published in the The Journal of Clinical over 500 clinical drug safety professionals the associated downward pressure on Psychiatry in the US in 2003, showed that working around the world and dedicated the price of medicines with the cost of the the cost of treating a sufferer of depression to the task of ensuring that we meet our continued innovation that brings bene t for fell throughout the 1990s, largely because of commitment to drug safety.
Each of our patients and society.
a change in the quality of medicines available, products whether in development or on the which allowed patients to be treated in the market has an assigned global drug safety When setting the price of a medicine, community rather than in hospital.
The study physician who, supported by a team of we take into consideration its full value to found that per-patient spending on depression drug safety scientists, is responsible for that patients, to those who pay for healthcare fell by 19% over the course of the decade.
and to society in general.
Our pricing also Drug safety managers in each of our national takes account of the fact that, as a publicly There are productivity bene ts too.
The use companies have local responsibility for product owned company, we have a duty to ensure of innovative medicines and vaccines that safety within their respective countries.
that we continue to deliver an appropriate reduce or prevent the incidence of disease, return on investment for our shareholders.
enables better disease management, which Our Chief Medical Of cer CMO has overall We balance many different factors, including means less time off work or away from school accountability for the bene t risk pro les of the ensuring appropriate patient access, in our or other daily activities, helping patients to lead products we have in development and those global pricing policy, which provides the normal, productive lives as active members on the market.
The CMO provides medical framework for optimising the pro tability of their communities.
oversight and ensures that appropriate risk of our products in a sustainable way.
assessment processes are in place to enable In the developing world informed decisions to be made about safety as We continually review our range of medicines AstraZeneca remains committed to making quickly as possible.
His responsibilities include both those on the market and in the pipeline a contribution to improving health in the chairing a group of internal experts from both to identify any that may be regarded as developing world.
The medicines in our range our Discovery and Development organisations, particularly critical to meeting healthcare needs today are not relevant to the treatment of who critically evaluate our candidate drugs either because they treat diseases that are HIV, TB and malaria, the most signi cant prior to first-time-in-man studies.
or are becoming prevalent in developing healthcare problems that the developing countries, or because they are potentially world is currently facing, but we are applying Our commitment to patient safety includes a leading or unique therapy addressing an our skills and resources to helping in other ensuring the security of our medicines unmet need and offering signi cant patient ways.
We have a throughout their manufacturing and supply.
bene t in treating a serious or life-threatening dedicated research facility in Bangalore, India We continuously monitor our business condition.
In such cases, we aim to provide that is focused on nding a new, improved environment to identify any new or emerging patient access to these medicines through treatment for TB further information can be product security risks and work to ensure that expanded patient access programmes.
Alongside this ongoing these are managed quickly and effectively.
We also support the concept of differential research, we also form partnerships with In addition to our internal processes, we also pricing in this context, provided that safeguards non-governmental organisations and other work with regulatory authorities, government are in place to ensure that differentially priced organisations working to strengthen local agencies, trade associations and law products are not diverted from patients who healthcare capabilities in communities where enforcement agencies to combat the growing need them, to be sold and used in more the lack of effective healthcare systems threat of counterfeiting.
Further details of af uent markets.
including the lack of healthcare professionals, the ways in which we manage the risk of means that the availability of medicines is counterfeiting can be found on page 196.
Bringing economic as well not always the primary challenge further as therapeutic benefit information about our healthcare partnerships How we price our medicines In our discussions with those who pay in the developing world can be found on Despite signi cant advances in healthcare for healthcare, and others, we include an page 73. in recent decades, the ght against diseases explanation of the economic bene ts as well and disorders is far from over.
Many are still as the therapeutic bene ts of our medicines, under-diagnosed or not well treated, or there to ensure their full value is understood.
is not yet an effective therapy.
Continued innovation is required to address the unmet Effective treatments can help to save medical needs of a rapidly changing world.
healthcare costs by reducing the need for At the same time, the growing demand for more expensive care, such as hospital stays healthcare, driven by people living longer, or surgery.
For example, a 2002 study in the increasing populations and the emergence US found that for each additional $1 spent of new economies, means more and more on newer medicines, over $6 could be saved pressure on the budgets of those who pay on total healthcare expenditure including 1 for it.
a saving of $4 in hospital costs.
Another US 1 Source: Frank R Lichtenberg, Bene ts and Costs of Newer Drugs: An update National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA June 2002.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 23 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED I am pleased to be able to report that 2007 12 new molecules entered phase I first has been a year of signi cant progress.
tests in man, a record year for us.
In 2007, we doubled the rate with 24 new molecules We have continued to put huge effort into our entering phase I, which puts us on track for drive for quality and industry-leading speed a milestone number of phase II progressions in our development cycle times, while at the in the second half of 2008 and early 2009. same time creating a leaner, more cost-effective We have also doubled our phase III pipeline R&D organisation.
over the past year, increasing it from five to 10 projects.
The year was also marked by the acquisition My number one priority is to strengthen the of MedImmune a transformational event I am con dent that, with the progress we pipeline, drive the pace of innovation and for our R&D organisation, which has have made in 2007, and as we continue to deliver a ow of new medicines that bring signi cantly boosted our pipeline and introduce further speed and quality initiatives bene t for patients and support sustained accelerated our ambition to build a major throughout 2008, we will achieve upper growth for AstraZeneca in the short, medium presence in biopharmaceuticals.
quartile industry performance by 2010. and long term.
Our pipeline has increased from 71 clinical JOHN PATTERSON CBE FRCP projects in 2006 to 95 clinical projects in 2007, Executive Director, Development a 50% increase compared with 2005.
In 2006, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT have been recruited so far.
We have also activities during the year can be found on Introduction formed a strategic partnership with Peking page 25.
By far the most signi cant transaction We have a global R&D organisation, with University Third Hospital, which will focus on in 2007 was the acceleration of our biologics around 13,000 people at 17 principal centres phase I clinical research, including clinical and vaccines strategy through the acquisition in eight countries the UK, the US, Sweden, pharmacology and safety evaluation.
of MedImmune, Inc.. France, Japan, China, Canada and India.
Of these, 14 sites focus on small molecule R&D We want to be among the best in the industry Our global R&D organisation is led by the and three on biologics and vaccines R&D.
in terms of the quality of our work and the R&D Executive Committee.
Further These resources are complemented by speed with which we get new medicines to information about the R&D Executive clinical development capability at 47 sites market.
During 2007 we continued our drive Committee and how we manage our around the world.
to improve the ef ciency of our processes portfolio is given in the R&D Governance and and the effectiveness of our decision-making Portfolio Management section on page 27.
In 2007, we invested $5.2 billion on R&D so that we can quickly eliminate weaker 2006 $3.9 billion, 2005 $3.38 billion and compounds and concentrate on the robust, In 2007, Alderley Park, one of our major R&D approved $291 million of R&D capital rapid progress of the ones most likely to sites, celebrated its ftieth anniversary.
New facilities established or succeed as signi cant advances in of the worlds most important medicines have announced in 2007 included an expansion healthcare.
Further information about our come out of Alderley Park, including the of our facility in Boston, US principally to progress to improve the ef ciency of our R&D invention of beta-blockers, which revolutionised enhance our infection research capability.
processes can be found later in this section.
the treatment of certain heart diseases and a We also inaugurated a new state-of-the-art series of inhaled and intravenous anaesthetics.
Process and Development R&D PR&D We have a clearly fide ned process to manage New hormonal treatments for breast and facility next to our existing R&D centre in our therapy area and disease area TA DA other cancers were also developed there, Bangalore, India.
With accommodation for strategies recognising the breadth of our which have gone on to become market up to 75 scientists supported by of ce and portfolio across therapy areas and treatment leaders and have played a major role in todays engineering staff, this laboratory should modalities.
Our TA DA strategy review process much improved treatment of cancer.
We aim accelerate the production of our new enables us to evaluate key features of each to maintain Alderley Parks contribution and treatments, and its position alongside our TA DA including clinical need, commercial we continue to invest in upgrading this site, Discovery site will help maximise scienti c opportunity, scienti c opportunity, competitive most recently with the opening of a 60 million interactions.
Additional investments in PR&D position and resources.
The process is dedicated cancer research facility in 2006. laboratories were also made in Maccles eld, managed by the R&D Executive Committee UK, which should accommodate around and our regular reviews fide ne which disease Pipeline progress 170 people and give the exibility to areas we will grow, maintain, reduce or exit.
Full details of our pipeline are set out in the accommodate a further 50 people within The process also enables us to deploy our table on pages 28 to 30.
Our R&D strategy is pre-planned expansion areas.
resources in the best way to meet our geared to maintaining a ow of new products commercial and scienti c objectives.
that will deliver sustained business growth in During 2007, we opened our Innovation the short, medium and long term.
Centre China research facility in Shanghai, In line with our strategy, we also continued to which is focused on translational medicine focus on gaining access to external innovation in cancer, a major cause of death in China.
that complements our in-house capabilities.
Approximately 40 highly quali ed scientists Further information about our externalisation DIRECTORS REPORT 24 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED In the short term, we have continued to Discovery research Development strengthen our pipeline across all stages of In Discovery, our scientists work together Our principal focus is ensuring that our discovery and development and we now across national boundaries and sites to growing range of potential medicines are have 95 clinical projects.
In 2007, signi cant exchange ideas, to promote best practice developed effectively to meet the future progress was made in strengthening our late and to maximise the scienti c potential offered needs of patients, and in a way that meets stage development portfolio.
We have doubled by our size and global reach.
We work closely the regulatory requirements necessary to the size of our phase III portfolio from five to with clinical and development teams to gain marketing approval.
We have a wide 10 projects covering nine compounds.
We prioritise our activities and to link our research range of compounds in early development, have also had a record year in terms of the activities to clinical need and patient bene t. and a total of 41 projects in phase I, 20 number of new molecules entering phase I projects in phase II and 10 projects in phase compared with 2006 24 in 2007, 12 in 2006 Improving productivity, ef ciency and quality III development and are running 24 life cycle and this puts us on track for a record number remain core priorities and over recent years management projects.
of phase II progressions in the second half of we have introduced a process improvement 2008 and early 2009. system based around the principles of Lean People in our Development organisation Sigma that has signi cantly reduced project specialise in taking a newly discovered Notable successes in the life cycle timelines and increased the quality and compound from the laboratories, through management of our key marketed brands ef ciency of our drug discovery programmes.
clinical research, regulatory submissions, during the year included nine submissions For example, in lead optimisation in our continuing pharmaceutical development and and nine approvals in the US or the EU, Cardiovascular and Gastrointestinal therapy life cycle management.
Project teams bring which are described in the therapy area areas, we have delivered an improvement in together all the relevant skills and experience reviews on pages 50 to 68. product development cycle times, a reduction needed for the rapid progress of new medicines in non-core activities and a positive impact and the management of development risks.
In the medium term, we will drive our on the quality of the science conducted.
pre-clinical and clinical phase I and II projects The change programme initiated during 2005 towards proof of concept as rapidly as Lead generation to enhance project delivery and improve R&D possible, whilst recognising that we need Our strategic initiatives are directly aligned to performance has continued.
Throughout to continue our emphasis on externalisation improving the quality of chemical leads and 2007, we have built on the speed and quality to complement our internal R&D efforts.
biological targets, so that we can eliminate, improvement projects that were begun in 2006 Our drug discovery efforts extend beyond at an earlier stage, those compounds that are focusing on speeding the progression of our own laboratories, as we actively seek to unlikely to make it through clinical development.
early phase projects along the pipeline and make alliances and acquisitions with external Strategic alliances, such as those with WuXi to market.
This has resulted in reductions in partners to gain access to leading drug Pharmatech Co. Ltd China and ChemBridge the average product development cycle time projects or technology platforms.
US, supply proprietary compounds that of approximately one and a half years, with signi cantly enhance our own compound reduced timelines across all parts of the The progress we are making in our drive to collection and increase the prospects of development process.
increase productivity is re ected in the delivery us nding compounds that we can quickly of projects from discovery and the growth develop into new medicines.
With the implementation of best practice of our early development portfolio.
As part solutions aimed at eliminating the lost time of our continuing drive for improvement, Discovery medicine between key steps in the development we have introduced a more rigorous and Discovery medicine the collaboration between process and, critically, by changing behaviours consistent measure for the number of clinical medicine and basic science helps us across the organisation, we exceeded our compounds reaching development.
We now gain a better understanding of human diseases 2007 targets for development cycle times.
record additions to the pipeline from the first and the suitability of future medicines to treat We believe that we are well placed to pre-clinical study that is required for regulatory those diseases, as well as identify and deploy achieve median cycle times of eight years approval First Good Laboratory Practice biomarkers, which can help us to make early in 2010 based on the projects currently in FGLP, instead of when a candidate drug decisions on the effectiveness and safety development.
Importantly, we also put in CD is simply nominated for development.
of our compounds in clinical development.
place the fundamental building blocks for During 2007, 36 FGLPs were selected All compounds nominated for development a culture of continuous improvement that compared with 22 in 2006. now have a biomarker strategy.
should sustain the momentum behind our initiatives for increased speed, with better In addition to our current capabilities, we have Safety assessment quality, and at the right cost.
transformed our R&D capability and pipeline We implement high-throughput testing of through our strategic move into biologics and safety early in the research process and use The continued growth in the number of drug vaccines, described in more detail below.
this data to prioritise and select the best projects in our pipeline will require us to compounds for progression.
We have been reshape our R&D budget to accommodate able to reduce attrition due to safety issues these increased numbers, both in the next and the time taken to deliver key safety three years and beyond to 2017.
We are studies by process improvements, thereby running a portfolio of programmes aimed at allowing more rapid entry to testing in man.
delivering signi cant productivity improvements DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 25 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED that we expect will yield ef ciency gains Although MedImmune will be operationally of which we receive royalty streams, and between 2008 and 2011.
Projects currently independent within our R&D organisation, the discovery by scientists in Cambridge, UK of within this programme are making good it will be aligned with our overall R&D strategy Humira, an antibody treatment for rheumatoid progress and are on track.
These include: and objectives and its scientists will work arthritis with global sales of over $3 billion in collaboratively with AstraZeneca scientists.
Disease area strategy: As part of a This combination of operational independence, MedImmunes in uenza vaccine, FluMist, is continuing process, a comprehensive collaboration and strategic alignment will enable the first advance in u vaccine technology in review of all disease areas comparing us to preserve the agility and entrepreneurialism over 60 years, with demonstrated ef cacy the position of AstraZeneca relative to within MedImmune while allowing it to bene t against matched and mismatched strains.
our competitors was undertaken following from the expertise and capabilities of the the acquisition of MedImmune, Inc. broader AstraZeneca organisation.
David Mott Externalisation and new opportunities The conclusions have resulted in the MedImmunes President and Chief Executive In todays world of rapid scienti c and prioritisation of key disease areas for Of cer for the past seven years, along with technological advances, no single company growth and decisions to exit other areas, a number of other members of the former can rely exclusively on its own R&D capabilities for example, in cancer research we are MedImmune, Inc. management team have to deliver the next generation of medicines exiting cell cycle blockade approaches been tasked with leading our new biologics that offer better results for patients.
Our and in the respiratory and in ammation and vaccines capability.
Strategic Planning and Business Development area we are exiting osteoarthritis disease SPBD team works closely with R&D, global modi cation.
With MedImmunes biologics and vaccines marketing and finance teams to deliver our capabilities sitting alongside our existing externalisation strategy, by which we seek to Clinical data management: We have small molecule resources, our objective is establish collaborations with external partners commenced a project to centralise, that from 2010 onwards, one in four of our whose skills and resources complement our streamline and outsource clinical data projects eligible for full development will be own internal capabilities.
We have also management activity, aimed at delivering biological drugs or vaccines.
established a group to focus on potential savings of $30 million per year.
new opportunities that lie beyond our current Our R&D capability in biologics and vaccines therapy areas.
Re-organisation of the Pharmaceutical now covers a broad range of approaches and Analytical R&D PAR&D function: including antibodies, antibody derivatives, We have completed over 20 major We aim to improve productivity and better therapeutic proteins, peptides, RNA externalisation deals in the last two years, deliver the demands of an increasingly interference technologies and various types as well as the acquisitions of CAT and strengthened pipeline.
This programme of live attenuated and sub-unit vaccines MedImmune.
We believe that every already shows 20% less PAR&D resource that can all be used to target diseases across a collaboration is unique, and we work with per project in 2006 compared with 2004. range of therapy areas.
This includes a worldpotential partners to structure deals that The organisation has also downsized by leading drug discovery platform pioneered leverage each others unique capabilities and 10% while introducing these productivity by CAT, based on advanced technology for assets.
For example, in 2007 we entered improvements.
rapidly isolating human monoclonal antibodies into an innovative deal with Bristol-Myers using phage and ribosome display extensive Squibb Company to co-develop and A re-organisation of our Regulatory function: antibody libraries incorporate more than co-commercialise saxagliptin and dapagli ozin Streamlining the organisation, including 100 billion distinct antibody fragments two products in development for the the withdrawal from Charnwood UK and and MedImmunes own proven, verticallytreatment of Type 2 diabetes, a collaboration the consolidation onto one site of key teams integrated, end-to end capabilities from with Silence Therapeutics plc and we in Sweden, aimed at delivering an 18% discovery to commercialisation, such as completed the acquisition of Arrow reduction in headcount by June 2008. high-yield puri cation expertise, process and Therapeutics Ltd. Further information analytical development resources, as well as about these transactions can be found in Biologics and vaccines signi cant in-house manufacturing capability the relevant therapy area section on pages The acquisition of US-based biotechnology and capacity.
Furthermore, each year we establish company, MedImmune, Inc. in mid-2007 numerous earlier stage partnerships to has enabled us to greatly accelerate our The MedImmune organisation has nearly ensure that we have access to the latest biologics and vaccines strategy and build on 3,000 employees, of which approximately science and technology.
the expertise of Cambridge Antibody 1,400 are focused on discovery, development, Technology Group plc CAT acquired in clinical and regulatory activities.
Its principal Our biologics and vaccines externalisation 2006 and pre-existing biological R&D sites are in the US Gaithersburg, activities will be led by MedImmune, which programmes within AstraZeneca.
It has also Maryland and Mountain View, California, executed almost 40 business development enabled us to create a signi cant, world-class, the latter focusing on vaccines research and licensing transactions and acquisitions  biologics and vaccines and Cambridge, UK.
MedImmunes goal is between 2004 and 2007.
The more signi cant capability through which we have access to to generate eight potential new biological deals in MedImmunes history include its cutting-edge technologies, intellectual property, drugs per year, on a steady-state basis, collaborations with Abbott Laboratories for a skilled and dedicated workforce and a large which we anticipate will translate into six the co-promotion of Synagis in the US and scale manufacturing capability.
All of our new investigational drugs per year.
distribution outside the US, the licensing of biologics and vaccines capabilities will be its human papilloma virus vaccine product operated under MedImmunes leadership.
MedImmunes heritage includes the candidate to GlaxoSmithKline, as well as the development of the technology underpinning acquisitions of US Bioscience, an oncology the human papilloma virus vaccines to company, and Aviron, a California-based prevent cervical cancer that are marketed vaccine company.
by GlaxoSmithKline and Merck, in respect DIRECTORS REPORT 26 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED In 2002, MedImmune launched a captive In line with our commitment to providing primates, therefore, during 2006 2007, we venture capital fund, MedImmune Ventures, patients and healthcare professionals with developed a speci c standard for their use to expand its access to cutting edge meaningful information about our products, and care globally to ensure consistent technology emerging within the biotechnology we publish, and provide open access to, practice across our primate research.
Since then, MedImmune Ventures has the findings of  clinical invested in about 25 different companies trials, whether favourable or unfavourable, In our external partnerships, we are committed around the world.
MedImmune Ventures will together with the latest information about to working only with organisations that continue to be operated by MedImmune and trials currently underway.
This information embrace standards of ethical behaviour will broaden its focus to include areas of is available via our dedicated website, that are consistent with our own.
strategic interest to MedImmune and .
AstraZeneca, helping both to stay at the As a company whose success is built on forefront of novel science with a direct window Animal studies continue to play a vital role leading-edge science, we continuously to the most innovative start-ups in the in our research.
They provide essential monitor new capabilities and opportunities biotechnology industry.
information, not available through other that will help us to develop the next methods, about the effects of a potential generation of medicines that offers better R&D ethics new therapy on disease and the living body.
We believe that human In our search for new medicines for important Regulatory authorities around the world also embryonic stem cell research may present areas of healthcare, we are committed to require safety data from pre-clinical testing in such an opportunity.
Because this is a innovative, high quality science, conducted animals before a new medicine can be relatively new area for us and because we do to high ethical standards in all areas of our tested in humans.
We are committed to not yet have all the necessary skills and R&D worldwide.
Compliance with relevant applying the principle of the 3Rs technologies in-house, we are working with laws and regulations is a minimum baseline replacement, reduction and re nement of external partners to explore the potential of and underpins our own global principles and animal studies across our research activity.
standards, as outlined in our Bioethics Policy.
In 2007, we used approximately 271,000 animals in-house, a decrease on 2006 Our Human Embryonic Stem Cell Research We conduct our clinical trials in accordance 276,000 animals.
In addition, approximately Policy framework demands compliance both with the Declaration of Helsinki.
We ensure 13,500 animals were used by external with external legislation, regulations and that those taking part in clinical research contractors, an increase on 2006 12,000. guidelines, and with our own codes of anywhere in the world are not exposed to The number of animals involved in our research practice.
This framework applies unnecessary risks, that they understand scienti c studies re ects the size of the to all internal work and external research on the nature and the purpose of the research, pre-clinical portfolio and the complexity of AstraZenecas behalf and includes essential that proper procedures for gaining informed the diseases under investigation.
As we criteria that must be met before any such consent are followed and that appropriate continue to expand our discovery research, research is undertaken.
Similar to those that con dentiality rules are applied.
Informed our ongoing challenge is to ensure that our govern inclusion in public stem cell registries consent procedures are speci cally included animal use is minimised without such as the UK Registry and the US National in the audits conducted by our Clinical compromising the quality of the data.
The Institute of Health Registry, these criteria Quality Assurance teams of our clinical growth of our early development portfolio require that the stem cells must have been research related activities whether they are during 2007 re ects the effort we are putting derived from a fertilised egg that was created being done in-house or by a Contract into improving the quality and productivity of for reproductive purposes, that the fertilised Research Organisation CRO.
our research, and we believe that, without egg must no longer be needed for these our active commitment to the 3Rs, our purposes, and that fully informed consent Most of our clinical trials are global in nature.
animal use in discovery research would be with no financial inducements must have By conducting our studies across a broad much greater.
been obtained for the donation of the geographic span, we aim to ensure that fertilised egg for scienti c research.
The those taking part fully represent the diversity The welfare of the animals we use continues framework is designed to ensure all research of the patient populations around the world to be a top priority.
Quali ed veterinary effort in this area remains consistent with our for whom the new medicine is intended.
staff are involved in the development and strategy of developing more effective, safer This approach also helps to identify those for implementation of our animal welfare medicines for serious disease.
whom the treatment will be most bene cial.
programmes and everyone working with When conducting a trial anywhere in the world, laboratory animals is trained and competent Further information about our commitment we operate to the highest of the standards in their allocated responsibilities.
As well as to high ethical standards and our required by the external international, mandatory inspections by government performance is available on our website, regional or local regulations, or our own authorities, we have a formal programme of astrazeneca.
The percentage of clinical internal inspections carried out by our own studies run for us by third parties varies highly quali ed staff.
External organisations depending on the number of trials we have that conduct animal studies on underway and the amount of internal AstraZenecas behalf are also expected to resource available to do the work.
On comply with high ethical standards, and our average, approximately 35% of our studies staff conduct inspections of contractors to which are always designed by AstraZeneca ensure our expectations are being met.
involve CROs and we contractually require them to operate to the same standards that In biopharmaceutical research, primates are we apply in-house.
in most cases the only relevant animal model.
In anticipation of our increased use of DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 27 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED R&D GOVERNANCE AND vaccines and the other for small molecules.
To work with the Chief Executive Of cer PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT There is also provision for collaboration and and Chief Financial Of cer to agree an We work across functional boundaries co-operation between the two parts of the overall R&D budget for AstraZeneca and, to ensure that we effectively identify and organisation where there is signi cant within the R&D Executive Committee, consistent with any contractual obligations overlap or joint working.
agree an allocation of that budget to prioritise emerging research opportunities discovery, small molecule development whether from our own R&D activities or from The R&D Executive Committee is charged and biologics and vaccines.
external sources, develop them to meet with developing a single cohesive corporate market needs and maximise the potential R&D strategy and product portfolio through To establish a portfolio review process of our marketed brands.
In 2007, we gave consideration of factors such as therapeutic to evaluate all potential new medicines careful consideration to the way in which our need, market opportunity and emerging within the business to ensure resource projects, and in particular those for biological science.
It has the following accountabilities: prioritisation and delivery in line with that drugs, would be governed following the process.
In particular, this process is acquisition of MedImmune, Inc. and the To establish a series of disease area intended to ensure that internal and creation of a new biologics and vaccines strategies through joint therapy area external opportunities are reviewed using organisation under MedImmune leadership, strategy teams and to bring them together the same criteria and that there is a clear which resulted in the establishment of our into a single AstraZeneca portfolio across externalisation strategy, aligned with and new R&D Executive Committee.
small and large molecules and vaccines.
complementary to, the disease area strategies, the internal portfolio and local This new governance body will ensure that To develop enabling strategies to ensure market needs.
disease area strategies and the selection of the optimal delivery of the disease area small and large molecule projects are aligned strategic targets, including technology Further information on the composition of through the work of joint teams, leaving strategies, capital expenditure, capability our R&D Executive Committee can be found individual projects to be pursued, from mix, shape and size and geographic on page 17. discovery through to development, in two footprint of the R&D organisation.
parallel streams, one for biologics and BOARD OF DIRECTORS SENIOR EXECUTIVE TEAM MEDIMMUNE ASTRAZENECA R&D EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Develop Joint Therapy Area Delivery of Disease Area Delivery of biologics and Strategy small molecule vaccines projects projects Joint Research Area Management Teams Biologics and Joint Selection Small molecule vaccines of Targets R&D R&D DIRECTORS REPORT 28 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED DEVELOPMENT PIPELINE AT 31 JANUARY 2008 Estimated ling date Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Europe US PHASE I NCEs AZD1175 CB1 antagonist diabetes obesity Cardiovascular AZD1305 anti-arrhythmic arrhythmias AZD6370 GLK activator diabetes AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptors subtype 5 GERD Gastrointestinal AZD1386 vanilloid receptor 1 antagonist GERD AZD2327 enkephalinergic receptor modulator anxiety and depression AZD5904 inhibitor of myeloperoxidase MPO multiple sclerosis AZD3241 inhibitor of myeloperoxidase MPO Parkinsons disease AZD0328 selective neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist Alzheimers disease AZD1940 CB receptor agonist nociceptive and neuropathic pain Neuroscience AZD2624 NK receptor antagonist schizophrenia AZD1386 vanilloid receptor antagonist chronic nociceptive pain AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate receptors chronic nociceptive pain AZD7325 GABA receptor subtype partial agonist anxiety AZD6280 GABA receptor subtype partial agonist anxiety TC-5619 Targacept neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist cognitive disorders in schizophrenia AZD1152 aurora kinase inhibitor solid tumours and haematological malignancies AZD4769 EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor solid tumours AZD4877 cell cycle agent solid tumours and haematological malignancies AZD8931 erbB kinase inhibitor solid tumours Oncology AZD7762 CHK1 kinase inhibitor solid tumours AZD8330 ARRY-424704 MEK inhibitor solid tumours CAT-8015 recombinant immunotoxin haematological malignancies MEDI-538 CD19 B cells leukaemia lymphoma AZD4818 CCR1 antagonist COPD CAT-354 anti-IL-13 antibody asthma AZD5904 MPO inhibitor COPD AZD1744 dual CCR3 H1 receptor antagonist COPD AZD1236 matrix metalloproteinase inhibition COPD Respiratory & AZD9668 neutrophil elastase inhibitor COPD In ammation MEDI-563 anti-IL-5R antibody asthma MEDI-545 anti-IFNa antibody SLE, myositis 1 Pneumococcal vaccine pneumococcal vaccine streptococcus pneumoniae AZD3199 iLABA asthma COPD CAM-3001 anti-GM-CSFR antibody rheumatoid arthritis MEDI-534 RSV PIV-3 vaccine intranasal immunisation MEDI-560 PIV-3 vaccine intranasal immunisation H5N1 H5N1 in uenza virus vaccine pandemic in uenza vaccine Infection MEDI-564 F-protein inhibitor RSV treatment CMV vaccine CMV vaccine cytomegalovirus MEDI-557 YTE extended half-life RSV MAb RSV prophylaxis PHASE II NCEs AZD0837 thrombin inhibitor thrombosis 2012 2012 Cardiovascular AZD4121 cholesterol absorption inhibitor dyslipidaemia AZD2207 CB1 antagonist diabetes obesity AZD3355 inhibitor of transient lower oesophageal GERD 2011 2011 Gastrointestinal sphincter relaxations TLESR AZD3480 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist cognitive disorders in schizophrenia 2011 2011 Neuroscience AZD3480 neuronal nicotinic receptor agonist Alzheimers disease 2011 2011 AZD6765 NMDA receptor antagonist depression Zactima VEGF EGF TK inhibitor with RET kinase activity medullary thyroid cancer 4Q 2008 4Q 2008 AZD6244 ARRY-142886 MEK inhibitor solid tumours Oncology AZD2281 PARP inhibitor breast cancer AZD0530 SRC kinase inhibitor solid tumours and haematological malignancies MEDI-561 Hsp 90 inhibitor solid tumours 2010 AZD9056 ion channel blocker P2X7 rheumatoid arthritis 2012 2012 AZD1981 prostaglandin receptor antagonist asthma Respiratory & In ammation AZD5672 chemokine antagonist CCR5 rheumatoid arthritis 2012 2012 MEDI-528 anti-IL-9 antibody asthma DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 29 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED Estimated ling date Therapy area Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Europe US PHASE II NCEs CONTINUED CytoFab anti-TNF-alpha polyclonal antibody severe sepsis 1 EBV vaccine Epstein-Barr virus vaccine post-transplant proliferative disease Infection AZD2836 5a replicon hepatitis C MEDI-524 motavizumab MAb targets F-Protein early and late treatment of disease in infants 1 yr PHASE II LINE EXTENSIONS 2 2 Gastrointestinal Nexium proton pump inhibitor extra-oesophageal re ux disease 2H 2009 2H 2009 PHASE III NCEs AZD6140 ADP receptor antagonist arterial thrombosis 2H 2009 2H 2009 Saxagliptin dipeptidyl peptidase-4 DPP-4 inhibitor diabetes 2H 2009 2Q 2008 Cardiovascular Dapagli ozin sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 SGLT2 inhibitor diabetes 2010 2010 Crestor ABT-335 statin brate xed combination dyslipidaemia 2H 2009 Neuroscience PN400 naproxen esomeprazole signs and symptoms of OA, RA, and AS 1H 2009 1H 2009 Zactima VEGF EGF TK inhibitor with RET kinase activity NSCLC 4Q 2008 4Q 2008 3 Recentin VEGF signalling inhibitor VEGFR-TKI NSCLC and CRC 2010 2010 Oncology Recentin VEGF signalling inhibitor VEGFR-TKI recurrent glioblastoma 2010 2010 ZD4054 endothelin A receptor antagonist hormone-resistant prostate cancer 2011 2011 Infection Motavizumab MedImmune humanised monoclonal antibody RSV prevention 1H 2009 Filed PHASE III LINE EXTENSIONS Atacand angiotensin II antagonist diabetic retinopathy 1H 2009 1H 2009 Atacand Plus angiotensin II antagonist thiazide diuretic 32 12.5 mg, 32 25 mg for hypertension 2Q 2008 Crestor statin atherosclerosis Launched Launched Cardiovascular Crestor statin outcomes end stage renal disease 1H 2009 1H 2009 Crestor statin outcomes in subjects with elevated CRP 2010 2010 Saxagliptin metformin FDC DPP-4 biguanide FDC diabetes Dapagli ozin metformin FDC SGLT2 biguanide FDC diabetes Nexium proton pump inhibitor peptic ulcer bleeding 2Q 2008 2Q 2008 4 Nexium sachet formulation proton pump inhibitor GERD Approved Launched Gastrointestinal Nexium low dose proton pump inhibitor low dose aspirin associated peptic ulcer 1H 2009 aspirin combination Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist schizophrenia Approved Launched 2 2 Seroquel D 5HT antagonist bipolar maintenance 2Q 2008 Filed 2 2 Seroquel D 5HT antagonist bipolar depression 1Q 2008 Launched 2 2 Neuroscience Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist generalised anxiety disorder 4Q 2008 2Q 2008 2 2 Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist major depressive disorder 3Q 2008 1Q 2008 2 2 Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist bipolar mania 1Q 2008 Filed 2 2 Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist bipolar depression 1Q 2008 Filed 2 2 Faslodex oestrogen receptor antagonist first-line advanced breast cancer Oncology Faslodex oestrogen receptor antagonist adjuvant Iressa EGFR-TK inhibitor NSCLC 2Q 2008 5 6 Respiratory & Symbicort pMDI inhaled steroid fast-onset, long-acting agonist asthma Filed Launched 2 5 In ammation Symbicort pMDI inhaled steroid fast-onset, long-acting agonist COPD Filed 2Q 2008 2 Infection FluMist MedImmune live, attenuated, intranasal in uenza virus vaccine in uenza 2Q 2008 Launched 1 Partnered product.
2 Project Extraesophageal re ux disease re ux asthma will be completed but will not result in a regulatory ling.
3 This compound is in Phase II III development.
4 Approved by EU reference member state, mutual recognition procedure ongoing.
5 To be supplemented in 2008 with data supporting two additional strengths.
6 US approval based on 12 years and above.
Comments As disclosure of compound information is balanced by the business need to maintain con dentiality, information in relation to some compounds listed here has not been disclosed at this time.
DIRECTORS REPORT 30 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED Therapy area Compound Areas under investigation DISCONTINUED NCEs AZD2479 dyslipidaemia AZD9684 thrombosis AGI-1067 atherosclerosis Cardiovascular AZD6610 dyslipidaemia AZD1283 thrombosis AZD3988 diabetes obesity AZD3118 arrhythmias Gastrointestinal AZD9056 in ammatory bowel disease AZD9272 neuropathic pain AZD6538 neuropathic pain Neuroscience AZD3783 anxiety and depression AZD1080 Alzheimers disease AZD5896 solid tumours AZD3646 solid tumours and haematological malignancies AZD1689 solid tumours 1 MEDI-507 siplizumab PTCL CTCL 1 MEDI-553 anti-CD22 leukaemia lymphoma 1 MEDI-542 solid tumours 1 MEDI-556 solid tumours AZD6495 range of tumours Oncology CAT-5001 solid tumours AZD5180 solid tumours MEDI-552 leukaemia lymphoma MEDI-555 solid tumours MEDI-562 solid tumours CAT-3888 hairy cell leukaemia AZD9935 solid tumours AZD4992 breast cancer AZD7928 COPD AZD6703 rheumatoid arthritis AZD1678 asthma AZD2392 asthma AZD9215 asthma Respiratory & In ammation MEDI-552 in ammation Anti-IL-6 MAb in ammation anti-chitinase MAb asthma COPD AZD6357 osteoarthritis AZD6605 osteoarthritis Infection hMPV MAb respiratory infection DISCONTINUED LINE EXTENSIONS Crestor outcomes CHF CHF Cardiovascular Seloken Toprol-XL HCTZ combination Nexium NSAID GI US ulcer healing Gastrointestinal Nexium NSAID GI side effects US symptom resolution Oncology Iressa BC breast cancer 2 Infection Synagis RSV 1 Compound entered the pipeline in April 2007, but has since been discontinued.
2 Minor activity ongoing, but will not lead to new indication formulation.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 31 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED SALES AND MARKETING have clear, consistent brand communications the programme focused on the South Asian Active in over 100 countries, we have an that are integrated across all our channels community where there was low awareness extensive worldwide sales and marketing of communication.
of the disease and the associated risks.
In the majority of key markets, Diabetic Awareness and Screening programme we sell through wholly-owned local marketing In the highly competitive environment in included holding awareness-raising events companies.
Elsewhere, we sell through which we work, driving top performance of and screenings in familiar settings such as distributors or local representative of ces.
our products in key markets is critical to our community centres, managed by a health Our products are marketed primarily to success.
As well as building on our leading worker who speaks South Asian languages physicians both primary care and specialist positions in existing key markets such as and a team of nurses.
The project resulted as well as to other healthcare professionals.
the US, Japan and Europe, we continue in over 500 people being diagnosed with Marketing efforts are also directed towards to increase our strength through strategic diabetes as well as the community becoming explaining the economic as well as the investment in the fast-growing markets of more aware of the need for screening.
therapeutic bene ts of our products to the future, such as China.
governments and healthcare buying groups.
During 2007, we also brought together Face-to-face contact is still the single most clinicians, patients, carers and advocacy Our Global Marketing GM function is effective marketing method, but increasingly group representatives from the US and responsible for developing and leading the efforts of our sales forces are being Europe in a first of its kind event designed our global brand strategy, to ensure strong complemented by our use of the internet to facilitate the sharing of experience and customer focus and commercial direction to facilitate and enhance our commercial insight regarding the treatment of mental in the management of our R&D and brand activities.
For a few products we also use health disorders.
The participants welcomed development activity, across the full range direct-to-consumer television advertising the opportunity for dialogue and discussion, of pipeline and marketed products.
As part campaigns in the US, where it is an approved and the insights gained from this workshop of this, GM works in partnership with our and accepted practice.
will help shape future programmes.
largest marketing companies to create a consistent platform upon which all our local The way in which biological products are Price regulation marketing companies can build according marketed and sold is an intensive, personal Our sales and marketing effort also has to take to individual market needs.
approach that is more targeted compared account of the fact that prescription medicines with traditional pharmaceuticals, with are subject to government controls on price We fide ne at an early stage of the drug extensive use of specialty pharmaceutical in most of our markets.
The main aspects discovery process what we believe the distributors and little direct-to-consumer of price regulation in our major markets are pro le of a medicine needs to be to work advertising.
described below: most effectively in combating a particular disease.
These disease target product A speci c focus on sales and marketing US pro les TPPs are based on the insight innovation is driving us to explore new ideas, Currently, there is no direct government GM provides into the needs of patients and including implementation of learning from control of prices for non-government drug others for whom the medicine must add other industries, to ensure AstraZeneca is sales in the US.
However, an increasing value, including regulators, prescribers and at the forefront in responding to the rapidly volume of pharmaceuticals are reimbursed those who pay for healthcare.
The attitudes changing external environment.
through the Medicare federal healthcare and needs of these groups are key drivers system for the elderly and the disabled and of the development of the TPPs which are As part of our ongoing dialogue with patients through the state Medicaid programmes for used throughout the life cycle of a medicine and their physicians to understand what they indigent populations.
Participation in these to guide our R&D activity and help shape the need and want, we also work to understand programmes imposes certain price controls therapy area and marketing strategies.
what more we can do to help them manage on pharmaceutical products that are the healthcare challenges, beyond the reimbursed through those systems.
State We view the need to understand and provision of effective medicines.
Medicaid programmes are, for example, demonstrate the value of our medicines to entitled to a mandatory discount or the best payers as key to creating access to medicines.
For example, to help patients keep up with commercial price available, whichever is Early in the development of new products, their treatment, we have been looking at better, and may also require additional we share our approach with payers and elicit ways in which mobile phone technology supplemental rebates.
Since the US their views to help ensure the value proposition and text messaging can be used to remind government, through these programmes, for the products is re ected in the clinical them when their medication is due.
This is may often be a large or, in some cases, the programme.
Speci c value teams are particularly appropriate for conditions, largest payer for certain products, these created to drive the formation of payer value such as schizophrenia, where outcomes are price controls can also have an effect on propositions that are relevant to the major critically affected when patients do not follow reimbursement rates established by private national payers.
We are also investing at the a regular regime.
US public and private payers are marketing company level to ensure we are able also increasingly implementing limits on the to tailor the value proposition to increasingly We also look at ways in which we can help amount and frequency of reimbursement for important regional budget holders.
to build awareness of health conditions and pharmaceutical and biotechnology products, encourage early diagnosis.
For example, rather than relying on direct price regulation.
GM is also responsible for developing the in the UK, working with the Airedale Primary This often means that the need for particular global communications strategy for each Care Trust, we piloted a new approach to medicines has to be justi ed with more brand, working closely with the major identifying patients with Type 2 diabetes, which rigour than in the past.
marketing companies to ensure that we is on the increase in the area.
In particular, DIRECTORS REPORT 32 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED Europe Japan scienti c congresses.
In the US, we have Most governments in Europe control the price There is formal central government control continued to re ne our extensive set of sales and reimbursement of medicines after taking of prices by the Ministry of Health, Labour and marketing policies to provide greater into account the clinical, economic and social and Welfare in Japan.
New product prices clarity to staff on our expectations for ethical impact of a product.
This budget-based are determined primarily by comparison with business conduct in the evolving external approach re ects increasing constraints existing product classes.
We have also continued to in overall healthcare spending and in some an overseas price referencing system, under reinforce new and existing policy through markets budget caps can have a serious which prices can be adjusted according communications and training of all employees.
impact on the uptake and availability to the average price of four major countries of innovative medicines.
Governments the US, the UK, Germany and France.
Line managers throughout our marketing increasingly require more assurance of the The price system was last reviewed in April companies monitor compliance within their cost-effectiveness of medicines as well as 2006, when measures were put in place teams, supported by dedicated compliance some assurance on predicted sales volumes.
that reduce the occurrence of upward price professionals, who also work to ensure that This has led to an increasing interest in new adjustment.
To qualify, the product must appropriate training in sales and marketing pricing and market access models within the now be available in at least two of the above practice is provided to all relevant staff.
industry as well as among health authorities markets.
Premium prices will be more readily Each Marketing Company President chairs and insurers.
available for innovative products and are a local Compliance Committee and most newly established for products registered local management team members are In several European countries, the pricing, for children under the age of 15.
In the US, the Executive Director, reimbursement and budgetary systems are dependent on satisfying all three fide ned North America, has delegated compliance continually reviewed, with the aim of controlling criteria for innovativeness: useful new oversight to the Business Integrity and and limiting the growth in drug expenditure.
mechanism of action: ef cacy or safety Assurance Team BIAT, which is headed by the This is an ongoing cost-containment process superior to similar drugs: and improvement VP Business Operations and includes senior that puts a downward pressure on prices in therapeutic methods.
All existing products representatives from across the business.
and reimbursement, as well as limiting the are subject to a price review based on the uptake of new medicines.
One example of market price at least every two years, and We also have a nominated signatory network this is the increasing focus on using generic the next review of the pricing rule is expected that focuses speci cally on approving versions of branded drugs, as seen in in April 2008.
The new system may include promotional materials for release, to ensure a number of countries such as France and an expansion of the pricing premiums or an that these meet all applicable internal and Spain.
This impacts the volume uptake of opportunity to raise prices based on evidence external code requirements.
At a global level, innovative medicines, which in many therapy of usefulness proven in post-launch studies.
our Group Internal Audit teams conduct local areas are now positioned as second-line Although Japanese pharmaceutical industry compliance audits within our Marketing agents for smaller patient populations.
Recent groups have been working to eliminate the Companies and Regional Of ces.
Marketing changes in legislation have also accelerated price revision of drugs under patent and Companies outside North America conduct regulatory approval for generic medicines.
to have the ability to determine pricing their own local audits under the control of themselves, these changes are not considered the Local Compliance Of cer, reporting to In Germany, therapy area reference pricing likely in the near future.
The long-term ambition the Regional Compliance Of cer.
was introduced in support of a general aim of the Japanese government is to raise generic to reduce spending on drugs, by calculating volume share from 17% to 30% by 2012.
Information concerning instances where new and lower reimbursement price levels.
Further reforms aimed at increasing generic our practices are not up to the standards These therapy area groupings are formed use may be determined in April 2008. required is collected through our continuous around broad drug classes such as statins compliance reporting process and reviewed and proton pump inhibitors, which include Sales and marketing ethics by senior management.
As appropriate, branded as well as generic products: this We are committed to ethical sales and serious breaches of the code are reviewed has driven signi cant price reductions or marketing practices worldwide that, as a by the AstraZeneca Board and the volume reductions for some patented drugs.
minimum, meet or exceed the standards set AstraZeneca Audit Committee, led by Increasingly, payers are driving the substitution by external regulations and codes of practice.
of generic medicines for innovative medicines To that end, we require all our national in the same therapy area.
companies to have national codes of The different national external frameworks for practice in place that are in line with our regulation of sales and marketing practices Overall, the introduction of new costown global Code of Sales and Marketing create a challenge in interpreting the key containment measures in Europe is increasing Practice and are at least as restrictive as all performance indicator KPI that we in frequency and intensity.
This escalating relevant external codes.
introduced in 2005 the number of cases of pressure on price and market access is con rmed breaches of codes or regulations increasingly targeted at recently introduced Over the past 24 months, AstraZeneca and all ruled by external bodies.
Nevertheless, the innovative medicines, which can delay the our af liate companies outside North America KPI provides a benchmark against which to availability of such medicines for several months have introduced a new, strengthened code measure our performance over time.
In 2007, and, in some cases, over a year.
This pressure of sales and marketing practice, supported we identi ed a total of 32 such cases 44 in typically manifests itself as higher price cuts by extensive training of all staff in all countries.
2006, based on information gathered from on faster-growing products, by therapy area Each local code provides details about 59 countries in which we have AstraZeneca reference pricing or by restricting formulary what is permissible and what is not and marketing companies or branch of ces where access to fewer patients than have been the financial limits, in local currency, for the we have signi cant subsidiary operations.
shown to bene t from treatment.
hospitality associated with meetings and DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 33 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED We believe this decrease re ects our and rewards our innovation with appropriate manufacturers.
The research-based industry continuing commitment in this area, and protection that allows the time for generating is also experiencing increased challenges arises primarily from our strengthened the revenue needed for continued elsewhere in the world, for example in Europe, internal procedures where our strict code pharmaceutical innovation.
Canada, Asia and Latin America.
We are of practice requires that medically quali ed con dent of the value of our innovations individuals authenticate all promotional or The first level of protection in our industry and, through close collaboration between scienti c material in advance.
The decrease is typically the patent to the new molecular our intellectual property experts and R&D should also be seen in the context of the entity NME, either a new chemical entity scientists, we will continue to seek to obtain continuing rise in strict standards from national NCE or a biological drug.
However, because effective patent protection for our intellectual and international codes.
Our 2007 gure we continue to explore all the ways in property, and vigorously defend our patents includes cases where our promotional which our medicines can bring bene t, if they are challenged.
Further information materials were challenged by competitor further innovations are often made during about the risk of the early loss and expiry of companies.
In addition there were some the R&D process and beyond: for example, patents is contained on pages 193 to 194. cases where, while not con rmed breaches, new formulations to provide different ways regulatory authorities raised concerns with us.
of taking the treatment, new medical uses Compulsory licensing the substantial and combination products.
Each of these elimination of patent rights to allow patented We take all breaches very seriously and developments also requires signi cant medicines to be manufactured by other take appropriate action to prevent repeat resource investment to obtain marketing parties is increasingly being included in occurrences.
This may include re-training, approval from regulatory authorities around the access to medicines debate.
We support discipline, or other corrective action up the world.
Our policy is to protect all the the appropriate use of compulsory licensing to and including dismissal, depending on innovations that result from the investment as implemented by the World Trade the circumstances.
we make in leading-edge science to deliver Organization WTO in December 2005 new and improved medicines.
following the agreement reached in August Accusations of inappropriate sales and 2003.
This enables developing countries marketing activities sometimes reach the We apply for patent protection relatively with no domestic manufacturing capability press and this is a part of the appropriate early in the R&D process to safeguard our to import copies of patented medicines to scrutiny that the pharmaceutical industry increasing investment.
We pursue these treat diseases such as HIV AIDS, malaria and undergoes.
When these incidents are patents through patent of ces around tuberculosis in a public health emergency.
examined by external code of practice or the world, responding to questions and We believe that this should apply only when regulatory bodies, they may or may not challenges from patent of ce examiners.
other ways of meeting the emergency needs conclude that the criticism was well founded In some countries, our competitors can have been considered and where healthcare and constituted a breach.
Only con rmed challenge our patents in the patent of ces, frameworks and safeguards to prevent breaches are included in our KPI.
Internally, and in all countries competitors can challenge diversion are in place to ensure that the all such incidents are fully investigated and our patents in the courts.
We can face medicines reach those that need them.
appropriate action taken, irrespective of challenges early in the patent process and whether a breach has been con rmed.
throughout the life of the patent, until the SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING patent expires some 20 to 25 years later We have some 12,200 people at 25 We can also gain useful information by patent expiry is typically 10 to 15 years manufacturing sites in 19 countries, examining the number of breaches relative after the first marketing approval is granted.
dedicated to delivering a secure, high quality, to other companies performance where These challenges can be to the validity of cost-effective supply of our small molecule such data are made public by the authorities.
a patent and or to the effective scope of product range worldwide.
Of these 12,200 AstraZeneca accounted for approximately a patent and are based on ever-evolving legal people, around 1,100 are employed in active 1% of all international breaches 3% in precedents.
There can be no guarantee of pharmaceutical ingredient supply and 10,500 2006, and while our number of breaches success for either party in patent proceedings in formulation and packaging.
We operate has fallen, the number of breaches for the taking place in patent of ces or the courts.
a small number of sites for the manufacture industry as a whole has increased.
of active ingredients in the UK, Sweden and Worldwide experience of biotechnology France, complemented by ef cient use of INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY patent procurement and enforcement is, outsourcing.
Our principal tablet and capsule Patents are important incentives for the like the technology itself, relatively young formulation sites are in the UK, Sweden, continued innovation that drives societys and still developing.
As a result, there can Puerto Rico, France and the US, and we also progress.
As described elsewhere in this be signi cant uncertainty about the validity have major formulation sites for the global report, the discovery and development of and effective scope of patent claims in the supply of parenteral and or inhalation products a new medicine demands a huge investment biotechnology arena, compared with the in Sweden, France, Italy and the UK.
Packaging of time, resource and money by researchsmall molecule pharmaceutical industry.
is undertaken at a large number of locations, based pharmaceutical companies over a The investment in bringing biotechnology both at our sites and at contractors facilities, period of 10 or more years.
For this investment innovations to the market is huge and a which are located close to our marketing to be a viable commitment for a company well-functioning, predictable patent system companies to ensure rapid and responsive to make, the results of the investment is vital.
Our biologics and vaccines new medicines must be safeguarded from business has some 600 people working at copying for a reasonable period of time with The generic industry is increasingly challenging four principal commercial manufacturing and a reasonable amount of certainty.
The principal innovators patents and almost all leading distribution facilities in the US and Europe.
safeguard in our industry is a well-functioning pharmaceutical products in the US have faced patent system that recognises our effort or are facing patent challenges from generic DIRECTORS REPORT 34 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED Customer service times and lower stock levels, which have During 2007, we satisfactorily responded to Providing first class customer service is core been achieved without compromise to high the regulatory compliance issues raised by to supporting the continued growth of our levels of customer service and quality.
the US Food and Drug Administration FDA business.
Our supply chains are structured We are driving further improvements using at MedImmunes FluMist bulk supply to be exible and responsive to the changing principles that focus on what adds value for our manufacturing facility in Speke, UK.
Since needs in our local markets, and in 2007 customers and patients, whilst simultaneously resolving the compliance issues that were we announced the establishment of regional eliminating waste.
MedImmune also follows listed as a part of a warning letter received of ces to further optimise supply chains and similar principles and continues to seek from the FDA in May 2007, we have support sales growth.
improvements in the production of both continued to take further quality clinical drug supply and commercial products.
improvement steps to ensure product supply Supply capability The approach to process development is available for future in uenza seasons.
Process improvements, continual asset affords cost ef ciencies throughout the review and the effective use of external development cycle of a product candidate Throughout the year, we have been actively partners ensure the secure and effective starting in discovery with support of the involved through our membership in industry supply of our products.
As part of our overall selection of molecules and cell lines, and associations in in uencing new product risk management, we carefully consider the continuing throughout a products manufacturing regulations, both at national timing of investment to ensure that secure commercial life cycle.
and international levels, primarily in Europe, supply chains are in place for our products.
We have a programme in place to provide The improvements made to our supply system appropriate supply capabilities for our new during the year are part of a wide-ranging cost Safety, health and environment products, including an assessment of needs and ef ciency programme.
This delivered SHE management for new technologies.
signi cant bene ts in 2007, and we are The Board is responsible for setting the expecting further progress in 2008 and beyond.
direction for SHE management within the In 2007, with the acquisition of MedImmune, During 2007, as part of the continuous Company and for ensuring that a SHE policy Inc. we gained immediate capabilities review of our manufacturing assets to make is established and integral to our business in process development, manufacturing sure that they are being used in the most activities.
The Chief Executive Of cer is and distribution of biological products, effective way, whilst preserving the exibility responsible to the Board for the management including worldwide supply capabilities we need to respond to uctuations in and performance of the Companys businesses for monoclonal antibodies and in uenza demand, we announced the sale of facilities within the framework of the SHE policy.
MedImmunes production in Monts, France: Plankstadt, Germany: at least an annual basis, the Board and Senior capabilities are scalable and should enable and in Indonesia and South Africa.
We also Executive Team formally review, and provide us to manage the development of the much announced our intention to close our direction on, the Companys SHE performance larger, combined, biologics and vaccines packaging site in Canada.
We will continue to and compliance status.
pipeline created as a result of the acquisition.
make further adjustments to our manufacturing base to ensure optimum use of our production SHE operating standards are increasingly Capital expenditure on supply and facilities.
For example, in February 2007, stringent, with regulators placing particular manufacturing facilities totalled approximately we announced our intention to reduce our emphasis on environmental issues and the $191 million in 2007 2006 $201 million, Operations workforce by 3,000 jobs over the safety of chemicals.
Our manufacturing sites 2005 $206 million across a range of projects.
next three years to address over-capacity in whether they are traditional chemical Our global purchasing policies and processes, the supply chain.
These reductions are the production facilities or biologics manufacturing together with our integrated risk management subject of a full consultation process with sites operate under various regulatory and process, are aimed at ensuring uninterrupted staff representatives to ensure that the process licensing regimes and internal management supply of raw materials and other key supplies, is fair and transparent.
systems, and we are focused on meeting all all of which are purchased from a range applicable requirements.
There are currently of suppliers.
Our process systematically Licence to operate no SHE issues that constrain us from fully examines a range of risks to global supply, We are committed to delivering assured utilising any facilities.
such as disasters that remove supply capability product quality that underpins both the safety or the unavailability of key raw materials.
and ef cacy of our medicines.
As part of this, We continue to track, actively participate It ensures that these risks are mitigated by the outcomes of routine internal inspections, in, and pursue internal initiatives relating to the implementation of contingency plans, as well as those by regulatory authorities, are international research and policy developments including the appropriate use of dual or rigorously reviewed and, if required, actions associated with emerging SHE policy multiple suppliers and maintenance of are taken to improve compliance consistently and legislative matters.
Examples include appropriate stock levels.
Although the price across the organisation.
The results of all pharmaceuticals in the environment, chemical of raw materials may uctuate from time to external inspections carried out during 2007 control regulations and climate change.
time, our global purchasing policies seek to were generally satisfactory and played a key It is possible that we could incur capital or avoid such uctuations becoming material part in the successful approval of a number operational costs in connection with future to our business.
All regulatory compliance voluntary activities or regulatory developments observations that were raised during relating to these issues including, for example, Cost efficiency inspections at our sites and at our partners process or equipment changes associated In 2007, we continued to focus on sites were resolved satisfactorily.
Where with wastewater quality, raw material improvements to our supply system, which appropriate, the experience and knowledge substitutions, green chemistry initiatives have demonstrated progressive bene ts.
obtained as a result of these inspections is or energy ef ciency.
We are addressing These include reduced manufacturing lead shared with other sites across the Group.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 35 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED More about our commitment to safety and effectively managing and developing all our We have global guidelines for our L&D health and the environment is set out on talent, communicating and fostering our core professionals and business leaders that pages 36 and 75 respectively.
In addition, values and improving our leadership capability describe a common set of principles for further information about our approach to are core priorities, alongside a commitment the design and delivery of L&D services and and detailed statistics about our SHE to ensuring the safety, health and wellbeing resources across the organisation.
These performance can be found on our website, of all our employees worldwide.
guidelines aim to ensure high standards of astrazeneca.
best practice are consistently applied in Setting clear targets and accountabilities the most ef cient way.
Planning for the future We have always recognised the importance Benchmarking our supply chain performance of good leadership and its critical role in Strengthening leadership capabilities against our industry peers shows that, in terms stimulating the high-level of performance and We recently reviewed our leadership of supply chain ef ciency, we perform very engagement that is essential to our continued development frameworks to see where strongly.
We are committed to building upon success in a changing and increasingly improvements could be made to further the signi cant progress already achieved challenging environment.
strengthen our ability to manage the challenges through the changes to our supply system, of our business environment, now and in the the embedding of lean and ef cient processes We know that simply setting high-level future.
We have identi ed six core capabilities, and the improved focus on the customer.
performance targets is not enough.
in relation to which we believe an increased In 2008, we plan to focus on four areas of Actions must be identi ed and accountability focus will signi cantly enhance leadership activity that will drive further improvement: assigned at the right levels to ensure these abilities at all levels: passion for customers: continuing to review asset utilisation and actions are implemented.
The roles and strategic thinking: acting decisively: driving potential outsourcing opportunities: driving responsibilities of the AstraZeneca Board performance: working collaboratively: and programmes to support operational excellence: and Senior Executive Team SET in setting developing people and the organisation.
integrating assets and services in distribution: and managing performance against these and further integrating all elements of the targets, and also more generally, are Now agreed by the SET, these capabilities supply chain to drive competitive advantage.
described on page 10. are being rolled out through a series of These activities will be underpinned by the face-to-face workshops across the development and implementation of an Optimising performance is a priority, and organisation.
They apply to all employees information strategy that best enables the managers are responsible for working with and will be used in performance management, delivery of supply chain excellence, coupled their teams to develop performance targets leadership development, talent management, with the development of a culture that will against which individual and team contributions staf ng and selection.
All of our employees have clear performance targets, We have a range of global training PEOPLE developed with their manager, which are programmes designed to strengthen these appropriate to the individuals job and which leadership capabilities, enhance core EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHICAL LOCATION support the overall objectives of the business.
management skills and help our leaders In line with our commitment to integrating develop good working relationships across 17% UK 38% CONTINENTAL EUROPE corporate responsibility considerations the organisation.
These programmes are 30% THE AMERICAS into everyday business thinking across complemented by local initiatives, which 15% ASIA, AFRICA AND AUSTRALASIA AstraZeneca, appropriate corporate include functional or country speci c aspects responsibility objectives are also included of leadership development.
in performance objectives at all levels.
Monitoring and measurement This focus on ensuring clarity of business We continue to work to improve our global We employ over 67,000 people worldwide, targets is reinforced by performance-related reporting processes, building on our with the majority of our employees, in broad bonus and incentive plans.
AstraZeneca long-standing systems for local monitoring terms, located in the UK 11,800 employees, also encourages employee share ownership of compliance with our Human Resources Continental Europe 25,600 employees and by offering employees the opportunity to policy and standards.
We have made a the Americas 20,200 employees.
Of these, participate in various employee share plans, major investment in this area and are in the approximately 3,000 employees are part which are described in the Directors process of implementing a global Human of MedImmune.
Remuneration Report on page 98 and also Resources information system that will drive in Note 26 to the Financial Statements on consistent people management practices We value the diversity of skills and abilities page 153. and information standards worldwide.
that a global workforce brings to our business, The system was launched in the UK, Sweden and within our performance-led culture we Learning and development and China during 2006 and during 2007 focus on linking the strategic and operational To help them deliver their best, we encourage another 12 countries went live, including the needs of the business with the skills and and support all our people in developing their US, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, talent of all our people worldwide.
This means capabilities to the full with a range of high Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, giving our employees the support they need quality learning and development L&D Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and Vietnam.
to develop their full potential and providing opportunities.
For example, we have a learning This major initiative means we now have a working environment in which they thrive management system designed to facilitate consistent, detailed and integrated people and are clear about their individual objectives the L&D processes, where our people can information available at a global level covering and how these align to the Company strategy.
search and nd necessary development over 40,000 employees.
Optimising individual and team performance, opportunities online.
DIRECTORS REPORT 36 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED Human rights employee perceptions.
We use a range of that their local activities are consistent with We are fully supportive of the principles set communications media, as well as face-toour high level principles.
out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, face meetings, to ensure our people are kept and our Code of Conduct and supporting up to date with business developments and The well-developed arrangements for policies outline the high standards of are clear about their individual and team roles interactions with trade union and worker employment practice with which everyone and targets.
Opportunities for giving feedback councils in the UK and Sweden provided in AstraZeneca is expected to comply, both are integrated into our communication the forum for productive discussion and in spirit and letter.
These include respecting programmes at all levels.
collaboration in 2007 with regard to the diversity and, as a minimum, complying with planned workforce reductions.
Elsewhere, national legal requirements regarding wages We also use a biennial, global, web-based our processes followed the nationally and working hours.
We also support the survey to track levels of employee determined arrangements.
As we continue International Labour Organisations standards engagement and identify areas that may to develop our global platform for managing regarding child labour and minimum age.
In 2006, we conducted HR going forward, we are working to ensure our fourth such survey as reported last year.
that the strength of our local management Equal opportunities During 2007, to ensure that we remain approaches is not undermined.
We believe that every employee should be engaged with employee perceptions between treated with the same respect and dignity.
global surveys, particularly in the light of European Consultation Committee All judgements about people for the purposes the recent business changes, we piloted Before it became a legal requirement under of recruitment, hiring, compensation, a snapshot survey of a representative European law in 1995, both our heritage development and promotion are made solely cross-section of employees that aims to companies, Astra and Zeneca, had European on the basis of a persons ability, experience, provide regular employee feedback for Consultation Committees ECCs in place.
behaviour, work performance and senior management.
The pilot survey in Our single AstraZeneca ECC comprises demonstrated potential.
As part of this, June indicated that some good progress is trade union representatives and locally we are committed to complying with the being made in comparable Global Employee elected employees, and is chaired by a provisions of the Disability Discrimination Act Survey areas.
86% of the 3,000 respondents member of the SET.
The committee meets 1995, and judgements on recruitment, believe that senior leadership provides clear once a year and a sub-committee meets development and promotion are made solely direction for AstraZeneca and individuals quarterly to discuss, among other things, on ability and potential, taking into account have clear personal objectives.
However, business developments and any potential only matters relevant to the performance the Survey showed that we still have work to impact these may have on the workforce.
We make any reasonable do in some areas of rewarding performance adjustments that are necessary to assist 35% unfavourable, and ensuring we fully Managing the impact of business change disabled employees to perform their role.
utilise the talents and abilities of our staff Our continuing strategic drive to improve 36% unfavourable.
Following the success ef ciency and effectiveness resulted in the Diversity of the pilot, we now aim to conduct these announcement during 2007 of a planned Our goal continues to be to ensure that surveys on a regular basis and senior reduction of the workforce in some areas diversity is appropriately supported in our management teams will take account of of our business.
To ensure that a consistent workforce and re ected in our leadership.
the feedback from them when assessing approach, based on our core values, was Talent management, including diversity, is progress against functional objectives and continues to be adopted throughout the included in our SET objectives and we have and planning for the coming year.
programme, speci c guidance was provided a set of minimum standards that support for the HR teams and line managers global alignment in the integration of diversity Employee relations throughout the organisation.
Our challenge and inclusion into our human resources The legal frameworks governing employee is that there are differences in the legal HR processes.
relations vary from country to country, as frameworks and the customary practice in does custom and practice.
One of our main the different geographies which are most As an indicator, 26% of the 81 senior managers challenges in this area is to ensure a level affected by the business changes, but the reporting to the SET are women.
The change of global consistency whilst allowing enough global guidance provided aims to ensure in ratio from 2006 33% of 79 senior managers exibility to support the local markets in that the same or similar elements are is not a result of a reduced commitment to building good relations with their workforces included in local implementation.
These diversity, but was due to re-organisations that take account of local laws and include, for example, open communication within the Company at a senior manager circumstances.
To that end, relations with and consultation with employees, face-tolevel, which meant that reporting lines were trade unions are nationally determined and face meetings, re-deployment support and changed in some areas.
As a result, some managed locally in line with the applicable appropriate financial arrangements.
In line roles are now reporting directly to the SET legal framework and standards of good with our core values, we expect the people that did not in 2006, and others are no practice.
Managers throughout AstraZeneca affected to be treated with respect, sensitivity, longer reporting to SET members.
are trained in consultation requirements as fairness and integrity at all times.
well as relevant labour law.
Training is done at Communication and dialogue a local level and we have a range of HR and Promoting a safe, healthy workplace We continue to encourage an open and line manager networks for sharing experience Providing a safe workplace and promoting participative management style at every level.
and good practice, and promoting alignment the health and wellbeing of all our people The sharing of information, and providing across the organisation.
At a global level, remains a core priority for AstraZeneca.
the opportunities for feedback, is essential we have a Head of Employee Relations who As we continue to expand and change our to maintaining employee con dence in supports national management in ensuring business, we are strengthening and adjusting AstraZeneca, and to the understanding of our commitment to safety, health and DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 37 OUR RESOURCES, SKILLS AND CAPABILITIES CONTINUED wellbeing, by building on our traditional The frequency rate for accidents resulting We also have plans in place to deal with the programmes, which focus on workplace in fatal and serious injury for AstraZeneca potential threat of pandemic u, including the behaviours and attitudes: learning from employees increased in 2007 2.65 per million provision of anti-virals for employees based accidents that do occur: and developing hours when compared to 2006 2.37.
While in areas where adequate supplies may not be new approaches to managing stress and it is dif cult to assign a speci c cause for this available through national treatment regimes.
helping employees understand their personal frequency rate increase, we are, through health risks.
communication, training, and other initiatives MAIN FACILITIES designed to reinforce personal commitment We own and operate numerous manufacturing, Backed by our Global Safety, Health and to SHE, working hard to ensure improvement marketing and R&D facilities worldwide.
Our Environment SHE Policy and Group-wide in this area during 2008 and beyond.
corporate headquarters are in London, UK objectives and associated 2010 improvement and we have a signi cant presence in Sweden targets, we aim to drive continuous The overall lack of improvement in our driver and the US.
Our key safety record, despite our recent efforts, is performance indicator KPI for safety, health a major concern for us.
The risks associated Out of a total of 17 principal R&D sites in and wellbeing combines the frequency rates with driving cannot be eliminated entirely, but eight countries, our main small molecule for accidents resulting in fatal and serious they can be actively managed and minimised.
R&D facilities are in the UK Alderley Park: injuries and new cases of occupational illness Good driving practice and the creation of Maccles eld: and Charnwood : Sweden into one KPI, with an overall target of a 50% a safe driving culture are the most effective Lund: MIndal: and Sdertlje : the US reduction in the combined rates by 2010, ways of reducing the risk of accidents, and Boston, Massachusetts and Wilmington, compared with a 2001 2002 reference point.
we are determined to further strengthen our Delaware.
Our main R&D sites for discovery We are continuing to work with MedImmune effort in these areas.
research are in Canada Montreal, Quebec : to effectively align our workplace health and France Reims : India Bangalore : China safety programmes at a strategic level.
During 2007, we began the development Shanghai : and the UK Arrow Therapeutics Regardless of the nature or pace of business of an international framework for the London site.
We have a clinical development change, we are committed to ensuring that consistent management of driver safety.
Our principal R&D all AstraZeneca staff work in an environment The framework, which is planned for launch sites for biologics and vaccines are in the US where health and safety risks are understood in early 2008, reinforces the need, and Gaithersburg, Maryland and Mountain View, and managed responsibly.
provides the structure for strengthening our California and the UK Cambridge.
commitment in this priority area, whilst still Accidents: rates and causes allowing for local interpretation that takes Out of a total of 29 manufacturing sites in We regret that during 2007, there were four account of the various driving environments 20 countries our principal manufacturing fatal accidents, three of which were related we have some 22,000 drivers in 63 facilities are in the UK Avlon and Maccles eld : to driving.
In three separate accidents, countries around the world.
The framework Sweden Snckviken and Gartuna, Sdertlje : a sales representative was killed in a collision complements and strengthens our ongoing the US Newark, Delaware and Westborough, with another vehicle whilst driving on Company efforts to actively raise the pro le of driver Massachusetts : Australia North Ryde, New business in Canada, Russia and Austria.
safety, particularly among our sales teams South Wales : France Dunkirk and Reims : Full investigations into the circumstances by far the largest group that drive on Italy Caponago : Japan Maihara and Puerto around these accidents are being carried out.
Bulk drug production is The fourth fatality occurred at our Operations concentrated in the UK, Sweden and France.
site in Wuxi, China when a maintenance Health and wellbeing Manufacturing operations for biological engineer was killed while repairing a goods We continue to make signi cant investment products take place at facilities in the US elevator door.
A full investigation was in providing a wide range of health and Frederick, Maryland and Philadelphia, conducted and the learning incorporated wellbeing improvement programmes Pennsylvania : the UK Speke : and The into a training package that is now being throughout the Group, focused on encouraging Netherlands Nijmegen.
shared across all our Operations sites and and empowering employees to take personal other functions, as appropriate.
Programmes vary according Substantially all of our properties are held two vehicle accidents involving AstraZeneca to health risk pro le, function and culture, freehold, free of material encumbrances employees, one in Turkey and the other in and include general health initiatives aimed and we believe such properties are t for the Philippines, sadly resulted in the death at increasing exercise levels, reducing their purposes.
of two members of the public.
Investigations smoking, improving nutrition and managing are ongoing.
In addition, a US employee stress.
We also encourage and support a who had been injured in a driving accident healthy work life balance, including exible during 2005 sadly died as a result of his working opportunities.
In our ongoing efforts to tackle work-related We work hard to identify the root causes stress, currently our greatest single cause of any serious accident and use a range of occupational illness, we are adopting an of investigation procedures to help us increasingly proactive, risk-based approach, avoid repetition.
Learning is shared with using wellbeing risk assessment tools to management and staff, and our conclusions identify high risk areas and target interventions about underlying causes are used to improve more effectively.
Other areas of focus include our SHE management systems.
the promotion of good ergonomic practices and industrial hygiene.
DIRECTORS REPORT 38 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK Number of meetings attended CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: The Board maintains and regularly reviews number of meetings Director OPERATION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS a full list of matters and decisions that are Name was eligible to attend in 2007 Introduction reserved to, and can only be approved by, 1 Bo Angelin 3 3 The Board is responsible for the Companys the Board.
These include, among other things, 2 Sir Peter Bonfield 4 4 corporate governance, sets the Companys the appointment, termination and remuneration David Brennan 9 9 strategy and policies and also monitors of any Director: approving the annual budget: 3 progress towards meeting its objectives and approving or supporting any item of xed John Buchanan 8 9 annual plans.
The Board discharges these capital expenditure or any proposal for the 3 Jane Henney 8 9 responsibilities through a programme of acquisition or disposal of an investment 3 Michele Hooper 8 9 meetings that include a formal, annual or business which exceeds $150 million: 3, 4 Joe Jimenez 1 2 strategy review.
The Board also assesses the raising of any capital or loan by the 5 whether and to what extent its obligations to Company or subsidiary of the Company Simon Lowth 1 1 the Companys shareholders and others are subject to certain exceptions : the giving of Hkan Mogren 9 9 understood and met.
This includes regular a guarantee in respect of any borrowing of the 6 Erna Mller 4 4 reviews of the Companys financial Company: and allotting shares of the Company.
John Patterson 9 9 performance and critical business issues.
The matters that have not been expressly reserved to the Board have either been Dame Nancy Rothwell 9 9 In the view of the Board, at least half of the delegated to the Board committees or the 3 Louis Schweitzer 8 9 Board members are, for the purposes of the Chief Executive Of cer.
Further information 7 Jonathan Symonds 6 6 UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance can be found on pages 39 Board Committees 3 John Varley 7 9 and the corporate governance standards of and 20 Chief Executive Of cer, delegation of 3 the New York Stock Exchange, independent authority and Senior Executive Team.
Further information 1 Appointed 25 July 2007 in accordance with the can be found on page 43 Independence of Details about the Boards composition, Companys Articles of Association.
Directors under the UK Combined Code.
processes and responsibilities are set out on 2 Retired from the Board at the AGM on 26 April pages 17 to 19.
2007 in accordance with the Companys Articles of Prior to the publication of this report, the Association and did not offer himself for re-election.
3 Board conducted its annual review and Board meetings Unable to attend one or more meetings due to an unscheduled urgent commitment or prior con ict.
assessment of how it operates.
This was As part of the business of each meeting of the 4 Resigned 12 April 2007. done without external facilitation, although the Board, the Chief Executive Of cer will typically 5 Appointed 5 November 2007 in accordance with Board did make use of a series of web-based submit a report describing the activities in the Companys Articles of Association.
questionnaires that were developed in each key area of the business and detailing 6 Retired from the Board at the AGM on 26 April conjunction with Lintstock, a leading corporate progress against the goals the Board has 2007 in accordance with the Companys Articles of governance consulting company.
The Board also receives accounting Association and did not offer herself for re-election.
7 consideration and discussion of the nature and other management information to assist Resigned 31 July 2007. and level of its interaction with the Companys in the assessment of the use of financial and management: the quality, quantity and scope nonfinancial resources, as well as presentations Given the nature of the business to be of information which ows to the Board from internal and external speakers to assist conducted, some Board meetings are from management, and the way in which it in the understanding of legal, governance convened at short notice.
As a result, it is ows: the content of Board meetings and and regulatory developments as well as occasionally dif cult for certain Directors to presentations to Board meetings: the external perspective issues.
rearrange prior engagements in order for composition of the Board: the practical them to attend such meetings.
Where one or arrangements for the work of the Board: The Company Secretary is responsible, on more Director is unable to attend a meeting and the work and operation of the Boards behalf of the Chairman, for ensuring that all of the Board, provided that the meeting is committees.
Overall, Board members Board and Board committee meetings are quorate without that Director or those Directors, concluded that the Board and its properly conducted, that the Directors the meeting will proceed as scheduled.
In any committees were operating in an effective receive appropriate information prior to event, the brie ng papers will still be sent to and constructive manner.
meetings to enable them to make an effective the absent Directors and those Directors will contribution, and that any governance typically make their comments and feedback As part of the assessment process, the requirements are considered and on the business to be discussed at the Chairman reported to the Board on his implemented.
meeting known to the Chairman, who can conversations with each Non-Executive then raise these views at the meeting.
Director about his or her individual The Board held six scheduled and three other performance and that of the Board as a meetings in 2007.
Six of the Board meetings The Board is currently scheduled to meet six whole.
The Non-Executive Directors were held in London, one in Boston and two times in 2008, and will meet at such other reviewed the performance of the Chief by teleconference.
The following table shows times as may be required to conduct business.
Executive Of cer and other Executive how many meetings each of the Directors Directors in their absence.
In addition, the participated in: Board changes Board, under the chairmanship of the Senior There is an established procedure operated Independent Director, reviewed the by the Nomination Committee for the performance of the Chairman in his absence.
recommendation to the Board of the appointment of new Directors.
Appointments are based on the merits of the candidates, DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED who are measured against objective criteria, On joining the Board, new Directors are CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: and care is taken to ensure that appointees provided with comprehensive documentation, OPERATION OF BOARD COMMITTEES have enough time to devote to the job.
which sets out their obligations and duties The Board has delegated certain responsibilities Further details of the type of criteria used to as Directors.
New Directors also typically to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination select candidates are set out on page 42 attend tailored induction programmes Committees.
The Board has also established Nomination Committee.
In accordance designed to take into account their individual a Science Committee for the purpose of with the Companys Articles of Association, skills and experience.
In order to develop reviewing matters within its remit, further all Directors retire at each Annual General an understanding of the views of major details of which are described below.
Meeting AGM and may offer themselves for shareholders about the Company, the The Board provides adequate resources re-election by shareholders see below for Non-Executive Directors together with the to enable each committee to undertake its more details.
The Board reviews annually rest of the Board regularly receive reports and duties.
Each of the Audit, Remuneration the status of succession to senior positions, presentations from the Companys brokers and Nomination Committees is made up of including those at Board level, and ensures and meet with senior managers throughout Non-Executive Directors, although Executive it has regular contact with, and access to, the year.
Moreover, at the AGM, the Directors Directors may be invited to attend meetings.
actively encourage the attendance of Members of the Science Committee include shareholders and their asking questions.
Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors During the 2007 financial year: and certain senior managers.
Further details of Election and re-election of Directors the role, membership and terms of reference Joe Jimenez resigned from the Board Under Article 65 of the Companys Articles for each committee are set out below.
on 12 April 2007 after agreeing to take up of Association, all of the Directors are a full-time executive appointment with required to retire at the AGM in April 2008.
Audit Committee Novartis, the Swiss-based healthcare The Notice of AGM will give details of those In recent years, the Audit Committee agenda group.
Mr Jimenez served the Company Directors presenting themselves for election has been shaped by the requirements to as a Non-Executive Director for or re-election at the AGM.
monitor the implementation of the Groups approximately four years and was a compliance with various new developments member of the Remuneration Committee.
Insurance, indemnities and in the external regulatory environment, professional advice including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, International At the AGM on 26 April 2007, Sir Peter The Company maintained Directors Financial Reporting Standards, changes to Bon eld and Erna Mller, both Nonand Of cers liability insurance cover the UK Combined Code and the Smith Executive Directors, stepped down from throughout 2007.
In 2007, the Committee sought to the Board.
Sir Peter Bon eld served the ensure that the amended systems of Company as a Non-Executive Director The Directors are also able to obtain compliance and governance have become for 12 years and worked as a member of independent legal advice at the expense of embedded effectively within the business, various Board committees including the the Company, as necessary in their capacity supporting the Groups strategic objectives Remuneration Committee acting as as Directors.
as well as providing assurance to the Chairman and the Nomination Committee.
Regular reviews Erna Mller served the Company as a In early 2006, and subsequently in the of key accounting judgements and financial Non-Executive Director for eight years case of new Directors joining the Board, results continued as well as the risk-based having formerly served as a Director of the Company entered into a deed of review of key issues.
Astra AB for four years and also worked indemnity in favour of each Board member.
JOHN BUCHANAN as a member of various Board committees Under Article 134 of the Companys Articles of Chairman of the Audit Committee including the Remuneration Committee Association, the current Directors and of cers and, most recently, the Science Committee.
were already indemni ed in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
However, consistent The current members of the Audit Committee In accordance with Article 70 of the with recent changes to the Companies Act are John Buchanan who chairs the committee, Companys Articles of Association, 1985, and in the interests of retaining Jane Henney and Michele Hooper.
They are all which gives the Directors the power to high-quality, skilled individuals, current Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers appoint a new Director nominated by the market practice is for companies to enter each member to be independent under the Nomination Committee who can then into a separate deed of indemnity in favour UK Combined Code and under the general hold of ce until the next AGM at which of each Director.
As at the date of this report, guidance and speci c criteria of the New York they will be eligible for re-election, these deeds of indemnity are still in force and Stock Exchanges NYSE corporate Bo Angelin was appointed as a Nonprovide that the Company shall indemnify the governance listing standards concerning the Executive Director on 25 July 2007.
Directors to the fullest extent permitted by composition of audit committees applicable law and the Companys Articles of Association, to non-US companies.
In May 2007, the Jonathan Symonds resigned from the in respect of all losses arising out of, or in Company submitted the required annual written Board with effect from 31 July 2007 to connection with, the execution of their powers, af rmation to the NYSE con rming its full pursue his career outside AstraZeneca.
duties and responsibilities, as Directors of compliance with those standards.
For the the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
purposes of the UK Combined Code, the Also under Article 70 of the Companys Board remains satis ed that at least one Articles of Association, Simon Lowth was member of the Audit Committee has recent appointed as a Director and the Chief and relevant financial experience.
At its meeting Financial Of cer of the Company with in December 2007, the Board determined that effect from 5 November 2007.
Michele Hooper is an audit committee financial expert for the purposes of the US SarbanesDIRECTORS REPORT 40 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED Oxley Act of 2002.
The Deputy Company related services and tax services.
The purpose of these meetings was to Secretary acts as secretary to this committee.
fide ne the type of work that falls within each facilitate free and open discussions between of these categories, as well as those non-audit the Audit Committee members and those The core remit of the Audit Committee includes, services that the external auditor is prohibited individuals, separately from the main sessions among other things, reviewing and reporting from performing under the rules of the US of the Audit Committee, which were attended to the Board on: Securities and Exchange Commission and by the Chief Financial Of cer and the Group other relevant UK professional and regulatory Financial Controller.
From July 2007 until the Matters relating to the audit plans of the requirements.
The pre-approval procedures appointment of Simon Lowth on 5 November external auditor and Group Internal Audit.
permit certain audit, audit-related and tax 2007, the Group Financial Controller acted services to be performed by the external as Chief Financial Of cer.
The Companys overall framework for auditor during the year, subject to fee limits internal control over financial reporting and agreed with the Audit Committee in advance.
During 2007 and January 2008, the business for other internal controls and processes.
The Chief Financial Of cer supported by the considered and discussed by the Audit Group Financial Controller and the Director Committee included the matters referred The Companys overall framework for risk of Group Tax monitors the status of all to below: management with particular emphasis on services being provided by the external financial risks.
The procedures also deal with the The Companys financial disclosures placing of non-audit work out for tender, were reviewed and various accounting The accounting policies and practices of where appropriate.
Authority to approve matters considered.
work in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to the Chairman of the Audit Reports were received from the external The annual and quarterly financial reporting Committee in the first instance.
Regular reports auditor concerning its audit of the financial carried out by the Company.
to the full Audit Committee are also provided statements of the Group and from for and, in practice, a standing agenda item management, Group Internal Audit and The Audit Committee is charged with promptly at Audit Committee meetings covers the the external auditor on the effectiveness of bringing to the attention of the Board any operation of the pre-approval procedures.
the Companys system of internal controls signi cant concerns of the external auditor or and, in particular, its internal control over the Vice-President, Group Internal Audit about The Audit Committees remit is available on financial reporting.
This included review and the conduct, results or overall outcome of the Companys website, astrazeneca.
discussion of the results of the Companys their audit work, any matters which may continuous assurance and annual letter signi cantly affect or impair the independence The Audit Committee held five scheduled of assurance processes.
These processes of the external auditor, any signi cant meetings during 2007.
Four of these meetings are described on pages 42 to 43.
The Audit fide ciencies or material weaknesses in the were held in London, UK and one meeting Committee also reviewed quarterly activity design or operation of the Companys internal was held in Boston, US.
All Audit Committee reports of audit work carried out by Group control over financial reporting or other members participated in all meetings either Internal Audit and the status of follow-up internal controls and any serious issues of in person or by telephone.
Following each Audit Committee meeting, The Audit Committee reviewed the The Audit Committee oversees the the Chairman of the committee or the Companys continuing work to comply establishment, implementation and Senior Non-Executive Director in the with the applicable provisions of the maintenance of the Companys Code absence of the Chairman of the committee US Sarbanes-Oxley Act the 2002 Act.
of Conduct and other related policies.
reported to the Board on the principal In particular, it regularly reviewed the It establishes procedures for the receipt and matters covered at the meeting.
The minutes status of compliance with the programme handling of complaints concerning accounting of Audit Committee meetings were also of internal controls over financial reporting or audit matters.
It recommends to the Board circulated to all Board members.
implemented pursuant to section 404 of the appointment of the external auditor, subject the Act.
Further information about the to the approval of the Companys shareholders In addition to attendance at Audit Committee implementation of section 404 of the Act is at a general meeting.
Shareholders in a general meetings, members of the Audit Committee set out in the Financial Review on page 92. meeting authorise the Directors to x the met individual managers or groups of remuneration of the external auditor.
The managers from the Company on a number The Audit Committee reviewed data about Audit Committee reviews and approves the of occasions during 2007.
This direct contact calls made by employees to the Companys appointment and any dismissal of the with other managers helped the Audit Code of Conduct whistleblowing helpline Vice-President, Group Internal Audit.
Committee members gain a deeper insight either seeking guidance on issues, or into areas relevant to the Audit Committees raising concerns, together with the results The Audit Committee maintains policies and work and provided an opportunity to discuss of enquiries into these matters.
No material procedures for the pre-approval of all audit speci c areas of interest.
issues were reported through this route services and permitted non-audit services during the year.
undertaken by the external auditor.
The During the year, in line with its normal practice, principal purpose of these policies and the Audit Committee also held a number of The Audit Committee reviewed the procedures is to ensure that the independence private meetings, without management Companys new Code of Conduct.
of the external auditor is not impaired.
present, with both the Companys ViceThe policies and procedures cover three President, Group Internal Audit and the lead The Audit Committee reviewed both categories of work audit services, auditpartners from the Companys external audit the accounting matters relating to the DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED BOARD COMMITTEE MEMBERSHIP effectiveness of the Companys disclosure Audit Remuneration Nomination Science controls and procedures required by Item 1 Name Committee Committee Committee Committee Independent 15 a of Form 20-F as at 31 December 2007.
Bo Angelin x x x Based on their evaluation, the Chief Executive Of cer and the Chief Financial Of cer David Brennan x x x x x concluded that, as at that date, the Company John Buchanan Chair x x maintains an effective system of disclosure Jane Henney x controls and procedures.
2 Michele Hooper x x There was no change in the Companys Simon Lowth x x x x x internal control over financial reporting that Hkan Mogren x x x x occurred during the period covered by this John Patterson x x x x Annual Report and Form 20-F Information Dame Nancy Rothwell x x Chair 2007 that has materially affected, or is 3 reasonably likely to materially affect, the Louis Schweitzer x Chair x n a Companys internal control over financial John Varley x Chair x reporting.
Marcus Wallenberg x x x x x The Audit Committee is currently scheduled 1 As determined by the Board for UK Combined Code purposes.
2 to meet four times in 2008 and will meet at Michele Hooper is the Senior Non-Executive Director.
3 For the purposes of the UK Combined Code although determined by the Board to be independent such other times as may be required to on appointment.
Companys arrangements with Merck & that the Audit Committees terms of Remuneration Committee Co. Inc. resulting from the restructuring reference remain satisfactory and t for The remit and role of the Remuneration in 1998 of the joint venture between purpose, and therefore no changes were Committee is to consider, on behalf of the Astra AB and Merck & Co. Inc. and recommended for approval by the Board.
Board, the remuneration including pension the contractual arrangements which will rights and compensation payments of begin to affect the Company in 2008.
A review of the Groups liquidity and Executive Directors, the Chairman and nancing strategy in respect of the senior executives, more information on The Audit Committee reviewed reports acquisition of MedImmune, Inc. was which is set out on pages 100 to 105. relating to certain taxation matters, including also carried out.
the Companys continuing dialogue with The information contained in the Directors tax authorities around the world and The Audit Committee reviewed aspects of Remuneration Report on pages 98 to 114 considered these matters, where relevant, the Companys risk management processes relating to the remit and members of the in the light of accounting judgements.
as well as the Group risk pro le and risk Remuneration Committee during 2007, as management plans ahead of scrutiny by well as the independence of those members The Audit Committee heard reports the Board.
and the number of meetings they attended concerning the internal audit, global throughout the year, is incorporated into this compliance and global finance functions, In the context of the Companys Directors Report.
including the internal audit plan and accelerated internal change programme, progress and plans of the Global the Audit Committee considered the Nomination Committee Compliance Of cer.
potential impact on the Groups system During the year, a considerable amount of of internal control and, in conjunction time was spent both within and outside the The Audit Committee reviewed the amount with Group Internal Audit, identi ed areas framework of formal meetings considering of audit and non-audit fees of the external within the business most likely to be potential successor candidates for the role auditor throughout 2007.
The Audit impacted by this change programme for of Chief Financial Of cer and also the Committee was satis ed throughout the the purposes of being able to ensure need to strengthen the Board following the year that the objectivity and independence management maintained the retirements of Erna Mller and Sir Peter of the external auditor were not in any way effectiveness of these controls.
Bon eld and the resignation of Joe impaired by either the nature of the Jimenez that took place during the year.
I non-audit work undertaken by the external Following discussions at a meeting in January am con dent that the resulting appointments auditor during the year, the level of 2008, the Audit Committee unanimously of Simon Lowth and Bo Angelin have non-audit fees charged for such work or recommended to the Board that a resolution signi cantly added to the range of skills and any other facts or circumstances.
Further for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as experience re ected on the Board.
In 2008, information about the audit and non-audit the Companys external auditor be proposed the Committee will continue to review the fees for the year is disclosed in Note 29 to shareholders at the AGM in April 2008. composition of the Board.
to the Financial Statements on page 175.
LOUIS SCHWEITZER At the same meeting, the Chief Executive Chairman of the Nomination Committee A review and assessment of the Audit Of cer and the Chief Financial Of cer Committees performance and terms of presented to the Audit Committee their reference was carried out.
It was concluded conclusions following the evaluation of the DIRECTORS REPORT 42 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED The remit of the Nomination Committee is, When recruiting Directors, the Nomination To review, from time to time, together with after appropriate consultation with the Committee typically works with the Board other external experts important bioethical Chairman and Chief Executive Of cer, to to consider the particular skills, knowledge, issues faced by the Company and to make proposals and recommendations to experience and calibre that would bene t assist in the formulation of, and to agree the Board for any new appointments as the Board most signi cantly for each on behalf of the Board, appropriate Directors of the Company.
However, any appointment, as well as the need for policies in relation to such issues.
decisions relating to the appointment of a succession planning in relation to the Director are made by the entire Board and reappointment of Directors who retire by To consider with external experts, from not the Nomination Committee.
rotation in accordance with the Companys time to time, future trends in medical Articles of Association.
Typically, broad science and technology.
The members of the Nomination Committee selection criteria are used which focus during 2007 were Louis Schweitzer who on achieving a balance between the The Science Committees remit is available on chairs the committee, Hkan Mogren, representation of European, UK and US the Companys website, astrazeneca.
Peter Bon eld, Jane Henney and, since markets as well as focusing on medical and 25 April 2007, Michele Hooper and scienti c expertise.
For example, in respect The Science Committee met twice in 2007 John Varley.
As part of the succession of the recommendation of Bo Angelin as a to review and discuss its remit and method planning of the Company, Peter Bon eld Non-Executive Director, the Nomination of operation, the Companys Cardiovascular stepped down as a Director and member of Committee took the view that it would be R&D as well as its science policy.
Each the Nomination Committee on 26 April 2007. advantageous to have on the Board another member participated in both meetings except All the current members of the Nomination Director with relevant scienti c experience, for Erna Mller who resigned on 26 April 2007 Committee are Non-Executive Directors.
and who was able to offer good scienti c and Bo Angelin who was appointed as a With the exception of the Chairman and and commercial skills.
After consideration Non-Executive Director on 25 July 2007.
Hkan Mogren for the reasons explained on of their quali cations, candidates are shortpage 43 below, the Board considers them listed for interview with members of the CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: all to be independent for the purposes of Committee and, if recommended by the PRINCIPAL UK AND the UK Combined Code and applicable Committee, are then considered by the full US GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS corporate governance listing standards of Board before appointment.
UK Combined Code on the NYSE.
The Company Secretary acts as Corporate Governance secretary to this committee.
The Nomination Committees remit is The Board has prepared this report with available on the Companys website, reference to the UK Combined Code on The Nomination Committee formally met astrazeneca.
Corporate Governance published in June twice in 2007 and conducted other business 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council, in respect of the recruitment of Simon Lowth Science Committee and related guidance.
Each member attended both The Science Committee consists of people of the formal meetings except for Peter who are expected to have a knowledge of, The Company is applying all the main and Bon eld who resigned on 26 April 2007, or an interest in, life sciences.
During 2007, supporting principles of good governance in Michele Hooper and John Varley who were its members were Nancy Rothwell who the UK Combined Code.
The way in which appointed as members on 25 April 2007 chairs this committee, Jane Henney, Erna these principles are being applied is described and Jane Henney due to a diary con ict.
Mller until 26 April 2007, Jan Lundberg, below.
The principal tasks in relation to nomination John Patterson and Bo Angelin since 25 July matters in 2007 related to the appointment 2007.
They are all Non-Executive Directors, The Company has complied throughout the of Michele Hooper and John Varley as except Jan Lundberg and John Patterson.
accounting period and is also continuing to members of the Nomination Committee, The Global Head Discovery, Strategy, Portfolio comply with all of the provisions of the UK the appointment of Bo Angelin to the Board and Project Evaluation is also invited to Combined Code.
following the resignations of Peter Bon eld attend all meetings and acts as secretary to and Erna Mller at the 2007 AGM, the this committee.
Internal controls, risk management recommendation of a replacement for Joe and Turnbull Report guidance Jimenez and the appointment of Simon Lowth The Science Committee was established in The Board has overall responsibility for the as successor to Jonathan Symonds as Chief late 2006 and its remit is: Companys system of internal controls.
The Nomination Committee the publication in September 1999 by the received advice from independent external To provide assurance to the Board Institute of Chartered Accountants in England consultants in respect of the appointment regarding the quality, integrity and and Wales of the Turnbull Report, Internal of Simon Lowth.
Given the criteria used in competitiveness of the Companys scienceControl: Guidance for Directors on the UK respect of the appointment of Bo Angelin, based R&D activities.
The Committee Combined Code, the Directors have continued neither an external search agency nor open aims to assure itself that the approaches to review the effectiveness of the Groups advertising was used, as it was felt that and targets adopted throughout the R&D system of controls, risk management and AstraZeneca itself was best placed to identify organisation are competitive and an the Groups high-level internal control candidates with relevant experience and appropriate use of shareholders funds, arrangements.
These reviews have included expertise.
The Nomination Committee also but is not expected to review individual an assessment of internal controls, and in reviewed the knowledge, experience and research or licensing projects.
particular internal, financial, operational and balance of the Board and the requirements compliance controls and risk management, for future Non-Executive Directors in the light To consider reports from or join any meeting supported by management assurance of the of the strategic and business objectives of with any relevant external advisory board maintenance of control, reports from Group the Company.
when the Company is considering entry Internal Audit, as well as the external auditor into new areas of science or medicine.
on matters identi ed in the course of its DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 43 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED statutory audit work.
The Board is also Further information about the work undertaken appointment.
In accordance with the UK responsible for reviewing the effectiveness during 2007 to enable the Company to Combined Code, the Board has not considered of the system of internal controls and risk comply with the SEC rules that implement the independence of the Non-Executive management policies.
The system is designed section 404 can be found in the Financial Chairman since his appointment.
to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Review on page 92.
The Directors failure to achieve business objectives and assessment of the effectiveness of the For the reasons explained below, the Board can only provide reasonable not necessarily internal control over financial reporting is set believes that neither Hkan Mogren, absolute assurance of effective operation out on page 116.
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, nor and compliance with laws and regulations.
Marcus Wallenberg can be determined The New York Stock Exchange NYSE independent under the UK Combined Code.
Underpinning these reviews is an annual The Company, as a foreign private issuer However, the Board believes that both letter of assurance process by which with American Depositary Shares listed on Hkan Mogren and Marcus Wallenberg have responsible managers con rm the adequacy the NYSE, must disclose any signi cant brought, and continue to bring, considerable of their systems of internal financial and ways in which its corporate governance business experience and to make valuable nonfinancial controls, their compliance practices differ from those followed by US contributions to the work of the Board.
with Group policies and relevant laws and companies under the NYSEs corporate regulations including the industrys regulatory governance listing standards.
In addition, Hkan Mogren was previously the Chief requirements, and con rm they have the Company must comply fully with the Executive Of cer of Astra AB and Executive reported any control weaknesses through provisions of the listing standards that relate Deputy Chairman of the Company and is the Groups continuous assurance process.
to the composition, responsibilities and now a member of the Board of Directors of operation of audit committees.
These Investor AB, a company that, as at 31 The internal control framework has been in provisions incorporate the rules concerning December 2007, held approximately 3.5% operation for the whole of the year under audit committees implemented by the SEC of the Ordinary Shares of the Company.
This review and continues to operate up to the date under the 2002 Act.
holding represents a signi cant proportion of of the approval of this report.
The Directors Investor ABs overall investment portfolio.
believe that the Group maintains an effective, The Company has reviewed the corporate embedded system of internal controls and governance practices required to be followed Marcus Wallenberg was a member of the complies with the Turnbull Report guidance by US companies under the NYSEs listing Board of Directors and Chief Executive and, in the view of the Directors, no signi cant standards and its corporate governance Of cer of Investor AB until 1 September failings have been identi ed in the system.
practices are generally consistent with those 2005, when he stepped down.
However, not all members of Further information on the ways in which we the Nomination Committee are considered The Board also considered, in particular, manage our business risks is set out in the independent for these purposes, as explained the position of Michele Hooper.
Michele section titled Managing Risk on page 47. in more detail below.
Hooper joined the board of UnitedHealth Group as a Non-Executive Director in 2007.
The US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 The Companys Audit Committee complies It was a condition of the Boards approval to AstraZeneca PLC American Depositary with the provisions of the listing standards this appointment that should Michele Hooper Shares are traded on the New York Stock that relate to the composition, responsibilities be required to resign from either the board of Exchange and, accordingly, the Company and operation of audit committees.
In May UnitedHealth Group or the Board of the is subject to the reporting and other 2007, the Company submitted the required Company as a result of con ict or nonrequirements of the US Securities and annual written af rmation to the NYSE independence, Michele Hooper would resign Exchange Commission SEC applicable to con rming its full compliance with those and from the board of UnitedHealth Group.
It is foreign private issuers.
Section 404 of the other applicable provisions.
Further information the Boards view that Michele Hooper is US Sarbanes-Oxley Act the 2002 Act requires about the Audit Committee and its work independent and that she discharges her companies to include in their annual report during 2007 is set out above on pages 39 duties in a properly independent manner and on Form 20-F led with the SEC a report to 41. constructively and appropriately challenges by management stating its responsibility for the Executive Directors and the Board.
establishing internal control over financial Independence of Directors under the reporting and to assess annually the UK Combined Code Jane Henney is a Non-Executive Director of effectiveness of such internal control.
During 2007, the Board considered the AmerisourceBergen Corporation and CIGNA The Company has complied with those independence of each Non-Executive Corporation, both of which are customers of provisions of the 2002 Act applicable to Director, including Michele Hooper.
With the the Group in the US.
The Board has considered foreign private issuers.
The Board continues exception of two of them as set out below these relationships and concluded that they to believe the Group has a sound corporate and the Non-Executive Chairman, the Board did not compromise her independence.
governance framework, good processes considers that all of the Non-Executive for the accurate and timely reporting of its Directors are independent in character and The position of Senior Non-Executive financial position and results of operations judgement and that there are no relationships Director of the Company was established in and an effective and robust system of internal or circumstances that are likely to affect, or 2002.
Michele Hooper who was appointed controls.
The Company has established a could appear to affect, their independent as a Non-Executive Director in 2003 Disclosure Committee, further details of judgement.
The Board also considers that took over from Peter Bon eld as Senior which can be found on page 44.
Louis Schweitzer, who was appointed Non-Executive Director with effect from Non-Executive Chairman with effect from 26 April 2007.
1 January 2005, was independent on DIRECTORS REPORT 44 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED Code of Conduct Work is also underway to revise the more areas: ensuring coordination of compliance The policy of the Company is to require all detailed Global or Group Policies that auditing and monitoring: reviewing results: of its subsidiaries, and their employees, to support the Code of Conduct, so that they and addressing signi cant policy violations observe high ethical standards of integrity provide clearer guidance in plain language and identifying trends.
and honesty and to act with due skill, care, to managers and employees on expected diligence and fairness in the conduct of behaviours and the processes necessary Disclosure Policy and business.
The Groups management seeks to to embed appropriate behaviour in Disclosure Committee reinforce the standards outlined in the Code the organisation.
The Groups Disclosure Policy provides a of Conduct throughout the business.
In framework for the handling and disclosure particular, all employees are required to comply The Group also has a Finance Code of of inside information and other information of with the letter and spirit of the AstraZeneca Conduct that complements the main interest to shareholders and the investment Code of Conduct and with the standards AstraZeneca Code of Conduct and applies community.
It also fide fines the role of the detailed by the Company in support of it.
to the Chief Executive Of cer, the Chief Disclosure Committee.
The Chief Financial Financial Of cer and the Groups principal Of cer, the Executive Director, Development, The AstraZeneca Code of Conduct is accounting of cers including key Finance the Group Secretary and Solicitor, the available on the Companys website, staff in major overseas subsidiaries.
The Vice-President, Corporate Affairs, the astrazeneca.
It is an important Finance Code of Conduct also applies to all Vice-President, Investor Relations and the demonstration of the Groups Finance function employees and reinforces Group Financial Controller were the members uncompromising commitment to honesty the importance of the integrity of the Groups of the Disclosure Committee during 2007. and integrity.
The Group maintains Financial Statements, of the reliability of the The Deputy Company Secretary acts as procedures for raising integrity concerns, accounting records on which they are based secretary to this committee.
The Disclosure which include a con dential helpline for and of the robustness of the relevant controls Committee meets regularly to assist and employees worldwide.
inform the decisions of the Chief Executive employees compared with 106 employees Of cer concerning inside information and its in 2006 used the con dential helpline and Compliance disclosure.
Periodically, it reviews the Groups other routes to seek guidance on corporate The role of the Global Compliance function is disclosure controls and procedures and its responsibility issues or to raise concerns, all to help embed a culture of ethics and integrity own operation as part of work carried out to of which were reviewed by Group Internal at AstraZeneca.
enable management and the Board to assure Audit and reported on, as appropriate, to the themselves that appropriate processes are Audit Committee.
To date, no material issues The key priorities for our Global Compliance operating for the Companys planned have been identi ed through this route.
function for 2007 2008 are closely aligned disclosures, such as its quarterly results with the Companys strategic priorities.
announcements and scheduled investor Our Code of Conduct represents our relations events.
In addition, the Disclosure public commitment to working responsibly, In addition to the work described above on Committee members are members of the is addressed to all stakeholders and the new Code of Conduct and Global steering group that reviews the drafts of, and accessible externally as well as internally.
Policies, compliance risk and assurance the process for preparing, this Annual Report framework assessments have been and Form 20-F Information.
During 2007, our Code of Conduct and undertaken to identify the key compliance Group policies have been fundamentally risks we face and how we address them.
Recognising the importance to shareholders reviewed.
The Board has approved a new The goal is to streamline governance and the investment community of news about Code of Conduct, and as a result a new processes and ensure clearer certain of the Groups key development and global policy structure is being prepared accountabilities within the business as well marketed products, much of the Disclosure for launch in 2008.
A critical element of the as among governance functions.
We are Committees work in 2007 focused on effective implementation of the new Code enhancing the global Code of Conduct ensuring that accurate, complete and timely of Conduct and Global Policies will be to helpline to ensure employees are better able disclosures were made concerning Crestor, provide clear training and education to all to raise concerns.
Work is also continuing in Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort, AGI-1067, employees on the key elements of the Code relation to our capability to address concerns ZD4054 and saxagliptin, among other things.
of Conduct and supporting policies with which that are raised, by ensuring stronger Another important area of focus was they must comply.
The Senior Executive oversight of investigations of potential policy transactions such as the acquisition of Team SET has a business performance violations globally, enhanced training of MedImmune, Inc..
In addition, the Disclosure management objective of training all our individuals conducting investigations, and Committee held frequent ad hoc meetings to employees on the new Code of Conduct more transparent and consistently applied review speci c disclosure issues.
The new Code will be translated remediation and disciplinary procedures.
into multiple languages and issued to all Disclosure of information to auditors employees.
The purpose of the new Code During 2007, the Global Compliance The Directors who held of ce at the date of of Conduct is to provide more comprehensive Committee was established, comprising approval of this Directors Report con rm guidance to all employees as to their compliance representatives from all SET that, so far as they are each aware, there is accountabilities in key ethical and compliance areas, including MedImmune.
The role of no relevant audit information of which the risk areas, including interactions with the committee is to oversee and coordinate Companys auditors are unaware: and each healthcare professionals and organisations, implementation of an effective global Director has taken all the steps that he she anti-bribery laws, product promotion and compliance programme and evaluate its ought to have taken as a Director to make con icts of interest.
It does this by assessing key himself herself aware of any relevant audit compliance risks within and across SET information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 45 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED Group Internal Audit AstraZeneca UK Limited: Algeria liaison communication with shareholders.
At the Group Internal Audit GIA is an independent of ce, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, 2007 Annual General Meeting AGM of the appraisal function that derives its authority Chile, Costa Rica, Croatia, Cuba, Ghana Company, a resolution was approved to from the Board through the Audit Committee.
scienti c of ce, Kazakhstan, Romania, enable the Company to place shareholder Its primary role is to provide reasonable and Russia, Serbia and Montenegro, Slovenia communications such as the Notice of objective assurance to the Directors about and Ukraine.
AGM on the corporate website for those the adequacy and effectiveness of the shareholders who wish, or have been defaulted Companys financial control framework, AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scienti c of ce, under the provisions of the Companies Act compliance with laws, regulations and Latvia, Saudi Arabia scienti c of ce 2006, to access such communications via policies and risk management processes.
GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities AstraZeneca Export and Trading AB: Estonia, The Company has frequent discussions with set down in its charter by reviewing: Lithuania and the United Arab Emirates.
institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting its performance.
These include The processes for ensuring that business Dividend meetings following the announcement of the risks are effectively managed.
The Companys dividends for 2007 of $1.87 annual results with some of the Companys 93.0 pence, SEK 12.10 per Ordinary Share largest institutional shareholders on an The financial and operational controls amount to, in aggregate, a total dividend individual basis.
The Board considers it that help to ensure that the Groups payment to shareholders of $2,740 million.
important to understand the views of assets are properly safeguarded from shareholders, and receives reports of the losses, including fraud.
Going concern accounting basis concerns raised with senior management by In view of the Companys resources, results of institutional shareholders at these meetings.
The controls that help to ensure the operations and overall financial condition, the In addition, the Company responds to reliability and integrity of management Directors continue to adopt the going concern individual ad hoc requests for discussions information systems.
basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
from institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Groups Investor Relations department The processes for ensuring compliance Changes in share capital acts as a main point of contact for investors with policies and procedures and external Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share throughout the year.
The Senior Non-Executive legislation and regulation other than capital during 2007, including details of the Director is also available to shareholders if those relating to safety, health and the allotment of new shares under the Companys they have concerns that contact through the environment and product regulatory share plans, are given in Note 30 to the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive compliance, which are the responsibility Financial Statements.
Of cer, Chief Financial Of cer and or the of other audit functions.
Group Investor Relations department has Mandatory shareholding for Directors failed to resolve, or in relation to which such On an ad hoc basis, whether value for The Companys Articles of Association contact is inappropriate.
money is obtained in terms of ef cient require each Director to be the bene cial use of the Groups resources.
owner of Ordinary Shares in the Company All shareholders, including private investors, with an aggregate nominal value of $125 have an opportunity at the AGM to put GIA also reviews other functions and risk 500 shares.
Such holding must be obtained questions to members of the Board on areas at the request of the Audit Committee within two months of the date of the Directors matters relating to the Companys operation and senior management and acts as a appointment.
At 31 December 2007, all of and performance.
Formal noti cation of the source of constructive advice and best the Directors complied with this requirement AGM is sent to shareholders at least one practice, assisting senior management with and full details of each Directors interests in month in advance.
The Chairmen of the its responsibility to improve governance, shares of the Company are set out in the Boards committees ordinarily attend the control, compliance and risk management.
Directors Remuneration Report on pages 98 AGM to answer questions raised by to 114. shareholders.
In line with the UK Combined CORPORATE GOVERNANCE: Code, details of proxy voting by OTHER MATTERS Shareholder communications shareholders, including votes withheld, are Subsidiaries and principal activities Shareholder communication and engagement made available on request and are placed on AstraZeneca PLC is the holding company are very important to the Company.
In its the Companys website following the AGM.
for a group of subsidiaries whose principal financial and business reporting to activities are described in the Directors Report shareholders and other interested parties by Returns to shareholders on pages 8 to 96.
Principal subsidiaries and means of quarterly, half-year and full-year The Companys stated distribution policy their locations are given on page 177. reports, the Board aims to present a balanced comprises both a regular cash dividend and and understandable assessment of the a share re-purchase component, which Branches and countries in which the Groups financial position and prospects.
provides a exible means of returning value Company conducts business to shareholders, while allowing the Company In accordance with the Companies Act The Company maintains a corporate website to deliver its business investment programme 1985, we disclose below the members of astrazeneca.
com containing a wide range and manage its capital structure more the Group that have representative or of information of interest to institutional and ef ciently over time.
scienti c branches of ces outside the UK: private investors.
The Company considers its website as an important means of DIRECTORS REPORT 46 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED The Boards distribution policy and its overall donations to be made or political expenditure Where disclosures are required they can be financial strategy is to strike a balance to be incurred by the Company or its found in other parts of this report as listed between the interests of the business, our subsidiaries in the EU.
The Companies Act below, each of which is incorporated into shareholders and our financial creditors, 2006 introduced new provisions, which this Directors Report: whilst maintaining a strong investment grade came into force on 1 October 2007 allowing rating.
The Board continually reviews its a UK-incorporated holding company to pass Structure of the Companys share capital shareholders return strategy, and in 2007 a composite resolution in respect of all of its and rights and obligations attaching to re-stated its intention to grow dividends in line subsidiaries.
Neither the Company nor its shares contained in the Corporate with reported earnings before restructuring subsidiaries made any donations or incurred Information section starting on page 200. and synergy costs, with an aim to maintain any expenditure in 2007 in the EU in respect at least two times dividend cover.
of which shareholder authority or disclosure Signi cant holders of the Companys in this report is required under the 2000 Act.
shares contained in the Shareholder The Board expects to undertake share Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries Information section starting on page 186. re-purchases in the region of $1 billion in intend to make any such donations or incur 2008, subject to business needs.
any such expenditure in the EU in the Appointment and replacement of foreseeable future.
However, the 2000 Act Directors contained in the Corporate Pursuant to the shareholders resolution fide fines political organisation broadly and, Governance section starting on page 38. passed at the 2007 Annual General Meeting for example, interest groups or lobbying authorising the Company to purchase its own organisations concerned with the review of Powers of Directors contained in the shares, during 2007 the Company purchased government policy or law reform may be Corporate Governance section starting 79.9 million of its own Ordinary Shares with a caught by the fide nition.
on page 38. nominal value of $0.25 each for cancellation, at an aggregate cost of $4.2 billion.
Also during To enable the Company to continue to support Amendments to the Companys Articles 2007, 4.7 million shares were issued in such organisations without inadvertently of Association contained in the Corporate respect of employee share plans for a breaching the 2000 Act, a resolution will be Information section starting on page 200. total consideration of $0.2 billion.
The net proposed at the AGM on 24 April 2008 to number of shares re-purchased in 2007 authorise the Company and its subsidiaries There are no signi cant agreements to which was therefore 75.2 million, which represents to make i donations to political parties, the Company is a party that take effect, alter 4.9% of the Companys issued share capital ii donations to political organisations other or terminate on a change of control of the at 1 January 2007. than political parties and iii incur political Company following a takeover bid.
expenditure, up to an aggregate limit of Since the Company began its share $250,000.
Use of financial instruments re-purchase programmes in 1999, a total Notes 16 and 17 to the Financial Statements of 362.7 million Ordinary Shares have been In 2007, AstraZenecas US legal entities pages 136 to 141 include further information purchased for cancellation at an aggregate made contributions amounting in aggregate on the Companys use of financial instruments.
This represents to $321,645 2006 $416,675 to state approximately 20.4% of the Companys total political party committees and to campaign Creditor payment policy issued share capital at the time the re-purchase committees of various state candidates It is not Company policy formally to comply programme commenced in 1999. af liated with the major parties in accordance with the Confederation of British Industrys with pre-established guidelines.
No corporate code of practice on the prompt payment of The Company executes the share re-purchase donations were made at federal level and all suppliers.
It is, however, Company policy to programme through a combination of contributions were made only where allowed agree to appropriate payment terms with all discretionary purchases and through by US federal and state law.
American citizens suppliers when agreeing to the terms of irrevocable, non-discretionary instructions.
or individuals holding valid green cards each transaction, to ensure that those The Company continues to maintain robust exercised decision-making over the suppliers are made aware of the terms of controls in respect of all aspects of the share contributions and the funds were not provided payment and, subject to their compliance, re-purchase programme to ensure compliance or reimbursed by any non-US legal entity.
abide by the terms of payment.
The total with English law and the Financial Services Such contributions do not constitute political amount of money owed by AstraZeneca PLCs Authoritys Listing Rules, Disclosure and donations or political expenditure for the subsidiaries to trade creditors at the balance Transparency Rules and Prospectus Rules.
purposes of the 2000 Act and were made sheet date was equivalent to 81 days In particular, the Companys Disclosure without any involvement of persons or average purchases.
No equivalent disclosure Committee meets to ensure that the Company entities outside the US.
is provided in respect of AstraZeneca PLC, does not give instructions to purchase its as it has no external creditors.
own shares during prohibited periods.
At the Takeovers Directive AGM on 24 April 2008, the Company will Following the implementation of Directive Annual General Meeting seek a renewal of its current permission from 2004 25 EC of the European Parliament and The Companys AGM will be held on Thursday shareholders to purchase its own shares.
of the Council the Takeovers Directive by 24 April 2008.
The meeting place will be in certain provisions of the Companies Act London.
A Notice of AGM will be sent to all Political donations 2006, the Company is required to make registered holders of Ordinary Shares and, Under the UKs Political Parties, Elections certain additional disclosures.
where requested, to the bene cial holders and Referendums Act 2000 the 2000 Act, of shares.
shareholder authority is required for political DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 47 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED External auditor Group Internal A resolution will be proposed at the AGM OVERSIGHT OF RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESSES: Audit Board and Audit Committee on 24 April 2008 for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc, London as auditor of Process of Establishing, MONITORING AND REVIEW Group Internal the Company.
risk reporting Audit and monitoring OF RISK MANAGEMENT: and assurance and auditing Global Senior Executive Team with delegation as Compliance risk assurance The external auditor has undertaken various considered appropriate within the Group processes pieces of non-audit work for the Company Global MANAGEMENT OF RISKS: during 2007.
More information about this Compliance Business Functions work and the audit and non-audit fees paid by the Company are set out in Note 29 to the Financial Statements on page 175.
The external auditor is not engaged by the Company to carry out any non-audit work on which it might, in the future, be required to express an audit opinion.
As explained more fully on page 40, the Audit Committee Industry Economic Environment Risks has established pre-approval policies and Reputation Reputation procedures for audit and non-audit work permitted to be carried out by the external auditor and has carefully monitored the objectivity and independence of the external auditor throughout 2007.
Legal Regulatory Business Execution Bureau Veritas Compliance Risks Risks Bureau Veritas HS&E Ltd has provided external assurance on corporate responsibility related information within this Annual Report and Form 20-F Information, and of the detailed content of the Responsibility Reputation section of AstraZenecas corporate website.
Bureau Veritas has found the information provided within this report as accurate and reliable.
The full assurance statement containing detailed scope, methodology, RISKS overall opinion and recommendations can be found on AstraZenecas website, astrazeneca.
com: web page content EXAMPLES OF EXAMPLES OF EXAMPLES OF assured by Bureau Veritas is marked at LEGAL REGULATORY INDUSTRY ECONOMIC BUSINESS the bottom of each page.
COMPLIANCE RISKS ENVIRONMENT RISKS EXECUTION RISKS Adverse outcome of litigation Expiration of patents or R&Ds failure to yield Bureau Veritas is an independent professional and or government marketing exclusivity.
products that achieve services company that specialises in Quality, investigations and risk of commercial success.
Patent litigation and early loss insufficient insurance coverage.
Health, Safety, Social and Environmental of patents, marketing Unsuccessful strategic Difficulties in obtaining and exclusivity or trademarks.
Management with a long history in providing maintaining regulatory Expiration or earlier loss of Reliance on third independent assurance services, and an approvals for new products.
patents covering competing party suppliers.
annual turnover in 2006 of 1.8 billion.
Failure to observe continuing products.
Failure to obtain Product launch delay.
We continue to integrate risk management Impact of fluctuations in Productivity initiatives.
across all business functions to ensure that Debt-funding arrangements.
managers understand the importance of Owning and operating a identifying risks and how they should be biologics and vaccines business.
We provide a risk management Competition, price controls framework that managers can use to and price reductions.
recognise, assess and actively manage the Taxation.
Set out opposite is Substantial product liability claims.
a diagrammatical depiction of the principal Performance of new products.
risks that we face and, in broad terms, Environmental occupational the way in which those risks are managed.
Further details are provided in the Risk Developing our business in emerging markets.
DIRECTORS REPORT 48 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED Risks We also use predictive tools to guide across AstraZeneca to ensure that we have To eliminate duplication of effort and ensure chemical synthesis activities and clinical appropriate systems in place for identifying clear accountabilities, we made a number of data and genetic information to validate the risks and opportunities associated with re nements to our risk management structure targets.
The overall effect should be to our corporate responsibility, together with during the year.
Building on our increasing give us a stronger portfolio.
effective frameworks for managing them, focus on integrated risk management, the monitoring progress against our objectives Risk Advisory Group was dissolved and its To manage pressure on price and and ensuring compliance with all relevant responsibilities assumed by our business market access, we continue to focus on policies and standards.
leadership teams who identify, monitor and developing differentiated products that manage risks as an integral part of business offer improved treatment options to meet We also established a cross-functional, planning and performance management.
patient needs and bring economic bene t cross-territorial Issues Management Council to healthcare systems.
When setting the IMC, which monitors our external environment Key risks are included in each functions or price of a medicine, we aim to re ect its for new and emerging issues relating to the Senior Executive Teams SET quarterly full value to customers, patients and our business that affect or concern our performance report and the SET will focus in society in general.
Our pricing will also take stakeholders.
This team then works with the particular on cross-functional risks, agreeing account of the fact that, as a publiclypeople who are responsible for managing the on the most signi cant risks affecting the owned company, we have a duty to ensure issues internally to agree appropriate actions, organisation and the industry.
We review our that we continue to deliver value for our timelines and, where possible, key performance key risk pro les annually on both a functional shareholders.
We balance many different indicators.
The Vice-President, Public Affairs and a Group level, and the results of these factors, including ensuring appropriate chairs the IMC and is also a member of the reviews are considered by both the Audit patient access, in our global pricing Global Compliance Committee to ensure Committee and the Board.
Risk management policy, which provides the framework for that any reputational risk is fully captured at tools and expertise are deployed, where optimising the pro tability of our products the appropriate level.
appropriate, to assist senior managers in in a sustainable way.
identifying, assessing and developing These developments during 2007 are strategies for managing risk in their respective Our approach to risk management includes intended to strengthen our approach to areas of responsibility.
There is also a rolling the development of robust business integrating corporate responsibility into our programme of training staff in effective continuity plans, and such plans are business management and governance integrated risk management and a network designed to provide for situations in which frameworks.
In so doing, we eliminated the for the sharing and embedding of best practice.
speci c risks have the potential to have a need for a Global Corporate Responsibility severe impact on our business.
During 2007, Committee, which was discontinued during The main areas of risk that we face are our business continuity planning activities the year.
Having used this committee as a discussed in the description of Risk on pages continued to build on the work previously forum for developing the frameworks we 193 to 199 and the summary of internal done to prepare for the possibility of needed for integrating corporate responsibility controls and management of risk on pages pandemic u, aimed at ensuring the across the business, we believe its elimination 42 to 43 Corporate Governance.
Examples development of robust plans to support will further enhance line manager ownership of our approach to managing certain speci c business continuity for all regions and key and accountability.
At the same time we took the opportunity to review and further Working with suppliers Our internal programmes and management strengthen our crisis management planning We believe that effective risk management systems are designed to ensure that we and response structures, including plans, extends to managing any potential reputational maintain compliance with all applicable escalation processes and crisis risks associated with our purchasing activities.
environmental, health and safety laws, communications.
This resulted in the We therefore aim to work only with those regulations, licences and permits at each production of draft global standards for suppliers who embrace standards of corporate of our operating facilities.
We also implement crisis management and business continuity, responsibility that are similar to our own.
This robust programmes that anticipate, and which will be rolled out and implemented applies across the full range of our purchasing proactively manage, policy and legislative during 2008, and will support the Group activities, from promotional items to developments relevant to the business.
We will be seeking pharmaceutical ingredients, and includes any full compliance with the standards by specialised work for which we use external As part of our risk management process the end of 2008, including alignment of contractors to complement our in-house in R&D, we have developed priority documentation, training of line managers effort, such as animal research.
We provide criteria intended to predict the success and the use of crisis simulation activities guidance for our purchasing community that of compounds early and so to give those to test the new procedures.
describes the framework for developing and compounds in our programmes the best implementing the functional, regional and chance to reach the market.
Our focus During 2007, we strengthened our corporate site-speci c programmes needed to ensure on quality, speed and volume has resulted responsibility leadership and governance that we effectively and consistently integrate in greater outputs from discovery into with the establishment of a new function, corporate responsibility considerations into development.
An increased use of Group Public Affairs, which is leading the our buying practice.
biomarker data has made major development of our strategic approach and contributions at the key decision points on aligning the tactical delivery.
The new group whether to progress or reject compounds.
works closely with Global Compliance and with senior business and functional leaders DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 49 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND MANAGING RISK CONTINUED A rolling implementation Integrating corporate responsibility CR considerations into the many thousands of supplier relationships we have around the world will take time.
CR considerations are included in all new contracts and master agreements in the US, the UK and Sweden, our three main business hubs where over 80% of our suppliers are based and we are now extending the geographic reach, focusing initially on suppliers in countries where we have other major marketing, manufacturing or research activities.
These include Japan, China, India, Canada, Mexico and Puerto Rico, as well as more countries in Europe.
Monitoring performance In January 2007, we broadened the scope of our rolling programme of audits that include CR to cover formulation and packing suppliers in addition to chemical intermediate and active pharmaceutical ingredient suppliers.
During the year, we audited a total of 33 manufacturing sites at 29 different suppliers, and these audits included SHE, CR, quality and security of supply.
The increase on 2006 17 audits re ects the extended scope of our programme described above.
Major findings relating to occupational health and safety at two of our suppliers have been discussed with, and satisfactorily addressed by, the companies concerned.
We updated our supplier evaluation procedure in 2007 to ensure that our audit activities prioritise those groups with the highest potential to impact our business continuity and our reputation.
A major step has been the further strengthening of the social elements of the evaluation, in particular human rights and labour standards.
Training will be provided to auditors to support the addition of these strengthened areas to the evaluation procedure during 2008.
The new procedure requires all our high-risk category suppliers be audited at least once every four years.
Medium risk suppliers are audited at the start of the business relationship and refresher audits are planned if there are any signi cant changes at the supplier.
Between 2004 and 2007, we have conducted audits of approximately 82% of the total number of suppliers eligible for audit, and plan to audit the remainder during 2008.
DIRECTORS REPORT 50 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CARDIOVASCULAR CV MEDICINES MARKETED PRODUCTS PERFORMANCE 1 Crestor rosuvastatin calcium is a 2007 compared to 2006 compared to 2007 2006 2005 2006 2005 member of the class of products known Growth Growth as statins and is used for the treatment due to due to Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth of high cholesterol levels and, in the US, Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % to slow the progression of atherosclerosis Crestor 2,796 673 95 2,028 745 15 1,268 33 38 59 60 in patients with high cholesterol as an Seloken Toprol-XL 1,438 393 36 1,795 62 2 1,735 22 20 3 3 adjunct to diet.
Other 291 14 22 283 27 1 311 5 2 9 9 2 Total 6,686 291 277 6,118 780 6 5,332 5 9 15 15 Atacand candesartan cilexetil is an angiotensin II antagonist for the first-line treatment of hypertension and symptomatic PIPELINE heart failure.
Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Phase Estimated filing date NCEs IIIIII Europe US Tenormin atenolol is a cardioselective JJJ AZD6140 ADP receptor antagonist arterial thrombosis 2H 2009 2H 2009 beta-blocker for hypertension, angina Saxagliptin dipeptidyl peptidase-4 diabetes JJJ 2H 2009 2Q 2008 pectoris and other CV disorders.
DPP-4 inhibitor 3 Dapagli ozin sodium-glucose diabetes JJJ 2010 2010 Zestril lisinopril dihydrate, an ACE inhibitor, cotransporter-2 is used for the treatment of a wide range SGLT2 inhibitor of CV diseases, including hypertension.
Crestor ABT-335 statin brate xed dyslipidaemia JJJ 2H 2009 combination Plendil felodipine is a calcium antagonist AZD0837 thrombin inhibitor thrombosis JJ 2012 2012 for the treatment of hypertension and angina.
AZD4121 cholesterol absorption dyslipidaemia JJ inhibitor AZD2207 CB1 antagonist diabetes obesity JJ AZD1175 CB1 antagonist diabetes obesity J 2007 IN BRIEF AZD1305 anti-arrhythmic arrhythmias J Crestor sales up 33% to $2.8 billion.
AZD6370 GLK activator diabetes J Over 12 million patients treated and more than 114 million prescriptions Line extensions written since launch.
Atacand angiotensin II antagonist diabetic retinopathy JJJ 1H 2009 1H 2009 New atherosclerosis indication Atacand Plus angiotensin II antagonist 32 12.5 mg, 32 25 mg JJJ 2Q 2008 for Crestor approved in the US.
thiazide diuretic for hypertension EU prescribing information updated Crestor statin atherosclerosis JJJ Launched Launched with positive atherosclerosis data.
Crestor statin outcomes end stage JJJ 1H 2009 1H 2009 renal disease Atacand sales up 9% to $1.3 billion.
Crestor statin outcomes in subjects JJJ 2010 2010 with elevated CRP Worldwide except Japan Saxagliptin DPP-4 biguanide FDC diabetes JJJ collaboration with Bristol-Myers metformin FDC Squibb to develop and commercialise Dapagli ozin SGLT2 biguanide FDC diabetes JJJ two investigational compounds for the metformin FDC treatment of Type 2 diabetes For discontinued projects see page 30. saxagliptin and dapagliflozin.
Generic versions of Toprol-XL now being marketed in the US at all dosage strengths.
Sales of Toprol-XL in the US down 30%.
Patent infringement actions filed against seven generic drug manufacturers in the US following abbreviated new drug applications relating to Crestor.
1 Licensed from Shionogi & Co. Ltd. 2 Licensed from Takeda Chemical Industries Ltd. 3 Licensed from Merck & Co. Inc.. DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 51 CARDIOVASCULAR CV MEDICINES CONTINUED WE ARE A WORLD LEADER IN CV MEDICINES, BACKED BY that Crestor users had a similar incidence of CV events to users of other statins at a median OVER 40 YEARS EXPERIENCE.
WE AIM TO BUILD ON OUR duration of therapy of 100 days.
However, STRONG POSITION, FOCUSING ON THE GROWTH AREAS OF amongst patients who were on statin therapy for nine months or longer, the incidence of DYSLIPIDAEMIA, THROMBOSIS, TYPE 2 DIABETES OBESITY, events was significantly lower in Crestor users.
These studies have limitations typical of observational research.
The large Crestor post-marketing surveillance programme in PRODUCTS or location and not restricted to patients Japan was successfully completed in April Crestor has now been approved in 91 countries with coronary heart disease, an important 2007, when it was confirmed that the safety and launched in 76, including the US, Canada, differentiation from other cholesterol-lowering of Crestor for Japanese patients was in line Japan and the majority of EU countries.
In addition, the Crestor prescribing with other statins.
Crestor was launched in China in April 2007. information in Europe was updated in July 2007 to incorporate positive atherosclerosis In December 2007, we filed patent Dyslipidaemia is increasingly recognised as a data from the METEOR study.
In January infringement actions against seven generic major health issue.
Of those people currently 2008, we announced the launch of a new drug manufacturers in response to receiving being treated for high cholesterol, only about clinical trial for Crestor, called SATURN, notices stating that they had filed abbreviated half reach their cholesterol goal on existing designed to measure the impact of Crestor new drug applications ANDAs in the US treatments.
In multiple clinical studies, Crestor 40mg and atorvastatin Lipitor 80mg on certifying their intent to market generic copies has been shown to be highly effective in the progression of atherosclerosis in high-risk of Crestor before the 2016 expiry of our patent lowering low-density lipoprotein cholesterol patients.
The study is expected to enrol more covering the active ingredient in Crestor.
or bad cholesterol LDL-C, allowing the than 1,000 patients across the world and We did not file patent infringement actions majority of patients to reach their LDL-C goals should be completed in 2011. against two other generic drug manufacturers with the 10mg usual starting dose.
Additionally, that similarly filed ANDAs seeking approval to Crestor produces an increase in high-density Data from the CORONA multi-national study market generic copies of Crestor.
Those lipoprotein cholesterol or good cholesterol in patients with advanced heart failure were ANDAs seek approval to market products only HDL-C, an effect that is observed across presented at the American Heart Association after expiration of the patent covering the active the 5, 10, 20 and 40mg doses.
At its usual 2007 Scientific Sessions in November 2007. ingredient in 2016.
Further information about 10mg starting dose, Crestor has been shown CORONA was a novel study that examined the the ANDAs in respect of Crestor is set out in to reduce LDL-C by up to 52% and raise effect of adding Crestor 10mg to optimised Note 27 to the Financial Statements on page HDL-C by up to 14%.
treatment on CV mortality and morbidity and 158.
We continue to have full confidence in overall survival in elderly patients with advanced our intellectual property protecting Crestor Our extensive, long-term global clinical heart failure who were not candidates for and will vigorously defend and enforce it.
research programme GALAXY, which began statin therapy.
CORONA showed an 8% in 2002, includes studies that investigate the reduction in the combined primary endpoint Atacand continues to be well accepted effect of Crestor on CV risk reduction and of CV death, myocardial infarction or stroke in and competes in the fastest growing sector patient outcomes.
The programme involves patients with heart failure taking Crestor by value angiotensin II antagonists plain over 63,000 patients in over 55 countries.
10mg, which did not reach statistical and combinations with diuretic of the global significance.
This reduction was primarily hypertension market.
A 32mg dose is available The GALAXY programme was designed to driven by a decrease in atherosclerotic to support the use of Atacand in hypertension address important unanswered questions in events, such as stroke and myocardial and congestive heart failure.
Launches of statin research by investigating links between infarctions.
In addition, significantly fewer the 32mg dosage strength outside the US optimal lipid control, atherosclerosis and CV hospitalisations occurred in patients on continued during the year, and this strength morbidity and mortality.
So far, a number of Crestor compared to placebo, whether due is now available in most major markets.
the studies have been completed and we to any cause, cardiovascular causes, or The clinical programme DIRECT investigating have seen data from three atherosclerosis worsening heart failure.
Crestor 10mg was the effect of Atacand up to 32mg dosage on studies, ORION, ASTEROID and METEOR.
well-tolerated, with a safety profile similar to retinopathy in hypertensive and normotensive The ORION study examined the potential for placebo in a very high-risk study population.
Crestor to shrink the lipid-rich necrotic core Further clinical trials of Crestor as part of the of plaques and so improve their stability, GALAXY programme are continuing and are PIPELINE while the ASTEROID study examined the due to report over the next few years.
Diabetes obesity effect of Crestor on coronary atherosclerosis.
In January 2007, we announced a worldwide The METEOR data, reported in March 2007, Data from two  except Japan collaboration with Bristol-Myers showed that Crestor significantly slowed observational studies investigating the Squibb Company BMS to develop and progression of atherosclerosis compared with incidence of CV events in over 470,000 commercialise two investigational compounds placebo in people with early signs of carotid patients taking statins including Crestor discovered by BMS being studied for the artery disease and at low risk of coronary in routine clinical practice were presented in treatment of Type 2 diabetes saxagliptin and heart disease.
In November 2007, the US October 2007.
The results from one study, dapagliflozin.
We will set the development and Food and Drug Administration approved conducted in The Netherlands, with a median commercial strategy for the two compounds Crestor as an adjunct to diet for slowing the duration of therapy of 11 months suggest jointly with BMS.
progression of atherosclerosis in patients that patients taking Crestor had significantly with elevated cholesterol.
Crestor is the only fewer CV events compared to patients taking Saxagliptin is being studied as a once-daily statin with a broad atherosclerosis indication simvastatin and pravastatin.
The results from oral anti-diabetic to determine its efficacy and in the US irrespective of disease severity the other study, conducted in the US, showed safety profile.
Saxagliptin was specifically DIRECTORS REPORT 52 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CARDIOVASCULAR CV MEDICINES CONTINUED designed to be a selective and durable as drug plasma levels decline.
AZD6140 is range declined by 69% in that period compared inhibitor of the DPP-4 enzyme, which regulates being developed to reduce the risk of with 2006.
Sales of Seloken in other markets hormones that control plasma glucose levels.
thrombotic events in patients diagnosed with were up 5% for the full year as a result of Phase III clinical trials to evaluate the efficacy acute coronary syndromes ACS.
and safety of saxagliptin are fully recruited.
is currently being studied in the phase III We plan to file a regulatory application for PLATO clinical trial.
This is a head-to-head Atacand sales in the US were unchanged saxagliptin in the US in the second quarter outcomes study to determine if AZD6140 is for the full year whilst sales in other markets of 2008.
Results from a phase III trial superior to clopidogrel for reducing the risk increased 12%.
were announced at the American Diabetes of thrombotic events in patients with ACS.
Association meeting in June 2007 and It is being conducted in over 40 countries at Continued small declines were seen in Zestril demonstrated that saxagliptin, when used up to 1,000 investigational centres and will down 10% to $295 million and Plendil down as an add-on therapy to metformin, improved include approximately 18,000 ACS patients.
7% to $271 million, with general global falls glycaemic control in adult patients with Type 2 compensated by increases in discrete markets.
diabetes, compared with the use of metformin In anti-coagulation, our principal project is alone, during 24 weeks of treatment.
AZD0837, an oral, direct thrombin inhibitor PERFORMANCE 2006 in late phase II testing.
An extended release Reported performance Dapagliflozin is being studied as a once-daily formulation is being developed, giving the CV sales were up by 15% on a reported oral anti-diabetic in the class of sodiumpossibility to use once-daily dosing without basis, rising from $5,332 million in 2005 to glucose contransporter 2 SGLT2 inhibitors.
significant peak-trough variability, in other $6,118 million in 2006.
The strong Dapagliflozin is a selective SGLT2 inhibitor, words reduced variability in anti-coagulation performance of Crestor was the principal and has the potential to be first in this novel effect throughout the dosing interval.
It is designed to be used both as monotherapy and in combination Atrial fibrillation Underlying performance with other therapies for Type 2 diabetes.
Our lead compound is AZD1305, an atrial Excluding exchange effects, CV sales grew  agent, which has by 15%.
Annual sales for Crestor exceeded Phase IIa data presented at the 2007 American progressed into phase I testing in man.
$2 billion for the first time in 2006 and, since Diabetes Association meeting demonstrated launch in early 2003, more than 70 million that administration of dapagliflozin reduced PERFORMANCE 2007 prescriptions have been written.
Crestor sales fasting serum glucose in patients with Type 2 Reported performance in the US were up 57% to $1,148 million for diabetes when administered for 14 days alone Reported CV sales rose by 9% from the year.
New prescriptions for statins in the or concomitantly with metformin.
$6,118 million in 2006 to $6,686 million in US were up 18%: Crestor new prescriptions 2007.
Continued strong growth from Crestor were up 58%.
Crestor new prescription market In addition to saxagliptin and dapagliflozin, more than offset the significant declines in share in December 2006 was 9.6%.
In other we have compounds in the area of diabetes Seloken Toprol-XL.
markets Crestor sales increased by 61% on and obesity in the cannabinoid receptor good growth in Europe up 56% and in Asia inhibitor class, as well as glucose kinase Underlying performance Pacific following launch in Australia and activating compounds in early patient testing.
Excluding exchange effects, CV sales grew Japan in the second half of 2006. by 5%.
Crestor sales increased by 33% to Atherosclerosis dyslipidaemia $2,796 million.
In the US, Crestor sales for the Sales of Toprol-XL in the US were up 7% for the In August 2007, we confirmed that the fixedfull year were $1,424 million, a 24% increase full year to $1,382 million.
Total prescriptions dose combination treatment of Abbotts next over 2006.
Total prescriptions in the US statin in the US increased by 10% versus 2005. generation fenofibrate ABT-335 and Crestor market increased 8% for the year: Crestor The November 2006 launch of Sandozs will progress into phase III development.
Crestor share generic 25mg metoprolol succinate product The single pill would target all three major of total prescriptions in the US was 8.6% in in the US was followed by an announcement blood lipids: LDL-C bad cholesterol, HDL-C December 2007, marginally down from the that we had entered into a supply and good cholesterol and triglycerides.
Sales distribution agreement with Par Pharmaceutical outside the US for the full year increased Companies, Inc. to distribute an authorised In April 2007, we terminated our licensing and 45% to $1,372 million, nearly half the total generic version of the same 25mg dosage collaboration agreement with AtheroGenics, Inc. worldwide sales for the product.
Sales were strength in the US market.
AGI-1067, an investigational up 26% in Western Europe with good growth adjustments were taken in respect of pipeline anti-atherosclerotic agent, was studied in in France and Italy.
Sales in Canada increased inventory in the marketplace with the effect the ARISE phase III clinical outcomes trial 43%.
The launch in Japan continues to that sales are now being recognised as involving more than 6,000 patients with progress well, with Crestor achieving an prescriptions are written.
Sales of Seloken coronary artery disease, but the trial failed 8.8% volume share in November 2007. in other markets were down 7% for the full to meet its primary endpoint.
Global sales of Seloken Toprol-XL fell by 22% Thrombosis to $1,438 million.
US sales of the Toprol-XL Atacand sales in the US were up 12% to AZD6140 is the first reversible, oral, adenosine product range, which includes sales of the $260 million with new prescriptions up 7%.
authorised generic were down 30% for the In other markets, Atacand sales were up AZD6140 selectively and reversibly binds full year, as the full range of dosage strengths 14% to $850 million.
to the platelet receptor, in contrast to the were subject to generic competition from irreversible binding seen with thienopyridines.
Generic products accounted Plendil sales were down 24% as a result of The selective and reversible binding of for 85% of dispensed prescriptions in the generic competition in the US market, where AZD6140 means that platelet function recovers fourth quarter and the Toprol-XL product Plendil sales declined by 71% to $24 million.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 53 GASTROINTESTINAL GI MEDICINES MARKETED PRODUCTS PERFORMANCE Nexium esomeprazole is the first 2007 compared to 2006 compared to 2007 2006 2005 2006 2005 proton pump inhibitor PPI for the Growth Growth treatment of acid-related diseases to due to due to Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth offer clinical improvements over other Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % PPIs and other treatments.
Total 6,443 379 191 6,631 297 21 6,355 6 3 4 4 Entocort budesonide is a locally acting corticosteroid for the treatment PIPELINE of inflammatory bowel disease IBD Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Phase Estimated filing date with better tolerability than other NCEs IIIIII Europe US corticosteroids and greater efficacy JJ AZD3355 inhibitor of transient GERD 2011 2011 lower oesophageal than aminosalicylic acid medicines.
sphincter relaxations TLESR AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate GERD J 2007 IN BRIEF receptors subtype 5 Sales of Nexium down 2% to AZD1386 vanilloid receptor 1 GERD J antagonist $5.2 billion.
Losec Prilosec sales of over Line extensions $1 billion with sales growth in Nexium proton pump inhibitor peptic ulcer bleeding JJJ 2Q 2008 2Q 2008 Japan and China.
Overall sales 1 Nexium sachet proton pump inhibitor GERD JJJ Approved Launched down 20%.
formulation Nexium low dose proton pump inhibitor low dose aspirin associated JJJ 1H 2009 European Patent Office rulings aspirin combination peptic ulcer that the European process patent 2 2 Nexium proton pump inhibitor extra-oesophageal re ux disease JJ 2H 2009 2H 2009 for Nexium and the European patent 1 for the Multiple Unit Pellet MUPS Approved by EU reference member state, mutual recognition procedure ongoing.
2 Project Extraesophageal re ux disease re ux asthma will be completed but will not result in formulations of Losec and Nexium, a regulatory ling.
which expire in 2015, are valid in For discontinued projects see page 30. amended form.
Patent litigation continuing in the US against generic manufacturers following abbreviated new drug applications relating to Nexium.
DIRECTORS REPORT 54 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 GASTROINTESTINAL GI MEDICINES CONTINUED WE AIM TO DEVELOP OUR LEADING POSITION IN GI In December 2006, the European Patent Office EPO ruled that one of the European TREATMENTS BY FOCUSING ON LIFE CYCLE INITIATIVES substance patents for Nexium would be FOR NEXIUM TO GAIN FURTHER MARKET PENETRATION rejected following an appeal from the German generic manufacturer, ratiopharm GmbH.
BY BROADENING ITS USE, COUPLED WITH INNOVATIVE The original expiry date for this patent was RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF NEW THERAPIES FOR 2014.
Although disappointed with the EPO decision, we continue to have full confidence GASTRO-OESOPHAGEAL REFLUX DISEASE GERD.
in the intellectual property portfolio protecting Nexium.
This portfolio includes process, formulation, method of use and additional PRODUCTS Nexium is approved in Europe for the healing substance patents with expiration dates Nexium, for the treatment of acid-related and prevention of ulcers associated with ranging from 2009 to 2018.
In October 2007, diseases such as gastro-oesophageal reflux non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug NSAID the EPO Opposition Division ruled that the disease GERD, was first launched in therapy.
In the US, Nexium is approved for European process patent for Nexium is valid Sweden in August 2000 and is now available the reduction in the risk of gastric ulcers in amended form, in response to opposition in approximately 100 markets, including associated with continuous NSAID therapy proceedings commenced by ratiopharm.
the US, Canada and all EU countries.
It has in patients at risk of developing gastric ulcers.
In January 2008, ratiopharm filed a notice been generally well received by patients Trials are continuing to further evaluate of appeal against this decision.
In November and physicians alike and close to 746 million a combination of Nexium and low-dose 2007, the EPO Opposition Division ruled patient treatments were administered by acetylsalicylic acid ASA, for example Aspirin that a European patent for the multiple unit the end of 2007.
Nexium has been evaluated in patients at risk from low-dose ASApellet MUPS formulations of Losec and in clinical studies involving around 85,000 associated peptic ulcers.
These patients Nexium is valid in amended form, in patients in over 62 countries and offers very need to stay on low-dose ASA for CV response to opposition proceedings from effective acid inhibition.
protection but also need protection from generic manufacturers.
Both the process the risk of developing peptic ulcer due to patent and the MUPS patent expire in 2015.
GERD is a common disease that affects the ulcerative properties of ASA.
In addition to these patents, Nexium has patients daily lives.
In the treatment of reflux data exclusivity valid until 2010 in most oesophagitis, Nexium provides healing in more The parenteral form of Nexium, which is used major European markets.
patients than Losec Prilosec, lansoprazole when oral administration is not applicable or pantoprazole.
It is an effective, long-term for the treatment of GERD and upper GI side In the US, we are continuing to pursue therapy for patients with GERD, with or effects induced by NSAIDs, is approved in patent litigation against various generic without oesophagitis in the US, the long-term 86 countries including the US and all EU manufacturers who have filed abbreviated indication is only for patients with GERD countries.
A continuing study of Nexium for new drug applications ANDAs and are with oesophagitis.
For the treatment of the treatment of patients with peptic ulcer seeking to market esomeprazole magnesium active peptic ulcer disease, seven-day bleed will be finalised during 2008. products before the expiration of certain of Nexium triple therapy in combination with our patents relating to Nexium.
two antibiotics for the eradication of H. pylori The US Food and Drug Administration FDA heals most patients without the need for made a public announcement in August 2007 During 2007, we received additional notices follow-up anti-secretory therapy.
about differences in cardiac event rates that ANDAs had been filed by generic drug reported from two small, non-blinded, manufacturers in respect of 20 and 40mg Nexium is approved for the treatment of long-term, clinical studies in patients with delayed-release esomeprazole magnesium children aged 12 to 17 years with GERD GERD, comparing anti-reflux surgery with capsules.
Details of these ANDA filings and in both the US and the EU.
During 2007, either omeprazole or Nexium treatment.
of continuing litigation are set out in Note 27 Nexium was also approved for the age group The announcement was in response to a to the Financial Statements on page 158. one to 11 years in Canada and Sweden, communication sent to all health authorities and an approvable letter for this group was by us in May 2007.
After further assessment, The rejection of our European substance received in the US.
Nexium is approved in the FDA issued its final assessment of the two patent relating to Nexium should not have the US, the EU, Canada and Australia for the studies in December 2007, which stated that any substantive impact on our ability to uphold treatment of patients with the rare gastric the FDA continues to believe that long-term and enforce our Nexium patents in the US.
use of omeprazole or esomeprazole is not We have several US patents covering Nexium, likely to be associated with an increased risk all of which can be differentiated from the of heart problems and recommends that rejected European patent.
As a result of the healthcare providers continue to prescribe expiration of 30-month stays during which and patients continue to use these products the FDA may not approve ANDAs, an at in the manner described in the labelling for risk launch by a generic drug manufacturer the two products.
of 20 and or 40mg delayed-release esomeprazole magnesium capsules may occur in the US in 2008.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 55 GASTROINTESTINAL GI MEDICINES CONTINUED We continue to have full confidence in our PERFORMANCE 2007 PERFORMANCE 2006 intellectual property protecting Nexium and Reported performance Reported performance will vigorously defend and enforce it.
Gastrointestinal sales fell by 3% to $6,443 Gastrointestinal sales grew by 4% to million in 2007 from $6,631 million in the $6,631 million, up from $6,355 million in 2005.
Patients have benefited from over 889 million previous year.
The performance of Nexium particularly in treatments with Losec Prilosec up to the end the US more than compensated for the of October 2007 since its launch in 1988.
Underlying performance continued decline in Losec Prilosec sales.
Continued sales growth of Losec Omepral After excluding the effects of exchange, was seen in Japan in 2007.
Patent protection gastrointestinal sales fell by 6%.
Worldwide, Underlying performance for omeprazole, the active ingredient in Nexium sales fell by 2% to $5,216 million.
After excluding the effects of exchange, GI Losec Prilosec, has expired the first patent In the US, Nexium sales for the full year were sales grew by 4%.
expiration was in Germany in 1999.
Estimated volume continue to maintain formulation patent growth was 2% for the year.
Nexium market In the US, Nexium sales increased by 13% property in respect of Losec Prilosec.
share in the branded segment of the PPI to $3,527 million.
Dispensed tablet volume Further information about the status of market increased by 1.5 percentage points for Nexium increased by 17%: all other PPI omeprazole patents and patent litigation, in 2007: however, generic omeprazoles class brands in aggregate declined by 4%.
including details of generic omeprazole share of the prescription PPI market Nexium volume growth more than offset launches, is set out in Note 27 to the increased to 27.4% by December 2007, an lower realised prices from contracted sales.
Financial Statements on page 158. increase of nearly 7 percentage points since December 2006.
Realised prices declined by Sales of Nexium in other markets reached Our appeal to the European Court of First around 8% for the year.
Nexium sales in $1,655 million for the full year up 10% as Instance regarding the European Commissions other markets were up 2% for the full year to good volume growth in France and Italy Decision in 2005 to impose fines on us $1,833 million, as growth in Emerging helped mitigate the significant price erosion totalling 60 million $75 million for alleged Markets more than offset the declines in in Germany.
As a result, Europe sales infringements of European competition law Western Europe.
We expect Nexium sales to improved by 6% to $1,166 million, whilst relating to certain omeprazole intellectual be lower in 2008.
Asia Pacific revenues increased by 14% to property and regulatory rights is still pending.
$195 million, driven by Japan and China.
Further information about this case is set out For the full year, Losec sales declined by 20% in Note 27 to the Financial Statements on to $1,143 million.
Prilosec sales in the US Losec Prilosec sales were down 16% to page 158. were down 3% to $226 million.
Prilosec sales were down in other markets were down 24%, although 12% in the US and Losec sales in other Entocort is increasingly accepted as first-line sales increased in Japan and China: sales in markets were down 17%.
Sales in Japan therapy for mild to moderate, active Crohns these two markets now account for almost were up 7% at $227 million, whilst sales in disease and is approved in 44 countries.
PIPELINE Our pipeline includes life cycle management initiatives for approved products mentioned above, as well as development compounds.
Our focus is on developing novel approaches to treating GERD by inhibition of reflux with or without concomitant treatment of gastrooesophageal hypersensitivity.
During 2007, AZD3355, which inhibits transient lower oesophageal sphincter relaxations, was tested in patients with GERD and showed positive effects in a phase IIa study.
The development of AZD3355 in phase II is progressing.
DIRECTORS REPORT 56 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NEUROSCIENCE MEDICINES 1 MARKETED PRODUCTS PERFORMANCE Seroquel quetiapine fumarate is an 2007 compared to 2006 compared to 2007 2006 2005 2006 2005 atypical anti-psychotic drug.
It is approved Growth Growth for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar due to due to Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth mania and bipolar depression.
Its overall Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % clinical efficacy and tolerability profile helped Seroquel 4,027 526 85 3,416 655 - 2,761 15 18 24 24 make it the leading atypical anti-psychotic Zomig 434 18 18 398 47 1 352 5 9 13 13 in the US.
Diprivan 263 53 12 304 62 3 369 17 13 17 18 Zomig zolmitriptan is for the treatment Local anaesthetics 557 6 34 529 24 6 511 1 5 5 4 of migraine with or without aura.
Other 59 1 3 57 8 1 66 2 4 12 14 Total 5,340 484 152 4,704 656 11 4,059 10 14 16 16 Diprivan propofol, an intravenous general anaesthetic, is used in the induction and maintenance of anaesthesia, light sedation PIPELINE for diagnostic procedures and for intensive Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Phase Estimated filing date care sedation.
NCEs IIIIII Europe US JJJ PN400 naproxen signs and symptoms of OA, RA, 1H 2009 1H 2009 Naropin ropivacaine, with its safety and esomeprazole and AS mobility profile, is the worlds best-selling, AZD3480 neuronal nicotinic cognitive disorders in JJ 2011 2011 long-acting local anaesthetic, replacing the receptor agonist schizophrenia previous standard treatment of bupivacaine.
AZD3480 neuronal nicotinic Alzheimers disease JJ 2011 2011 receptor agonist Xylocaine lidocaine continues to be the AZD6765 NMDA receptor depression JJ worlds most widely used short-acting local antagonist anaesthetic after more than 50 years on AZD2327 enkephalinergic receptor anxiety and depression J modulator the market.
AZD5904 inhibitor of multiple sclerosis J myeloperoxidase MPO AZD3241 inhibitor of Parkinsons disease J 2007 IN BRIEF myeloperoxidase MPO Seroquel sales up 15% to over $4 billion.
AZD0328 selective neuronal Alzheimers disease J nicotinic receptor agonist Seroquel XR major depressive AZD1940 CB receptor agonist nociceptive and neuropathic pain J disorder and generalised anxiety AZD2624 NK receptor antagonist schizophrenia J disorder clinical study data presented AZD1386 vanilloid receptor chronic nociceptive pain J for the first time.
US and EU regulatory antagonist submissions planned in 2008.
AZD2066 metabotropic glutamate chronic nociceptive pain J receptors Seroquel XR approved in nine countries, AZD7325 GABA receptor subtype anxiety J including the US, and progressed partial agonist through the mutual recognition AZD6280 GABA receptor subtype anxiety J partial agonist procedure in the EU, for acute and TC-5619 neuronal nicotinic cognitive disorders in J maintenance treatment of schizophrenia.
Targacept receptor agonist schizophrenia US regulatory submissions for Seroquel XR for the treatment of Line extensions bipolar depression and bipolar mania.
Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist schizophrenia JJJ Approved Launched 2 2 Seroquel D 5HT antagonist bipolar maintenance JJJ 2Q 2008 Filed 2 2 AZD3480 entered Phase IIb testing Seroquel D 5HT antagonist bipolar depression JJJ 1Q 2008 Launched 2 2 in Alzheimers disease and cognitive Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist generalised anxiety disorder JJJ 4Q 2008 2Q 2008 2 2 disorders in schizophrenia.
Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist major depressive disorder JJJ 3Q 2008 1Q 2008 2 2 Patent infringement actions Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist bipolar mania JJJ 1Q 2008 Filed 2 2 commenced against two generic Seroquel XR D 5HT antagonist bipolar depression JJJ 1Q 2008 Filed 2 2 drug manufacturers in the US following For discontinued projects see page 30. abbreviated new drug applications relating to Seroquel.
Numerous personal injury actions in the US and Canada involving Seroquel being defended vigorously.
1 In 2006, we sold our range of US branded anaesthetics and analgesic products to Abraxis BioScience, Inc..
These included Xylocaine, Polocaine, Naropin, Nesacaine, Sensorcaine, Astramorph, EMLA Cream and Diprivan.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 57 NEUROSCIENCE MEDICINES CONTINUED WE AIM TO STRENGTHEN OUR NEUROSCIENCE POSITION Seroquel and or other atypical anti-psychotic medications.
Further information can be THROUGH FURTHER GROWTH OF THE SEROQUEL FRANCHISE, found in Note 27 to the Financial Statements BRINGING NEW VALUE TO PATIENTS AND DOCTORS WITH on page 158.
SEROQUEL XR AND BY THE SUCCESSFUL INTRODUCTION In April 2007, we filed a patent infringement OF A RANGE OF LIFE-CHANGING MEDICINES AIMING TO MEET action in the US District Court for the District of New Jersey, seeking an injunction and SIGNIFICANT MEDICAL NEED IN PAIN CONTROL, NEUROLOGY other remedies against Sandoz, Inc, AND PSYCHIATRY.
following receipt of a notice from Sandoz informing us that it had submitted an abbreviated new drug application ANDA PRODUCTS Seroquel bipolar maintenance clinical study to the FDA for approval to market a generic Seroquel is a leading atypical anti-psychotic data were presented for the first time in 2007 version of Seroquel 25mg quetiapine for the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar at the European Congress of Psychiatry, in fumarate tablets.
In June 2007, we filed a disorder.
During their lives, about one person Vienna.
They showed that patients receiving third patent infringement action against Teva in every 100 will suffer from schizophrenia Seroquel plus baseline treatment lithium or Pharmaceuticals USA Inc. in the US District and about one in 20 will suffer from bipolar divalproex experienced a 72% reduction Court for the District of New Jersey following disorder.
Launched in 1997, we estimate that in the risk of relapse when compared with receipt of a notice from Teva that it had Seroquel has been prescribed to more than those receiving baseline treatment alone supplemented its ANDA for generic Seroquel 25 million patients worldwide.
Seroquel XR and this reduction in risk was similar for both tablets a second time, adding 50, 150, and was launched for the treatment of manic and depressed events.
In July 2007, 400mg tablets to the application.
schizophrenia in the US in 2007.
It is an AstraZeneca submitted a supplementary extended release formulation that offers new drug application to the FDA for a new As a result of the expiration of 30-month patients and doctors a once-daily indication for the use of Seroquel as an stays during which the FDA may not schizophrenia treatment that can be given at adjunct to a mood stabiliser for the approve ANDAs, an at risk launch by Teva the effective dose range by the second day maintenance of effect in patients with bipolar of 25, 100, 200 and or 300mg quetiapine of treatment.
Its clinical development disorder, based on data from two similar fumarate tablets may occur in the US in programme and planned regulatory filings clinical trials.
Pooled data from the bipolar 2008.
We continue to have full confidence in extend through bipolar disorder to major maintenance studies showed a greater our intellectual property protecting Seroquel depressive disorder MDD and generalised incidence of blood glucose increases to and will vigorously defend and enforce it.
hyperglycaemic levels in patients randomised Details of the litigation against generic drug to Seroquel and mood stabiliser than in manufacturers in respect of Seroquel are set Seroquel remains the most commonly patients randomised to placebo and mood out in Note 27 to the Financial Statements prescribed atypical anti-psychotic in the US, stabiliser.
Appropriate Seroquel labelling on page 158. where it is the only anti-psychotic approved revisions have been submitted to regulatory as monotherapy treatment for both bipolar authorities, with implementation subject to Zomig is available in a unique range of depression and bipolar mania.
Its benefit risk local regulatory requirements.
formulations, offering physicians a choice profile includes proven efficacy across a range of ways to provide rapid relief for migraine of symptoms in schizophrenia and bipolar The large Seroquel XR clinical trial patients.
Zomig remains the prescription disorder as well as a tolerability profile that is programmes for MDD and GAD are planned market leader in Europe.
Zomig Nasal Spray differentiated from competitors.
to enrol more than 7,000 patients in total.
delivers fast pain relief, offering migraine They progressed during the year, with patients with nausea and vomiting an In November 2007, the US Food and Drug completion of the majority of the studies and alternative route of administration and now Administration FDA approved Seroquel XR first presentation of both MDD and GAD accounts for 7% of Zomig global sales.
for the prevention of relapse in schizophrenic data in December 2007 at major Zomig Rapimelt is a melt-in-the-mouth patients already benefiting from Seroquel XR international congresses.
We expect to formulation offering patients a convenient, treatment.
Regulatory submissions for make US regulatory submissions in these orange-flavoured tablet that can be taken Seroquel XR in the US for the treatment of areas in the first and second quarters of without liquid whenever a migraine attack bipolar mania and bipolar depression were 2008 and EU regulatory submissions in the strikes.
Zomig Rapimelt now accounts for made in December 2007.
Data from the third and fourth quarters of 2008. more than 37% of Zomig global sales.
studies on which the filings were based will be presented at major scientific congresses AstraZeneca Pharmaceuticals LP, either alone Diprivan is the worlds best-selling intravenous in 2008.
Regulatory submissions in the EU or in conjunction with one or more affiliates, general anaesthetic.
More than 90% of total are planned in these areas in the first quarter is defending more than 8,100 served or Diprivan sales consist of Diprivan EDTA, of 2008. answered lawsuits involving approximately a microbial-resistant formulation, which 12,350 plaintiff groups who have filed is approved in the majority of markets.
Seroquel-related product liability claims in The EDTA formulation was approved in the US and Canada.
Although the nature of France in September 2007. the alleged injuries is not clear from the face of most of the complaints and discovery of Naropin was approved during the year in the cases is continuing, plaintiffs generally the Czech Republic, Mexico, Australia and contend that they developed diabetes and Finland for extended use in paediatric patients or other related injuries as a result of taking to include neonates and infants aged below one year old.
DIRECTORS REPORT 58 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 NEUROSCIENCE MEDICINES CONTINUED PIPELINE In October 2007, by mutual agreement Underlying performance Our product pipeline and life cycle management with NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. we decided On a constant exchange rate basis, work is focused on the important areas of to end our collaborative efforts to discover Neuroscience sales grew by 10%.
Annual pain control, psychiatry, analgesia, neurology and develop drugs targeting metabotropic Seroquel sales exceeded $4 billion for the and anaesthesia.
In 2007, we have significantly glutamate receptors mGluRs.
As part of first time in 2007, with full year sales of strengthened the early development pipeline this agreement, we have acquired certain $4,027 million, up 15% over last year.
In the by progressing 10 additional compounds know-how, intellectual property and technology US, Seroquel sales increased by 15% to into clinical testing.
Although it was decided rights from NPS Pharmaceuticals for our $2,863 million.
Total prescriptions increased in 2006 not to start new discovery work in exclusive use.
by 10% for the year, more than twice the Parkinsons disease PD, multiple sclerosis market rate.
Market share of total prescriptions MS and neuroprotection in stroke, current We have established a partnership with the in the US antipsychotic market increased to projects in development for PD and MS University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer 31.8% in December 2007, up 1.3 percentage continue as planned.
Center to develop platforms and clinical points in the last 12 months, with a third of targets for new drugs in chronic pain.
the increase attributable to Seroquel XR in Pain control the five months since launch in August.
PN400 is a fixed-dose combination tablet Neurology Seroquel sales in other markets were up 16% of naproxen and esomeprazole which uses We continue to expand our research for the full year as a result of market share proprietary technology licensed from POZEN capabilities in positron emission tomography gain in most markets.
Inc. through a partnership established in PET through our collaboration with the August 2006.
It is being developed for the Karolinska Institute in Sweden, providing Zomig sales for the full year increased by 5% relief of signs and symptoms of osteoarthritis, early signalling of potential efficacy for our in the US to $177 million and 4% in other rheumatoid arthritis and ankylosing spondylitis Alzheimers compounds.
In addition, we have markets, totalling $434 million.
in patients at risk for developing non-steroidal established two Alzheimers alliances with key anti-inflammatory drug NSAIDassociated US centres, the Banner Alzheimers Institute PERFORMANCE 2006 gastric ulcers.
At least 50% of the 60 million in Phoenix, Arizona and Washington University Reported performance osteoarthritis patients in the US and the five in St. Louis.
Both approaches are focused Neuroscience sales grew by 16% to $4,704 largest European countries are at risk of on the identification and progression of million in 2006 from $4,059 million in 2005 developing NSAID-associated ulcers.
We currently have eight with growth in all geographic areas, driven development programmes, of which six are chiefly by Seroquel.
A phase III trial programme, which was initiated in clinical evaluation, in Alzheimers disease, in the third quarter of 2007, is evaluating the cognitive disorders in schizophrenia CDS Underlying performance incidence of gastric ulcers in at-risk patients and specific segments of other neuroAfter excluding exchange effects of $11 million, with chronic pain taking PN400 versus the degenerative diseases, multiple sclerosis and underlying growth was 16%.
ulcer incidence in those taking naproxen alone.
A regulatory submission for PN400 in the US Seroquel sales reached $3,416 million up is currently planned for the first half of 2009.
AZD3480, the neuronal nicotinic receptor agent 24%.
In the US, Seroquel sales were up that we licensed from Targacept, Inc. in 2005, 24% to $2,486 million.
Total prescriptions Psychiatry has successfully progressed into phase IIb increased by 12%, well ahead of the market.
We progressed four compounds, AZD6765, clinical testing in both Alzheimers disease and The Seroquel share of total prescriptions in AZD2624, AZD6280 and AZD7325, into cognitive disorders in schizophrenia CDS.
the US anti-psychotic market increased to clinical development for the treatment of We have exercised a right to acquire an option 30.2% in December, up 1.7 percentage anxiety, schizophrenia and or depression.
from Targacept to take a licence of TC-5619, points over last year.
In other markets, sales We also entered into a collaboration with the which Targacept is developing in CDS.
were up 23%, on good growth in Europe University of Texas Southwestern Medical up 25% to $619 million and in Asia Pacific Center at Dallas, US to accelerate scientific PERFORMANCE 2007 up 15% to $149 million.
discovery and therapeutic advancement for Reported performance depression.
Sales in the Neuroscience therapy area rose Zomig sales increased by 13% to $398 million.
by 14% in 2007, up to $5,340 million from Zomig sales comparisons in the US for the Analgesia $4,704 million in 2006.
Seroquel was the full year as compared with 2005 are affected We have progressed three compounds, principal driver of performance, recording by the resumption of full responsibility from AZD2066, AZD1940 and AZD1386 into an 18% increase in sales.
MedPointe, Inc. for US commercialisation in phase I clinical development for the April 2005.
Sales for Zomig in the US were treatment of nociceptive caused by tissue up 39%, although total prescriptions declined damage and or neuropathic caused by by 6%.
Sales of Zomig in other markets were nerve damage pain.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 59 ONCOLOGY MEDICINES MARKETED PRODUCTS PERFORMANCE Arimidex anastrozole is the worlds leading 2007 compared to 2006 compared to 2007 2006 2005 2006 2005 aromatase inhibitor for the treatment of Growth Growth breast cancer.
due to due to Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported Casodex bicalutamide is the worlds $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % leading anti-androgen therapy for the Arimidex 1,730 151 71 1,508 338 11 1,181 10 15 29 28 treatment of prostate cancer.
1 Ethyol 43 43 n m n m n m n m Iressa gefitinib is an epidermal growth Other 10 1 1 10 10 10 factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitor Total 4,819 359 198 4,262 470 53 3,845 8 13 12 11 EGFR-TKI that acts to block signals for 1 Sales of this MedImmune product are consolidated in AstraZeneca accounts from 1 June 2007. cancer cell growth and survival in As a result, there are no prior period sales included.
Faslodex fulvestrant is an injectable PIPELINE oestrogen receptor antagonist for the Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Phase Estimated filing date treatment of breast cancer, with no known NCEs IIIIII Europe US agonist effects, that down-regulates the JJJ Zactima VEGF EGF TK inhibitor NSCLC 4Q 2008 4Q 2008 with RET kinase activity oestrogen receptor.
2 Recentin VEGF signalling inhibitor NSCLC and CRC JJJ 2010 2010 Nolvadex tamoxifen citrate remains a VEGFR-TKI widely prescribed breast cancer treatment Recentin VEGF signalling inhibitor recurrent glioblastoma JJJ 2010 2010 VEGFR-TKI outside the US.
ZD4054 endothelin A hormone-resistant JJJ 2011 2011 Ethyol amifostine is used to help prevent receptor antagonist prostate cancer certain side effects of specific types of Zactima VEGF EGF TK inhibitor medullary thyroid cancer JJ 4Q 2008 4Q 2008 with RET kinase activity chemotherapy and radiotherapy that are AZD6244 MEK inhibitor solid tumours JJ used to treat cancer.
ARRY-142886 Abraxane paclitaxel protein-bound AZD2281 PARP inhibitor breast cancer JJ particles for injectable suspension AZD0530 SRC kinase inhibitor solid tumours and JJ haematological malignancies albumin-bound, discovered, developed MEDI-561 Hsp 90 inhibitor solid tumours JJ 2010 and owned by Abraxis BioScience, Inc. AZD1152 aurora kinase inhibitor solid tumours and J uses a novel technology to deliver paclitaxel haematological malignancies for the treatment of breast cancer.
We AZD4769 EGFR tyrosine kinase solid tumours J co-promote Abraxane in the US under inhibitor an agreement with Abraxis.
AZD4877 cell cycle agent solid tumours and J haematological malignancies AZD8931 erbB kinase inhibitor solid tumours J AZD7762 CHK1 kinase inhibitor solid tumours J 2007 IN BRIEF AZD8330 MEK inhibitor solid tumours J Arimidex sales up 10% to ARRY-424704 $1.7 billion.
It remains the leading CAT-8015 recombinant haematological malignancies J hormonal breast cancer therapy immunotoxin in the US, Japan and France.
MEDI-538 CD19 B cells leukaemia lymphoma J Casodex sales growth continued Line extensions with total sales of over $1 billion, JJJ Faslodex oestrogen receptor first-line advanced breast cancer up 6%.
antagonist Faslodex oestrogen receptor adjuvant JJJ Zoladex sales of over $1 billion, antagonist up 4%.
Iressa EGFR-TK inhibitor NSCLC JJJ 2Q 2008 ZD4054 progressed into phase III 2 This compound is in phase II III development.
development for hormone-resistant For discontinued projects see page 30. prostate cancer.
Phase III trials of Zactima in non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC and in medullary thyroid cancer continued.
Pivotal trials of Recentin in colorectal cancer CLC and NSCLC continued to recruit patients.
DIRECTORS REPORT 60 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 ONCOLOGY MEDICINES CONTINUED WE AIM TO BUILD ON OUR POSITION AS A WORLD LEADER Iressa is used for the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer NSCLC in patients IN CANCER TREATMENT THROUGH CONTINUED GROWTH who have failed chemotherapy.
Following OF ARIMIDEX, FURTHER LAUNCHES AND LINE EXTENSIONS disappointing clinical trial data in 2004 from the ISEL study, in 2005 we voluntarily withdrew OF NEWER PRODUCTS SUCH AS FASLODEX, AND THE the European submission for Iressa and the SUCCESSFUL INTRODUCTION OF NOVEL THERAPEUTIC regulatory authorities in the US and Canada restricted its use to those patients already APPROACHES CURRENTLY IN DEVELOPMENT, INCLUDING benefiting from the drug.
BOTH SMALL MOLECULE AND BIOLOGICAL DRUGS.
In the third quarter of 2007, data from the phase III international INTEREST study PRODUCTS Casodex sales growth continued to be driven comparing Iressa with docetaxel were Arimidex continued its strong sales and by the use of Casodex 50mg in advanced reported.
The study met its primary objective, prescription growth on the basis of the prostate cancer: the growth of Casodex demonstrating equivalent overall survival large-scale ATAC study, which first reported 150mg, which is approved for use in locally for Iressa and docetaxel in patients with in 2001.
Data presented at the San Antonio advanced prostate cancer in over 60 countries: pre-treated advanced NSCLC.
This is the Breast Cancer Symposium in December 2007 and the growth of Casodex 80mg, which is first time that a drug in this class has shown showed that, in post-menopausal patients, only available in Japan, where it is approved non-inferior survival to chemotherapy in a Arimidex continues to be more effective than for all stages of prostate cancer.
head-to-head study in this setting.
In addition, tamoxifen, with the difference increasing over Iressa demonstrated a more favourable time, even after a five-year treatment course.
The European Medicines Agencys Committee tolerability profile and superior quality of life As initial adjuvant therapy, Arimidex is the only for Medicinal Products for Human Use for patients compared with docetaxel.
Based aromatase inhibitor shown to be significantly reviewed the safety and efficacy of Casodex on these data, we are reviewing options for superior to tamoxifen at preventing all breast 150mg during 2007 and concluded in May possible regulatory submissions.
cancer events beyond the five-year treatment that its benefits outweigh its risks for the course.
Breast cancer events are defined as treatment of locally advanced prostate cancer Iressa continues to be marketed in the locoregional recurrence, distant recurrence in patients who are at high risk of their disease Asia Pacific region for pre-treated advanced or contra-lateral breast cancer.
It is currently being investigated in the first-line advanced setting in a large, phase III, In several large markets, Arimidex has Zoladex is used for the treatment of prostate pan-Asian trial known as the IPASS study.
already replaced tamoxifen as the preferred cancer for which it is approved in 105 Further phase II trials are continuing to evaluate primary adjuvant treatment for postcountries, breast cancer and gynaecological the potential benefits of Iressa in NSCLC and menopausal women with hormone-receptor disorders.
In non-metastatic prostate cancer, other EGF receptor-driven tumours.
positive, invasive, early breast cancer.
In 2007, Zoladex is the only luteinising hormoneArimidex exceeded three million patient years releasing hormone LHRH agonist shown to Ethyol is used to help prevent certain of clinical experience and remains the leading improve overall survival both when used in unwanted side effects of specific types of hormonal therapy for new patients in the US, addition to radical prostatectomy and when chemotherapies and radiotherapies that Japan and France.
Arimidex is also approved used in addition to radiotherapy.
This was are used to treat cancer.
Ethyol was initially in Europe for a switch indication for patients further reinforced with the publication of approved by the US Food and Drug who have already received two to three research in September 2007 in the journal Administration FDA in 1995 to reduce years of tamoxifen.
Prostate Cancer and Prostatic Diseases cumulative kidney toxicity associated with highlighting the value of Zoladex in helping repeated administration of cisplatin to patients Faslodex offers an additional hormonal prostate cancer patients outlive their disease with advanced ovarian cancer.
In 1999, therapy for patients with hormone-sensitive, and calling for Zoladex to be considered as the FDA approved the use of Ethyol for the advanced breast cancer, delaying the need a treatment of curative intent.
reduction of the incidence of moderate-tofor cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Faslodex offers severe dry mouth xerostomia in patients an effective, well-tolerated additional treatment In breast cancer, Zoladex is widely undergoing post-operative radiation treatment with the compliance and convenience benefits approved for use in advanced breast cancer for head and neck cancer, where the radiation of a once-monthly injection.
Faslodex is in pre-menopausal women.
In a number of port includes a significant portion of the now launched in more than 50 markets.
It is countries, Zoladex is also approved for the parotid glands.
Xerostomia, both acute and approved for the second-line treatment of adjuvant treatment of early stage prechronic, is a debilitating condition in which hormone-receptor positive, advanced breast menopausal breast cancer as an alternative saliva production is reduced due to damage cancer in post-menopausal women.
to and or in addition to chemotherapy.
caused to the salivary glands by therapeutic Zoladex offers proven survival benefits for radiation.
We are the sole marketer of Ethyol breast cancer patients with a favourable in the US.
Outside the US we have various tolerability profile.
distribution and marketing arrangements for the drug.
Ethyol has been approved for marketing in 63 countries worldwide, including the US.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 61 ONCOLOGY MEDICINES CONTINUED Abraxane was approved by the FDA in Recentin cediranib is a highly potent, selective, The phase III ENTHUSE global trial programme, January 2005.
It is indicated for the orally active inhibitor of vascular endothelial which consists of three studies, is in the early treatment of breast cancer after failure of cell growth factor VEGF receptor signalling stage of start-up and began enrolling the first combination chemotherapy for metastatic in solid tumours.
Recentin inhibits all three patients in the fourth quarter of 2007.
These disease or relapse within six months of VEGF receptors irrespective of activating trials will investigate the efficacy of ZD4054 adjuvant chemotherapy.
Following the decision in 2005 to in metastatic HRPC, both as monotherapy Abraxane in the US under an agreement accelerate the development of Recentin, and in combination with docetaxel, and in with Abraxis BioScience, Inc. commenced in and the subsequent commencement of the non-metastatic HRPC.
The agreement gives us access pivotal phase II III NSCLC study that year, to the key US chemotherapy market and the pivotal colorectal cancer CRC programme Our early oncology pipeline includes novel Abraxane compliments and extends our US started in 2006.
The CRC programme includes compounds that target signalling pathways oncology product portfolio.
a head-to-head study comparing Recentin believed to be pivotal in cancer cell growth, plus FOLFOX a combination chemotherapy invasion and survival, with two products PIPELINE treatment made up of a number of drugs in phase II and nine others in phase I Zactima vandetanib is a potential new oral with bevacizumab Avastin plus FOLFOX development.
Phase II data from AZD6244, anti-cancer therapy, which has a unique profile in first-line treatment of CRC.
It also includes a potent MEK inhibitor licensed from Array that fights cancer through two clinically proven two other studies in CRC, namely a secondBioPharma, Inc. was reported in December mechanisms.
It blocks the development of line head-to-head study with bevacizumab 2007.
AZD6244 showed biological activity a tumours blood supply anti-VEGFR and and a first-line study involving Recentin with in lung cancer and melanoma and studies blocks the growth and survival of the tumour and without standard chemotherapy.
Phase II will now focus on its use in combination with itself anti-EGFR.
Zactima also inhibits studies of Recentin in gastrointestinal stromal standard and other novel therapies, rather RET-kinase activity, an important growth tumours, and renal and breast cancer, are than its development as monotherapy.
driver in certain types of thyroid cancer.
As well as these programmes, Phase II studies with the poly ADP-ribose the US National Cancer Institute NCI is now polymerase PARP inhibitor AZD2281 have Zactima is being investigated in a number recruiting patients for more than 15 studies started and will initially focus on BRCA-mutated of phase III clinical trials across the world to in a number of different tumour settings.
breast and ovarian cancer as well as other assess its impact on survival and on the Encouraging data for Recentin from two cancers where DNA repair could be defective.
lives of patients with NSCLC and medullary completed NCI studies to treat renal cancer thyroid cancer.
and glioblastoma were presented in 2007.
The dual-specific Src Abl kinase inhibitor, The data in recurrent glioblastoma were AZD0530, has shown a dramatic effect on In 2005, promising early data in hereditary published in the journal Cancer Cell in biomarkers of cell motility and bone resorption medullary thyroid cancer led to orphan drug January 2007 and presented at the American and is starting phase II studies in a range of designation for Zactima by the FDA and Society of Clinical Oncology meeting in malignancies.
Among the compounds from the European Medicines Agency, as well as June 2007.
These data have lead to the the early portfolio continuing in development fast-track status for regulatory review by the commencement of a development programme are AZD4877, a novel inhibitor of cell cycle: FDA.
Orphan drug designation encourages for Recentin in recurrent glioblastoma.
AZD7762, a tumour-selective chemo sensitiser: the development of new products that and AZD8931.
demonstrate promise for life-threatening or ZD4054 is a potent and specific endothelin very serious conditions that are rare and affect A-receptor antagonist that reduces tumour MedImmune relatively few people.
Fast-track designation growth and survival, lessening the potential MedImmune is developing potential potentially facilitates and expedites the process for invasion and metastasis.
ZD4054 entered new cancer treatments using biological for the review by the FDA of new drugs phase III development in 2007 for patients approaches with highly defined molecular intended to treat serious or life-threatening with hormone-resistant prostate cancer targets for patient populations with unmet conditions and that demonstrate the HRPC, an area of great unmet need with medical needs.
potential to address unmet medical needs.
A randomised phase III study of Zactima In 2007, oncology trials underway included versus placebo in medullary thyroid cancer This move into phase III development is based those for IPI-504 also known as MEDI-561, has completed enrolment.
on promising early data from the EPOC a drug candidate designed to inhibit heat phase II study presented at the European shock protein 90 Hsp90.
Hsp90 is an In addition, the anti-cancer activity of Congress of Clinical Oncology in September emerging cancer target, which is currently Zactima continues to be evaluated in other 2007.
The trial suggests that ZD4054 10mg being evaluated as a potential treatment for tumour types, including colorectal, glioma, once-daily has the potential to increase the three solid tumour cancers.
head and neck, breast and prostate cancers.
median overall survival time by approximately seven months in men with asymptomatic Development of MEDI-538, a recombinant or mildly symptomatic metastatic HRPC, single-chain bi-specific T-cell engager BiTE with the benefit of a generally well-tolerated molecule targeting the CD19 antigen is side effect profile and the convenience of progressing.
This candidate drug is the first a once-daily tablet.
and only BiTEinspired molecule in clinical trials, and is currently in phase I and phase II clinical development for the treatment of various B-cell malignancies.
In 2007, preliminary data was released from a continuing phase I study of MEDI-538 in patients with late-stage non-Hodgkins lymphoma.
DIRECTORS REPORT 62 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 ONCOLOGY MEDICINES CONTINUED MedImmune is continuing the development PERFORMANCE 2006 of CAT-8015 with four phase I dose escalation Reported performance studies in progress in chronic lymphocytic Oncology sales increased by 11% to $4,262 leukaemia, hairy cell leukaemia, CD22-positive million in 2006 principally due to the continued non-Hodgkins lymphoma and paediatric strong Arimidex performance.
CAT-8015 is an immunotoxin that targets CD22, which is Underlying performance expressed on adult cells, B-cell leukaemia Excluding the effects of exchange, Oncology and lymphomas.
PERFORMANCE 2007 In the US, sales of Arimidex were up 29% to Reported performance $614 million.
Total prescriptions increased by Oncology sales increased by 13% to reach 21%.
Arimidex share of total prescriptions for $4,819 million in 2007, compared with hormonal treatments for breast cancer was $4,262 million in 2006.
37.5% in December, up 2.7 percentage points during the year.
In other markets, Underlying performance Arimidex sales grew by 29% due to an Excluding the effects of exchange, Oncology increase in sales in Europe up 30% and sales grew by 8%.
Arimidex sales reached Asia Pacific up 27% on strong volumes.
In the US, sales of Arimidex rose by 13% to $694 million.
Total Casodex sales increased by 9% to $1,206 prescriptions for Arimidex increased nearly million.
In the US, sales were up 23% to 5.3% compared with 1.3% growth in the $295 million.
Sales in other markets were market for hormonal treatments for breast up 5%, with sales in Japan up 10% to cancer.
Arimidex sales in other markets $286 million.
Sales for the full year were up 6% in Western Europe Iressa sales in markets outside the US and increased 9% in Japan.
Sales in the Asia Pacific region were up 15% to $207 million.
Casodex sales increased by 6% to $1,335 million.
Sales in the US for the full year were Worldwide sales of Faslodex were up 32% up 1% to $298 million.
Sales in other markets, to $186 million, largely due to the 74% increase which account for more than 75% of product in Europe.
sales, were up 8%, on 6% growth in Western Europe and 13% sales growth in Japan.
Zoladex sales exceeded $1 billion for the second year in a row with declines in the US Iressa sales were unchanged for the full year.
Sales in Japan increased 4% for the year: sales in China were up 24%.
We have recorded alliance revenue of $18 million from our co-promotion arrangements Faslodex sales increased 10% to $214 million with regard to Abraxane.
for the full year, on growth of 3% in the US and 18% sales growth in other markets.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 63 RESPIRATORY AND INFLAMMATION R&I MEDICINES MARKETED PRODUCTS PERFORMANCE Symbicort Turbuhaler budesonide 2007 compared to 2006 compared to 2007 2006 2005 2006 2005 formoterol in a dry powder inhaler is a Growth Growth combination of an inhaled corticosteroid due to due to Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth and a fast onset, long-acting bronchodilator Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % for the treatment of asthma and COPD.
Rhinocort 354 16 10 360 27 387 4 2 7 7 Symbicort pMDI budesonide formoterol Oxis 86 9 7 88 3 91 10 2 3 3 in a pressurised metered-dose inhaler for Accolate 76 6 1 81 9 72 7 6 13 13 the treatment of asthma.
Other 166 7 13 146 9 155 5 14 6 6 Total 3,711 369 191 3,151 284 6 2,873 12 18 10 10 Pulmicort budesonide is a corticosteroid anti-inflammatory inhalation drug that helps prevent symptoms and improves PIPELINE the control of asthma.
Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Phase Estimated filing date NCEs IIIIII Europe US Pulmicort Respules budesonide inhalation JJ AZD9056 ion channel rheumatoid arthritis 2012 2012 suspension is the first and only nebulised blocker P2X7 corticosteroid in the US for the treatment of AZD1981 prostaglandin receptor asthma JJ asthma in children as young as 12 months.
antagonist AZD5672 chemokine antagonist rheumatoid arthritis JJ 2012 2012 Rhinocort budesonide is a nasal steroid CCR5 treatment for allergic rhinitis hay fever, MEDI-528 anti-IL-9 antibody asthma JJ perennial rhinitis and nasal polyps.
AZD4818 CCR1 antagonist COPD J CAT-354 anti-IL-13 antibody asthma J Oxis formoterol is a fast onset, longAZD5904 MPO inhibitor COPD J acting beta-agonist therapy for treating AZD1744 dual CCR3 H1 COPD J asthma and COPD.
receptor antagonist Accolate zafirlukast is an oral AZD1236 matrix metalloproteinase COPD J inhibition leukotriene receptor antagonist for the AZD9668 neutrophil elastase COPD J treatment of asthma.
inhibitor MEDI-563 anti-IL-5R antibody asthma J MEDI-545 anti-IFNa antibody SLE, myositis J 2007 IN BRIEF Pneumococcal pneumococcal vaccine streptococcus pneumoniae J Symbicort sales of $1.6 billion, up 22%.
1 vaccine AZD3199 iLABA asthma COPD J Symbicort pMDI for long-term CAM-3001 anti-GM-CSFR antibody rheumatoid arthritis J maintenance treatment of asthma launched in the US to specialists Line extensions and primary care physicians.
2 3 Symbicort pMDI inhaled steroid asthma JJJ Filed Launched Outside the US, Symbicort SMART fast onset, long-acting agonist 2 now launched in over 40 countries.
2 Symbicort pMDI inhaled steroid COPD JJJ Filed 2Q 2008 Pulmicort continued to grow with fast onset, long-acting agonist 2 sales of over $1 billion, up 10%.
1 Acquisition of MedImmune Partnered product.
2 To be supplemented in 2008 with data supporting two additional strengths.
3 US approval based on 12 years and above.
Acquisition of Verus Pharmaceuticals For discontinued projects see page 30. paediatric asthma business in North America.
European Patent Office revoked the European combination patent for Symbicort for use in asthma.
Other patent property and data exclusivity for Symbicort not affected by the decision.
DIRECTORS REPORT 64 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 RESPIRATORY AND INFLAMMATION R&I MEDICINES CONTINUED WE AIM TO BUILD ON OUR STRONG POSITION IN ASTHMA dosing properties especially dose uniformity and to introduce an enhanced dose indicator.
TREATMENT THROUGH THE GROWTH OF KEY PRODUCTS, The enhanced version was launched as PARTICULARLY SYMBICORT, NEW INDICATIONS AND MARKET Pulmicort Flexhaler in April 2007.
European approvals for the more environmentally LAUNCHES AND THE SUCCESSFUL INTRODUCTION OF NOVEL friendly HFA-based Pulmicort pMDI were APPROACHES TO OTHER AREAS OF INFLAMMATORY DISEASE extended in 2007 to cover additional countries, including Spain.
Pulmicort Respules is the SUCH AS SEVERE CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY first and only nebulised corticosteroid in the DISEASE COPD AND RHEUMATOLOGY.
US for children as young as 12 months.
Sales have grown strongly as a result of high medical need in the age group combined with the PRODUCTS provides increased asthma control and products beneficial profile, which together Symbicort Turbuhaler provides rapid, effective simplifies asthma management because have strengthened the products position as control of asthma and effective reduction of patients only need one inhaler for both the inhaled corticosteroid of choice for the exacerbations, improving symptoms and maintenance and relief of asthma symptoms.
treatment of children under five with asthma.
providing a clinically important improvement The Symbicort SMART approach is also in the health of patients with severe COPD.
a cost-effective treatment option for many Information about our continuing patent healthcare payers.
At the end of 2006, infringement action against IVAX in the US, Symbicort pMDI, approved for the long-term Symbicort SMART was endorsed by the which began in October 2005, in relation maintenance treatment of asthma in patients Global Initiative for Asthma.
to IVAXs abbreviated new drug application 12 years of age and older, was launched in the ANDA for a budesonide inhalation suspension US in June 2007 to specialists and in July The COMPASS and AHEAD studies, is set out in Note 27 to the Financial 2007 to primary care physicians.
There has the results of which were published in 2007 Statements on page 158. been a good uptake of Symbicort in the US, and involved over 3,000 and 2,000 patients most notably with specialist asthma physicians.
respectively, along with the COMPASS health Oxis is a formoterol beta-agonist therapy with Further information about the progress of economic analysis paper, confirmed that the a fast onset and long-acting clinical effect for Symbicort since its launch in the US is set Symbicort SMART treatment concept is more the relief of asthma symptoms.
Oxis is added out on page 69 Geographical Review.
clinically effective, and more cost-effective to the treatment regime when corticosteroid compared with the best treatment approach treatment alone is not adequate.
Oxis is also In October 2007, the US Food and Drug provided by salmeterol fluticasone Seretide indicated for symptom relief in COPD.
Administration FDA approved the actuation at any dose plus as needed short-acting counter for the pMDI and plans are in place reliever therapy.
Rhinocort is a treatment for allergic rhinitis for launch in the US in the second half of hay fever.
The paediatric and COPD trials for In October 2007, following an appeal by a with rapid onset of action and minimal side Symbicort pMDI are on track to support the group of generic manufacturers, the European effects and is available as a once-daily US supplementary new drug applications Patent Office EPO Technical Board of Appeal treatment in the Rhinocort Aqua nasal spray planned in the second quarter of 2008. revoked the European combination patent and the Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler forms.
for Symbicort for use in asthma.
The EPO Outside the US, Symbicort for the treatment decision is not expected to have an immediate In September 2007, we received a letter from of asthma is marketed in the Turbuhaler dry impact in the EU or any impact on the US Apotex Inc. stating that Apotex had submitted powder inhaler and is approved in over 100 and Japanese patents.
Symbicort has data an ANDA for a budesonide nasal spray countries and launched in more than 70. exclusivity until at least August 2010 in most 32 mcg spray and that it intended to Symbicort Turbuhaler is also approved in major European markets, which means engage in the commercial manufacture, use many countries for use in patients with severe that generics are unlikely to enter the market and sale of a generic version of Rhinocort COPD, where trial data in two pivotal studies until some time after this date.
In addition, Aqua budesonide nasal spray before the have shown that it reduces exacerbation rates the Turbuhaler device, preferred by many expiration of our US FDA Orange Book compared to a long-acting bronchodilator prescribers and patients, has multi-component patents covering Rhinocort Aqua.
After alone, and rapidly improves symptoms patent protection until 2019.
In the EU, investigating the allegations in Apotexs letter, compared to its mono-components and Symbicort Turbuhaler is also protected by we decided not to file a patent infringement placebo, providing clinically important two COPD use patents under appeal and suit against Apotex.
We will not maintain or improvement in health status.
opposition, respectively, which expire in 2018 enforce the patents referred to in the letter and an as needed Symbicort SMART use and have requested their fide-listing from the Following its approval in October 2006, patent, which expires in 2019.
Symbicort SMART, a new approach to managing adult asthma, has been launched Pulmicort remains one of the worlds leading PIPELINE in over 40 countries.
This treatment concept asthma medicines and is available in several Our pipeline includes life cycle management represents a change from current medical forms, including the Turbuhaler dry powder initiatives for the approved products practice.
Symbicort contains formoterol, inhaler, a pressurised metered dose inhaler mentioned above, as well as development a bronchodilator which is both rapid-acting and and Pulmicort Respules suspension for the compounds across the whole discovery long-lasting, coupled with the corticosteroid treatment of children and infants 12 months and development spectrum.
We focus on budesonide, to provide an important and older.
In the US, the Pulmicort Turbuhaler developing new therapies for currently anti-inflammatory effect.
This approach has been technically modified to improve unmet medical needs in COPD, asthma and rheumatology.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 65 RESPIRATORY AND INFLAMMATION R&I MEDICINES CONTINUED The development of Symbicort pMDI for COPD Our early R&I small molecule pipeline includes rollout of the Symbicort SMART regime and and paediatric asthma in the US is on track, novel compounds that target high unmet growth from use in COPD.
Good growth for with regulatory submissions for both indications medical needs with a focus on COPD, but the year was achieved in Canada up 25% scheduled for the second quarter of 2008. also asthma and musculoskeletal diseases.
and in Emerging Markets up 26%.
Sales in Our existing regulatory filings for Symbicort Compounds are in development for both oral the US were $50 million since launch at the pMDI in the EU for asthma and COPD are administration and inhalation.
Specialist physicians have scheduled to be supplemented with data rapidly adopted the product: nearly 75% of supporting two additional strengths in the MedImmune allergists and more than 60% of pulmonary second half of 2008.
Multiple programmes are being pursued by specialists in our target audience have MedImmune to develop targeted treatments prescribed Symbicort.
Share of new A regulatory submission in Japan for Symbicort for a variety of R&I diseases.
An important area prescriptions for fixed combination products for the treatment of asthma in adults and of focus is the potential control of asthma was 5.8% in the week ending 18 January adolescents from 16 years and above was symptoms.
MedImmune programmes 2008: market share of patients newly starting filed in May 2007. targeting asthma include a phase II trial combination therapy is over 11.5%.
studying CAT-354, a fully human monoclonal Our three-year partnership with Dynavax antibody MAb targeting interleukin-13 IL-13 Pulmicort sales increased by 10% to $1,454 Technologies Corporation, which began in in patients with severe asthma, continuing million.
US sales increased 15% for the full 2006, continues to pursue opportunities in trials studying MAbs targeting the interleukin-5 year to $964 million.
Pulmicort Respules sales the field of toll-like receptor 9 TLR 9 for use receptor IL-5R MEDI-563 and interleukin-9 in the US were up by more than 20% for the in asthma and COPD.
Dynavax has unique IL-9 MEDI-528, in phase I and II respectively: full year, on estimated volume growth of 15%.
competence in generating immunostimulatory and an early-stage clinical trial being led by Of the approximately six million children DNA sequences that activate TLR 9. researchers at Yale University studying the under the age of eight who are treated for The alliance should enable us to expand role of a chitinase-like protein YKL-40 as asthma, more than one million benefit from our portfolio of small molecule and biological a potential new biomarker for determining treatment with Pulmicort Respules.
Sales in drugs to treat asthma and COPD.
asthma severity, and its role in the pathobiology other markets were unchanged for the year.
In February 2007, we announced a major Rhinocort sales fell by 4% to $354 million, with discovery alliance with Argenta Discovery MedImmune is also carrying out a phase I a 9% decline in the US being compensated Limited aimed at identifying improved study assessing the safety and efficacy of an by small gains elsewhere.
A team of  treatment MEDI-545, scientists from each company will collaborate which has shown consistent evidence of PERFORMANCE 2006 in order to identify long-acting muscarinic clinical activity across multiple measures of Reported performance antagonist LAMA and dual-acting muscarinic disease in patients with mild-to-moderate Sales in the R&I therapeutic area grew by 10% antagonistagonist MABA candidate drugs.
Pulmicort and Symbicort were the In May 2007, we agreed to acquire the The first phase I study of CAM-3001 has major contributors to this growth.
paediatric asthma business of Verus been initiated to evaluate the safety and Pharmaceuticals, Inc. which includes the tolerability of single doses in patients with Underlying performance North American rights to CyDex Captisol rheumatoid arthritis.
CAM-3001 is a MAb On a constant exchange rate basis, sales in enabled budesonide solution and a proprietary targeting the alpha sub-unit of the granulocyteR&I increased by 10%.
This deal also includes macrophage colony stimulating factor the North American rights to the agreement receptor GM-CSFR.
The phase I study is Sales of Symbicort increased by 18% to Verus Pharmaceuticals has with PARI, the the first clinical trial in which a MAb targeting $1,184 million on continued market growth German medical device company that makes GM-CSFR is being investigated in this and share gains in Europe, where sales were eFlow, a novel nebuliser.
Sales in other markets will potentially allow us to provide patients acquired exclusive development rights to the reached $166 million.
and carers with new products that may be CAM-3001 programme from CSL Limited.
administered with a smaller, more portable Worldwide sales of Pulmicort were up 11% nebuliser that could administer the medicine PERFORMANCE 2007 to $1,292 million.
Once again, the primary in less time than the current therapy, thereby Reported performance driver for growth was Pulmicort Respules in improving treatment adherence in paediatric Continued growth from Symbicort drove the US, where sales were up 24%.
the increase in reported sales for Respiratory growth in the US was approximately 10%, and Inflammation, which grew by 18% from with price changes, managed care rebate In July 2007, we established an R&D $3,151 million in 2006 to $3,711 million in 2007. adjustments and inventory movements also collaboration with Silence Therapeutics plc, contributing to the sales growth.
Pulmicort primarily in the respiratory field.
The threeUnderlying performance sales in the rest of the world were $457 million.
year collaboration is intended to discover On a constant exchange rate basis, sales and develop proprietary siRNA molecules in Respiratory and Inflammation increased Rhinocort sales were down 7% to $360 million, against up to five specific targets provided by 12%.
chiefly on sales of Rhinocort Aqua in the US by AstraZeneca.
Silence Therapeutics and market down 9%.
AstraZeneca will jointly collaborate in the early Symbicort sales for the full year were up 22% phase of identification and optimisation of novel to $1,575 million.
Sales in Western Europe siRNA molecules.
We will retain full responsibility were up 16%, with market share up another for clinical development and commercialisation.
point in the last 12 months, aided by the DIRECTORS REPORT 66 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 INFECTION MEDICINES MARKETED PRODUCTS PERFORMANCE Synagis palivizumab is a humanised 2007 compared to 2006 compared to 2007 2006 2005 2006 2005 monoclonal antibody MAb for the Growth Growth prevention of serious lower respiratory due to due to Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth tract disease caused by respiratory Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % syncytial virus RSV in paediatric patients Merrem Meronem 773 121 48 604 96 3 505 20 28 19 20 at high risk of acquiring RSV disease 2 Synagis 618 618 n m n m n m n m pneumonia and bronchiolitis.
2 FluMist 53 53 n m n m n m n m 1 Merrem Meronem meropenem is Other 270 12 11 271 59 4 334 4 18 19 an intravenous carbapenem anti-bacterial Total 1,714 780 59 875 37 1 839 89 96 4 4 for the treatment of serious, hospital- 2 Sales of these MedImmune products are consolidated in AstraZeneca accounts from 1 June 2007. acquired infections.
As a result, there are no prior period sales included.
FluMist influenza virus vaccine live, intranasal is a live, attenuated vaccine PIPELINE for the prevention of disease caused Compound Mechanism Areas under investigation Phase Estimated filing date by influenza A and B viruses in healthy NCEs I II III Europe US children and adolescents, two to 17 years JJJ Motavizumab humanised monoclonal RSV prevention 1H 2009 Filed MedImmune antibody of age, and healthy adults, 18 to 49 years CytoFab anti-TNF-alpha severe sepsis JJ of age.
polyclonal antibody 3 EBV vaccine Epstein-Barr virus post-transplant JJ vaccine proliferative disease AZD2836 5a replicon hepatitis C JJ 2007 IN BRIEF MEDI-524 MAb targets F-protein early and late treatment of JJ Merrem sales of $773 million, motavizumab disease in infants 1 yr up 20%.
MEDI-534 RSV PIV-3 vaccine intranasal immunisation J Steady underlying growth for MEDI-560 PIV-3 vaccine intranasal immunisation J Merrem in the US 32% and H5N1 H5N1 in uenza pandemic in uenza vaccine J virus vaccine in Western Europe 20%.
MEDI-564 F-protein inhibitor RSV treatment J Since the acquisition of CMV vaccine CMV vaccine cytomegalovirus J MedImmune in June, Synagis MEDI-557 YTE extended RSV prophylaxis J sales of $618 million and half-life RSV MAb FluMist sales of $53 million.
Line extensions Acquistion of Arrow Therapeutics FluMist live, attenuated, in uenza JJJ 2Q 2008 Launched has added anti-viral capability.
MedImmune intranasal in uenza virus vaccine Acquistion of MedImmune has added infection-focused 3 Partnered product.
monoclonal antibody and For discontinued projects see page 30. vaccine technology.
Work dedicated to finding a new treatment for tuberculosis continues at our R&D facility in Bangalore, India.
1 Licensed from Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma Co. Ltd. DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 67 INFECTION MEDICINES CONTINUED WE AIM TO BUILD A LEADING FRANCHISE IN THE TREATMENT MedImmune MedImmunes industry-leading development OF INFECTIOUS DISEASES BY INCREASING THE SALES OF of products to prevent paediatric respiratory THE MARKETED BRANDS SYNAGIS, MERREM AND FLUMIST infectious diseases is continuing.
Various positive trial data have been presented during AND BRINGING NEW PRODUCTS TO MARKET BY EXPLOITING 2007 for its next-generation drug candidate, OUR STRUCTURAL AND GENOMIC-BASED DISCOVERY motavizumab MEDI-524, a MAb targeting RSV disease.
Data from a phase III study TECHNOLOGIES AND OUR ANTIBODY PLATFORMS.
comparing motavizumab to Synagis were presented in May 2007 at the Pediatric Academic Societies meeting in Toronto, PRODUCTS PIPELINE Canada.
In August 2007, a placeboMerrem Meronem meropenem is a Discovery work at our R&D facility in Boston, controlled phase III study with motavizumab carbapenem antibiotic which is active US continues to focus on anti-bacterial in full-term native American infants was against most bacteria which cause hospitalagents with a novel mechanism of action.
unblinded due to encouraging preliminary acquired infections such as pneumonia.
The programme is now delivering candidates efficacy data.
MedImmune submitted a Merrem is one of the leading products in into the exploratory phase of development.
biologics license application BLA to the the carbapenem market and has a growing FDA for motavizumab early in 2008. share of the intravenous antibiotic market In January 2007, we announced the acquisition MedImmune is also developing a vaccine because of its ultra-broad spectrum and of Arrow Therapeutics Ltd, a biotechnology against RSV, which is in phase I clinical trials.
the continued low incidence of resistance.
company focused on the discovery and development of small molecule, anti-viral Dedicated tuberculosis TB research Synagis is used for the prevention of serious therapies with a particular focus on hepatitis C. We are committed to making a contribution lower respiratory tract disease caused by In June 2007, the acquisition of MedImmune, to improving health in the developing world.
respiratory syncytial virus RSV in children Inc. expanded our infection R&D capability Backed by our skills and experience in at high risk of RSV disease.
It is the first further by providing access to MAb and infection research, we are working to find a monoclonal antibody MAb approved in the vaccine technologies.
These two transactions new treatment for TB.
We have a dedicated US for an infectious disease and, since its have been important strategic steps in scientific resource in Bangalore, India that is launch in 1998, it has become the standard strengthening our portfolio of anti-infective focused on finding a new, improved treatment of care for RSV prevention, having replaced treatments and complementing our existing for TB that will act on drug-resistant strains, MedImmunes first anti-RSV product, capabilities in anti-bacterials.
They also fit simplify the treatment regime current regimes RespiGam, a polyclonal antibody that required with our decision to re-focus our disease are complex and lengthy, meaning many a four-hour infusion on a monthly basis.
A area research, with infection now one of our patients give up before the infection is fully substantial product improvement, Synagis is key therapy areas.
The acquisitions augment treated and be compatible with HIV AIDS administered by intra-muscular injection.
our portfolio with clinical and pre-clinical therapies TB and HIV AIDS form a lethal compounds and programmes.
From Arrow combination, each speeding the others FluMist is a live, attenuated nasally delivered Therapeutics, these include a novel antiprogress.
Over 80 scientists in Bangalore vaccine approved for the prevention of disease hepatitis C virus compound that targets work closely with our infection research centre caused by influenza A and B viruses in healthy the NS5a protein, AZD2836 formerly A-831 in Boston, US as well as with academic children and adults, two to 49 years of age.
leaders in the field, and they have full access In January 2007, the US Food and Drug to all AstraZenecas platform technologies, Administration FDA approved a refrigerated In line with our announcement in November such as high throughput screening and formulation of the vaccine previously, only 2006, the development programme for compound libraries.
Finding a new treatment a frozen formulation had been available.
CytoFab, our treatment for severe sepsis is a complex process, but we hope to have In September 2007, the FDA approved the licensed from Protherics Inc. has been identified a candidate drug for testing in man expansion of the label for FluMist to include expanded and delayed with the addition of within the next three to four years.
children two to five years of age, for which a phase II study programme based on the the drug had not previously been indicated.
recently completed new manufacturing The basis for this was a phase III study involving methodology.
Sepsis is a life-threatening nearly 8,500 children that showed children condition resulting from uncontrolled severe immunised with FluMist reported 55% fewer infections, which affects an estimated three cases of influenza compared with children million people a year worldwide.
who received the injectable vaccine.
DIRECTORS REPORT 68 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 INFECTION MEDICINES CONTINUED OTHER BUSINESSES PERFORMANCE 2007 APTIUM ONCOLOGY ASTRA TECH Reported performance For more than 20 years, Aptium Oncology has Astra Tech is engaged in the research, Infection sales grew by 96% to $1,715 million been developing and managing hospitaldevelopment, manufacture and marketing from $875 million in 2006, driven by the based outpatient cancer centres in the US.
of medical devices and implants for use in inclusion of seven months of Synagis and It has developed a unique, comprehensive healthcare, primarily in urology, surgery FluMist sales and Merrem sales increases approach to cancer care that incorporates all and odontology.
It has a leading position in of 28%.
outpatient oncology and ancillary services in several countries in Europe and is expanding a single facility for maximum patient comfort its operations in key markets, particularly in Underlying performance and convenience.
After excluding the effects of exchange, infection sales grew by 89%.
Underlying Ownership of Aptium Oncology gives us a All product lines showed continued good growth of 20% from Merrem, with sales of unique window to the provider sector of the sales growth in 2007.
In pursuit of its growth $773 million, and the inclusion of Synagis US oncology market and, through Aptium strategy for Astra Tech Dental, the sales and and FluMist were the principal drivers of this Oncologys network of over 160 physicians, marketing organisation for dental implants growth.
Sales of Synagis totalled $618 million access to many opinion leaders in the field was expanded during the year.
Strong sales for the period since the acquisition of of oncology who can help shape early phase growth was achieved in major European MedImmune, with $480 million arising in drug development decisions.
It is also involved markets, North America and Japan, and the fourth quarter.
Synagis sales are highly in clinical trial delivery for a number of our Astra Tech increased market shares in all seasonal, with the majority of sales recorded pipeline products and provides scientific of these major markets.
in the fourth and first quarters.
US sales advice and staff training for oncology teams.
were $391 million: sales outside the US In October 2007, the American dental were $89 million.
There are no corresponding In 2007, Aptium Oncology continued to company Atlantis Components, Inc. based sales recorded in the prior year period: on a perform well in its cancer centre management in Cambridge, Massachusetts, US, was pro-forma basis Synagis sales are 5% ahead business with positive profit and cash flow acquired for $71 million.
Atlantis specialises of the fourth quarter last year.
Focused on growth, Aptium in the production of individually adapted Oncology continued to invest in sales and abutments for dental implants using a Sales of FluMist were $53 million for the full marketing.
The resulting expansion of its patented CAD CAM method.
CAD CAM year, all of which were recorded in the fourth consultancy business is creating new technology is expected to change both quarter.
As with Synagis, there are no opportunities for management relationships production and treatment methods within corresponding sales in the prior year period: in new markets in the US, with growing dentistry in the future.
The acquisition of on a pro-forma basis FluMist sales for the interest from international sources.
Atlantis provides Astra Tech with a new 2007 2008 influenza season to date are 56% platform for development within digital ahead of the equivalent point in respect of Clinical research is an integral part of care dentistry, with the aim of ensuring continued the 2006 2007 season.
delivery at Aptium Oncologys affiliated cancer growth for the dental implants product line.
centres and the company has established Sales of Merrem increased by 20% to the Aptium Oncology Research Network, An extension of Astra Techs headquarters $773 million, with strong growth in the US which is conducting a growing number of in Mlndal, Sweden, was completed during sales up 32% to $149 million and Western centrally co-ordinated trials.
This included new laboratories and Europe sales up 20% to $307 million.
offices for R&D and quality assurance as well as the Astra Tech Centre for Training and PERFORMANCE 2006 Education, used for advanced international Reported performance education programmes and congresses.
Infection and other sales rose by 4% from Further investments have been made in $839 million in 2005 to $875 million in 2006, R&D, clinical research and new production as sales of Merrem grew by 20%.
facilities to strengthen the product portfolio.
Underlying performance Excluding effects of exchange, underlying sales in Infection increased by 4%.
Merrem sales grew by 19% to reach $604 million, primarily driven by increased performance in the US and Europe.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 69 GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW 2007 IN BRIEF PERFORMANCE The US delivered strong 2007 compared to 2006 compared to 2007 2006 2005 2006 2005 financial performance in 2007 Growth Growth despite a continually challenging due to due to Growth exchange Growth exchange Growth Growth Growth Growth market environment.
Our brands Sales underlying effects Sales underlying effects Sales underlying reported underlying reported $m $m $m $m $m $m $m % % % % demonstrated growth and outpaced US 13,366 917 12,449 1,678 10,771 7 7 16 16 our competition in nearly all market Canada 1,145 54 60 1,031 11 66 976 5 11 1 6 segments in which we compete.
In Asia Pacific, our growth was the NORTH AMERICA is not likely to be associated with an increased second highest among the top 10 US risk of heart problems and recommended pharmaceutical companies.
In China Product performance, clinical trial that healthcare providers continue to prescribe we continue to rank as the number data, regulatory submissions and and patients continue to use omeprazole or one multinational pharmaceutical product regulation esomeprazole in the manner described in company in the prescription market Notwithstanding the presence of full generic the labelling for the two products.
HKAPI-Q3 YTD data and in Australia competition to Toprol-XL and the growth in we climbed to become the secondgeneric omeprazole, sales in the US rose In 2007, Seroquel further strengthened its largest pharmaceutical company.
by 7% from $12,449 million in 2006 to leading position as the number one prescribed $13,366 million in 2007.
The combined sales atypical anti-psychotic on the market, with In Japan, AstraZeneca was the second of Nexium, Seroquel, Crestor and Arimidex sales of $2,863 million up 15%, 15% fastest-growing pharmaceutical were $8,364 million in 2007, which represented reported.
Seroquel posted total prescription company amongst the top 15 almost 63% of our total US sales.
Symbicort growth of 10% with an increase of 1.5 million pharmaceutical companies.
This was was launched in the year, with sales of prescriptions, nearly twice the rate of market driven by Casodex, Losec, Arimidex, $50 million.
AstraZeneca is currently the growth for antipsychotics.
The robust clinical and strong full-scale launch of Crestor.
fifth largest pharmaceutical company in the development programme for Seroquel Sales in the Latin America region US, with our sales representing a 5% share continues to deliver positive results leading increased by 23%, driven by Mexico, of US prescription pharmaceutical sales.
to further differentiation in the market and Brazil, Venezuela, Central America Sales for Aptium Oncology and Astra Tech an enhanced product profile.
rose by 7% and 46% to $402 million and the FDA granted marketing approval for $60 million, respectively.
a sustained-release formulation, Seroquel XR, for the treatment of schizophrenia and this Nexium continues to lead the branded product was successfully introduced to the proton pump inhibitor PPI market for new market in August.
In November 2007, the FDA Statements of competitive position, prescriptions, total prescriptions and total approved Seroquel XR for the maintenance growth rates and sales capsules dispensed.
Generic omeprazole treatment in schizophrenic patients already As in the rest of this Annual Report and Form 20-F posted strong growth rates in 2007, capturing benefiting from Seroquel XR treatment.
Information, except as otherwise stated, market information in this Geographic Review regarding most of the market growth and causing price In addition to these critical approvals, the position of our business or products relative and share erosion across the entire branded a supplemental new drug application sNDA to its or their competition is based upon published PPI market.
In the face of generic pressure, was submitted to the FDA in July 2007 seeking statistical sales data for the 12 months ended 30 September 2007 obtained from IMS Health, Nexium continued to fare better than its approval for use of Seroquel as adjunct to a leading supplier of statistical data to the branded competitors.
In the second half of mood stabilisers for the maintenance of effect pharmaceutical industry.
For the US, dispensed 2007, Nexium achieved a significant formulary in patients with bipolar disorder and two new or total prescription data are taken from the IMS Health National Prescription Audit for the placement with the Department of Defense sNDAs were submitted in December 2007 12 months ended 31 December 2007.
Except and enters 2008 with stronger payer coverage seeking approval for Seroquel XR in bipolar as otherwise stated, these market share and than in 2007.
In August 2007, the US Food depression and Seroquel XR in bipolar mania.
industry data from IMS Health have been derived by comparing our sales revenue to competitors and Drug Administration FDA issued an Submissions are planned for the first half of and total market sales revenues for that period.
Early Communication regarding the results 2008 supporting indications for Seroquel XR Except as otherwise stated, growth rates and of two small studies.
However, in its final in both major depressive disorder and sales are given at constant exchange rates.
assessment, the FDA concluded that Nexium general anxiety disorder.
DIRECTORS REPORT 70 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW CONTINUED Crestor continued its volume growth in 2007 Pulmicort Respules, the only inhaled patient access approach to Medicare Part D despite generic pressure, with sales of corticosteroid for the treatment of asthma contracting, our inclusion on Medicare Part $1,424 million.
In November 2007, the FDA approved in the US for children as young D formularies continues to be strong, allowing approved Crestor to slow the progression as 12 months, has experienced strong sales a large segment of the patient population of atherosclerosis in patients with elevated growth of 22% over the previous year.
This new indication is an In October 2007, a new 1mg strength was important differentiator from other products launched to provide physicians with an Although Medicare Part D to date has had in the cholesterol-lowering market.
During additional option to control paediatric asthma.
a limited effect on pricing in the broader US 2007, Crestor prescription share continued market, it is difficult to predict fully the longerto grow with cardiologists, whose patient Symbicort pMDI was launched in the US in term effects of this initiative on our business.
population comprises a high proportion June 2007 to specialists, and in July 2007 Pressure on pricing and access is, however, of patients with two or more risk factors, to primary care physicians.
For the week generally increasing in the US, driven, for indicating that cardiologists understand and ending 18 January 2008, Symbicort example, by an increased focus on generic recognise the clinical benefits of Crestor.
achieved an overall new prescription NRx alternatives.
Primary drivers of increased The entrance of generic simvastatin has had share of the inhaled corticosteroid long-acting generic use are budgetary policies within a major impact on the branded statin market, beta-agonist market of 5.8%.
Among healthcare systems and providers and significantly greater than that seen in other allergists, the NRx share was 12.1% of that changes in pharmaceutical benefit design.
therapeutic categories in similar situations market.
Aided awareness amongst all in the past.
We recognise that that there is targeted physicians is high and a broad base We continue to support My Medicare Matters, a place for generics since they play an of prescribers is being built with more than the community based outreach and education important role in health care economics, but 30,000 physicians now having used programme, in partnership with the National we believe generics are not the best choice Symbicort.
More than 10% of patients who Council on Aging NCOA.
As the market continues to are new to combination therapy have been Medicare Matters and AstraZeneca received evolve, we believe Crestor will continue to prescribed Symbicort.
These included the NCOA perform well in the changing environment Arthur Fleming Award for Public-Private and we remain committed to ensuring that In October 2007, the FDA approved the Partnership, given for the first time to a appropriate patients have access to Crestor.
actuation counter for the Symbicort pMDI pharmaceutical company, and the Silver Anvil and we plan to launch this in the US in the Award, sponsored by the Public Relations Atacand sales totalled $259 million on an second half of 2008.
The paediatric and Society of America, for a public relations underlying and reported basis.
COPD trials for Symbicort pMDI are on track campaign supporting public service to support the sNDA submissions planned in partnerships.
Activities in 2007 included In 2007, generic versions of the remaining the first half of 2008. demonstration grants to nine communitythree strengths of Toprol-XL were launched.
based organisations piloting innovative and At the same time as the generic entries, In the US, the passage of the FDA effective outreach strategies to low-incomewe announced that we had expanded our Amendments Act FDAAA in September subsidy beneficiaries and enhancements to previously announced supply and distribution 2007 has a potentially wide-ranging impact the award winning MyMedicareMatters.
org agreement with Par Pharmaceutical on the industry.
In addition to re-authorising website, as well as launch of an online Companies, Inc..
Par began distribution of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the community for professionals.
an authorised generic version of the 50, 100 Best Pharmaceuticals for Children Act and 200mg dosage strengths of metoprolol and the Pediatric Research Equity Act, Canada succinate extended-release tablets in the the FDAAA contains a number of provisions During 2007, four products contributed US.
Par had begun distributing a 25mg that substantially increase the authority and combined sales of over $713 million Crestor authorised generic of metoprolol succinate in enforcement options of the FDA, including $281 million, Nexium $181 million, Seroquel November 2006.
In an appeal to a previously but not limited to expanded authority $149 million, and Atacand $102 million, with reported patent decision, the Federal Court of regarding pharmacovigilance, post-marketing Crestor, Seroquel and Nexium among the Appeals for the Federal Circuit upheld the lower safety surveillance, clinical trial registration top 20 prescription products in Canada court decision regarding double patenting but and results posting and review of direct-toby sales.
Total sales for 2007 were $1,145 reversed the decision relating to unenforceability.
million, which is up an underlying 5% 11% We requested reconsideration of this decision, reported from the same period last year.
Medicare Part D prescription drug benefit The implementation in 2006 of Part D of the We maintained our market position as the Arimidex continued to perform well with sales Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, second largest brand name pharmaceutical up 13% 13% reported to $694 million for and Modernization Act of 2003 increased company in Canada.
Crestor maintained its the full year.
Arimidex continues to be the the overall volume of pharmaceuticals number two ranking in the statin market and market leader in total and new prescriptions dispensed in the US in 2006.
The increase was the fastest-growing product in both new for hormonal treatments for breast cancer in in prescription volume experienced in 2006 and total prescription segments 39% and the US market.
was attributed to the start-up of a new 44% growth respectively.
In 2007, the Medicare Part D was supported by the Crestor Healthy programme maintained high levels of Changes Support Program, which helps enrolment and beneficiary satisfaction, and patients to understand better and improve achieved prescription volume growth similar the management of their cholesterol and to to other mature markets.
Through our broad develop a healthier lifestyle.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 71 GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW CONTINUED Seroquel remains the leader in new and total Overall our sales in France $1,794 million In Spain, sales of $868 million were driven by prescriptions within the atypical anti-psychotics were maintained at the same level as 2006.
Atacand continues to outperform We saw good sales growth for our primary 17%, 28% reported and Seroquel the anti-hypertensive market, with new care brands Crestor underlying 41%, 21%, 32% reported, whilst Arimidex and prescription growth of over 15%, compared 54% reported and Symbicort underlying Casodex maintained a high share of their with market growth of only 5%.
6%, 16% reported, each of which gained respective markets.
significant market share from competitors.
Several key regulatory approvals were A summary of government cost-containment achieved in Canada in 2007.
Seroquel XR In Germany, sales of $1,233 million were down measures in Europe and their impact on was approved for the management of 3% 6% reported, mostly due to the roll-over our business can be found on page 32. manifestations of schizophrenia.
Nexium of last years government interventions.
Most received several key regulatory approvals affected was Nexium underlying -17%, -9% Synagis sales outside of the US are undertaken including two paediatric indications ages reported where price pressure and drive for on our behalf through a subsidiary of Abbott one to 11 years and 12 to 17 years, an generic prescription remained high.
Symbicort, Laboratories based in The Netherlands.
on-demand indication and finally an indication however, for the first time achieved value Revenue from this arrangement amounted to for Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.
Symbicort market leadership 15% underlying growth, $169 million.
We estimate that about 40% of Turbuhaler and Oxeze Turbuhaler received 26% reported with 42% of the market for the underlying sales arise in Western Europe, competitive class-labelling updates to fixed combination long-acting beta-stimulants about 35% in Japan and over 10% in Canada.
incorporate recent long-acting beta-agonist and inhaled corticosteroids.
Seroquel Strong growth has been recorded in Latin safety information.
continued to grow well with 13% underlying America in 2007. growth 24% reported reaching 20% of the REST OF THE WORLD market for atypical anti-psychotics.
Japan Sales in the rest of the world performed In Japan, our market share ranking has strongly, up 8% to $15,048 million 16% In the UK, sales were $1,004 million up 8%, improved from number 13 in 2006 to number reported.
Key products Crestor, Symbicort, 18% reported, driven by Crestor underlying 11 in 2007.
We were the second fastestSeroquel and Arimidex delivered strong 7%, 18% reported, Symbicort underlying growing pharmaceutical company amongst performance, up 20% against 2006 30% 42%, 55% reported, Seroquel underlying the top 15 pharmaceutical companies.
Latin America, Middle East and 12%, 22% reported, and Arimidex Strong volume growth from key products Africa, and Asia Pacific delivered particularly underlying 15%, 25% reported.
Many offset the biennial government review of drug strong sales, up 18% 24% reported.
of our other brands also performed well with prices to deliver sales of $1,661 million, Merrem 32%, 46% reported being of representing underlying growth of 11% 11% Established rest of the world particular note.
Competition in the market reported.
The key drivers of this were the Sales in the Established rest of the world remained intense but our key brands gained oncology portfolio, particularly Arimidex area grew by 5% 13% reported, with good market share in their respective segments.
underlying 9%, 9% reported, Casodex growth from Symbicort, Crestor, Seroquel Especially strong were Seroquel and underlying 13%, 12% reported and and oncology products together with the Symbicort achieving gains of two and one Zoladex underlying 7%, 6% reported, effect of Synagis offsetting declines in proton percentage points respectively.
The UK together with Losec Omepral underlying pump inhibitors PPI products in Western Government and pharmaceutical industry 7%, 7% reported and the successful Europe, and growth in Japan from Crestor have entered into terms of reference full-scale launch of Crestor.
discussions concerning potential changes to the pricing and reimbursement scheme.
There has been a positive move towards the Western Europe Negotiations are expected to be completed acceptance of non-Japanese Asian data as We saw modest growth of 3% 13% in 2008. part of the regulatory approval package for reported overall in Western Europe, which Japanese patients.
The Ministry of Health, is the balance of strong growth in Spain In Italy, Crestor and Symbicort increased Labour and Welfare MHLW has established 7%, 17% reported and the UK 8%, the sales by 16% 27% reported and 3% a study team, with a remit to propose basic 18% reported, and government initiatives 13% reported respectively while speciality policies for the mutual acceptance of clinical to contain drug expenditures in an increasing care brands also enjoyed healthy rises with data from Korea, China and Japan within the number of countries.
The inclusion of Synagis Seroquel increasing the sales by 6% 16% next two to three years.
In addition, MHLW sales outside the US in Western Europe reported with 19% of the market for atypical guidance issued in September 2007 facilitates benefited underlying growth by 2% anti-psychotics and Arimidex increasing earlier participation by Japan in international 2% reported, as discussed below.
We have sales by 8% 18% reported with 53% of clinical studies.
undertaken a strategic review of the sales the market for aromatase inhibitors and and marketing resources required in Europe tamoxifen.
However, overall sales declined for the next three years.
This review has by 6% 2% reported to $1,294 million as identified a number of different programmes, a result of reference pricing at the regional which have reduced total headcount by 1,957 level on PPIs and measures to control their positions.
The total costs of restructuring is prescribing by physicians.
Nexium sales fell by $210 million, with $161 million charged in 2007.
24% -17% reported and Losec by 37% -31% reported.
DIRECTORS REPORT 72 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 GEOGRAPHICAL REVIEW CONTINUED Other Established rest of the world Emerging Asia Pacific Middle East and Africa Australia In the Emerging Asia Pacific region, overall Our business in the region continued to grow In Australia, in the second quarter of 2007 sales were up 10% 16% reported to strongly with 23% underlying growth 26% we moved from third to second in the market $749 million in 2007. on a reported basis, driven primarily by strong in terms of sales, with the launches of Crestor sales of the key brands Nexium, Symbicort, in December 2006 and Symbicort SMART Strong growth was seen in India, Indonesia, Crestor and Seroquel.
We have continued to in January 2007 driving sales to $638 million Malaysia, Singapore and Vietnam, where make selective investments in infrastructure for the full year with growth of 17% 31% market dynamics continue to be positive.
and people across a number of markets, reported.
On an underlying basis, the four particularly Algeria and Egypt.
key brands, Arimidex, Seroquel, Atacand In the Philippines and Thailand an uncertain and Nexium, grew by 14% 27% reported.
market environment slowed our growth.
Emerging rest of the world Latin America Sales in emerging markets increased 17% Our business in Latin America enjoyed strong 24% reported for the full year, accounting sales performance of $947 million, up 23% for nearly 45% of total sales growth outside 29% reported, mainly driven by Mexico, the US market.
Sales in Emerging Europe Brazil, Venezuela, Central America and the were up 12% 24% reported.
As a result, our market share grew China increased 28% 33% reported.
to 3% in the prescription market, taking us to the number nine position in the rankings Emerging Europe of the prescription market.
Russia and Turkey are the two major countries in Emerging Europe, which delivered the sales This is the result of the investment made growth of 21% 31% reported and 14% to develop our key products in fast-growing 25% reported respectively.
Nexium, Seroquel, Crestor and of Russia was led by the sales of Merrem, Symbicort all showed strong performance Arimidex and Symbicort, whilst in Turkey with overall sales of $303 million, which is up growth was driven by Crestor and Nexium.
Nexium is our number one prescription product in Latin China America with overall sales of $144 million In China, the growth and expansion strategy up 49%, 54% reported.
Crestor is now the of the past four years has continued to build number four prescription product with overall our presence and sales including Hong Kong sales of $84 million up 40%, 47% reported.
exceeded $400 million for the first time in 2007.
We are the largest multinational Mexico continued to be our largest market pharmaceutical company in the prescription in the region, with sales of $334 million up market in China, as surveyed by the Hong 17%, 17% reported.
Our share in the Kong Association of the Pharmaceutical prescription market moved up to 4% and Industry, with a growth rate for prescription we moved up to the number nine position in sales of 28% 33% reported.
our investments in China increased with further growth in the number of medical In Brazil, sales were $330 million with an representatives, the opening of an innovation underlying growth of 19% 33% reported.
discovery research centre in Shanghai and The best-selling brand was Zoladex with the announcement of several external sales of $47 million, followed by Crestor with collaborations, including a new clinical sales of $35 million and Nexium with sales of pharmacology unit in Peking University $31 million.
Our share in the prescription and a translational science laboratory in market in Brazil maintained 3% and we moved Guangdong Province Peoples Hospital.
up to the number 10 position in the rankings.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 73 IN THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY Wherever AstraZeneca is located worldwide, We have a dedicated scientific resource in communities combat the co-infection threat we aim to make a positive contribution to Bangalore, India that focuses on finding a in South Africa and Lesotho where HIV is the our local communities through charitable new, improved treatment for TB and further single most important factor determining the donations, sponsorships and other initiatives information about this commitment can be increasing incidence of TB.
that help to make a difference.
In particular, found on page 67. we aim to ensure that our community activities We also further increased the geographic focus on bringing benefit in ways that are Alongside this ongoing research programme, footprint of our support activity through a consistent with our business of improving we partner with NGOs and other organisations new partnership in 2007 with the African health and quality of life, and on promoting working with local communities to strengthen Medical and Research Foundation AMREF the value of science among young people.
their frameworks for managing healthcare that focuses on helping to strengthen in a sustainable way.
In particular, we focus healthcare systems and integrated delivery In 2007, we spent a total of $588 million on on community-based projects that can be of TB HIV malaria programmes in Uganda, community sponsorships and charitable scaled up to improve outcomes for the where there is a high burden of all three donations worldwide, including $518 million greatest number of people.
During the year, AMREF and on product donations, valued at average AstraZeneca worked together with the wholesale prices.
In 2006, our product Strengthening healthcare capabilities Ministry of Health in Uganda to develop donations totalled $443 million, down from TB and HIV form a potentially lethal a model for managing HIV AIDS, malaria and $835 million the previous year.
This decrease combination, each speeding the others TB collectively that will provide a framework reflected the implementation of Medicare progress and TB is the biggest killer of for effective and efficient healthcare at both Part D in the US, a change that meant more people living with HIV.
Over the last five years, local and national levels.
The first programme people now have prescription drug coverage we have supported the British Red Cross in is now underway.
Those initially targeted to through the federal system.
Already a leader their community-based efforts to combat the benefit are the poor and remote communities in providing patient assistance in the US, growing threat of TB and TB HIV in Central in the Luwero and Kiboga districts of central AstraZeneca launched a new programme in Asia.
Work in Kyrgyzstan and Turkmenistan Uganda, particularly women of child-bearing November 2006 for those enrolled in Medicare has focused on improving patient compliance, age, people living with HIV AIDS and children Part D, but who still have financial difficulty encouraging early diagnosis, raising awareness under the age of five.
We also extended of TB, fighting the stigma associated with the reach of our US patient assistance the disease and building local capabilities in In the developing world, the incidence of programmes by expanding qualifying income prevention and control.
To date, over 6,000 cancer is on the increase.
It is predicted that levels during 2006.
The financial commitment patients have successfully completed their 20 million more people will be diagnosed associated with these initiatives is reflected in TB treatment and community awareness by 2010, and 70% will live in countries our 2007 spend.
campaigns and health education sessions that between them will have fewer than 5% in schools and public places have reached of the resources for cancer control.
In 2005 IN THE DEVELOPING WORLD over 750,000 people.
In Kazakhstan, where AstraZeneca began a pilot project in Ethiopia, As well as the availability of appropriate TB HIV co-infection is a rising threat, the designed to build local capability in managing medicines, access to healthcare depends local Red Crescent Society is working to breast cancer the second most common on having a functional healthcare system, establish effective, sustainable and replicable cancer among young women in that country.
trained healthcare staff and effective supply models of community based social support for We are partnering with Axios, an organisation and distribution mechanisms in place to patients with TB and HIV, and their families.
experienced in working with the private ensure that medicines are used to their full The programme brings together people with sector to advance healthcare in developing effect as part of overall healthcare a range of skills, such as social workers, countries, with a focus on integrating local management.
In some parts of the developing psychologists and employment lawyers, who resources and priorities in chronic disease world, this is a particular challenge.
work with volunteers many of them former management and drug delivery.
patients to offer a range of support to We believe that sustainable improvement in those on treatment and those who have At the outset of our Ethiopia Breast Cancer healthcare in these countries can only be recently completed treatment.
To date, this Project, the country had only one cancer achieved through the commitment of all project has helped to reduce the rate specialist for the entire population, there related stakeholders, including governments, of patients giving up on treatment from 33% was no mammography, no easy access to non-governmental organisations NGOs and in 2006 to 13% in 2007.
Overall, with our chemotherapy or hormonal agents, no cancer the international community, as well as the funding, the work of the Red Crescent screening and no national treatment protocols.
AstraZeneca nevertheless Societies in Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan Our programme has focused on strengthening remains committed to making a contribution.
and Kazakhstan is contributing to the diagnosis and treatment capabilities at Tikur The medicines in our range today are not implementation of national TB programmes Anbessa University Hospital in Addis Ababa, relevant to the treatment of HIV, TB and that are leading to a stabilisation and reduction where the countrys only cancer specialist malaria, the most significant healthcare in the incidence of TB in these countries.
In the last three years, with our problems that the developing world is currently In 2007, to help the British Red Cross to help, the hospital has become a centre of facing, but we are applying our skills and broaden its approach to the co-infection reference for breast cancer treatment across resources to helping in other ways.
Our challenge, we further expanded our partnership Ethiopia.
Activities have included developing approach is two-fold.
and are supporting the charity over the next treatment guidelines, strengthening the three years in their work to help local referral system, setting up an  REPORT 74 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 IN THE GLOBAL COMMUNITY CONTINUED based cancer registry, raising awareness Alongside this, AstraZeneca is also enabling More information about our community of the facilities amongst healthcare its own people to volunteer for up to activities around the world is available on our professionals and providing training for other 12-month placements, primarily across website, astrazeneca.
AstraZenecas breast Africa and Asia, that draw on the broad range cancer medicines are also being donated.
of skills they can offer in human resources, finance, IT and communications, as well The impact of the programme has been much as health and medicine.
The placements broader than we anticipated for what was seek to build professional capabilities in originally intended as a small, targeted pilot.
the government, non-governmental and By focusing on the creation of treatment community-based organisations that play protocols and standardised reporting a key role in establishing and improving guidelines, by collaborating with the Ministry important infrastructures in developing of Health and other health institutions on the countries.
For our employees, it provides the guideline development and national distribution, opportunity to make a personal contribution and by working with the Ethiopian Cancer whilst developing their skills in leadership, Association to help strengthen  and project management as and fund-raising capabilities, the benefits part of their career development.
To date, we have been far wider reaching than just the have had one employee working as a Tikur Anbessa Hospital.
We believe that this Human Resources advisor for a food pilot is delivering a sustainable model that can security NGO in India, another working in a be successfully replicated in other countries capacity advisory role for a democracy and and other disease areas.
human rights NGO in Sierra Leone and a third working in Nigeria in an organisational We also partner with Voluntary Service development capacity for a youth charity.
Overseas VSO, an international development charity that works through volunteers to Engaging at an international level strengthen core capabilities in the developing As part of our focus on TB, we actively world.
The charity focuses on six strategic engage in international efforts to help in the goals: education, disability, secure livelihoods, fight against this devastating disease.
participation governance, HIV AIDS and health.
Our partnership includes financial In 2007, through our involvement with the Stop support and the engagement of AstraZeneca TB Partnership for Europe, we participated in people in a range of different support activities.
All Against Tuberculosis, a WHO European Ministerial Forum, hosted by the German As the VSOs exclusive Health Champion, government.
The Forums purpose was to we have committed funds and a senior accelerate progress towards achieving the manager secondment to the organisation to global targets for TB control in the WHO help them further develop their strategy and European Region and Target 8 of the United framework for delivering their health goal.
We Nations Millennium Development Goal 6: are also providing funding for VSO volunteers to have halted and begun to reverse the to work in underserved communities, helping incidence of TB by 2015.
Over 300 delegates to build local healthcare capabilities, including at the Forum adopted the Berlin Declaration essential health programme research.
During on Tuberculosis, which describes the disease 2006 and 2007, we funded 17 volunteers as an increasing threat to health security in working mainly on two-year placements the WHO European Region.
The Declaration across Indonesia, Cambodia and Sri Lanka.
calls for urgent action to halt and reverse the high levels of TB, including its multidrugresistant MDR and extensively drugresistant XDR strains.
In the Declaration, Member States and international partners, including AstraZeneca, commit themselves to providing more support and resources to control and, eventually, eliminate the disease.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 75 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW Our ongoing challenge is to continue to The growing challenge Our fundamental challenge continues to be manage our environmental impact as we The process of developing, manufacturing and reducing our emissions at a pace that equals grow our business.
Our global performance distributing innovative medicines to patients or exceeds our rate of business growth.
objective is to drive continuous improvement is increasingly complex and uses more and We will continue to work hard to manage our in the sustainability of all our activities by, more energy, both in our facilities and in travel impact, and our new climate change target among other things, economising on the use and transport.
Controlling transport-related aims to ensure that our absolute emissions of natural resources and working to eliminate emissions remains a significant challenge.
in 2010 will be no greater than they were at pollution.
Although we have invested in electronic the start of the decade and 40% less than communication systems and expanded their they were in 1990.
Although the greenhouse CLIMATE CHANGE use, this has had limited impact on emissions gas emissions from our business operations In common with most businesses, our from these sources.
We are now investing will continue to fall, as a result of the launch of potential impact on climate change arises from heavily in advanced driver training to improve Symbicort pMDI in 2007, we will not be able the greenhouse gas emissions from energy both safety and efficiency associated with to continue to achieve the reductions of total use at our facilities, from other in-house road travel and we are increasingly using a greenhouse gases including emissions from activities and from the various means of range of hybrid and alternative fuel vehicles.
products that we have delivered each year transport we use.
However, we also face since 2000.
We are committed to achieving an additional challenge since some of our Since 2000, the greenhouse gas emissions our 2010 target without compromising our asthma therapy products use propellant associated with our products has declined ability to provide new inhalation therapies gases that potentially contribute to ozone as we are phasing out CFC-based pMDIs that bring benefit for patients.
Therefore the depletion and global warming.
and our market share of these products has climate change objectives approved by the changed due to patent expiries.
During AstraZeneca Board in 2005 require very Asthma is a common, often debilitating 2006, however, we received approval to substantial efforts to be made across our illness that can be alleviated by breathing market a new asthma treatment, Symbicort, business to produce, by 2010, an absolute in medication from a small aerosol called a in the US, where over 30 million people reduction of 12% in global warming emissions pressurised metered dose inhaler pMDI, which suffer from this debilitating disease.
Our new from all sources other than pMDIs, when uses propellant gases to deliver the medicine.
therapy provides rapid and effective asthma compared with 2005.
When CFCs, the gases used originally in control in a pMDI containing HFA propellant.
pMDIs, were identified as ozone-depleting The launch during 2007 of this therapy in PHARMACEUTICALS IN THE ENVIRONMENT PIE gases, we worked to develop alternatives.
the US, the worlds largest pharmaceutical In recent years, improved analytical techniques Our Turbuhaler dry powder inhaler, launched market, will inevitably lead to an increase have resulted in pharmaceutical residues being in 1987, does not require a propellant gas, but in emissions of HFAs as more and more detected at low concentrations in the aquatic it is not suitable for all patients.
We therefore patients benefit from the new medicine.
There is general agreement developed and are introducing alternative Despite the potential climate change among scientists in academia, industry and propellant gases for our pMDIs, which have implications, we believe that the expanded government that, although variable, the levels no ozone depletion potential and significantly treatment choice and potential benefits that found are too small to pose any significant less than half the global warming potential of Symbicort pMDI offers asthma sufferers risk to human beings or to cause immediate the CFCs they replace.
Although these HFA outweigh the potential impact it will have or short-term harm to aquatic life.
More hydrofluoroalkanes propellants still have on the environment.
information is needed to determine if there some impact on climate change, there is an are any long-term effects and AstraZeneca is international consensus that there is no safer Next steps and future targets actively involved in this research, as described alternative for patients.
We have identified areas of our business later in this section.
where further improvements can be made to A strong track record reduce our emissions of global warming gases.
Our approach At the formation of AstraZeneca in 1999, These include, amongst other things: The environmental profile of AstraZenecas we began to take action firstly to reduce new pharmaceuticals is assessed prior to the rate of growth and then to stabilise the Implementation of further energy applying for government approval and, emissions of CO from our facilities.
This was conservation programmes, particularly at a minimum, consistent with applicable 2 achieved by a combination of energy efficiency related to fume cupboards in laboratories.
We are committed to measures, investment in combined heat and conducting our assessments based upon the power plants and purchasing energy from low Implementation of green technology best available science, which is continuously or zero carbon sources.
By 2003 the upward principles in our process design.
For example, the United Kingdom trend in emissions from these sources had and Sweden have carried out major reviews been arrested and by 2005 emissions had Further investment in greener energy of the scientific data relevant to the potential fallen to their 2001 level.
By 2007, our absolute supply from external power suppliers.
impact caused by pharmaceutical residues greenhouse gas emissions from all sources in the environment.
New Environmental Risk including products had fallen by 67% Exploring the potential for further Assessment Guidelines have now been compared with 1990.
The Kyoto Protocol investment in low carbon and introduced in the European Union and are target is a 5% reduction by 2012. renewable energy options at our sites.
being revised in a number of other regions, particularly in Canada and Japan.
We continue Investment in cleaner vehicles.
to work with the relevant pharmaceutical industry trade associations to provide expert input to the current public consultations.
DIRECTORS REPORT 76 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW CONTINUED In anticipation of these new guidelines, significantly less toxicity than might have been More information about commitment to and as an element of our internal PIE-related predicted for a hormonally acting compound.
managing our environmental impact, and our initiatives, we have reviewed the environmental It also appears that even some closely related performance, is available on our website, risk assessments for our existing products substances with the same mode of action can astrazeneca.
and, where appropriate, carried out further show very different environmental profiles.
studies to replace previous default values This has been observed with the beta-blockers, with measured data.
atenolol and propranolol, for example, where atenolol shows significantly lower toxicity to We are committed to making this environmental fish compared with propranolol.
Our research risk data, together with available information has also demonstrated that natural photoon our existing products, publicly available degradation, caused by sunlight, can be a via the Swedish Doctors Prescribing Guide, powerful factor in the removal of pharmaceutical FASS.
se website, using the voluntary residues from the environment.
For example, disclosure system introduced by the there is evidence that around 70% of Swedish Association of the Pharmaceutical propranolol can be destroyed this way.
A total of 27 substances with It seems, therefore, that all medicines should environmental data are now included in this be evaluated on a case-by-case basis in database.
The system was developed by these respects, rather than being grouped LIF and a number of Swedish stakeholders, together as a single class or classes.
in conjunction with expert representatives from international pharmaceutical companies, To eliminate any potential environmental convened and chaired by AstraZeneca.
impact, pharmaceuticals ideally would break In association with the Association of British down rapidly on contact with water.
However, Pharmaceutical Industries we are also helping to be effective medicines, they must be stable the Environment Agency for England and enough to get to the part of the body where Wales to evaluate the risks of the existing they need to be active, without deteriorating medicines on their priority action list.
Our increased focus on biological products which tend to be In addition, we have introduced an metabolised by the body or rapidly degraded Environmental Risk Management Plan that in the environment and targeted therapies will accompany all new medicines through with shorter treatment regimes will contribute the development process and will enable all to fewer residues, but balancing the needs of relevant environmental data to be available the patient with the potential environmental at all key decision points.
impact will continue to be a challenge.
Our research Based upon work conducted to date, we Scientists at our Brixham Environmental have no scientific basis for believing that our Laboratory in the UK are at the forefront manufacturing discharges pose a significant of research in this field, working both threat to the environment.
However, we will independently and in collaboration with other continue to conduct internal evaluations for companies, leading academics and regulatory the purposes of identifying future research bodies to advance PIE-related research.
needs and guiding internal risk management We recently invested a further $24 million in decisions.
In the longer term, we will continue new laboratories at the site to improve the to work to ensure that the development facilities for evaluation of the environmental and application of our evaluation techniques fate and persistence of pharmaceuticals.
remains consistent with the evolving science, and that our manufacturing As the research moves forward, the activities remain protective of human health understanding of some of the complexities and the environment.
One example of our of this issue improves.
There was an initial commitment is the commissioning of concern that all pharmaceuticals might have a $36 million state-of-the-art biological long-term environmental effects that were not treatment facility at our Avlon Works in predictable, by extrapolation, from short-term Bristol in the UK as well as improving effluent studies.
However, as evidence accumulates treatment at other facilities.
it appears that this may only be an issue for a small number of substances that demonstrate atypical effects.
For example, AstraZeneca has undertaken a full fish life cycle study on tamoxifen that showed DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 77 FINANCIAL REVIEW At the same time, we took significant steps have been extended to all areas and to secure and widen the platform from which include synergy opportunities arising from continued strong performance in the future the acquisition of MedImmune.
We acquired and began initiatives are anticipated to deliver annual integrating the leading biologics company, benefits of $1,400 million from 2010.
MedImmune, adding to our launched product portfolio, increasing our development These steps will allow for further increases pipeline and extending our research and in investment in research and development development capabilities beyond small to strengthen and realise the pipeline, molecules to include monoclonal antibodies selective geographical expansion and In 2007, excluding the costs of the and vaccines.
Secure mediumand focused exploitation of our existing restructuring and synergy programmes, long-term debt programmes have been products whilst continuing to generate earnings per share grew by 7% to $4.20.
established from which a significant portion attractive returns for our shareholders.
The momentum in sales and profit growth of the financing for the acquisition of established in recent years was maintained MedImmune was drawn, whilst short-term SIMON LOWTH despite the introduction of generic cash and borrowing facilities for our Chief Financial Of cer competition to Toprol-XL in the US.
In addition, immediate commitments to our shareholders our strong cash generation allowed us to and third parties have been put in place.
return almost $7 billion to our shareholders Restructuring initiatives, first introduced in in dividends and share re-purchases.
manufacturing at the beginning of the year, CONTENTS MEASURING PERFORMANCE Sales and cost growth expressed in CER Measuring performance 77 As described on page 10, we use specific allows management to understand the measures when assessing our performance true local movement in sales and costs, Business background and in key areas and include them in our in order to compare recent trends and major events affecting 2007 78 discussion throughout the Directors Report.
CER Results of operations summary growth rates can be used to analyse sales analysis of year to 31 December 2007 79 Reported performance takes into account all in a number of ways but, most often, we Financial position, including the factors including those which we cannot consider underlying growth by products cash ow and liquidity 81 influence, principally currency exchange rates and groups of products, and by countries Acquisition of MedImmune 83 that have affected the results of our business and regions.
Underlying sales growth can as reflected in our Financial Statements be further analysed into the impact of Restructuring and synergy costs 84 prepared in accordance with International sales volumes and selling price.
Similarly, Capitalisation and shareholder return 84 Financial Reporting Standards as adopted CER cost growth helps us to focus on the Future prospects 84 by the European Union and as issued by the real local change in costs so that we can Financial risk management policies 85 International Accounting Standards Board.
manage the cost base effectively.
Critical accounting policies Some of the financial measures use Earnings per share growth in CER and estimates 86 information derived at constant exchange demonstrates not only the profitability Off-balance sheet transactions, rates CER, in particular, growth rates of the business based on profit after tax contingent liabilities in sales and costs, operating profit and, but also the management of our capital and commitments 90 as a consequence, earnings per share.
structure particularly through the share Post-employment bene ts 92 re-purchase programme.
International accounting transition 92 Underlying growth using constant exchange rates is defined as a non-GAAP measure In addition, during 2007, we acquired New accounting standards 92 because, unlike actual growth, it cannot the biologics company MedImmune and Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404 92 be derived directly from the information instigated a series of major Senior Executive Results of operations summary in the Financial Statements.
This measure Team-approved restructuring and synergy analysis of year to 31 December 2006 93 removes the effects of currency movements programmes.
Both of these factors have Financial position, including by retranslating the current year significantly affected our results and make cash ow and liquidity 2006 95 performance at previous years exchange growth rates, both on a reported and rates and adjusting for other exchange underlying basis, and comparison to 2006 The purpose of this section of the Directors effects, including hedging which allows more difficult to analyse.
Accordingly, in Report is to provide a balanced and us to focus on the changes in sales and this review, we show various growth and comprehensive analysis, including the key expenses driven by volume, prices and financial measures such as sales, operating business factors and trends, of the financial cost levels relative to the prior period.
profit and earnings per share adjusted for performance of the business during 2007, the financial position as at the end of the year and the main business factors and trends which could affect the future financial performance of the business.
DIRECTORS REPORT 78 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED the effects of the Senior Executive TeamOur operations are focused on prescription $15,344 million, an increase of 11% on approved restructuring and synergy costs pharmaceuticals, and over 97% of our an underlying basis 15% reported.
and the acquisition of MedImmune so as sales are made in that sector.
Sales of to analyse more transparently the progress pharmaceutical products are directly Operating profit of $8,094 million, of our business.
influenced by medical needs and are generally an underlying decrease of 4% 1% financed by health insurance schemes or reported.
After adjusting for the impact We recognise that these CER growth national healthcare budgets.
of MedImmune and restructuring and measures and the measures adjusted synergy costs, operating profit increased for the effects of the Senior Executive Our operating results in both the short and by 10% on an underlying basis 12% Team-approved restructuring and synergy long term can be affected by a number of reported with an operating margin costs and the acquisition of MedImmune factors other than normal competition: improvement of 1.0 percentage points should not be used in isolation and, to 32.0%.
accordingly, we also discuss the The risk of generic competition following comparable GAAP actual growth loss of patent exclusivity or patent expiry, Investment in R&D through the income measures reported performance, with the potential adverse effects on sales statement has increased by an underlying which reflect all the factors that affect our volumes and prices, for example, the launch 24% 32% reported to $5,162 million.
business in the reported performance of generic competition to Toprol-XL 25mg This rise reflects further increases in sections of this report.
in November 2006 and other strengths underlying activity as well as the acquisition in 2007. of MedImmune and the collaboration with Other measures used are not influenced Bristol-Myers Squibb.
so directly, or indeed at all, by the effects The timings of new product launches, of exchange rates: which can be influenced by national Earnings per share decline on an regulators and the risk that such new underlying basis of 5% 3% reported Gross margin and operating profit products do not succeed as anticipated.
After adjusting for the impact margin percentages, which set out the of MedImmune and restructuring and progression of key performance margins The rate of sales growth and costs synergy costs, earnings per share growth and demonstrate the overall quality of following new product launches.
We also present these percentages excluding the effects of The adverse impact on pharmaceutical Net cash from operating activities of MedImmune and restructuring and prices as a result of the regulatory $7,510 million, compared with synergy costs to isolate the progression environment.
For instance, although $7,693 million in 2006. of these percentages driven by the there is no direct governmental control previous recurring business.
on prices in the US, action from individual Total cash distributions to shareholders state programmes and health insurance of $6,811 million, up from $6,367 million Prescription volumes and trends for key bodies are leading to downward pressures in 2006. products, which can represent the real on realised prices.
In other parts of the business growth and the progress of world, there are a variety of price and The move from a net funds position at individual products better and more volume control mechanisms and the beginning of the year of $6,537 million immediately than invoiced sales.
retrospective rebates based on sales to a net debt position of $9,112 million, levels that are imposed by governments.
driven by the acquisition of MedImmune.
Net debt, representing our interest bearing loans and borrowings less cash and cash Currency fluctuations.
Our functional and The acquisition and integration of equivalents and current investments.
reporting currency is the US dollar, but MedImmune with effect from 1 June 2007. we have substantial exposures to other Total shareholder return measures the currencies, in particular the euro, Japanese The commencement of a number of returns we provide to our shareholders yen, sterling and Swedish krona.
restructuring initiatives across all areas and reflects share price movements of the business.
assuming reinvestment of dividends and Over the longer term, the success of our is used in comparison to the performance R&D is crucial, and we devote substantial Ten projects in phase III development.
The benefits of this investment emerge over the long term and The introduction of generic competitors BUSINESS BACKGROUND AND inherently there is considerable uncertainty to all strengths of Toprol-XL in the US.
MAJOR EVENTS AFFECTING 2007 as to whether it will generate future products.
Excluding US contribution of Toprol-XL and The business background is covered in authorised generic sales of $969 million the Business Environment section on page The most significant features of our financial in 2007 and $1,382 million in 2006, 13 and describes in detail the developments results in 2007 are as follows: earnings per share of $0.39 in 2007 and in both our products and geographical $0.50 in 2006, our sales growth was regions.
The following comments highlight Overall sales growth on an underlying basis 10% 14% reported and earnings per how these and other factors affect our of 7% 12% reported to $29,559 million.
share decline was 3% flat as reported.
Sustained strong sales performances from our five key products which now account for just under 52% of sales of DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 79 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2007 AND 2006 2007 2006 2007 compared to 2006 Growth Growth due to Growth Growth underlying exchange effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Cardiovascular 6,686 292 276 6,118 5 9 Gastrointestinal 6,443 379 191 6,631 6 3 Infection and other 1,714 779 60 875 89 96 Neuroscience 5,340 484 152 4,704 10 14 Oncology 4,819 359 198 4,262 8 13 Respiratory and Inflammation 3,711 369 191 3,151 12 18 Others 846 79 33 734 11 15 Total 29,559 1,983 1,101 26,475 7 12 SALES BY KEY, PATENT EXPIRY AND BASE PRODUCTS 2007 AND 2006 2007 2006 2007 compared to 2006 Growth Growth due to Growth Growth underlying exchange effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Key Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort 15,344 1,511 515 13,318 11 15 Patent expiry Losec, Nolvadex, Plendil, Seloken Toprol-XL, Zestril 3,230 728 121 3,837 19 16 Base 10,985 1,200 465 9,320 13 18 Total 29,559 1,983 1,101 26,475 7 12 OPERATING PROFIT 2007 AND 2006 2007 2006 Percentage of sales 2007 compared to 2006 Growth Growth due to Growth Growth underlying exchange effects 2007 2006 underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % % % Sales 29,559 1,983 1,101 26,475 7 12 Cost of sales 6,419 703 157 5,559 21.7 21.0 13 15 Gross margin 23,140 1,280 944 20,916 78.3 79.0 6 11 Distribution costs 248 7 15 226 0.8 0.9 3 10 Research and development 5,162 944 316 3,902 17.5 14.7 24 32 Selling, general and administrative 10,364 843 425 9,096 35.1 34.4 9 14 Other operating income and expense 728 188 16 524 2.5 2.0 36 39 Operating profit 8,094 326 204 8,216 27.4 31.0 4 1 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY restructuring and synergy costs.
Earnings per For the second year, our portfolio has 11 brands ANALYSIS OF YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 2007 share for the year were $3.74, a 3% decline with annual sales greater than $1 billion and, The tables on this page show our sales from $3.86 in 2006. with the acquisition of MedImmune, we have analysed both by therapy area and by key, acquired another brand, Synagis, which is patent expiry and base products and Underlying performance expected to deliver such performance annually.
operating profit for 2007 compared to 2006.
Sales The combined sales of our key products Sales for the full year increased 7%.
The Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel and Reported performance contribution to sales growth from MedImmune Symbicort grew by 11% to $15,344 million, Our sales increased by 12% from $26,475 more than offset the decline from Toprol-XL and now account for about 52% of our million to $29,559 million, an increase reflecting in the US.
Sales in the US were up 7%, and turnover.
Base products increased by 13% both the acquisition of MedImmune and the this was broadly similar to sales growth in the whilst patent expiry products declined by 19%.
entry of generic competition on all strengths market if Toprol-XL and MedImmune were of Toprol-XL in the US, as well as general excluded.
Sales outside the US were up 8%, Gastrointestinal sales have declined by 6%.
Operating profit comprising growth of 5% in Established Nexium sales were slightly down for the full fell by 1%, again reflecting the impacts of markets and 17% in the Emerging markets.
Sales in MedImmune and Toprol-XL together with the US were down 4%, as market share gains DIRECTORS REPORT 80 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED for Nexium in the branded segment of the PPI $4,027 million, with sales in the US up 15% For the full year, reported operating margin market were offset by the continued strong and sales up 16% in other markets.
Excluding MedImmune losses growth of generic omeprazole and lower launch rollout of the schizophrenia indication of $178 million and combined restructuring realised prices for Nexium.
Nexium sales for Seroquel XR is underway, with regulatory and synergy costs of $966 million, operating in other markets were up 2%.
Losec sales submissions for acute bipolar mania and margin was 32.0%, an increase of 1.0 declined by 20%, with significant declines in bipolar depression in Europe, and major percentage points on 2006.
Canada and Western Europe only partially depressive disorder and generalised anxiety offset by increases in Japan and China.
disorder in the US and Europe, planned Gross margin decreased by 0.7 percentage for 2008. points.
After adjusting for the impact of Despite the impact of generic competition MedImmune and restructuring and synergy to Toprol-XL in the US, the Cardiovascular Sales in the Oncology therapy area increased costs, gross margin increased by 1.0 portfolio enjoyed a 5% increase, driven by by 8% with good performances across the percentage points to 80.0%.
Principal drivers Crestor sales which for the full year were up portfolio.
Arimidex sales increased 10% for the included reduced payments to Merck 0.7 33% to $2,796 million.
Crestor sales in the US full year to $1,730 million, on a 13% increase percentage points, asset provisions booked were up 24%, whilst sales in other markets in the US and 8% sales growth in other during the prior period 0.4 percentage points increased 45% and now comprise almost half markets.
Casodex sales benefited from strong and favourable currency movements 0.2 of the worldwide total for Crestor.
In November performances in Western Europe and Japan, percentage points.
An adverse effect arose 2007, Crestor received US FDA approval for a whilst Zoladex recorded increases in Japan from increased royalty payments, which led new indication, as an adjunct to diet to slow the and Emerging ROW.
progression of atherosclerosis in patients with elevated cholesterol.
Seloken Toprol-XL sales The Infection and other therapy area grew R&D investment increased by 24% to outside of the US increased slightly in the year strongly through the addition of Synagis and $5,162 million, 17.5% of sales, an increase but, overall, the brand declined by 22%.
FluMist following the acquisition of of 2.8 percentage points.
After adjusting for Atacand recorded a 9% rise, whilst the rest MedImmune, with a resultant 89% increase the impact of MedImmune and restructuring of the portfolio saw small falls.
and synergy costs, R&D expenditure was $4,834 million in 2007, up 16% and 2.1 Respiratory and Inflammation sales increased Geographical analysis percentage points over 2006 due principally by 12%, with strong performances from We discuss the geographical performances to increased activity levels and the effect of Symbicort and Pulmicort.
Symbicort sales for on pages 69 to 72. the externalisation strategy.
the full year were up 22% to $1,575 million, including $50 million in the US since launch Operating margin and retained profit Selling, general and administrative costs in June this year.
In the US, Symbicort share Operating profit for the full year was $8,094 increased by 9% to $10,364 million.
After of patients newly starting fixed combination million, down 4%.
Excluding restructuring adjusting for the impact of MedImmune and therapy reached 11.5% in the week ending and synergy costs, operating profit increased restructuring and synergy costs, SG&A costs 18 January 2008, with a 5.8% share of all to $9,060 million up 8%.
This operating were 2% lower than the same period in 2006 new prescriptions for combination products.
profit improvement was net of a reported an improvement of 2.1 percentage points, Sales outside the US were up 18% for the $1,187 million increase in R&D investment, primarily as a result of operational efficiencies full year.
Pulmicort sales increased by 10% and was fuelled by revenue growth, improved from our selling and marketing activities.
to $1,454 million on the back of a 15% gross margin and lower expenditures in SG&A improvement in the US.
Restructuring At $728 million, other operating income and and synergy benefits of $300 million were expense was 36% higher than 2006.
After The Neuroscience therapy area is dominated realised during the year.
adjusting for the impact of MedImmune by Seroquel, where sales increased 15% to which contributed other income primarily OPERATING MARGIN 2007 AND 2006 Excluding restructuring and Excluding Change in Restructuring and synergy costs restructuring and percentage Reported synergy costs MedImmune and MedImmune Reported synergy costs versus 2007 2007 2007 2007 2006 Reported and MedImmune comparative 1 $m $m $m $m $m % of sales % of sales period Sales 29,559 714 28,845 26,475 Cost of sales 6,419 415 242 5,762 5,559 21.7 20.0 1.0 Gross margin 23,140 415 472 23,083 20,916 78.3 80.0 1.0 Distribution 248 4 244 226 0.8 0.8 0.1 Research and development 5,162 73 255 4,834 3,902 17.5 16.8 -2.1 Selling, general and administrative costs 10,364 478 560 9,326 9,096 35.1 32.3 2.1 Other operating income 728 169 559 524 2.5 1.9 -0.1 Operating profit 8,094 966 178 9,238 8,216 27.4 32.0 1.0 1 The changes in percentage uses the excluding restructuring and synergy costs and MedImmune gures: a positive number indicates favourable effect on operating margin versus comparative period.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 81 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED through human papilloma virus vaccine COMPONENTS OF EARNINGS PER SHARE royalty income, other income of $559 million 2007 2006 $ $ was $35 million higher than 2006, as expected reductions in royalty income were more Reported earnings per share 3.74 3.86 than offset by higher one-time gains and Restructuring and synergy costs 0.46 insurance recoveries.
Reported, excluding restructuring and synergy costs 4.20 3.86 MedImmune 0.32 Total charges of $966 million have been taken in respect of the restructuring and synergy 4.52 3.86 programmes, of which $723 million represent Toprol-XL contribution 0.39 0.50 cash costs.
Over the same period, productivity Total 4.13 3.36 initiative benefits of $250 million and synergy benefits of $50 million have been realised.
The effects of MedImmune, restructuring respiratory syncytial virus RSV franchise, other MedImmune contributed an operating loss and synergy costs and Toprol-XL in the US products such as FluMist and Ethyol, together of $178 million which includes amortisation on earnings per share is summarised in the with contractual and licensing income and costs of $255 million in 2007. table above.
in development projects amounting to $597 million.
In total, intangibles amount Net finance expense was $111 million in FINANCIAL POSITION, INCLUDING to $11,467 million at the year end and, in the full year 2006 income $327 million.
CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY addition to MedImmune, include intangibles The decrease versus last year is principally All data in this section are on an actual basis arising from the restructuring in 1998 of our attributable to the interest payable on the unless noted otherwise.
joint venture arrangements with Merck and borrowings to acquire MedImmune, Inc.. the subsequent merger of Astra and Zeneca Interest expense on the new debt was The book value of our net assets decreased in 1999 $1,026 million, the acquisition of $446 million.
The reported amounts include by $501 million to $14,915 million.
Dividends Cambridge Antibody Technology in 2006 net income of $34 million 2006 $43 million of $2,658 million and share re-purchases of $605 million, launched and in development arising from employee benefit fund assets $4,170 million exceeded net profit of $5,595 product in-licensing activities $1,327 million and liabilities reported under IAS 19 million, whilst net movements through other and software development costs $434 million.
recognised income and expense principally exchange and actuarial losses increased net Inventories The effective tax rate for the year was 29.5%, assets.
The overall shape of the balance Inventories have decreased by $131 million similar to the 29% for 2006.
The slight increase sheet has been changed by the acquisition from $2,250 million at the end of 2006 to for the year compared to 2006 reflects of MedImmune.
This decrease represents the combined effect of differences in the an underlying improvement of $442 million, geographical mix of profits, the reversal of tax Property, plant and equipment offset by the acquisition of MedImmune and deductions relating to share-based payments, Property, plant and equipment rose from exchange effects.
the reduction in the UK tax rate as applied to $7,453 million to $8,298 million at the end of UK net deferred tax liabilities, and an increase the year.
The increase was due to continued Receivables, payables and provisions in tax provisions principally in relation to investment across the business of $1,169 Receivables have risen from $5,561 million to global transfer pricing.
The full year tax rate million, particularly in R&D, the acquisition $6,668 million, an increase of $1,107 million.
for 2008 is anticipated to be similar to 2007. of MedImmune $593 million and exchange Higher sales, particularly in the US, Europe, impacts $350 million, offset by depreciation China and from MedImmune whose sales Reported earnings per share were $3.74 and impairment of $1,182 million and are concentrated in the first and last quarters compared with $3.86 in 2006, a decrease disposals $92 million.
of the year, insurance recoveries, acquisition of 5%.
After adjusting for the impact of and exchange effects were the principal restructuring and synergy costs, earnings Goodwill and intangible assets drivers, offset in part by the receipt of the per share rose from $3.86 to $4.20, an Goodwill and intangibles have risen from second instalment in respect of the US increase of 7%.
Excluding the impact of $4,204 million at the beginning of the year to anaesthetics business disposal in 2006.
MedImmune as well, earnings per share $21,351 million.
The increase is due almost increased by 15% to $4.52.
The share entirely to the acquisition of MedImmune.
Current payables also rose from $6,295 million re-purchase programme is calculated to The goodwill arising on the acquisition of to $6,968 million at the end of 2007.
There have added 8 cents to EPS during the year, MedImmune amounted to $8,757 million was a small net underlying movement in trade after allowing for an estimate of interest increasing the balance sheet total to creditors, other payables and accruals, with income foregone.
$9,884 million: the other major component increases in deductions for chargebacks, of the carrying value of goodwill relates to rebates and returns in the US being offset by In 2007, Toprol-XL contributed US sales the restructuring in 1998 of our joint venture decreases in trade payables, particularly to of $969 million 2006 $1,382 million and arrangements with Merck.
However, exchange and the acquisition earnings per share of 39 cents 2006 50 of MedImmune drove the overall balance up.
If Toprol-XL were excluded from the Intangibles have also increased primarily full year results for both the current and prior as a result of the MedImmune acquisition, Provisions increased primarily as a result of year periods, sales growth would be 10% supplemented by other company acquisitions the restructuring and synergy programmes and earnings per share would be down 3%.
Intangibles undertaken during the year, rising from from MedImmune comprised launched $366 million in 2006 to $1,020 million at products of $7,478 million principally the the end of 2007.
DIRECTORS REPORT 82 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Debt requirements of $551 million and additional Investments, divestments The acquisition of MedImmune was funded tax and interest payments $394 million and and capital expenditure initially through drawing on a $15 billion 364 $265 million respectively.
The major investment in the year was day loan facility, which was subsequently the acquisition of MedImmune, discussed re-financed with short-term US commercial Net cash outflows from investing activities separately below.
In the second half of the year, we were $14,887 million in 2007 compared undertook a programme of issuing debt on to $272 million in 2006.
Excluding the The other major company and product the US and European markets, as follows: higher returns from movements in short acquisitions in the year reflected our term investments and fixed deposits and net ongoing commitment to strengthening SEPTEMBER disposals of non-current asset investments the product pipeline.
Floating rate 2009 $650m $1,280 million in 2007 compared to $1,171 million in 2006, interest received and dividends We completed the acquisition of Arrow Fixed 5.4% 2012 $1,750m paid by subsidiaries, cash outflow from Therapeutics Limited at a net cost of Fixed 5.9% 2017 $1,750m investing activities was $16,516 million, $143 million, strengthening our portfolio Fixed 6.45% 2037 $2,750m compared to $1,791 million in 2006.
This of promising anti-infective treatments and Fixed 5.125% 2015 Euro750m increase in outflow was due primarily to providing a technology platform in an area of the acquisition of MedImmune, Inc. : other research that complements our capabilities NOVEMBER acquisitions included Arrow Therapeutics in anti-bacterials.
We paid $34 million to Fixed 4.625% 2010 Euro750m Limited, Atlantis Components Inc. and acquire the paediatric asthma business of Fixed 5.75% 2031 350m Denics International Co. Ltd. Investment in Verus Pharmaceuticals, Inc. which includes intangible assets was at broadly similar levels the North American rights to CyDex $750 million each of the 2012 and 2017 to 2006, and there were significantly higher Captisolenabled budesonide solution and a US dollar fixed rate debt was swapped into payments for property, plant and equipment proprietary albuterol formulation.
At the year end, we also had through increased investment in facilities, commercial paper outstanding amounting particularly in research and development.
In the area of product acquisitions, we to $4,112 million.
capitalised $100 million in respect of the Cash returns to shareholders were collaboration disclosed with Bristol-Myers Tax payable and receivable $6,811 million through share re-purchases Squibb BMS in respect of saxagliptin and Net income tax payables have increased due of $4,170 million and dividend payments of dapagliflozin.
A global licensing and research to tax audit provisions, less the settlement $2,641 million, compared to $6,367 million collaboration with Palatin Technologies Inc. of tax on the disposal of the Humira royalty in 2006.
After taking into account proceeds to discover, develop and commercialise small stream.
Net deferred tax liabilities have from the issue of share capital of $218 million molecule compounds that target melanocortin increased primarily due to the acquisition of 2006 $985 million, net share re-purchases receptors for the treatment of obesity and MedImmune and the recognition of deferred rose from $3,162 million to $3,952 million.
related indications was entered into, with tax liabilities in respect of intangible assets.
Net funds of $6,537 million at the beginning We have also entered a three-year research Cash flow of the year have become net debt of and development collaboration with Silence We continue to be a cash-generative $9,112 million by the end of the year.
Therapeutics plc to discover and develop business.
MedImmune has produced, and is forecast to continue to produce, revenue driven cash inflows, which are offset by NET FUNDS DEBT interest costs.
However, the cost of acquisition 2007 2006 means that our funds and debt profile has $m $m changed.
Although future operating cash flows Brought forward at 1 January 6,537 5,402 may be affected by a number of factors as Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation 9,950 9,561 outlined in the Business Background section Movement in working capital 443 108 on page 78, we believe our cash and funding resources will be sufficient for our forecast Tax paid 2,563 2,169 requirements including launching new products, Interest paid 335 70 the restructuring programme, the first stage Other non-cash movements 901 263 of the buy out of Mercks interests in 2008, Net cash available from operating activities 7,510 7,693 debt servicing and repayment, shareholder returns and the ongoing capital programme.
Available funds 14,047 13,095 Externalisation and other intangibles 549 545 Cash generated from operating activities was Other capital expenditure 1,076 759 $7,510 million in 2007, only slightly down Acquisitions 14,891 487 on 2006 $7,693 million.
The small decrease in operating profit was compensated for by Investments 16,516 1,791 an increase in non-cash items $638 million Dividends 2,641 2,220 principally from unspent restructuring costs Net share re-purchases 3,952 3,162 and depreciation, amortisation and impairment Distributions 6,593 5,382 $511 million.
These compensating effects were offset by an increase in working capital Other movements 50 615 Carried forward at 31 December 9,112 6,537 DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 83 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED IN-LICENSING PAYMENTS Paid to date Future possible payments Additional Upfront milestones Equity payments Development and other purchased made paid Subtotal payables Total $m $m $m $m $m $m 2007 Palatin Technologies 10 10 490 500 Bristol-Myers Squibb 100 100 1,250 1,350 Verus Pharmaceuticals 30 30 280 310 2006 Argenta Discovery 21 18 39 447 486 Protherics 13 29 20 62 301 363 POZEN 40 30 70 315 385 Targacept 10 22 32 502 534 Cubist 10 10 24 34 Total 13 250 90 353 3,609 3,962 proprietary siRNA molecules primarily in the collaboration programmes we have entered requirements, does not allow for the respiratory field but with the option to extend into over the past two years, should they be separate recognition of valuable elements into other disease areas.
The initial access fee successful, can be summarised as above.
such as buyer specific synergies, potential of $5 million was capitalised as an intangible additional indications for identified products asset and the $10 million equity investment was ACQUISITION OF MEDIMMUNE or the premium attributable to a well capitalised as a non-current asset investment.
Acquisition accounting established, highly regarded business in the Following the acquisition of MedImmune, innovative biologics market.
Such elements In respect of ongoing collaborations, we have an exercise was undertaken to allocate are instead subsumed within goodwill, which made further milestone payments of $20 million the purchase price between the assets is not amortised.
This balance between in relation to the agreement with Protherics and liabilities acquired including tangible goodwill and intangible assets results in an upon the successful scale-up of the assets, intangible assets and deferred tax amortisation charge of approximately $435 manufacturing process under the development and goodwill, under IFRS 3 Business million per annum.
The acquisition can be and commercialisation agreement and Combinations.
In summary terms, the summarised as set out in the table below.
$30 million under the agreement with POZEN purchase price for outstanding shares of in relation to the execution of the revised $13.9 billion has been allocated between Synergies agreement and recognition of successful proof intangible assets of $8.1 billion including At the time of the acquisition announcement, of concept.
We have also paid $48 million assets in respect of the Synagis and we identified synergy opportunities of towards for the last in a series of sales-based motavizumab RSV franchise, FluMist, Ethyol $500 million in annual benefits and plans are milestone payments in relation to Zomig.
and products in development, goodwill of now in place to deliver annual synergies of $8.8 billion and net liabilities of $3.0 billion.
around $450 million in 2009 and over $500 Astra Tech acquired Atlantis Components This allocation, based on strict accounting million in 2010.
Inc. with its specialist CAD CAM technology used to design and manufacture customised dental implant abutments, for $71 million and ACQUISITION OF MEDIMMUNE Denics International Co. Ltd, its Japanese $m distributor for $5 million.
Intangible assets Goodwill 8,757 of $121 million have been recognised with Intangible assets 8,075 associated deferred tax liabilities of $48 million.
Property, plant and equipment 593 In October, we decided, by mutual Other non-current assets 533 agreement, to end our collaboration with Current assets 1,554 NPS Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to discover Current liabilities 287 and develop drugs targeting metabotropic glutamate receptors mGluRs.
We have Non-current liabilities 3,618 agreed to pay $30 million to acquire NPSs Additional obligations related to convertible debt and share options 1,724 assets relating to the collaboration.
Total consideration for outstanding shares 13,883 Additional payments related to convertible debt, share options Our recent focus on in-licensing opportunities and other acquisition obligations 1,770 with third parties has resulted in additional intangible assets on the balance sheet.
Should Total consideration 15,653 any of these products fail in development, Less: cash acquired 979 the associated intangibles will need to be Net cash outflow 14,674 written off.
Our commitments under the major DIRECTORS REPORT 84 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED The savings represent the removal of SUMMARY OF SHAREHOLDER DISTRIBUTIONS duplication in all functional areas and the Total Total consequences of a comprehensive review Shares Dividend dividend shareholder re-purchased Cost per share cost distributions of the capabilities and portfolios within the million $m $ $m $m two organisations.
In addition, certain capital 1999 4.4 183 0.700 1,242 1,425 expenditure planned before the acquisition will no longer be required, saving over 2000 9.4 352 0.700 1,236 1,588 $500 million.
The cost of implementation 2001 23.5 1,080 0.700 1,225 2,305 of the required programmes is expected to 2002 28.3 1,190 0.700 1,206 2,396 amount to approximately $375 million and is 2003 27.2 1,154 0.795 1,350 2,504 discussed in more detail in the Restructuring and Synergy Costs section below.
The process Total dividend cost estimated based upon number of shares in issue at 31 December 2007. may result in business disruptions, the loss of key employees, slower execution of work processes, compliance failures due to a change in applicable regulatory requirements and of cost, we expect approximately two thirds to The Boards distribution policy and its overall other issues.
In addition, the operating model be incurred in 2008, with the balance in 2009 financial strategy is to strike a balance between for MedImmune has potential strategic benefits: and 2010.
Of the anticipated annual benefits the interests of the business, our shareholders however, it may not be the most efficient of $1,400 million by 2010, cumulatively and our financial creditors, whilst maintaining structure for realising efficiencies.
As a result, two-thirds will be realised in 2008. a strong investment grade credit rating.
there can be no assurances that we will not The Board expects to undertake share encounter difficulties in consolidating the CAPITALISATION AND SHAREHOLDER RETURN re-purchases in the region of $1 billion in 2008, MedImmune business as contemplated or All data in this section are on an actual basis subject to business needs.
that the benefits expected, including unless noted otherwise.
anticipated synergies, will be realised.
After investing fully in opportunities to Capitalisation strengthen the pipeline, the Board intends to RESTRUCTURING AND SYNERGY COSTS At 31 December 2007, the number of shares continue its stated policy of growing dividends During the year, we announced our intention in issue was 1,457 million.
During the year, in line with earnings before restructuring and to bring forward productivity initiatives to 4.7 million shares were issued in consideration synergy costs aiming to maintain at least enhance the long-term efficiency of the of share option plans and employee share two times dividend cover whilst applying the business along with the synergies arising plans for a total of $218 million.
Reserves balance of cash flow to debt servicing and as a result of the acquisition of MedImmune.
increased by $339 million due to the effect repayment and share re-purchases.
We paid These initiatives are in addition to the of exchange rate and tax movements offset the second interim dividend of $1.23 in respect programme to improve asset utilisation by actuarial losses, net investment hedging of 2006 on 19 March 2007 and a first interim within our global supply chain announced losses of non-US dollar denominated debt, dividend for 2007 on 17 September 2007 of at the end of 2006.
Following the integration losses on cash flow hedges issued in $0.52 per Ordinary Share.
A second interim of MedImmune, we are now managing all anticipation of the debt issues and holding dividend for 2007 of $1.35 per Ordinary these programmes on a combined basis.
losses on available for sale investments.
Share has been declared, which the Annual The restructuring and synergy costs are General Meeting will be asked to confirm as expected to be $1,975 million, with estimated Shareholders equity decreased by a net the final dividend.
annual benefits of $1,400 million targeted by $526 million to $14,778 million at the year end.
As of 31 December 2007, the following Minority interests increased from $112 million FUTURE PROSPECTS have been charged to the income statement.
at 31 December 2006 to $137 million at In 2008, we aim to achieve constant currency 31 December 2007. sales growth in the low to mid-single digits.
$m The uplift from the inclusion of a full year of Dividend and share re-purchases sales contribution from MedImmune will be Cost of sales 415 During 2007, we returned $6,811 million broadly offset by the expected sales decline Research and development 73 to shareholders through a mix of share from a full year of generic competition for Selling, general and administrative 478 re-purchases and dividends.
We have Toprol-XL in the US market.
This revenue Total 966 re-purchased and cancelled 79.9 million shares growth, combined with continued realisation in 2007 at a cost of $4,170 million.
As a result, of the benefits of restructuring and synergies Of the total, $243 million represents accelerated the total number of shares re-purchased to and disciplined management of gross margin depreciation and other non-cash costs, and date under the share re-purchase programmes and SG&A costs will enable continued $723 million represents cash costs.
Over the begun in 1999 is 362.7 million over 20% investment in strengthening the pipeline, same period, productivity initiative benefits of of our initial share capital post merger at with expenditures in R&D expected to $250 million and synergy benefits of $50 million a cumulative cost of $17,489 million.
increase at a high single digit rate.
Of the remaining $1 billion DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 85 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED RATIOS As at and for the year ended 31 December 2007 2006 2005 Return on shareholders equity % 37.2 41.8 33.6 Equity assets ratio % 30.8 51.1 54.7 Average number of employees 67,900 66,600 64,900 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 31 DECEMBER 2007 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate movement Exchange rate movement 31 December 2007 1% -1% 10% -10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 5,927 88 88 Long term debt, net of interest and currency swaps 11,119 666 779 290 290 Foreign exchange forwards 31 35 35 Foreign exchange options 666 779 167 167 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 31 DECEMBER 2006 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate movement Exchange rate movement 31 December 2006 1% -1% 10% -10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 7,662 81 81 Long term debt, net of interest and currency swaps 1,060 Foreign exchange forwards 45 97 97 Foreign exchange options 178 178 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES tax planning using artificial structures paper.
The majority of the commercial paper Insurance and optimising tax treatment of business was subsequently re-financed into longerOur risk management processes are described transactions, and we only engage in the latter.
term debt through capital market issuances.
in the Governance section under the heading The $15 billion facility was gradually reduced Internal controls, risk management and Treasury throughout the year and then finally replaced Turnbull Report guidance on page 42.
An Our financial policies covering the management by a series of new bilateral agreements making outcome of these processes is that they of cash, borrowings and foreign exchange up in total $1.8 billion of 364 day facilities, enable us to identify risks that can be partly are intended to support our objective of expiring on 24 October 2008 but with a or entirely mitigated through use of insurance maintaining shareholder value by managing 12 month term-out option, and $3.35 billion or through self-insurance.
We negotiate best and controlling our financial risks.
Our treasury of five year facilities.
The Board approved the available premium rates with insurance operations are conducted in accordance with financing and risk management policy and providers on the basis of our extensive risk policies and procedures approved by the parameters in July and delegated the management procedures.
The treasury activities are managed execution, within these approved parameters, insurance market, level of cover is centrally from London.
Significantly all of our to the Chief Executive Officer, supported by a decreasing whilst premium rates are cash, short term investments and borrowings Treasury Committee.
Rather than simply paying higher are managed directly from London where included the Group Financial Controller, premiums for lower cover, we focus our possible and practicable.
With only limited and Group Treasurer and Company Secretary.
insurance resources on the most critical specifically approved exceptions, all currency areas, or where there is a legal requirement, and interest rate hedging is conducted The management of our liquid assets and debt and where we can get best value for money.
Operating units benefit from balances are co-ordinated and controlled Risks to which we pay particular attention local currency billing, which has the effect of centrally by our treasury operations.
We have include business interruption, Directors consolidating their foreign exchange exposures significant positive cash flows and the liquidity and Officers liability and property damage.
of major subsidiaries is co-ordinated in cash pools and concentrated daily in London.
The Taxation Liquidity risk Group manages liquidity risk by maintaining Tax risk management forms an integrated part The debt-financed acquisition of MedImmune access to a number of sources of funding, of the Group risk management processes.
during the year resulted in a change to the which are sufficient to meet anticipated Our tax strategy is to manage tax risks financial risks faced by the Group, including funding requirements.
Specifically, the Group and tax costs in a manner consistent with exposure to liquidity risk.
The Group initially uses US commercial paper, bank facilities shareholders best long-term interests, taking funded the acquisition through drawing on and cash resources to manage short-term into account both economic and reputational a $15 billion 364 day loan facility, which was liquidity and manages long-term liquidity by factors.
We draw a distinction between re-financed with short-term US commercial raising funds through the capital markets.
DIRECTORS REPORT 86 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED In addition to cash balances comprising as a matter of policy, engage in speculative underlying local economic and sovereign fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents transactions.
The Group will hold debt in risks vary throughout the world.
Where less overdrafts of $5,787 million, the Group non-US dollar currencies where there is appropriate, the Group endeavours to minimise has committed bank facilities of $5.15 billion, an underlying net investment in the same risks by the use of trade finance instruments a $15 billion US commercial paper programme, currency.
As at 31 December 2007, 4.6% such as letters of credit and insurance.
a $5 billion euro medium term note EMTN of interest bearing loans and borrowings programme and an uncapped SEC-registered were denominated in sterling and 14.5% of Sensitivity analysis shelf debt programme available to manage interest bearing loans and borrowings were The sensitivity analysis, set out in this review liquidity.
As at 31 December 2007, the Group denominated in euros.
on page 85, summarises the sensitivity of has issued $2,889 million under the EMTN the market value of our financial instruments programme, $7,764 million under the Transaction exposures arising where local to hypothetical changes in market rates and SEC-registered shelf programme, $323 million subsidiaries make sales or purchases in prices.
Changes to the value of the financial under a previous SEC-registered programme non-local currencies are, where practicable, instruments are normally offset by our and has $4,112 million of commercial paper fully hedged using forward foreign underlying transactions or assets and outstanding.
The committed facilities were exchange contracts.
The range of variables chosen for undrawn as at 31 December 2007. the sensitivity analysis reflects our view of Interest rate risk changes that are reasonably possible over The Board reviews the Groups ongoing Prior to the debt-financed acquisition of a one year period.
Market values are the liquidity risks annually as part of the planning MedImmune, the Groups policy was to match present value of future cash flows based process.
The Board considers short-term the interest rate exposure on the Groups on market rates and prices at the valuation requirements against available sources gross debt balance with that arising on the date.
Market values for interest rate risk are of funding taking into account cash flow.
surplus cash position using interest rate swaps.
calculated using third party systems that model In addition, this year the Board reviewed With the move to a net debt position and the the present value of the instruments based on liquidity requirements as part of its consideration subsequent refinancing of short-term debt, the market conditions at the valuation date.
of the acquisition of MedImmune, and, at the a significant portion of the new debt has been For long term debt, an increase in interest rates January 2008 meeting, assessed the impact held at fixed rates of interest.
The balance results in a decline in the fair value of debt.
of the likely payments under the Merck remains at floating rates, including $1.5 billion termination agreement in March 2008. of the new fixed rate debt that has been The interest rate sensitivity analysis on page 85 swapped to floating, which is achieved through assumes an instantaneous 100 basis point Foreign exchange the underlying basis of the funding or through change in interest rates in all currencies from The Group results are reported in US dollars, the use of interest rate swaps.
The portion of their levels at 31 December 2007, with all our most significant currency.
In addition, fixed rate debt was approved by the Board other variables held constant.
The exchange surplus cash generated by the business is and any variation requires Board approval.
rate sensitivity analysis on page 85 assumes converted to and held centrally in US dollars.
an instantaneous 10% change in foreign We therefore manage our currency exposures The majority of the Groups cash balances currency exchange rates from their levels at against the US dollar.
are held with third party fund managers 31 December 2007, with all other variables who return a target yield referenced to seven held constant.
The 10% case assumes a Approximately 54% of our external sales in day US dollar LIBID.
In addition to interest 10% strengthening of the US dollar against 2007 were denominated in currencies other rate swaps, the Group uses forward rate all other currencies and the -10% case than the US dollar, with the euro being the agreements to manage any short term timing assumes a 10% weakening of the US dollar.
main contributor and a significant proportion difference between the swapped debt interest of our manufacturing and R&D costs were expense and cash interest income.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES denominated in sterling or Swedish krona.
AND ESTIMATES Accordingly, the impact on reported earnings Credit exposure Our Financial Statements are prepared from a weakening in the US dollar would be Exposure to financial counterparty credit risk in accordance with International Financial to increase both sales and costs, with the is controlled by the treasury team centrally Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted net result on earnings dependent on the in establishing and monitoring counterparty by the European Union adopted IFRS and relative size of the exchange rate movements limits.
Centrally managed funds are invested as issued by the International Accounting against the US dollar.
almost entirely with counterparties whose Standards Board and the accounting policies credit rating is A or better.
External fund employed are set out under the heading We manage our currency exposures centrally, managers who manage $4,368 million of the Financial Statements Accounting Policies on based on forecast future cash flows of our Groups cash are rated AAA by Standard & pages 121 to 123.
In applying these policies, major currencies.
The major currencies to Poors.
There were no other significant we make estimates and assumptions that which we are exposed Swedish krona, euro concentrations of credit risk at the balance affect the reported amounts of assets and and sterling have typically tended to move sheet date.
All financial instruments are liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets in a similar direction against the US dollar, transacted with commercial banks, in line and liabilities.
The actual outcome could differ mitigating significantly the impact of exchange with standard market practice and are not from those estimates.
Some of these policies rate movements.
Accordingly, we monitor this backed with cash collateral.
Trade receivable require a high level of judgement, either relationship closely and we will only consider exposures are managed locally in the operating because the areas are especially subjective hedging if we anticipate or experience a units where they arise.
The Group is exposed or complex.
We believe that the most critical significant breakdown in this relationship.
to customers ranging from government-backed accounting policies and significant areas Any such hedging activity is subject to strict agencies and large private wholesalers of judgement and estimation are in revenue internal approval procedures.
We do not, to privately owned pharmacies, and the recognition, research and development, DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 87 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED goodwill and intangible assets, provisions for Accrual assumptions are built up on a productspecific circumstances: in the case of Toprol-XL contingent liabilities, post-retirement benefits, by-product and customer-by-customer basis the only product affected in the years under taxation and share-based compensation.
taking into account specific contract provisions review, which faced competition from several coupled with expected performance and are generic manufacturers from the time of launch Revenue recognition then aggregated into a weighted average of the first generic in 2006, we believed that Revenue represents sales of products to rebate accrual rate for each of our products.
revenue from all doses in the US could only external third parties and excludes interAccrual rates are reviewed and adjusted be measured reliably on writing of the ultimate company income and value added taxes.
There may be further prescription at which point the right of return We also receive income from royalties and adjustments when actual rebates are paid after is extinguished.
Accordingly, the point of from disposals of intellectual property, brands the initial sale based on utilisation information delivery is the point at which the prescription and product lines which are included in other submitted to us in the case of contractual has been written.
Overall, we believe that our operating income.
rebates and claims invoices in the case estimates are reasonable.
of regulatory rebates and chargebacks.
Sales of products to third parties: Sales We believe that we have been reasonable The effects of these deductions on our US revenue is recorded at the invoiced amount in our estimates for future rebates using pharmaceuticals turnover, and the movements excluding sales and value added taxes less a similar methodology to that of previous on accruals, are set out in the tables on estimated accruals for product returns and years.
Inevitably, however, such estimates page 88. rebates given to managed care and other involve judgements on aggregate future customers a particular feature in the US.
sales levels, segment mix and the respective The adjustments in respect of prior years Cash discounts for prompt payment are also customer contractual performance.
benefited reported US pharmaceuticals deducted from sales.
Revenue is recognised turnover by 1.9% and 0.4% in 2005 and 2006 at the point of delivery, which is usually when Cash discounts are offered to customers to respectively and decreased turnover by 0.4% title passes to the customer either on shipment encourage prompt payment.
However, taking account of or on receipt of goods by the customer calculated based on historical experience the following years reversal the net impact depending on local trading terms.
and are adjusted to reflect actual experience.
on 2006 and 2007 was a 1.3% and a 0.8% overstatement of US pharmaceuticals At the time of invoicing sales in the US, Industry practice in the US allows wholesalers turnover, respectively.
rebates and deductions that we expect to pay, and pharmacies to return unused stocks generally over the following six to nine months, within six months of, and up to 12 months The increase in contractual rebates in 2007 are estimated.
These rebates typically arise after, shelf-life expiry.
At point of sale, we was driven by the introduction into the US from sales contracts with third party managed estimate the quantity and value of goods market of generic omeprazole, with resultant care organisations, hospitals, long-term care which may ultimately be returned.
Our returns price impacts on Nexium.
facilities, group purchasing organisations and accruals are based on actual experience various state programmes Medicaid best over the preceding 12 months for established Regulatory rebates decreased by $341 million price contracts, supplemental rebates etc products together with market related in 2006 compared to 2005, as a result of the and can be classified as follows: information such as estimated stock levels automatic switch of those patients in state at wholesalers and competitor activity.
For Medicaid programmes into Medicare Part D, Chargebacks, where we enter into newly launched products, we use rates based classified as a contractual rebate.
Contractual arrangements under which certain parties, on our experience with similar products or rebates increased by $1,212 million typically hospitals, the Department of a pre-determined percentage.
For products compared to 2005, partly as a result of this Veterans Affairs and the Department of facing generic competition such as Toprol-XL switch, and also due to volume growth.
Defense, are able to buy products from in the US our experience is that we usually wholesalers at the lower prices we have lose the ability to estimate the levels of returns A further factor that significantly influenced contracted with them.
The chargeback is from wholesalers with the same degree of our sales in the US market prior to 2004 was the difference between the price we invoice precision that we can for products still subject wholesaler buying patterns.
Wholesalers could to the wholesaler and the contracted price to patent protection.
This is because we have place orders that were significantly larger charged by the wholesaler.
Chargebacks limited or no insight into a number of areas than their normal levels of demand ahead are paid directly to the wholesalers.
the actual timing of the launch of a generic of anticipated price increases or would seek competitor following regulatory approval of to build up or run down their stock levels for Regulatory, including Medicaid and other the generic product for example, a generic other reasons.
Such speculative purchases federal and state programmes, where we manufacturer may or may not have produced made forecasting sales patterns more difficult pay rebates based on the specific terms adequate pre-launch inventory, the pricing and could drive variances between reported of agreements in individual states which and marketing strategy of the competitor, the and underlying demand at quarter end.
include product usage and information on take-up of the generic and in cases where a In December 2003 we entered into Inventory best prices and average market prices.
generic manufacturer has approval to launch Management Agreements to reduce the just one dose size in a market of several dose opportunity for such speculative purchases.
Contractual, under which entities such as sizes the likely level of switching from one In 2005 we replaced the Inventory third party managed care organisations, dose to another.
Under our accounting policy Management Agreements with Distribution long-term care facilities and group revenue is only recognised when the amount Service Agreements, which served to reduce purchasing organisations are entitled of the revenue can be measured reliably.
even further the speculative purchasing to rebates depending on specified Our approach in meeting this condition for behaviour of the wholesalers.
As a result, performance provisions, which vary products facing generic competition will vary we believe inventory movements have been from contract to contract.
from product to product depending on the neutral across the year.
We continue to track DIRECTORS REPORT 88 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED 2007 2006 2005 $m $m $m Gross sales 18,456 16,577 14,013 Chargebacks 1,130 975 905 Regulatory US government and state programmes 732 532 873 Contractual Managed care and group purchasing organisation rebates 3,179 2,413 1,201 Cash and other discounts 356 329 405 Customer returns 18 46 14 Other 145 256 244 Net sales 12,896 12,026 10,399 Adjustment Carried forward Brought forward Provision for in respect Returns at 31 December 1 January 2005 current year of prior years and payments 2005 $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks 118 927 22 838 185 Regulatory US government and state programmes 493 970 97 765 601 Contractual Managed care and group purchasing organisation rebates 490 1,284 83 1,271 420 Cash and other discounts 23 405 401 27 Customer returns 282 14 101 167 Other 80 244 270 54 1,486 3,816 202 3,646 1,454 Adjustment Carried forward Brought forward Provision for in respect Returns at 31 December 1 January 2006 current year of prior years and payments 2006 $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks 185 1,001 26 1,068 92 Regulatory US government and state programmes 601 597 65 819 314 Contractual Managed care and group purchasing organisation rebates 420 2,367 46 2,198 635 Cash and other discounts 27 329 327 29 Customer returns 167 46 53 160 Other 54 256 263 47 1,454 4,596 45 4,728 1,277 Addition in Adjustment Carried forward Brought forward respect of Provision for in respect Returns at 31 December 1 January 2007 MedImmune current year of prior years and payments 2007 $m $m $m $m $m $m Chargebacks 92 2 1,115 15 1,038 186 Regulatory US government and state programmes 314 69 769 37 687 428 Contractual Managed care and group purchasing organisation rebates 635 5 3,100 79 2,919 900 Cash and other discounts 29 1 356 348 38 Customer returns 160 1 19 1 94 85 Other 47 153 147 53 1,277 78 5,512 56 5,233 1,690 DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 89 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED wholesaler stock levels by product, using component for example, a manufacturing flow projections, which require us to estimate our own, third party and wholesaler data agreement exceeds the contracted both future cash flows and an appropriate and, where we believe such distortions price for that component we defer an discount rate.
Such estimates are inherently occur, we disclose in the Annual Report appropriate element of the upfront subjective.
Impairments to intangible assets for each product and in aggregate where consideration and amortise this over totalling $120 million were recognised in 2007 shipments may be out of line with underlying the performance period.
We do not offer any the fair market value of the undelivered incentives to encourage wholesaler component is equal to or lower than the Contingent liabilities and commitments speculative buying and attempt, where contracted price for that component we In the normal course of business, contingent possible, to restrict shipments to underlying treat the whole of the upfront amount as liabilities may arise from product-specific and demand when such speculation occurs.
being attributable to the delivered intangible general legal proceedings, from guarantees assets and recognise that part of the or from environmental liabilities connected Royalty income: Royalty income is revenue upon delivery.
No element of with our current or former sites.
Where we recorded under other operating income the contracted revenue related to the believe that potential liabilities have a low in the Financial Statements.
Royalties undelivered component is allocated to the probability of crystallising or are very difficult tend to be linked to levels of sales or sale of the intangible asset.
This is because to quantify reliably, we treat them as contingent production by a third party.
At the time the contracted revenue relating to the liabilities.
These are not provided for but of preparing the Financial Statements, undelivered component is contingent are disclosed in the notes.
Further details of we may have to estimate the third partys on future events such as sales and so these contingent liabilities are set out in Note sales or production when arriving at the cannot be anticipated.
Although royalty income to be included.
These there can be no assurance regarding the estimates, which may differ from actual Research and development outcome of legal proceedings, we do not sales or production, do not result in Our business is underpinned by our marketed currently expect them to have a materially a material impact on reported other products and development portfolio.
The R&D adverse effect on our financial position.
expenditure on internal activities to generate We also have significant commitments that these products is generally charged to the are not currently recognised in the balance Sales of intangible assets such as income statement in the year that it is incurred.
sheet arising from our relationship with Merck.
intellectual property, brands and product Purchases of intellectual property and product These are described more fully in Off-balance lines : A consequence of charging all rights to supplement our R&D portfolio are sheet transactions, contingent liabilities and internal R&D expenditure to the income capitalised as intangible assets.
statement in the year that it is incurred assets are amortised from the launch of which is normal practice in the the underlying products and are tested for Post-employment benefits pharmaceutical industry is that we own impairment both before and after launch.
We account for the pension costs relating to valuable intangible assets which are not This policy is in line with practice adopted the retirement plans under IAS19 Employee recorded on the balance sheet.
We also by major pharmaceutical companies.
In applying IAS19, we have adopted own acquired intangible assets which the option of recognising actuarial gains and are included on the balance sheet.
Goodwill and intangible assets losses in full through reserves.
In all cases, the As a consequence of regular reviews of We have significant investments in goodwill pension costs are assessed in accordance product strategy, from time to time we sell and intangible assets as a result of acquisitions with the advice of independent qualified such assets and generate income.
Sales of businesses and purchases of such assets actuaries but require the exercise of of product lines are often accompanied as product development and marketing rights.
significant judgement in relation to assumptions by an agreement on our part to continue Under adopted IFRS, goodwill is held at cost for future salary and pension increases, long manufacturing the relevant product for a and tested annually for impairment, whilst term price inflation and investment returns.
reasonable period often about two years intangibles are amortised over their estimated whilst the purchaser constructs its own useful lives.
Changes in these lives would result Taxation manufacturing facilities.
The contracts in different effects on the income statement.
Accruals for tax contingencies require typically involve the receipt of an upfront We estimate that a one year reduction in management to make judgements and payment, which the contract attributes the estimated useful lives of intangible assets estimates in relation to tax audit issues to the sale of the intangible assets, and would increase the annual amortisation charge and exposures.
Amounts accrued are ongoing receipts, which the contract by $54 million.
The majority of our investments based on managements interpretation of attributes to the sale of the product in intangible assets and goodwill arose from country-specific tax law and the likelihood of we manufacture.
In cases where the the restructuring of the Astra-Merck joint settlement.
Tax benefits are not recognised transaction has two or more components, venture in 1998 and the acquisition of unless the tax positions are probable of we account for the delivered item MedImmune in 2007, and we are satisfied being sustained.
Once considered to be for example, the transfer of title to the that the carrying values are fully justified by probable, management reviews each material intangible asset as a separate unit of estimated future earnings.
Intangible assets tax benefit to assess whether a provision accounting and record revenue on delivery are reviewed for impairment where there are should be taken against full recognition of the of that component provided that we can indications that their carrying values may benefit on the basis of potential settlement make a reasonable estimate of the fair not be recoverable, and any impairments are through negotiation and or litigation.
All such value of the undelivered component.
Where charged to the income statement.
Tests for provisions are included in creditors due within the fair market value of the undelivered impairment are based on discounted cash one year.
Any recorded exposure to interest on tax liabilities is provided for in the tax charge.
DIRECTORS REPORT 90 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Share-based compensation Nexium cannot be less than annual minimum First Option and True-Up Through the Remuneration Committee we sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from In 2008, a calculation will be made of the offer share and share option plans to certain $125 million to $225 million.
Our payments have Appraised Value, being the net present value employees as part of their compensation exceeded the minimum levels in all years.
of the future contingent payments in respect and benefits packages, designed to improve of all agreement products not covered by alignment of the interests of employees with Payment in the event of the Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec shareholders.
Details of these are given in Note a business combination and Nexium.
Payment of the Appraised Value 26 to the Financial Statements.
The charges On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time to Merck in March 2008 will take place only have been calculated principally using the Lump Sum Payment of $809 million was if Merck exercises the First Option.
Should Black-Scholes model as a valuation basis.
As a result of this payment, Merck Merck not exercise this option in 2008, relinquished any claims it may have had to we may exercise it in 2010 for a sum equal OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS, Zeneca products.
See General CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS below for our current estimate of the amount Details of our contingent liabilities and Termination arrangements of this payment.
commitments are set out in Note 27 to The Agreements provided for arrangements the Financial Statements.
We have no and payments under which, subject to the Contingent payments will continue from off-balance sheet arrangements and our exercise of certain options, the rights and 2008 to 2010 if we exercise in 2010. derivative activities are non-speculative.
interests in our activities and products held The table on page 92 sets out our minimum by Merck immediately prior to the merger Upon exercise of the First Option, Merck contractual obligations at the year end.
would be terminated, including details of: will relinquish its rights over the agreement products not covered by the Partial Retirement, Arrangements with Merck The Advance Payment.
other than Nexium and Prilosec.
If neither Introduction The Partial Retirement.
Merck nor we exercise the option, the In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with The First Option and True-Up.
contingent payment arrangements in respect Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, The Loan Note Receivable.
of these agreement products will continue marketing and distributing certain Astra The Second Option.
as will our other obligations and restrictions products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture in respect of these products and the was restructured the Restructuring.
Under Advance Payment Appraised Value will not be paid.
Products the agreements relating to the Restructuring The merger between Astra and Zeneca covered by the First Option include Atacand, the Agreements, a US limited partnership triggered the first step in the termination Plendil, Entocort and certain compounds still was formed, in which Merck is the limited arrangements.
Merck relinquished all rights, in development.
partner and we are the general partner, and including contingent payments on future we obtained control of the joint ventures sales, to potential Astra products with no In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of business subject to certain limited partner and existing or pending US patents at the time of the Advance Payment.
The true-up amount other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
As a result, we now have rights will be based on a multiple of the average These rights provide Merck with safeguards to such products and are relieved of potential annual contingent payments from 2005 to over the activities of the partnership and obligations to Merck and restrictions in respect 2007 in respect of all the agreement products place limitations on our commercial freedom of those products including annual contingent with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium to operate.
The Agreements provide for: payments, affording us substantial freedom subject to a minimum of $6.6 billion, plus to exploit the products as we see fit.
other defined amounts totalling $912 million.
It is then reduced by the Appraised Value At the time of the merger, the Advance whether paid or not, the Partial Retirement A payment to Merck in the event of a Payment was paid.
It was calculated as the and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted business combination between Astra then net present value of $2.8 billion discounted amount of $2.8 billion to determine the and a third party in order for Merck to from 2008 to the date of merger at a rate of true-up amount.
The true-up will be settled relinquish certain claims to that third 13% per annum and amounted to $967 million.
in 2008 irrespective of whether the First Option partys products.
It is subject to a true-up in 2008, as discussed is exercised, and this could result in a further under First Option and True-Up below.
payment by us to Merck or a payment by Termination arrangements which, if and Merck to us.
See General below for our when triggered, cause Merck to relinquish Partial Retirement current estimate of the amount of this payment.
its interests in our products and activities.
In March 2008, there will be a partial retirement of Mercks limited partnership interest by Should Merck exercise the First Option in These elements are discussed in further detail payment to Merck of an amount calculated as 2008, we will make payments in respect of below together with a summary of their a multiple of the average annual contingent the Partial Retirement, the First Option and accounting treatments.
payments from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant the true-up totalling a minimum of $4.7 billion.
See General If we exercise the First Option in 2010, the Annual contingent payments below for our current estimate of the amount combined effect of the amounts paid to Merck We make ongoing payments to Merck based of this payment.
in 2008 and 2010 will total the same amount.
on sales of certain of our products in the US the contingent payments on the agreement Upon the Partial Retirement, Mercks rights Loan Note Receivable products.
As a result of the merger of Astra in respect of certain of the agreement products Included in the assets and liabilities covered and Zeneca in 1999, these contingent payments will end.
The products covered by the Partial by the Restructuring is a loan note receivable excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Retirement include Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, by us from Merck with a face value of Rhinocort and Symbicort.
In 2008, at the same time as DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 91 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED the settlement of the Partial Retirement and the rights to be acquired under the Partial The net payments we expect to make in 2008 the true-up, Merck will settle the loan note Retirement, true-up and First Option.
$2.7 billion, or $3.3 billion if Merck exercises receivable by paying us $1.4 billion.
the First Option will be capitalised as intangible We anticipate that the benefits that accrue to assets representing acquired product rights.
Second Option us under all the termination arrangements arise: A Second Option exists whereby we have The economic benefits that attach to these the option to re-purchase Mercks interests Currently, from the substantial freedom acquired product rights range from a relief in Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option over products acquired or discovered from the obligation to make future contingent is exercisable by us two years after the exercise post-merger.
payments on agreement products other than of the First Option, whether the First Option Nexium and Prilosec to b the ability to pursue is exercised in either 2008 or 2010.
Exercise On occurrence of each stage of such value-adding opportunities to fully exploit of the Second Option by us at a later date arrangements, from enhanced contributions our resources and products within our is also provided for in 2017 or if combined from, and substantial freedom over, those Gastrointestinal, Cardiovascular, Neuroscience annual sales of the two products fall below products that have already been launched and Respiratory therapy area portfolios.
The a minimum amount provided, in each case, for example, Pulmicort, Symbicort, intangible assets will therefore be amortised that the First Option has been exercised.
Rhinocort and Atacand and those that over a variety of lives to reflect the periods over The exercise price for the Second Option are in development.
which we expect to receive these economic is the net present value of the future annual benefits.
For instance, intangible assets contingent payments on Prilosec and Nexium Economic benefits include relief from relating to relief from contingent payments as determined at the time of exercise.
contingent payments, anticipated cost savings will be amortised over the expected sales lives from cessation of manufacturing arrangements of the products concerned whereas assets If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will and other cost efficiencies together with the relating to the ability to fully exploit our product then have relinquished all its interests in the strategic advantages of increased freedom portfolios will be amortised over 20 years, partnership and the agreement products to operate.
a period which reflects the typical timescale including rights to contingent payments.
of developing and marketing a product.
Accounting treatments General Annual contingent payments The intangible assets will be subject to The precise timing and amount of settlements The annual contingent payments on agreement impairment testing and would be impaired with Merck under the Partial Retirement, products are expensed as incurred.
if a product is withdrawn or if activity in any the First Option and the true-up cannot of the affected therapy areas is significantly be determined at the date of this review.
Payment in the event of curtailed.
Similarly, because payment for the For example, the payment of the First Option a business combination assets relating to the ability to fully exploit is contingent upon Merck or us exercising the The Lump Sum Payment was expensed at the our product portfolios are made through the First Option.
Similarly, the timing and amount point of merger since it caused no incremental Partial Retirement and true-up whilst certain of the Second Option cannot be determined benefits over the prior years aggregate Astra benefits arise at the time of settlement of the at this time as the amount of the true-up, and Zeneca performance to accrue to the First and Second Options, some of these the Partial Retirement and the Appraised merged AstraZeneca entity.
payments will be held as non-refundable Value have been estimated but are subject deposits.
Should either the First Option to finalisation.
However, the total payments Termination arrangements or the Second Option not be exercised, in respect of the Partial Retirement, the We consider that the termination arrangements all or some of these latter payments will true-up and the First Option will not exceed described above represent the acquisition, in be expensed immediately.
the minimum of $4.7 billion referred to stages, of Mercks interests in the partnership above should the First Option be exercised.
and agreement products including their rights Our ongoing monitoring of the projected We estimate the amount of the Partial to contingent payments and depend, in payments to Merck and the value to us of the Retirement will be approximately $4.3 billion, part, on the exercise of the First and Second related rights takes full account of changing the amount of the Appraised Value will be Options.
The effects will only be reflected in business circumstances and the range of approximately $0.6 billion and the amount the Financial Statements as these stages are possible outcomes to ensure that the payments of the true-up a payment from Merck to us reached.
If and when all such payments are to be made to Merck are covered by the will be approximately $0.2 billion.
made, we will have unencumbered discretion economic benefits expected to be realised, in our operations in the US market.
including those attributable to the strategic If Merck were to exercise the First Option in benefits of being relieved from some or all of 2008, the net minimum payment to be made The Advance Payment has been accounted for the restrictions of the partnership with Merck.
to Merck, being the combined payments of as an intangible asset and is being amortised Should our monitoring reveal that these $4.7 billion less the repayment of the loan over 20 years.
This approach reflects the fact payments exceed the economic benefits note of $1.4 billion, would be $3.3 billion.
that, under the Agreements, we have acquired expected to be realised, we would recognise In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, rights relieving us of potential obligations and a provision for an onerous contract.
the loan note was included in the determination restrictions in respect of Astra products with of the fair values of the assets and liabilities no existing or pending patents at the time Taxation that were acquired.
At that time, the loan of merger.
Although these rights apply in We face a number of transfer pricing audits note was ascribed a fair value of zero on perpetuity, the period of amortisation of 20 in jurisdictions around the world and, in some acquisition and on the balance sheet because years has been chosen to reflect the typical cases, are in dispute with the tax authorities.
we estimated that the net minimum payment timescale of development and marketing of The issues under discussion are often complex of $3.3 billion equated to the fair value of a product.
and can require many years to resolve.
DIRECTORS REPORT 92 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years Over 5 years Total Payments due by period $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans and other borrowings 4,892 2,924 2,773 13,228 23,817 Operating leases 103 118 77 184 482 Merck arrangements 4,677 4,677 Other 571 571 Total 10,243 3,042 2,850 13,412 29,547 Accruals for tax contingencies require us to in 2000.
All new employees in these countries As a result, the combination of Astra and make estimates and judgements with respect are offered defined contribution schemes.
Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit, and rather than through purchase accounting.
actual results could vary from these estimates.
In applying IAS 19 Employee Benefits, If purchase accounting had been adopted, The international tax environment presents we recognise all actuarial gains and Zeneca would have been deemed to have increasingly challenging dynamics for the losses immediately through reserves.
Under this scenario the resolution of transfer pricing disputes.
These methodology results in a less volatile income purchase costs of Astra would have been disputes usually result in taxable profits being statement charge than under the alternative $34 billion.
Intangible assets amounting increased in one territory and correspondingly approach of recognising actuarial gains and to approximately $12 billion would have decreased in another.
Our balance sheet losses over time.
Investment decisions in been recognised and property, plant and positions for these matters reflect appropriate respect of defined benefit schemes are based equipment would have been fair valued corresponding relief in the territories affected.
on underlying actuarial and economic upwards by about $288 million offset We consider that at present such corresponding circumstances with the intention of ensuring by deferred tax amounting to $4 billion.
relief will be available but, given the challenges that the schemes have sufficient assets to meet Goodwill of $15 billion would have arisen.
in the international tax environment, will keep liabilities as they fall due, rather than meeting The recognition of intangible assets and this aspect under careful review.
The total net accounting requirements.
The trustees follow higher property, plant and equipment would accrual included in the financial statements a strategy of awarding mandates to specialist, have resulted in increased amortisation to cover the worldwide exposure to transfer active investment managers which results in and depreciation charges to income, net pricing audits is $1,322 million, an increase of a broad diversification of investment styles of tax, of approximately $1 billion in 2007.
$327 million due to a number of new audits, and asset classes.
The investment approach revisions of estimates relating to existing is intended to produce less volatility in the Employee benefits the provisions of IAS audits, offset by a number of negotiated plan asset returns.
19 have been applied from the date of settlements.
For transfer pricing audits where transition when the full actuarial deficit was we are in dispute with the tax authorities, we The overall recognised deficit in the Groups recognised as opposed to being applied estimate the potential for reasonably possible defined benefit schemes increased from retrospectively.
Since we have adopted additional losses above and beyond the $1,842 million at 31 December 2006 to the amendment to IAS 19 allowing actuarial amount provided to be up to $400 million: $1,998 million at 31 December 2007.
This was gains and losses to be recognised however, we believe that it is unlikely that principally due to net actuarial losses gains immediately directly in equity, the adoption these additional losses will arise.
Of the from changes in obligation assumptions, of this exemption makes no difference to remaining tax exposures, we do not expect offset by experience losses on assets and our reported results or net assets.
It is not possible to obligations and exchange.
In assessing the estimate the timing of tax cash flows in relation discount rate applied to the obligations, Cumulative exchange differences we have to each outcome: however, it is anticipated we have used rates on AA corporate bonds chosen to set the cumulative exchange that a number of significant disputes may be with durations corresponding to the maturities difference reserve at 1 January 2003 to zero.
resolved over the next one to two years.
At the last full actuarial valuation at 31 March 2006, the market value NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS of the UK funds assets was 3,070 million, New International Financial Reporting We offer post-retirement benefit plans which representing a solvency ratio of 97% on the Standards which have been issued both cover many of our employees around the funds liabilities.
adopted and not yet adopted are discussed world.
In keeping with local terms and on pages 121 and 123 Accounting Policies.
conditions, most of these plans are defined INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING TRANSITION contribution in nature where the resulting On transition to using adopted IFRS in the SARBANES-OXLEY ACT SECTION 404 income statement charge is fixed at a set year ended 31 December 2005, we took As a consequence of our listing on the level or is a set percentage of employees advantage of several optional exemptions New York Stock Exchange, AstraZeneca pay.
However, several plans, mainly in the available in IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of is required to comply with those provisions UK which has by far the largest single International Financial Reporting Standards of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to scheme, the US and Sweden, are defined and we discuss the major effects below.
Section 404 of this legislation benefit plans where benefits are based on requires companies annually to assess and employees length of service and final salary Business combinations IFRS 3 Business make public statements about the quality typically averaged over one, three or five Combinations has been applied from and effectiveness of their internal control years.
The UK and US defined benefit 1 January 2003, the date of transition, over financial reporting.
schemes were closed to new entrants rather than being applied fully retrospectively.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 93 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Our approach to the assessment has been to the structure and operation of our entity level RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY select key transaction and financial reporting control environment.
This refers to the ANALYSIS OF YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 2006 processes in our largest operating units and overarching control environment, including The tables below show our sales by therapy a number of specialist areas such as financial structure of reviews, checks and balances area and by key, patent expiry and base consolidation and reporting, treasury operations that are essential to the management of a well products and operating profit for 2006 and taxation so that, in aggregate, we have controlled business.
compared to 2005. covered a significant proportion of each of the key line items in our Financial Statements.
The Directors have concluded that our internal Reported performance Each of these operating units and specialist control over financial reporting is effective as Our sales grew by 11% from $23,950 million to areas has ensured that its relevant processes at 31 December 2007 and the assessment $26,475 million, an increase of $2,525 million.
and controls are documented to appropriate is set out on page 116.
KPMG Audit Plc Operating profit increased by 26% from standards, taking into account, in particular, have audited the effectiveness of internal $6,502 million to $8,216 million.
Earnings per the guidance provided by the Securities and control over financial reporting and, as noted share for the year were $3.86, a rise of 33% Exchange Commission.
We have also reviewed on page 117, their report is unqualified.
We estimate that without SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2006 AND 2005 2006 2005 2006 compared to 2005 Growth Growth due to Growth Growth underlying exchange effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Cardiovascular 6,118 780 6 5,332 15 15 Gastrointestinal 6,631 297 21 6,355 4 4 Infection and other 875 37 1 839 4 4 Neuroscience 4,704 656 11 4,059 16 16 Oncology 4,262 470 53 3,845 12 11 Respiratory and Inflammation 3,151 284 6 2,873 10 10 Others 734 89 2 647 13 13 Total 26,475 2,613 88 23,950 11 11 SALES BY KEY, PATENT EXPIRY AND BASE PRODUCTS 2006 AND 2005 2006 2005 2006 compared to 2005 Growth Growth due to Growth Growth underlying exchange effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Key Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort 13,318 2,475 6 10,849 23 23 Patent expiry Losec, Nolvadex, Plendil, Seloken Toprol-XL, Zestril 3,837 335 21 4,193 8 8 Base 9,320 473 61 8,908 5 5 Total 26,475 2,613 88 23,950 11 11 OPERATING PROFIT 2006 AND 2005 2006 2005 Percentage of sales 2006 compared to 2005 Growth Growth due to Growth Growth underlying exchange effects 2006 2005 underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % % % Sales 26,475 2,613 88 23,950 11 11 Cost of sales 5,559 188 15 5,356 21.0 22.4 4 4 Gross margin 20,916 2,425 103 18,594 79.0 77.6 13 13 Distribution costs 226 15 - 211 0.9 0.8 7 7 Research and development 3,902 532 9 3,379 14.7 14.1 16 16 Selling, general and administrative 9,096 410 9 8,695 34.4 36.3 5 5 Other operating income and expense 524 326 5 193 2.0 0.8 169 172 Operating profit 8,216 1,794 80 6,502 31.0 27.2 28 26 DIRECTORS REPORT 94 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED the sales and contribution from Toprol-XL in Sales in the Oncology portfolio grew by 12% R&D expenditure was up 16% to $3,902 million the US sales growth would have been 11% to $4,262 million.
Arimidex sales increased 14% excluding the Cambridge Antibody and earnings per share would have been 29% to $1,508 million.
Casodex sales grew Technology investment and increased by $3.36, up 35% over 2005. by 9% to $1,206 million, and Zoladex sales 0.6 percentage points to 14.7% of sales.
exceeded $1 billion for the second year in a Selling, general and administrative cost Underlying performance row.
Iressa sales fell by 11% to $237 million, increases were restricted to 5% over the Sales as growth in Asia Pacific went some way to last year, reaching $9,096 million and adding Sales for the full year increased 11% at CER offset declines in the US.
2.0 percentage points to operating margin.
with good sales growth in all regions US up 16%: Europe up 6%: Japan up 5%: Rest of Neuroscience sales grew by 16% to $4,704 Higher net other income and expense increased World up 11%.
This growth was driven by million.
Seroquel sales exceeded $3 billion to operating margin by 1.1 percentage points volume improvements that were offset by reach $3,416 million up 24%.
due principally to higher royalties, plus the price reductions particularly in the US and $109 million gain recognised in the first half parts of Europe.
Excluding Toprol-XL sales Geographic analysis of the year from the divestment of the US from both 2006 and 2005, growth was 11%.
Sales growth anaesthetics and analgesic products to for Nexium, Seroquel, Arimidex and Crestor Abraxis BioScience Inc. and the disposal The combined sales of five key products amounted to $1,441 million, whilst there of non-core products in Scandinavia Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel and were declines in products such as Prilosec.
$32 million in the final quarter.
Symbicort grew by 23% to $13,318 million Toprol-XL grew in the year although it faced and now account for just over 50% of our generic competition from November.
Adjusting Included within cost of sales is the movement total sales up from 45% in 2005.
Patent sales to exclude Toprol-XL sales from both in fair value of financial instruments used to expiry products represented around 14% 2006 and 2005, growth was 11%.
manage our transactional currency exposures: of sales, down from 18% in 2005.
Base the loss for the year, net of an exchange gain products saw growth of 5% in 2006 over Revenue from outside the US now accounts on the underlying exposures, was $11 million.
2005 although the relative percentage of for 53% of our sales.
In Europe, sales Other fair value movements of $5 million are sales fell.
increased by 6% for the full year, with good charged elsewhere in operating profit.
volume growth partially offset by lower The Gastrointestinal portfolio grew by 4% as realised prices.
Sales for the five key Net interest and dividend income for the Nexium growth more than offset the continuing products combined grew by 21%.
However, year was $327 million 2005 $165 million.
Nexium sales performance was hindered by declines The increase over 2005 is primarily attributable increased by 12% to $5,182 million.
Sales in Germany, where doctors have been to higher average investment balances in the US were up 13% to $3,527 million encouraged to prescribe generics.
The reported amounts include on continued strong volume growth offset $43 million 2005 $15 million arising from by lower price realisation.
Nexium sales in Sales in Japan increased by 5% as a result employee benefit fund assets and liabilities other markets increased 10%, as good of good growth for Casodex and Arimidex reported under IAS 19, Employee Benefits.
volume growth in France and Italy helped together with the launch of Crestor.
Sales mitigate the significant price erosion in in China were up 19% to $328 million on The effective tax rate for the twelve months Germany.
Losec Prilosec sales were down the back of strong growth in all the major was 29.0% 2005 29.1%.
compared to 2005 is the net effect of tax benefits arising from a different geographical In Cardiovascular, sales grew by 15% to Operating margin and retained profit mix of profits, tax deductions relating to $6,118 million.
Crestor sales exceeded Operating margin increased by 3.8 percentage share-based payments and the recognition $2 billion, reaching $2,028 million, up 59%.
Excluding of deferred tax assets in respect of tax credit Sales in the US were up 57% to $1,148 million.
the effects of currency and other income, carry forwards, offset by an increase in tax Sales in other markets increased by 61% on underlying margin increased 2.9 percentage provisions principally in relation to global good growth in Europe and the second half points for the full year.
Seloken Toprol-XL sales increased by 3% to $1,795 million.
US sales Gross margin increased by 1.4 percentage Earnings per share increased by 34% from growth was restricted to 7% by the launch points to 79.0% of sales.
Slightly lower $2.91 in 2005 to $3.86 for the current year.
in November of generic Toprol-XL 25mg by payments to Merck 4.7% of sales benefited We estimate that the share re-purchase Sandoz formerly Eon Labs.
The performances gross margin by 0.1 percentage points whilst scheme has added 6 cents to earnings of Crestor and Seloken Toprol-XL more than currency and royalties reduced gross margin per share after taking account of interest offset declines in Zestril and Plendil, down by by 0.1 percentage points and 0.2 percentage income foregone.
Excluding the prior year costs for the early termination of the MedPointe In 2006, Toprol-XL contributed US sales of Respiratory and Inflammation sales increased Zomig US distribution agreement and $1,382 million and earnings per share of by 10% to $3,151 million.
Symbicort sales manufacturing provisons in total $134 million 50 cents.
Since the timing of approval and were the main driver of this growth and and the 2006 provisions made in respect of launch of other proposed generic products increased 18% to $1,184 million.
Elsewhere Toprol-XL, NXY-059 and manufacturing in addition to the 25mg launched by Sandoz in the therapy area, Pulmicort sales rose by efficiencies in total $215 million, underlying is difficult to predict, we believe that future 11% with annual sales of $1,292 million, margin improved by 1.5 percentage points.
performance can be best judged by excluding whilst Rhinocort sales declined to $360 million, down by 7%.
DIRECTORS REPORT ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 95 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Toprol-XL from current performance.
income due from the disposal of the Investments, divestments Consequently, if Toprol-XL were excluded anaesthetics business in the US as described and capital expenditure from the current and prior years, sales growth in more detail below also contributed to the The commitment to strengthening our product would be 11% and earnings per share growth increase, which was offset by reductions in pipeline through pursuing external opportunities would be 36%.
in addition to the sustained investment in internal discovery and development bore FINANCIAL POSITION, INCLUDING There was an underlying increase in payables fruit in 2006 with two major acquisitions and CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY 2006 and provisions of $499 million arising several other significant licensing agreements All data in this section are on an actual basis principally from higher payables in the US and collaborations.
In January 2006, we unless otherwise stated.
due to increased volumes of purchases from acquired the entire share capital of KuDOS Merck and the deferred income from the Pharmaceuticals for $206 million to access The net book value of our assets increased disposal of the anaesthetics business.
There DNA repair technology as well as several from $13,691 million to $15,416 million.
Net were also increases from insurance payables products, including the poly-ARP-ribose profit was distributed by dividends of $2,217 and Toprol-XL related severance provisions, polymerase inhibitor in Oncology.
We followed million and share buy-backs of $4,147 million.
which were reduced by the settlement of the this by acquiring the total share capital of defined benefit pension scheme in Japan.
In Cambridge Antibody Technology adding Property, plant and equipment addition, exchange effects accounted for just to the 19.9% we have held since December The increase in the value of property, plant over $400 million.
2004 to provide a foundation for establishing and equipment was due primarily to additions a significant biopharmaceuticals capability.
of $822 million and exchange of $689 million Cash flow The total cost of this acquisition of $1,116 offset by depreciation and impairments of Cash generated from operating activities in million was reduced by disposing of the $1,003 million.
Additions were mainly driven the year was $7,693 million, $950 million non-core intangible asset arising from the by investment in building upgrades in the higher than in 2005.
The improvement was Humira royalty stream for $661 million in UK, Sweden and the US as well as a vehicle due principally to an increase in profit before October 2006. programme in the US.
tax of $1,876 million offset by a $224 million increase in working capital requirements and These acquisitions were complemented Goodwill and intangible assets a $563 million increase in tax paid.
Tax paid by significant licensing and collaboration The significant increase in the value of goodwill for the year was $2,169 million compared to agreements.
These were led by four and intangibles was primarily due to the $1,606 million in 2005.
This increase in 2006 significant agreements with AtheroGenics, Inc. expansion of our externalisation programme compared to 2005 was due to increased Protherics PLC, Targacept Inc. and POZEN, as described in more detail below.
Inc. with combined payments capitalised as The additions of $1,360 million arising from intangible assets in 2006 of $151 million.
With the acquisition of Cambridge Antibody Net cash outflows from investing activities AtheroGenics we entered into a development Technology were partly offset by the disposal were $272 million compared to $1,182 million and commercialisation agreement for of the Humira royalty stream intangible in 2005.
Net cash from investing activities AGI-1067, a novel anti-atherosclerotic agent acquired with the company $661 million.
was affected by the management of Group being studied for the treatment of patients The other major additions were from the funds, with funds being transferred between with coronary disease, paying an upfront fee acquisition of KuDOS Pharmaceuticals long-term deposits and liquid cash.
After of $50 million in January 2006.
Our agreement $297 million, the co-promotion agreement excluding these inflows of $1,120 million with Protherics is in respect of the anti-sepsis in respect of Abraxane $200 million and outflows of $491 million in 2005, underlying product CytoFab and involved both a 4.3% software $121 million.
cash flows associated with investing activities equity investment in Protherics of $13 million were an outflow of $1,392 million in 2006 and an intangible asset of $31 million.
In the Inventories compared with $691 million in 2005.
During case of Targacept, we have capitalised as an After excluding the effects of exchange of the year, cash of $1,148 million was paid intangible asset payments totalling $30 million $203 million, the value of inventories fell by for the acquisition of Cambridge Antibody in respect of a neuronal nicotinic partial agonist $159 million to $2,250 million, a reduction of Technology and KuDOS Pharmaceuticals.
This reflected a continuation of There was a $388 million increase in comprised a $10 million upfront fee on signing the work to reduce our inventory levels, with expenditure on intangible assets as a result and a $20 million milestone payment when reductions seen primarily in the US including of the new collaboration deals as described proof of concept studies commenced.
declines in the levels of Merck-related inventory in the section immediately below.
Proceeds The agreement with POZEN is for the and in the UK.
of $661 million were received on disposal of co-development of a combination product the Humira royalty stream, an asset acquired comprising esomeprazole and naproxen Receivables and payables as part of the acquisition of Cambridge with an upfront fee of $40 million.
In addition Receivables grew from $4,778 million at the Antibody Technology.
to these, we have entered into agreements end of 2005 to $5,561 million at the close with Schering AG, Array, Kinacia, Dynavax, of 2006.
$270 million of this increase was After shareholder returns of $5,382 million Cubist and Argenta, capitalising around due to exchange.
The underlying rise of comprising net share re-purchases of $70 million in intangible assets.
All of these $513 million was driven by increases in trade $3,162 million and $2,220 million dividend agreements include provisions for further debtors in the US through higher sales in payments, and a net $1,148 million cash payments over and above the initial signing the last months of the year, the UK primarily outflow from acquisitions net of cash acquired, or upfront fees, depending on certain from higher export sales and across several there was an overall increase in net funds of development and sales milestones.
The second instalment of $1,135 million.
The second payment to Targacept is an example of such milestones.
DIRECTORS REPORT 96 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Complementing these agreements, in June 2006 we entered into a co-promotion agreement with Abraxis BioScience, Inc. in respect of Abraxane in the US.
An upfront signing fee of $200 million was paid and to date we have earned $18 million in alliance revenue from the arrangement.
We have also entered into an agreement with Abbott Laboratories to co-develop and co-promote a single pill, fixed dose combination of Crestor and an Abbott fenofibrate.
Abbott has paid $50 million upfront, recognition of which has been deferred and will be credited to income should we elect to launch the product.
Lastly, we disposed of our Diprivan and local anaesthetics business in the US to Abraxis for a total price of $340 million, comprising an upfront payment of $265 million and $75 million to be paid in 2007.
A gain of $109 million was recognised immediately with the balance to be recognised over the accompanying five year manufacturing arrangement.
On behalf of the Board G H R MUSKER Group Secretary and Solicitor 31 January 2008
