ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 200 ASTRAZENECA ANNUAL REPORT AND FORM 20-F INFORMATION 2007 CORPORATE INFORMATION HISTORY AND DEVELOPMENT OF THE COMPANY The Board of Directors may exercise all the Action necessary to change AstraZeneca PLC was incorporated in England powers of the Company to borrow money.
the rights of shareholders and Wales on 17 June 1992 under the Variation of these borrowing powers would In order to vary the rights attached to any Companies Act 1985.
It is a public limited require the passing of a special resolution of class of shares, the consent in writing of the company domiciled in the UK.
The Companys the Companys shareholders.
holders of three quarters in nominal value of registered number is 2723534 and its the issued shares of that class or the sanction registered office is at 15 Stanhope Gate, All Directors must retire from office at the of an extraordinary resolution passed at a London W1K 1LN telephone 44 0 20 Companys AGM each year and may present general meeting of such holders is required.
From February 1993 until April themselves for re-election.
Directors are 1999, the Company was called Zeneca not prohibited, upon reaching a particular Annual general meetings and Group PLC.
On 6 April 1999, the Company age, from submitting themselves for election extraordinary general meetings changed its name to AstraZeneca PLC.
Annual general meetings and extraordinary general meetings where a special resolution The Company was formed when the Within two months of the date of appointment, is to be passed or a Director is to be appointed pharmaceutical, agrochemical and specialty Directors are required to beneficially own require 21 clear days notice to shareholders.
chemical businesses of Imperial Chemical Ordinary Shares in the Company of an All other extraordinary general meetings Industries PLC were demerged in 1993. aggregate nominal amount of $125.
At present, require 14 clear days notice.
In 1999, the Company sold the specialty this means they must own at least 500 shares.
Also in 1999, the Company For all general meetings, a quorum of two merged with Astra AB of Sweden.
In 2000, Rights, preferences and restrictions shareholders present in person or by proxy, it demerged the agrochemical business and attaching to shares and entitled to vote on the business merged it with the similar agribusiness of The share capital of the Company is divided transacted, is required.
Novartis AG to form a new company called into 2,400,000,000 Ordinary Shares with Syngenta AG.
a nominal value of $0.25 each and 50,000 Shareholders and their duly appointed Redeemable Preference Shares with a nominal proxies and corporate representatives are The Company owns and operates numerous value of 1.00 each.
The rights and restrictions entitled to be admitted to general meetings.
R&D, production and marketing facilities attaching to the Redeemable Preference worldwide.
Its corporate headquarters are Shares differ from those attaching to Ordinary Limitations on the rights to own shares at 15 Stanhope Gate, London W1K 1LN.
Shares as follows: There are no limitations on the rights to own shares.
MEMORANDUM AND ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Redeemable Preference Shares carry Objects no rights to receive dividends.
As is typical of companies registered in England and Wales, the Companys objects, The holders of Redeemable Preference which are detailed in the Memorandum of Shares have no rights to receive notices Association, are broad and wide-ranging of, attend or vote at general meetings and include manufacturing, distributing and except in certain limited circumstances.
They have one vote for every 50,000 Redeemable Preference Shares held.
Any amendment to the Companys Articles of Association requires the approval of On a distribution of assets of the Company, shareholders at a general meeting of on a winding-up or other return of capital the Company.
subject to certain exceptions, the holders of Redeemable Preference Shares have Directors priority over the holders of Ordinary The Board has the authority to manage the Shares to receive the capital paid up on business of the Company, through powers those shares.
such as authorising the Company to allot and re-purchase its shares.
However, subject to Subject to the provisions of the Companies certain exceptions, Directors do not have Act 1985, the Company has the right power to vote at Board meetings on matters to redeem the Redeemable Preference in which they have a material interest.
Shares at any time on giving not less than seven days written notice.
The quorum for meetings of the Board of Directors is a majority of the full Board, of whom at least four must be Non-Executive Directors.
In the absence of a quorum, the Directors do not have power to determine compensation arrangements for themselves or any member of the Board.
