Directors report The Directors present their report, together with the audited financial supplied Hoeganaes Europe with welding rod material for a value of statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. approximately2,783 2006: nil.
The relationship between these companies is ongoing, on an arms length basis and in the ordinary Activities and review of operations course of trade.
Grey Denham, a Non-Executive Director of the A review of the activities and operations of the Company and its Company, is Company Secretary and Group Director Legal and subsidiaries is given in the Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, Compliance of GKN plc but has no day-to-day involvement in the the Chief Executives statement on pages 6 to 9 and the business management of Hoeganaes Corp or Hoeganaes Europe.
and financial review on pages 10 to 35.
These are incorporated by reference into and form part of this report.
No other Directors had any interest in contracts with the Company or its subsidiaries at any time during the period other than service Business and financial review contracts and indemnity agreements.
The Business and financial review is a review of the development, and the operational and financial performance, of the business during Directors interests in the ordinary shares of the Company as well as the year ended 31 December 2007 and a description of the principal details of their remuneration and service contracts can be found in risks and uncertainties facing the business.
the Remuneration report on pages 47 to 51.
Profits and Dividends Settlement with City Index The profit for the year ended 31 December 2007 was 144.8 million On 7 February 2006, the Company announced that it had settled its 2006: 129.1 million restated.
The Directors recommend a final legal proceedings against City Index in respect of losses incurred as dividend for the year of 12 pence per ordinary share 2006: nil.
a consequence of certain unauthorised payments having been made No interim dividend was paid for the six months ended 30 June 2007 by a former employee.
The Board is aware that, following the 2006: nil.
Subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM, settlement with the Company, City Index sought to continue to pursue the final dividend will be paid on 23 May 2008 to those shareholders claims for contribution against certain current and former Directors on the register at the close of business on 2 May 2008. of the Company and against the Companys Auditors.
An application for leave to appeal to the House of Lords has been sought in respect Directors of a motion to strike out the claims.
The names and brief biographical details of the Directors and Key Management of the Company appear on pages 36 to 38.
Corporate governance David Gawler resigned as Executive Chairman of the Company A review of the Companys application of the principles and provisions on 31 October 2007.
Lars Emilson was appointed as a Nonof the Combined Code can be found on pages 42 to 45.
Executive Director and Chairman designate on 14 September Directors indemnities 2007 and became Chairman on 1 November 2007.
Each of the Directors has been granted an indemnity by the Company Michael Foster and John Biles are retiring by rotation in accordance to the extent permitted by law in respect of certain liabilities incurred as with the Companys Articles of Association and, each being eligible, a result of their office.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of offers himself for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
John Neill offers Association each Director is indemnified against liability to third parties, himself for re-election, in accordance with provision A.
7.2 of the excluding criminal liability and regulatory penalties and certain other Combined Code on Corporate Governance of the Financial Reporting liabilities.
In addition, the Company may pay the Directors legal costs Council Combined Code as he has served as a Non-Executive as they are incurred, subject to reimbursement if the Director is Director of the Company for more than nine years.
Lars Emilson will convicted, or if judgement is given against the Director in an action stand for election following his appointment as a Non-Executive brought by the Company.
Director since the last AGM.
Financial instruments The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company may be appointed by an ordinary resolution at a general meeting including interest rate, currency and credit risk are outlined in note 21 of the Company or by the existing Directors, either to fill a vacancy to the Companys consolidated financial statements.
or as an additional Director.
Further details regarding the Companys Annual General Meeting procedures for the appointment of Directors can be found on pages The Companys AGM will take place at 12 noon on 16 May 2008 42 Nominations Committee, 43 Board Balance and Independence at the offices of ABN AMRO, 250 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 4AA.
The Notice of AGM the Notice can be found in a separate circular The Board of Directors, which is responsible for the management to shareholders.
The Notice sets out details of the resolutions that of the business, may exercise all the powers of the Company subject will be proposed at the AGM as well as explanatory notes giving the to the provisions of relevant legislation, the Companys Memorandum background and reasons for such resolutions.
In June 2007 shareholders and Articles of Association and any special resolution of the Company granted the Directors authority to purchase up to 55 million ordinary passed at a general meeting.
The Directors have the power to issue shares in the Company, which will expire on 26 September 2008. and buy back shares in the Company, as well as to grant options over A resolution to renew this authority will be put to shareholders or otherwise dispose of, unissued shares in the Company, to such at the AGM on 16 May 2008. persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
Employees ESAB Holdings Limited and Howden Group Limited, subsidiaries of The Companys policy is to encourage effective communication and the Company, are party to arms length consultancy agreements with consultation between employees and management.
Subsidiaries Unipart Logistics Limited Unipart Logistics for the provision of lean develop their own consultation and communication procedures as manufacturing and other consultancy services to ESAB Global and part of their employment practices.
Further details can be found in Howden Global respectively.
John Neill, a Non-Executive Director of the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 32 to 35 of the the Company, is currently Group Chief Executive of the Unipart Group Business and financial review.
The total charges paid to Unipart Logistics during the The Company and its subsidiaries are equal opportunities employers year were 2.4 million 2006: 682,155. and seek to attract, develop, deploy and reward prospective and In addition, Hoeganaes Corporation Hoeganaes Corp, a wholly present employees solely on the basis of merit, regardless of gender, owned subsidiary of GKN plc, supplied powdered metal to two ethnic origin, religion or sexual orientation.
In addition, the Company subsidiaries of the Company, being The ESAB Group Inc and ESAB and its subsidiaries give full and fair consideration to applications for Mexico SA fide CV, during the year under review with a total sales employment made by disabled people, having regard to their aptitudes value of $2.1 million 2006: $1.8 million.
During the year Hoeganaes and abilities.
Should employees become disabled during employment, Corporation Europe SA Hoeganaes Europe, a wholly owned they would be considered for any necessary retraining and available subsidiary of GKN plc supplied powdered metal to ESAB Mor Kft, work within their capabilities.
For the purposes of training, career a subsidiary of the Company, for a value of approximately 11,800 development and promotion, disabled employees are treated in the 2006: 12,000.
In addition ESAB Kft, a subsidiary of the Company, same way as other employees.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 39 Directors report continued Creditor payment policy meeting, a poll may be demanded by shareholders who are present The creditor payment policy of the Company and its subsidiaries is and entitled to vote when i not less than three such shareholders to settle amounts due to creditors in accordance with agreed terms.
make such a demand: ii those shareholders represent not less than The policy provides that local practice must be observed in the one-tenth of the total voting rights of all shareholders having the right countries in which they operate and that standard payment terms to vote at the meeting: or iii those shareholders represent not less in each country may also be varied by negotiation with individual than one-tenth of the total paid-up share capital.
The Company had no trade creditors at the year end.
Holders of ordinary shares also have various rights to appoint a proxy Charitable and political contributions or proxies who need not be members of the Company or, where During the year the Company and its subsidiaries donated 90,000 appropriate, a corporate representative, to attend and vote on their 2006: 58,000 to charities of which 8,581 2006: 8,000 was behalf.
Further details about the right to appoint a proxy or a corporate to charities in the United Kingdom.
Within the United Kingdom, representative are set out on page 6 of the Notice.
donations were made in the year to support charities working in Shareholders may, by special resolution, set out regulations or education 500 2006: 1,000, medical research support 4,806 provisions according to which the Directors must abide.
Shareholders 2006: 4,000 and community support 3,275 2006: 3,000. may by ordinary resolution appoint additional Directors, re-elect a There were no political donations made during the year 2006: nil.
retiring Director or, in place of a retiring Director, elect some other Research and development person eligible for appointment or authorise the Directors to ignore the The Company and its subsidiaries continue to place strong emphasis borrowing restrictions which are set out in the Articles of Association.
on research and development to meet the changing needs of the Shareholders also have the right, by ordinary resolution, to remove markets they serve.
Research and development expenditure, which any Director from office if at least 28 days notice of the intention excludes engineering and production support costs, totalled to move such a resolution has been given to the Company.
9.2 million 2006: 9.1 million for the year of which 6.3 million Without prejudice to any special rights which have been conferred 2006: 6.7 million has been charged to the income statement for on any shareholders, any share of the Company may be issued with the year and 2.9 million 2006: 2.4 million has been capitalised such preferred, deferred or other special rights or subject to such as intangible assets.
restrictions as the Directors or the shareholders may determine.
Share capital structure The Directors may make calls on shareholders in respect of monies Share capital unpaid on their shares.
If any call is not complied with the Directors As at 12 March 2008, the Company had 166,699,142 fully paid may serve a notice requiring payment with interest and expenses.
ordinary shares of 2 pence each in issue which are listed on the Failure to comply with this may result in forfeiture of any share the London Stock Exchange.
The Company has a single class of shares.
The Company has a lien on any share which During the year, 10,287 options were exercised pursuant to the is not fully paid.
Companys Unapproved Executive Share Option Scheme which The shareholders may, by ordinary resolution, declare dividends up to resulted in the allotment of 10,287 new ordinary shares.
the amount recommended by the Directors which may, if recommended No shares have been issued that carry any special rights with regard by the Directors, be paid by the distribution of assets or which the to the control of the Company.
Directors may, if authorised by an ordinary resolution, offer to shareholders in the form of fully-paid ordinary shares.
The Directors Significant shareholdings may declare interim dividends of such amounts and on such dates As at 12 March 2008, the Company had received the following as they think fit.
notifications pursuant to DTR 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA the DTR.
An update will be given in the Notice: Unless the Directors determine otherwise, a shareholder is not entitled to exercise any rights attaching to his shares in relation to general % of issued Date of Direct indirect No.
of shares share capital meetings of the Company if any sum payable by him to the Company notification Shareholder interest voting rights voting rights in respect of such shares remains unpaid.
Further, a shareholder is not, 12.06.07 Jupiter Asset Indirect 11,837,696 7.10 unless the Directors otherwise determine, entitled to attend or vote Management Ltd at any general meeting if the shareholder has failed to comply with 20.11.07 Schroders plc Indirect 8,750,781 5.25 a notice under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 which confers upon public companies the power to require information with respect 16.11.07 Barclays Indirect 8,635,162 5.18 to interests in their voting shares within 14 days or, in the case of Global Investors a holder of less than 0.25% in nominal value of the ordinary shares, 03.01.08 Standard Life Direct 6,024,729 3.614 28 days from the date of service of such notice.
If a shareholder who Investments Ltd Indirect 2,459,779 1.476 holds at least 0.25% in nominal value of the ordinary shares is in Total 8,484,508 5.09 default of a section 793 notice, then the Directors may also withhold 15.01.08 J P Morgan Indirect 8,219,493 4.93 the payment of any dividend to and restrict the transfer of shares held Chase & Co by that shareholder.
08.03.08 Deutsche Direct 5,187,417 3.11 Transfer restrictions Bank AG The registration of transfers may be suspended at such times and for Rights and obligations such periods as the Directors may determine for up to 30 days in any The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are year.
The Directors may refuse to register any transfer of any share contained in the Articles of Association, a copy of which can be viewed which is not a fully-paid up share and refuse to register any transfer in on the Companys website at www.
com or can be obtained favour of more than four persons jointly.
The Directors may also refuse upon request to the Company Secretary.
The Articles of Association to recognise any instrument of transfer unless it is in respect of any may only be changed by a special resolution passed at a general one class of share, is lodged at such place as they may determine meeting of the Company.
and, where appropriate, is accompanied by any relevant share certificates and such other evidence as they may reasonably require Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive notice of, attend, to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer.
speak and vote at any general meeting of the Company, except as described below.
On a show of hands, every shareholder who is present The Directors may also suspend transfers where a shareholder has has one vote and on a poll every member who is present has one vote failed to comply with a section 793 notice, in the manner noted above.
for every 0.02 in nominal amount of his shares.
Where shares are held jointly, the vote of the shareholder who first appears on the register of members in respect of the share shall be conclusive.
At any general 40 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Voting restrictions No member shall, unless the Directors otherwise determine, be entitled to vote at a general meeting either personally or by proxy, or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to meetings of the Company, if any call or other sum presently payable by him to the Company in respect of such shares remains unpaid.
The Directors also have powers to suspend voting rights in certain limited circumstances when a shareholder has failed to comply with a section 793 notice in the manner noted above.
Change of control Significant agreements The Company acts as guarantor in respect of a 75 million MultiCurrency Revolving Facility Agreement dated 6 March 2006 as amended on 6 September 2007 between HSBC Bank HSBC and Charter Central Finance Limited, a subsidiary of the Company.
This contains a change of control provision which, if triggered, could restrict further utilisations and or require the repayment of all outstanding utilisations.
In such circumstances HSBC may also call for cash collateral for outstanding utilisations under separate documentary credit facilities provided to two subsidiaries of the Company of 40 million and US$ 20 million respectively.
The Companys Long Term Incentive Plan 2005 contains provisions that allow outstanding awards to vest in certain circumstances upon a change of control of the Company.
Conditional awards made pursuant to the Charter Deferred Bonus Plan will automatically vest on a change of control of the Company.
Further details concerning the above can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 47 and 48.
Corporate social responsibility CSR The Companys report on CSR, including its approach to health and safety, social, environmental and other related environmental issues, can be found on pages 32 to 35 of the Business and financial review.
Statement of disclosure of information to Auditors So far as the Directors are aware, there is no relevant audit information that is, information needed by the Companys Auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys Auditors are unaware, and each Director has taken all reasonable steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint  LLP as Auditors to the Company and a further resolution to authorise the Board to fix the Auditors remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
By order of the Board James R Deeley Company Secretary 12 March 2008 Registered office: 52 Grosvenor Gardens London SW1W 0AU Registered in England Number 2794949 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 41
