Board of Directors Lars Emilson Chairman 66 N, R Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 14 September 2007 and as Chairman on 1 November 2007 following the resignation of David Gawler.
Mr Emilson has held a number of senior executive positions over many years.
He began his career with PLM AB, a Swedish pan-European packaging group, and was appointed Chief Executive after its acquisition by Rexam plc.
He joined the board of Rexam plc in 2000, with responsibility for the worldwide beverage can business and became Chief Executive from 2004 until his retirement in 2007.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Filtrona plc and East Capital Explorer AB.
Michael Foster Chief Executive 55 E, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2001 and became Commercial Director on 1 January 2005.
Mr Foster was appointed Chief Executive on 1 July 2006.
He was formerly Executive Director, responsible for the UK, USA and Ireland at RMC Group p. l. c. has a degree in Engineering and Electrical Sciences from Cambridge University and is qualified as a solicitor.
Robert Careless Finance Director 54 E Mr Careless joined Charters head office in 2002 and was appointed Finance Director on 22 April 2004.
He qualified as a chartered accountant with KPMG and was formerly Finance Director and Company Secretary of Semara Holdings Plc.
James Deeley Legal Director and Company Secretary 44 E Appointed as Legal Director and Company Secretary on 10 July 2006.
He qualified as a solicitor with Slaughter and May before moving to Charter plc as Group Legal Adviser.
He has subsequently held positions as Director of Legal Services at Regus plc, Head of Group Legal at DS Smith plc and was most recently Corporate Services Director and Company Secretary of Numerica Group plc.
Key to Committee membership: A Member of Audit Committee E Member of Executive Committee N Member of Nomination Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee 36 Charter plc Annual Report 2007 Board of Directors The Hon.
James Bruce Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 59 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in December 2001.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of Yes Television plc and Cadogan Group Limited.
He is a chartered accountant and was formerly an investment banker with Robert Fleming and Jardine Fleming.
John Biles Independent Non-Executive Director 60 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 April 2005.
He is a chartered accountant and was previously Finance Director of international engineering group FKI plc for six years until 2004.
He currently serves as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committees of ArmorGroup International PLC, Viridian Group Plc, Bodycote International PLC and Hermes Pensions Management Limited.
Grey Denham Independent Non-Executive Director 59 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2005.
He is currently Company Secretary and Group Director Legal and Compliance of GKN plc in addition to being a Director of GKN Holdings plc and GKN United Kingdom plc.
He is also president of GKN America Corp, Chairman of the GKN plc board sub-committee on governance and risk and a NonExecutive Director of the charity Young Enterprise UK.
John Neill CBE Non-Executive Director 60 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in 1994.
He is currently Group Chief Executive of the Unipart Group of Companies Limited.
He was formerly a Director of the Bank of England and a Non-Executive Director of Royal Mail Group plc.
Andrew Osborne Independent Non-Executive Director 41 A, R, N Appointed as a Non-Executive Director in February 2005.
He is a chartered accountant and Finance and Corporate Development Director of Geoffrey Osborne Limited.
Charter plc Annual Report 2007 37 Key Management Jon Templeman Chief Executive of ESAB Global ESABs worldwide operations, excluding North America 45 E Joined Charters head office in 2001 and later that year became Chief Financial Officer of ESAB Global prior to his appointment as Chief Executive Officer of ESAB Global in 2003.
He became a member of Charters Executive Committee in March 2006.
He was formerly a director at , London and has a degree in Modern History from Oxford University.
Bob Cleland Chief Executive of Howden Global Howdens worldwide operations, excluding North America 61 E Joined Charter as Chief Operating Officer of Howden Global in 1998 and was appointed Chief Executive Officer in 1999.
He was formerly Group Operations Director of Triplex Lloyd Plc.
He has a degree in Mathematics and Physics from Glasgow University and a Masters degree in Operations Research from Lancaster University.
Neil Schemm President, Chairman of the Board of Directors and General Counsel and Secretary of Anderson Group Inc 56 Joined Anderson Group Inc as General Counsel and Secretary in July 2005 and became President and Chairman of the Board of Directors on 24 April 2007.
He was formerly Vice President and General Counsel of RMC USA Inc until its acquisition by Cemex in May 2005 prior to which he had spent 25 years in private legal practice.
Key to Committee membership: A Member of Audit Committee E Member of Executive Committee N Member of Nomination Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee 38 Charter plc Annual Report 2007
