Directors' Report The directors present their annual report, together with the SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS audited financial statements of the Group and the Company At 22 January 2008 the following substantial holdings in for the year ended 31 October 2007. the ordinary share capital of the Company had been notified to the Company: PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES The principal activities of the Group are the design, Name % Interest manufacture and sale of countermeasures and energetic JP Morgan Chase & Co. 7.58 materials.
Old Mutual Asset Managers 5.13 AXA S. A and its group of companies 4.95 Prudential Corporation PLC 4.83 BUSINESS REVIEW Standard Life Investments Ltd 4.82 Legal and General Group PLC 4.11 The Statement by the Chairman, the Review by the Chief Executive and the Review by the Finance Director on pages 3 to 15, together with the Business Review and the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 16 to 25, provide a review of EMPLOYEES the Groups business development, performance and position during and at the end of the financial year: its strategy and Details of the Groups employment policies are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on page 25. likely future development: key performance indicators: and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the business.
Further information regarding financial risk CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL management policies and financial instruments is given in DONATIONS Notes 19 and 23 of the financial statements.
Charitable donations amounting to 9,875 2006: 18,000 were made during the year.
No political donations were RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS made during the year 2006: nil.
The profit attributable to the Groups shareholders for the year was 32.1 million 2006: 13.8 million.
The directors POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS recommend a final dividend of 17.8p per ordinary share, It is the policy of the Group that each of the Group which together with the interim dividend of 7.2p per companies should agree appropriate terms and conditions ordinary share paid in July 2007 gives a total for the year for its transactions with suppliers.
The final dividend is subject to standard written terms to individually negotiated contracts.
approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on Creditor days of the Group as at 31 October 2007 20 March 2008, and accordingly has not been included as amounted to 62 days 2006: 59 days.
a liability in these financial statements.
DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS The present directors are shown on pages 26 and 27.
Mr I F R Much and Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss will be retiring by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and will be offering themselves for re-election.
Neither director has a service contract with the Company.
None of the directors had a beneficial interest in any contract of significance to which the Group was a party during the year to 31 October 2007.
Information required as to directors shareholdings is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 29 Directors' Report CONTINUED General Meeting will be proposed which, if passed, will THE CHEMRING GROUP PERFORMANCE have the effect of granting the directors the power to allot SHARE PLAN THE PSP not more than 5% of the present issued ordinary share The following conditional awards were made under the PSP capital free of the requirements of section 89 of the Act.
during the year: No issue of these shares will be made which would effectively alter the control of the Company without prior approval of the shareholders in general meeting.
Number of Total number of participants Date of award shares awarded receiving awards STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS' RESPONSIBILITIES 24 January 2007 99,420 22 The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and the financial statements.
The directors have chosen to prepare accounts for the Group in accordance THE CHEMRING 1998 EXECUTIVE with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs.
SHARE OPTION SCHEME THE 1998 Company law requires the directors to prepare such ESOS financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, the Companies Act 1985 and No options were granted during the year.
Options over Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
International Accounting 20,000 ordinary shares were exercised during the year.
Additional information is set out in Note 31.
Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
"This requires the THE CHEMRING GROUP PLC SHARE faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other BASED INCENTIVE SCHEME THE events and conditions in accordance with the definitions ESOP"" and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and No options were granted during the year and there were no expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards options outstanding under the ESOP at 31 October 2007."
Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair SHARE CAPITAL presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Under the provisions of section 80 of the Companies Act Directors are also required to: 1985 the Act the Board is prevented from exercising its powers under the Articles of Association the Articles to properly select and apply accounting policies: allot shares without an authority in terms of the Act present information, including accounting policies, in a contained either in the Articles or in a resolution of the manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and shareholders in general meeting.
The authority, when understandable information: given, can last for a maximum period of five years, but your provide additional disclosures when compliance with the Board proposes that renewal should be sought at each specific requirements in International Financial Annual General Meeting.
Such proposal is set out as Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to resolution 9 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
understand the impact of particular transactions, other Section 89 of the Act requires that an allotment of shares events and conditions on the entity's financial position for cash may not be made unless the shares are first and financial performance: offered to existing shareholders on a pre-emptive basis in for the Company financial statements, state whether accordance with the terms of the Act.
In accordance with applicable UK accounting standards have been followed: general practice, to ensure that small issues of shares can and be made without the necessity of convening a general prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, meeting, your Board proposes that advantage be taken of having assessed the ability of the Company to continue the provisions of section 95 of the Act to not apply the as a going concern, management either intends to Act's pre-emptive requirements.
Accordingly, a special liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no resolution set out as resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual realistic alternative but to do so.
30 CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting CLOSE COMPANY PROVISIONS records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time As far as the directors are aware, the close company the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the provisions of the Taxes Acts do not apply to the Group nor assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and has there been any change in that respect since detection of fraud and other irregularities and for the 31 October 2007. preparation of a Directors Report, which comply with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
AUDITORS The directors are responsible for the maintenance and A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as auditors integrity of the Company website.
Legislation in the United will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation in other ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING jurisdictions.
The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General The directors confirm that suitable accounting policies, Meeting to be held on 20 March 2008, together with consistently applied and supported by reasonable and explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of Annual prudent judgments and estimates, have been used in the General Meeting sent to all shareholders.
preparation of the financial statements, and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 22 January 2008 PROVISION OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS Signed on behalf of the Board Each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that: S L ELLARD so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit SECRETARY information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
CHEMRING GROUP PLC FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2007 31
