Directors Report The Directors present their annual report and the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Principal Activity The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiaries is the provision of self storage and related services.
Review of Business A detailed account of the Groups progress during the year and its future prospects is set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 6 to 9.
A detailed Business Review and Financial Review have been prepared and are set out on pages 11 and 19, and more specifically as follows, the business objectives and strategy is set out on page 11: the financing objectives are set out on page 11: the principal risks and uncertainties within the business are set out in the Risk Management section on page 11: and the key quantitative and qualitative performance indicators are included within the Highlights see page 4, Portfolio Summary see page 20 and Financial Review see page 16.
Properties The changes in investment and development property during the year and details of property valuations at 31 March 2007 are shown in note 14 to the financial statements.
Further commentary on our investment and development property portfolio is contained in the Business Review and Financial Review.
Changes in Share Capital During the year the Company issued 2,706,927 shares to satisfy the exercise of share options.
In July 2006, the Group placed 9,100,000 new ordinary 10 pence shares at 400 pence per share to fund expansion and pay for the cost of conversion to a REIT.
The Company did not purchase any shares during the year.
Further details are given in note 21 to the financial statements.
Results and Dividends The consolidated income statement is set out on page 37 of the financial statements.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.5p per ordinary share 2006: 3.0p per ordinary share to be paid on 18 July 2007 to shareholders whose name appears on the register at the close of business on 15 June 2007.
An interim dividend of 3.5p was paid in the year 2006: 2.0p.
Payment of Suppliers The policy of the Group is to settle supplier invoices within the terms of trade agreed with individual suppliers.
Trade creditor days of the Group for the year ended 31 March 2007 were 28 days 2006: 28 days.
This represents the ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts invoiced to the Group by its suppliers in the year and the amounts due, at the year end, to trade creditors, within one year.
Directors and their Interests The Directors of the Company throughout the year were: Philip Burks James Gibson Adrian Lee David Ross Jonathan Short Nicholas Vetch David White Details of the interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 33.
Biographical details of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 35.
26 Directors Report continued Reappointment of Directors The Directors listed above constituted the Board during the year.
Following a performance appraisal process, the Board has concluded that the Directors retiring by rotation are effective, committed to their roles and should continue in office.
Nicholas Vetch, Philip Burks Non-Executive Director, and David White Non-Executive Director offer themselves for re-election in accordance with the articles of association of the Company.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The company purchases liability insurance covering the Directors and officers of the company and its subsidiaries.
Annual General Meeting The notice for the 2007 Annual General Meeting is included on pages 65 to 68.
The meeting will be held at 20 Moorgate, London EC2R 6DA on 11 July 2007.
Financial Instruments The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group, along with any details of exposure to any liquidity and cash flow risk are set out in the Business Review on page 11, and notes 2 and 17 to the financial statements.
Substantial Shareholdings The following substantial shareholdings have been notified to the Company: Ordinary shares of 10p each At At At 1 April 31 March 17 May 2006 2007 2007 No.
Employees Adrian Lee, Operations Director has responsibility to the Board for all employee matters.
The Group seeks to ensure employee commitment to its objectives in a number of ways.
Strategic changes are communicated directly to all staff who are encouraged to address queries to the Executive Directors.
The Directors executive meetings are held in stores fortnightly and in addition Directors and senior management visit the stores on a regular basis.
Furthermore, there are regular team briefings at store level to provide employees with information about the performance of and initiatives in their store.
A wide range of information is also communicated across the Groups Intranet, including the e-publication of the Groups financial results and all press releases, along with the publication of a quarterly newsletter.
Employees are encouraged to participate in the Groups performance through Employee Share Schemes and performance related bonuses.
Customer service is a key priority of the Group and this is achieved through recruiting good people and investing in training and development leading to high levels of retention.
The Groups recruitment policy is committed to promote equality, judging neither by race, nationality, religion, age, gender, disability, sexual orientation, nor political opinion and to treat all stakeholders fairly.
The Group gives full consideration to applications for employment from disabled persons where the requirements of the job can be adequately fulfilled by a handicapped or disabled person.
27 Directors Report continued Health and Safety The Board recognises the importance of maintaining high standards of health and safety for everyone who may be affected by our business.
The Groups Health and Safety policy is reviewed on an ongoing basis.
It is applied in two distinct areas construction and operations.
The policy states that all employees have a responsibility for health and safety but that managers have special responsibilities.
Additional duties are placed on Adrian Lee to keep the Board advised on health and safety issues, compliance with the policy in respect of construction activity and store operations respectively.
The Group has a Health and Safety Committee, which meets quarterly and comprises Adrian Lee and appointed managers.
They meet to discuss any issues that have been reported from meetings held at head office and the stores, and any construction sites.
In addition, the Group has appointed an external consultant to review policy and perform audits of stores on a rolling programme to ensure the implementation of the Groups Health and Safety policies.
Health and Safety audits are also carried out by external consultants on each construction site prior to the opening of a store.
Donations Charitable donations totalling 20,000 2006: 24,000 were made to UK residents in the year.
Auditors In respect of each Director of the Company, at the date when this report was approved, to the best of their knowledge and belief: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and he has taken all the steps that he might have reasonably been expected to take as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on behalf of the Board Michael Cole Secretary 18 May 2007 28
