Biographies of Directors and Senior Management Non-Executive Directors Philip Burks, aged 48, Non-Executive Director, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Philip was the Groups Property Director until 30 March 2007, at which date he stepped down to become a Non-Executive Director.
David White, aged 64, Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, spent 18 years of his career at Cater Allen Holdings PLC where he was from 1985 Deputy Chairman and Managing Director and from which he retired in 1997.
He was Non-Executive Chairman of Edge Properties plc until its sale in 1998 and is currently Non-Executive Director of Church House Trust plc.
David Ross, aged 42, Non-Executive Director, qualified as a chartered accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co.
He co-founded and is currently Deputy Chairman of Carphone Warehouse Group plc, Europes leading mobile communication retailer.
He is Chairman of National Express Group plc and a Non-Executive Director at Wembley National Stadium Limited and Cosalt plc.
In 2006 he was appointed Trustee of the National Portrait Gallery.
Jonathan Short, aged 45, Non-Executive Director, has 23 years of investment banking and principal finance experience and is former CEO of Pramerica Real Estate Investors Limited, which he joined in 2000.
Prior to this he headed the European real estate mergers and acquisitions practice at Lazard Brothers & Co.
He also sits on the Board of Great Portland Estates plc and is the Chairman of the Urban Land Institute London District Council.
Executive Directors Nicholas Vetch, aged 46, Executive Chairman, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
Prior to that he was joint Chief Executive of Edge Properties plc, which he co-founded in 1989 which was subsequently listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Mr Vetch is also Non-Executive Director of Blue Self Storage S. L a self storage operation in Spain.
James Gibson, aged 46, Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director, is a co-founder of Big Yellow in September 1998.
He is a chartered accountant having trained with Arthur Andersen & Co. where he specialised in the property and construction sectors, before leaving in 1989.
He was Finance Director of Heron Property Corporation Limited and then Edge Properties plc which he joined in 1994.
Edge Properties was listed on the Official List of the London Stock Exchange in 1996 and then taken over by Grantchester Properties plc in 1998.
Adrian Lee, aged 41, Operations Director, was previously a senior Executive at Edge Properties plc, which he joined in 1996.
Prior to that he was a corporate financier at Lazard Brothers for five years, having previously qualified as a surveyor at Knight Frank Rutley.
Senior Management Biographies Michael Cole, aged 41, Financial Controller and Company Secretary, joined Big Yellow in May 1999.
Prior to that he was Finance Director at Pulse Train Technology, a market research software specialist whom he joined in 1988 and qualified with CIMA in 1992.
Stuart Grinnall, aged 32, IT Manager, joined Big Yellow in July 2000.
He is a systems engineer with several years experience developing IT solutions for growth companies and NHS Hospital Trusts.
Nigel Hartley, aged 43, Construction Director, joined Big Yellow in January 2000.
He is a chartered surveyor with over 16 years experience in the construction industry, both overseas and in the UK, principally in the retail and industrial sectors.
Cheryl Hathaway, aged 41, Human Resources Controller, joined Big Yellow in March 2000, having previously been employed as a Human Resources Manager within the Harrods Group.
Prior to this she worked for Debenhams in a variety of human resources roles, both within head offices and stores.
Chris Herbert, aged 52, Construction Manager, joined Big Yellow in September 1999, having previously worked for Leslie Clark, a Construction Consultancy, for 10 years.
Prior to that he spent 10 years as a contracts project manager with John Lelliot Building Contractors.
Nicola Jordan, aged 40, Retail Operations Manager, joined Big Yellow in March 2003, having previously been employed as an Area Manager with Superdrug for 5 years.
Prior to this she has held operational roles with Little Chef & Travelodge and Victoria Wine.
David Knight, aged 43, Estates and Facilities Manager, was previously an Estates Manager at Whitbread which he joined in 1997.
Prior to this he was Group Facilities Manager at Central Transport Rental Group Plc formerly Tiphook Plc having previously qualified as a surveyor at Edwin Hill.
Rob Strachan, aged 37, Head of Sales & Marketing, joined Big Yellow in February 2006, having previously been employed as International Marketing Manager for Upper Crust.
Prior to this he was Marketing Manager for Caffe Ritazza, and is qualified with the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
Andrew Watson, aged 38, Property Director, joined Big Yellow in October 2000 having previously worked as a property acquisition surveyor for McDonalds Restaurants.
Prior to that he was an acquisitions surveyor for Victoria Wine, having previously qualified as a chartered surveyor at Herring Baker Harris.
