Operating and Financial Review Occupier market The employment growth in London has been fuelling demand for accommodation, in particular top quality Grade A.
Increased demand has led to a significant improvement in take up of offices and, on the supply side, vacancy rates in London are low and falling.
In the City, where the majority of our office portfolio is located, vacancy rates have reduced by 34% over the year, now standing at 6.1% overall, Tim Roberts or 3.4% for Grade A offices, while rents are increasing.
Head of Offices Central London rental growth 80 120 Office sector 6.2 billion portfolio 7.6 billion including completed value 70 100 of committed developments 60 80 London Office investment market Londons global stature as a place to do business continues to grow with its unique competitive advantages as a pre-eminent financial 60 50 and business service centre.
To boot, these markets, including insurance, accounting and law, are themselves expanding.
As a 40 40 result, Londons GDP is growing at a rate of 3.6%, higher than the 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 UKs overall GDP growth of 2.8%, and employment is increasing.
City LHS West End RHS The investment market demand is still strong with the favourable Source: Jones Lang LaSalle historic and agents consensus forecasts expectations of rental growth keeping yields low, although yield compression is slowing.
Transaction levels continue high, with improved prospects maintaining liquidity from a diverse range The immediate outlook is positive.
We expect the strong levels of of investors.
rental growth seen last year to continue this year, as rents remain affordable both in real terms and compared with other operating Central London vacancy costs.
Towards the end of the decade, primarily in the City and 16 in response to rising rents, we do anticipate increased supply, although building cost inflation and the overall economics of many 14 redevelopment opportunities may be limiting factors.
That is why, 12 especially in relation to our development programme, we are keeping 10 our focus on capturing occupier demand by delivering the right product for our customers at the right time in the market, and thereby 8 increasing rents.
6 4 2 0 1997 1999 2001 2003 2005 2007 City West End Source: Jones Lang LaSalle LONDONS GLOBAL STATURE AS A PLACE TO DO BUSINESS CONTINUES TO GROW 26 The British Land Company PLC vacancy % psf Operating and Financial Review Strategy and positioning Our strategy is focused on four themes: concentrating our efforts on and increasing our weighting in London offices where relative returns are likely to be attractive over the medium term focus on providing occupiers with the right accommodation and best in class property and management services actively varying the amount invested and assessing development starts and timing of completions, depending on our judgement of the stage of the office cycle enhancing returns through active management and recycling capital from the sale of mature assets into our carefully timed, customer focused development programme.
Our market leading office portfolio has performed well in the year due to increasing rental value, particularly in the second half of the year, and yield shift, which was a feature of the market in the first half of the year and is now slowing.
We have limited exposure to downside risks in the investment portfolio due to the strong income flows under average lease lengths of 13 years to lease expiry, 11 years to break.
Portfolio 97% in Central London: 5 million sq ft prime offices in the City York House, London W1 1.4 million sq ft prime offices in the West End weighted average lease length of 11 years 3.4 million sq ft London office developments lettings of the accommodation becoming available in the plus our investment in Canary Wharf through Songbird Estates.
developments are good, and we expect to achieve new higher rental levels.
The minimal current vacancies in completed Activity during the year buildings are nearly all new or take back accommodation: We progressed our strategy with initiatives including: employing asset management projects, such as taking back recycling capital through the sale of mature investments, and space and reletting it on the open market to establish new rental those which in our view do not offer adequate risk adjusted levels in otherwise fully let office investments, demonstrating our returns.
Total sales of over 370m of offices have been made in confidence in market rental levels and demand and enabling us the year, achieving significant gains over valuation.
Further sales to establish increased rents in open market transactions.
We have will be made where we do not see adequate growth potential or reported, as part of our asset management activities, earlier in where we believe the market is pricing too aggressively against this report our taking back and reletting of offices at Broadgate the risks involved: and Regents Place.
In the case of Broadgate, the rents passing increasing our weighting in the sector through the development at present range between 44 and 55 per sq ft some of which, pipeline set out earlier in this report, where we are delivering as the market continues to improve, will become reversionary.
the best quality product to the market, and well timed to meet Our aim for the accommodation taken back at 155 Bishopsgate, rising demand at higher rents.
During the year the development having refurbished the offices, is to relet it in the open market at programme has risen, through a combination of spending of a level which will demonstrate further that rents at Broadgate over 250m and value increase.
Completed London office are rising: developments this year have added some 600,000 sq ft to our further rent reviews and preparation for the1.9 million sq ft of investments, and a further 2.2 million sq ft is being scheduled London offices in the portfolio which is due for review in 2008 9, for delivery in 2007 2009: presently at an average rent passing of 41.75 per sq ft, where achieving lettings in the year to March 2007 of some 200,000 sq ft we expect to see strongest growth: in the City and West End, generating over 8m of rent and, working hard to improve the services we offer, and our importantly, the recent further 600,000 sq ft let or under offer at relationships with occupiers.
This has led, to a marked increase our committed developments.
These are confirming the improved in our customer satisfaction ratings.
It also means we are closer market rental levels, overall in line with or ahead of our projections, to key occupiers like UBS and Henderson at Broadgate, so we and generate development profits through higher values mostly can work with them to meet their changing accommodation to follow after the year end valuation.
The prospects of further requirements.
The British Land Company PLC 27 ONE CLIENT, TWO ADJOINING BUILDINGS: OUR SOLUTION WAS AN ELEGANT EXAMPLE OF ADAPTABILITY Business growth led a customer to take space in the property next door.
To speed the flow of people moving between offices, we installed a bi-level bridge connecting the two blocks.
