DIRECTORSAND OFFICERS The British Land Company PLC Clive Cowdery 44 Non-executive Director Clive Cowdery was appointed a non-executive director of the Company Chris Gibson-Smith 61 BSc, PhD, MS on 10 May 2007.
He is Chairman of Resolution PLC, a company he Non-executive Chairman founded in 2003.
He was previously Chairman and Chief Executive of Chris Gibson-Smith joined British Land as a non-executive director GEs European primary insurance operations.
Before joining GE in 1998 in January 2003 and was appointed Non-executive Chairman on he co-founded Scottish Amicable J. Rothschild International Assurance.
He is Chairman of the London Stock Exchange, a He is also Chairman of the charity The Resolution Foundation.
Trustee of Arts and Business, a Trustee of London Business School and a non-executive director of Qatar Financial Centre Authority.
Formerly Sir David Michels 60 he was a Group Managing Director of BP p. l. c. and until 2005 he was Chairman of National AirTraffic Services Limited, a non-executive Senior Independent Non-executive Director director of Lloyds TSB Group plc and a past Trustee of the Institute Sir David Michels was appointed a non-executive director of British of Public Policy Research.
Until 2006 he was Group Chief Executive of Hilton Group plc.
He is a non-executive director of Marks and Spencer Stephen Hester 46 BA Group PLC, Easyjet PLC, Strategic Hotels Capital, Inc. and RAB Capital Chief Executive PLC.
He is also President of the Hilton in the Community Foundation, Stephen Hester joined British Land as Chief Executive in November Chairman of the British Hospitality Association and a Trustee of the 2004, from Abbey National plc.
At Abbey he was Chief Operating Officer, Anne Frank Trust.
having joined in May 2002 as Finance Director.
For the previous 19 years he was at Credit Suisse First Boston, holding various Investment Banking Kate Swann 42 roles until becoming Chief Financial Officer in 1996 then Global Head Non-executive Director of the Fixed Income Division.
Amongst other interests he is a trustee of Kate Swann was appointed a non-executive director of British Land on The Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew Foundation.
She is Chief Executive of WH Smith PLC.
Before joining WH Smith she had been Managing Director of Argos Ltd, within GUS plc, from Robert Bowden 64 BSc, FRICS 2000 and before that Managing Director of Homebase, within J Sainsbury Property Investment Director PLC.
She began her career in marketing at Tesco and went on to hold Robert Bowden, a former senior partner of Conrad Ritblat & Co. joined senior marketing roles with Homepride Foods, Coca-Cola and Dixons.
British Land in 1992 as head of property investment and acquisitions.
He was appointed an executive director in 1997.
Robert Swannell 56 FCA Non-executive Director Andrew Jones 38 BSc Hons, MRICS Robert Swannell became a non-executive director of British Land in Head of Retail 1999.
He is Vice-Chairman of Citigroup Europe.
He is a non-executive Andrew Jones joined British Land in July 2005 after the Companys director of 3i Group PLC and a member of the Industrial Development acquisition of Pillar Property PLC.
He was appointed to the Executive Advisory Board of the DTI.
Committee in August 2005 and elected as an executive director on 14 July 2006.
He joined Pillar in 1995, becoming an executive director John Travers 60 BSc Estate Management, FRICS in 2002 with responsibilities for Retail Park investment and asset Non-executive Director management.
At British Land he is Head of Retail and is also John Travers was appointed a non-executive director of the Company responsible for the Retail Fund advisory roles.
He is Non-executive Chairman of Cushman & Wakefield Asia.
Until recently he was Chief Executive Officer, Cushman & Wakefield Graham Roberts 48 BA, FCA EMEA, a member of the Board of Cushman & Wakefield and a member Finance Director of their Global Executive Committee.
Graham Roberts joined British Land in January 2002 as an executive Lord Turnbull 62 KCB, CVO director and was appointed Finance Director in March 2002.
He was Non-executive Director previously senior real estate partner at Andersen.
He is a member Andrew Turnbull was appointed a non-executive director of the Company of the Management Board of EPRA, the European Public Real on 1 April 2006.
He retired in July 2005 as Secretary of the Cabinet and Estate Association.
Head of the Home Civil Service, 2002-05.
He was Permanent Secretary Tim Roberts 42 BSc Hons, MRICS of HM Treasury, 1998-2004: and before that Permanent Secretary at the Head of Offices Department of the Environment, 1994-1998.
He entered the House of Tim Roberts joined British Land in 1997, was appointed to the Executive Lords in 2005.
He is also a non-executive director of Prudential PLC, Committee in August 2005 and elected as an executive director on Frontier Economics Ltd and the Arup Group.
He is a part-time Adviser 14 July 2006.
At British Land he was appointed Joint Head of Asset to the London Partners of Booz Allen Hamilton.
Management in 2002 with responsibilities including investment sales Secretary and purchases.
He has responsibility for the Office and Other sectors Anthony Braine LLB, FCIS of the Companys portfolio.
Before joining British Land he was a partner at Drivers Jonas, an Investment Agency.
Honorary President Michael Cassidy 60 CBE Sir John Ritblat FRICS, Hon FRIBA Non-executive Director Sir John became Managing Director of British Land in 1970 and Michael Cassidy was appointed a non-executive director of British Land Chairman in 1971.
He retired from the Board on 31 December 2006 in 1996.
He is a practising solicitor and consultant with DLA Piper and and was appointed Honorary President.
Non-executive Chairman of Trinity Capital PLC.
He is also President and Chairman of the London Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chairman of the Museum of London and a non-executive director of International Financial Services London.
He was formerly Chairman of the Policy and Resources Committee of the Corporation of London.
Michael Cassidy Member of the Executive Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee will retire at the Companys AGM on 13 July 2007.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nomination Committee 60 The British Land Company PLC
