FINANCING POLICY Interest rate management British Lands financing policy To manage exposure to interest rate fluctuations the Board determines a range for the proportion of projected debt to be is to enhance equity returns maintained at fixed or capped rates of interest.
At present the target is 85% subject to a 5% tolerance either side over a rolling three to through strategic leverage five year time horizon.
With financing raised at both fixed and variable while maintaining a risk-averse rates, derivatives primarily interest rate swaps are used to achieve the desired interest rate profile.
The use of derivatives is managed debt structure.
by the Board of British Land Financing Limited and its Derivative Sub-Committee.
The Groups exposure to each derivative A loan to value ratio across the entire business counterparty is monitored on a regular basis, as are their external in the range of 45-55% is currently targeted, credit ratings.
subject to the Boards view of the market, the Foreign currency management prospects of the portfolio and its recurring The Groups policy is to have no material unhedged net assets or cash flows.
liabilities denominated in foreign currencies.
The currency risk on overseas investments is hedged via foreign currency denominated The principal objectives under this policy are to: borrowings and derivatives.
minimise the cost of capital through a mix of debt and When attractive terms are available to do so, the Group borrows in equity finance: freely available currencies other than Sterling.
The Group fully hedges raise debt from a variety of sources and maintain a spread its foreign currency risk on such borrowings through derivatives.
of maturities, including longer-term financing supported by committed income under long leases: Liquidity and cash management maintain significant committed undrawn loan facilities, to The Group maintains undrawn revolving bank facilities to provide support current and future business requirements: and financial liquidity.
These can be drawn repaid at short notice without actively manage financial risks, including interest rate, additional expense, reducing the need to hold liquid resources in foreign exchange, liquidity and counterparty risks.
This minimises costs arising from the difference between borrowing and deposit rates, while reducing credit The Funds and Joint Ventures are financed separately, without recourse exposure.
Deposits are placed as necessary to optimise the rate to the Group see pages 36 and 37, as required by their individual of return, subject to the creditworthiness of the counterparty.
business plans and based on similar risk management policies.
Profit and loss account and balance sheet management Liability management The Group monitors its current and projected financial position Liability management is not a profit centre no speculative using several key internally generated reports: cash flow, borrowing, transactions are undertaken.
The Groups debt and derivative debt maturity and derivatives schedules.
The Group also undertakes positions are continuously reviewed to meet current and expected sensitivity analysis to assess the impact of proposed transactions debt requirements.
and movements in interest rates on the key balance sheet, liquidity The Group maintains a balance between longer-term and and profitability ratios.
Acquisitions may be funded initially by shorter-term credit facilities and then refinanced when market conditions are favourable.
Short-term financing is principally raised through bilateral and syndicated revolving bank facilities, which can be repaid at will without penalty and redrawn again when the need arises.
All bank facilities are unsecured and on standard terms to maintain operational flexibility.
Medium to longer-term financing comprises public and private bond issues, including private placements and securitisations.
Financing risk is spread by using a variety of types of debt.
The maturity profile is managed by spreading the repayment dates and extending facilities.
74 The British Land Company PLC
