DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMME Committed projects 201 Bishopsgate and The Broadgate Tower, London EC2 Work is now well underway on the next phase of Broadgate, which will comprise two imposing new buildings by architects Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, providing a total of 822,000 sq ft.
The 35 storey tower and adjoining 13 storey building are meticulously designed to meet the needs of both financial and professional occupiers.
Between the two buildings will be a major new public space and galleria, with shops, bars and cafes.
201 Bishopsgate and The Broadgate Tower are on programme for completion in 2008.
The buildings represent the biggest speculative office development ever undertaken in the City of London.
The development has attracted strong occupier interest, with over 500,000 sq ft of the space now let or under offer.
Ludgate West, London EC4 Construction of Ludgate West, which will provide 127,000 sq ft of new top specification accommodation.
It will form the next phase of the successful Ludgate development.
Within close proximity to St Pauls and Blackfriars, the building, designed by Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, will be available in late 2007.
Some 88,000 sq ft is currently under offer.
Ropemaker, London EC2 Ropemaker is situated on a prominent City island site close to Moorgate.
A revised planning consent has been secured for a building of 593,000 sq ft designed by Arup Associates for both professional and financial services occupiers.
The building incorporates two trading floors of 42,500 sq ft and expansive roof 201 Bishopsgate and The Broadgate Tower, development under way terraces with stunning City views.
Construction has commenced, with a scheduled completion date of mid 2009.
Osnaburgh Street, Regents Place, London NW1 Following purchase of the freehold interest in the site from The Crown Estate, demolition has commenced, paving the way for a mixed use development comprising 490,000 sq ft of offices and residential space, designed by Terry Farrell and Partners on a 2.5 acre area on the west side of Regents Place.
This development will include a total of 151 residential units, a community theatre and additional retail provision around a new public square.
The British Land Company PLC 55 Development Programme The Leadenhall Building, London EC3 Designed by the Richard Rogers Partnership recently renamed Rogers Stirk Harbour Partners, the new 47 storey building will rise to a height of 736 ft and provide 612,000 sq ft of the highest quality office space in the City.
The spectacular scale of the public space at the base of the building, featuring mature trees and a range of retail and amenity provision, will be unprecedented in London.
Demolition of the existing building on site is underway to allow for commencement of development and delivery of the building in early 2011.
Giltbrook Retail Park, Nottingham Was purchased in mid-2006.
We redesigned the project, achieved a revised planning consent and are proceeding with a 199,000 sq ft mixed used scheme of retail and industrial space, with improved environmental attributes.
The development of the park is expected to complete in 2008, anchored by an adjacent existing IKEA store.
Approximately 50% of the new area is under offer, attracting premium rents and confirming our expectations that Giltbrook will become an important regional retail destination.
Puerto Venecia, Zaragoza, Spain Is a joint venture development project which will provide a retail park, a shopping centre and a specialist retail and leisure park, with ancillary facilities.
Zaragoza is Spains fifth largest city, approximately 300 kilometres from each of Madrid, Barcelona and Valencia.
This important project will provide a new regional centre for the city, which will host the International EXPO in 2008.
Infrastructure works are making good progress including the access required to enable the opening of the IKEA store in May 2007.
IKEA will anchor the retail park and we have exchanged contracts with El Corte Ingles to anchor the shopping centre with an owner occupied store of distinctive design, providing over 400,000 sq ft. Other tenants for the retail park include Leroy Merlin, Conforama and Porcelanosa.
Over 70% of the retail park has been pre-let, pre-sold or is under offer, with units planned to begin opening from the end of this year.
We are in the process of further design enhancement for the retail and leisure centre, with good interest from major retailers.
An artists impression of The Leadenhall Building 35 Basinghall Street, EC2 CLOUT This development has been forward sold to Standard Chartered Bank as their new London headquarters.
35 Basinghall Street will provide 199,000 sq ft of prime office space on nine floors.
The project is due for completion in June 2007.
56 The British Land Company PLC
