Portfolio Highlights: Out-of-town retail Meadowhall, Sheffield Value Anchor stores: Bhs Boots Debenhams H&M 1.7 billion House of Fraser Marks & Spencer Next Primark Sports World WH Smith 1.5 million sq ft Freehold retail and leisure 100% owned Rent passing 77m pa Site area 191 acres Average rent of which 74 acres undeveloped 58.87 per sq ft 216 shop units, 10 anchor stores, Weighted average lease term 11 screen Vue cinema, including breaks 13.7 years 25 speciality kiosks, 23 mall kiosks 30 restaurants and cafes including Oasis food court Meadowhall Shopping Centre seating for some 3,300 25 million customers per annum 800,000 per week at peak time Meadowhall is one of the largest and most successful shopping Direct access to junction centres in the UK a prime super-regional destination in a densely 34 of M1 motorway populated catchment area.
Free parking for over This two level, fully enclosed mall with excellent transport links 12,000 vehicles continues to be attractive to retailers of international calibre and On site transport interchange their customers.
For 80% of the multiple retailers at Meadowhall, with bus, train and supertram their unit is in the top 10 performing outlets of their company.
services A major refurbishment programme is well advanced and the www.
co. uk final phase is expected to complete in October 2007.
Redevelopment of the area formerly occupied by Sainsburys completes in August 2007 and will include a new mall, two large stores for Next and Primark and ten shop units.
The Centre is run by a renowned and innovative management team whose proactive approach to asset management has maintained Meadowhalls high quality shopping experience while keeping a focus on environmental factors.
The team has won many national and international awards, including the ICSC Maxi Awards for Best Single Event and PR Media Relations for the BBC Flashmob event, from BITC for Employability, Energy Efficiency and Waste Management and from BCSC for Customer Service.
In additiontothe shopping centre, Meadowhall includestwo petrol filling stations, a training and conference centre known as The Source, a PremierTravel Inn, a TGI Fridays restaurant and a distribution centre which accommodates an innovative supply chain facility The Arc.
Further undeveloped land of 74 acres adjoins the Centre and is part of the Lower Don Valley Masterplan a new, mixed use vision, for this Sheffield gateway.
The British Land Company PLC 49
