Development Programme Development Prospects North East Quarter NEQ, Regents Place, London NW1 A detailed planning application has been submitted for the North East Quarter of the estate to provide 384,000 sq ft of offices and a total of 172 residential units.
The office element is designed by Wilkinson Eyre, with the apartments by Munkenbeck Marshall.
Colmore Row, Birmingham Following the purchase, we are evolving design ideas to submit planningthisyearfora landmarktall buildingto deliver249,000 sq ft in central Birminghams prime office location.
The team, with Hamiltons Associates as architect, are working closely with Birmingham City Council and other stakeholders to deliver a high quality building that will be an asset to the City.
The project reinforces British Lands strategy to develop in prime locations to meet market demand.
Blythe Valley Park, Solihull British Land has developed this successful business park, in partnership with Solihull Metropolitan Borough Council.
Considerable potential remains at Blythe Valley Park for new development.
In the year, outline planning consent was secured for a major extension to the park, which brings the total consented area up to 2 million sq ft of office accommodation.
Individual plots are An artists impression of Euston Station being brought forward for development to meet market demand.
Canada Water, London New Century Park, Coventry At CanadaWater, in jointventure with Canada Quays Ltd, the Company The site remains substantially let to Ericsson and telent plc, but has has entered into a Development Agreement with the London Borough potential for 582,000 sq ft of business space together with a further of Southwark for the development of a major mixed-use scheme, 12 acres of residential development land.
Development will be brought which includes master planning 40 acres of the Rotherhithe Peninsula.
Following the year end, contracts have Outline consent has been secured for the first phase, comprising 828 been exchanged to sell the site into the BL Rosemound Joint Venture.
Deepdale Shopping Park, Preston Theale Planning consent has been secured for an extension to this Working with Countryside Properties, we are continuing to pursue successful park.
A restricted retail consent has been received a residential planning consent at Theale.
Following planning refusal for 45,000 sq ft, six employment units industrial of 22,000 sq ft, by the Local Authority, an Appeal has been submitted and is a crche and six sheltered housing units.
The consent remains being processed.
conditional upon a transfer of part of the retail consent from the adjacent HUT holding.
Phase I has been trading for nearly 20 years Euston Station and is let to Marks & Spencer, Clarks, JJB, Next, Argos, Toys R Us British Land has been selected by Network Rail as its preferred and Arcadia.
Development Partner for the redevelopment of Euston Station, and a Memorandum of Understanding has been entered into.
The 15 acre Meadowhall The Lower Don Valley, Sheffield site has potential for up to 4 million sq ft of mixed-use development, This proposed mixed-use development is set to transform the including office, retail, residential and a new station.
area situated around the Meadowhall Shopping Centre in Sheffield.
Currently at the master planning stage, the site has potential for up to 1.3 million sq ft of residential and office accommodation, as well as industrial and mixed-use space.
Proposals are being progressed for a 120,000 sq ft car showroom retail facility.
Planning applications and development will be brought forward on a phased basis.
The British Land Company PLC 57 Running Head POWERFUL BACK-UP GENERATORS PROVIDE 24 7 FUNCTIONALITY In the digital age, loss of power is a key business issue.
This stand-by supply automatically kicks in when it senses an impending interruption.
