VALUATION CERTIFICATE The Directors Valuation The British Land Company PLC The Properties have been valued on the basis of Market Value in York House accordance with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards.
45 Seymour Street This is an internationally recognised basis and is defined as: London The estimated amount for which a property should exchange on W1H 7LX the date of valuation between a willing buyer and a willing seller in an 24 April 2007 arms-length transaction after proper marketing wherein the parties had each acted knowledgeably, prudently and without compulsion.
No allowance has been made for expenses of realisation or for Dear Sirs any taxation which might arise, and our valuations are expressed exclusive of any Value Added Tax that may become chargeable.
The British Land Company PLC Our valuations reflect usual deductions in respect of purchasers Valuation as at 31 March 2007 costs and, in particular, full liability for UK Stamp Duty as applicable at the valuation date.
The properties have been valued individually and not as part of Basis of Instruction a portfolio.
In accordance with the terms of our appointment as External Valuers We are of the opinion that the aggregate Market Value of your to The British Land Company PLC, we have valued the freehold interests in the properties, as at 31 March 2007, was: and leasehold properties detailed below, as at 31 March 2007, for balance sheet purposes and inclusion in your financial accounts.
14,014,772,070 The properties are predominantly held for investment and in some Fourteen Billion, Fourteen Million, Seven Hundred and Seventy Two instances held for development or in the course of development or Thousand and Seventy Pounds.
We have excluded from this Report those properties held by The valuations are categorised as follows: way of Joint Ventures or through Limited Partnership arrangements.
These valuations have been prepared in accordance with the Long Part freehold Short Freehold leasehold part leasehold leasehold RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards, Fifth Edition, issued by A Held as investments The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
owner occupied 12,132,654,220 856,385,000 22,800,000 6,540,000 B Held for Compliance and independence development 147,867,850 75,300,000 We can confirm that: C In the course of Knight Frank LLP is appointed by The British Land Company PLC development 773,225,000 as External Valuers, as defined by the RICS Appraisal and Total value 13,053,747,070 931,685,000 22,800,000 6,540,000 Valuations Standards.
Knight Frank LLP was appointed in the role as valuer in Included within the aggregate are a number of negative values September 2005.
These valuations have been undertaken under amounting to minus 260,000 Two Hundred and Sixty Thousand the overall supervision of the joint signatories, who have been Pounds.
These have been deducted from the positive values to responsible for this instruction since that time.
arrive at the net aggregate figure.
In relation to Knight Frank LLPs preceding financial year, the Certain properties are held on very long leases, for terms of proportion of the total fees paid by The British Land Company approximately 999 years at fixed peppercorn or nominal rents.
For PLC the Company and its joint venture partners to the total categorisation purposes these have been included in the freehold fee income of Knight Frank LLP was substantially less than 5%.
Short leasehold properties are classified as having less We recognise and support the RICS Rules of Conduct and have than 50 years unexpired.
established procedures for identifying conflicts of interest.
80 The British Land Company PLC Valuation Certificate Valuation procedures and assumptions Our valuations assume that the properties would, in all respects, The properties were inspected during the last six months.
be insurable against all usual risks including terrorism, flooding and As agreed, our valuations are based on measurements which rising water table at normal, commercially acceptable premiums.
have been provided by the Company and which were carried out in For properties in the course of development, we have reflected accordance with The Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors Code the stage reached in construction and the costs remaining to be of Measuring Practice.
In some cases the areas provided are as spent at the date of valuation.
We have had regard to the contractual agreed with the tenants following rent review or letting.
liabilities of the parties involved in the developments and any cost Our valuations assume that the properties have good and estimates that have been provided by professional advisors to the marketable titles and are free of any undisclosed onerous burdens, projects.
For recently completed developments we have taken no outgoings or restrictions.
We have not seen planning consents and, account of any retentions, nor made allowance for any outstanding except where advised to the contrary, have assumed that the development costs, fees or other expenditure for which there may properties have been erected and are being occupied and used be a liability.
in accordance with all requisite consents and that there are no outstanding statutory notices.
General conditions We have not read all documents of title or leases and, for the This Report and our valuations therein have been prepared on the purpose of our valuations, have accepted the details of tenure, basis that there has been full disclosure of all relevant information tenancies and all other relevant information with which we have been and facts which may affect them.
When considering the covenant strength Our Report and valuation is for the use only of the party to whom of individual tenants we have not carried out credit enquiries but it is addressed and no responsibility is accepted to any third party have reflected in our valuations our general understanding of for the whole or any part of its contents.
If our opinion of value is purchasers likely perceptions of tenants financial status.
We have, disclosed to persons other than the addressees of this Report, the in addition, discussed with the Company any bad debts or material basis of valuation should be stated.
If it is proposed to publish the arrears of rent and have considered this information in arriving figure, the form and context in which the figure is to appear should at our valuations.
be approved by us beforehand.
We were not instructed to carry out structural surveys of the properties, nor to test the services, but have reflected in our Yours faithfully valuations, where necessary, any defects, items of disrepair or outstanding works of alteration or improvement which we noted during the course of our inspections or of which we have been advised.
Our valuations assume the buildings contain no deleterious materials and that the sites are unaffected by adverse soil conditions, except where we have been notified to the contrary.
R J S Johnson BSc, MRICS R D Norman MRICS We have not carried out any investigation into past or present Partner Partner uses of either the properties or any neighbouring land to establish Commercial Valuations Commercial Valuations whether there is any potential for contamination from these uses or sites to the subject properties.
We understand that the Company For and on behalf of Knight Frank LLP has established procedures for the inspection of newly acquired 20 Hanover Square, London W1S 1HZ properties to be carried out with particular reference to environmental matters, and that any such matters identified receive appropriate attention.
Unless we have been provided with information to the contrary, we have assumed that the properties are not, nor are likely to be, affected by land contamination and that there are no ground conditions which would affect the present or future uses of the properties.
The British Land Company PLC 81
