Operating and Financial Review Strategy and positioning British Land has a distinctive retail portfolio, being the largest owner of UK out-of-town retail warehouses and superstores.
In retail warehouse parks we favour open A1 planning consents where supply is extremely restricted and customer demand remains high.
Our occupier led strategy, understanding the customer and providing the preferred trading space, is focused on these assets their Andrew Jones popularity with both tenants and shoppers bring continuing Head of Retail prospects of superior returns.
We also hold selected in-town assets where we see opportunities for adding value.
We pursue acquisitions and disposals which further strengthen Retail sector the portfolio.
Assets are subject to regular review as we recycle 10.3 billion portfolio capital into those retail assets which offer best prospects for rental growth.
Sales in the year amounted to over 1 billion our share total property under management 755m including: retail warehouses either primarily occupied by 14.5 billion bulky goods tenants where demand for space is lower, or open A1 80% out-of-town schemes which are highly rented following our asset management and where advantageous market prices have been obtained: Investment market shopping centres which are similarly mature or where our Demand for prime retail, in the right locations and providing expectations of future growth is more limited: and in-town retail well configured trading floorspace, continues to be healthy and where we consider trading is likely to be weaker going forward.
We market prices are robust.
Superstores and Open A1 retail parks are have purchased new retail parks within our preferred sub-sectors, experiencing particularly strong demand with limited supply.
The for example parks in the BL Davidson portfolio and at Oldham, where majority of available supply is of secondary assets and there are Centre Retail Park is dominant in its catchment area and offers good initial signs of differentiation in yield levels between these and prime.
asset management opportunities for us to generate increased value.
We consider this differentiation should widen to reflect correctly their relative growth prospects.
Out-of-town: 8.2 billion portfolio Occupier market 208 retail schemes, including superstores While retail trading remains competitive and retailers experience providing 22 million sq ft in the current market varies, with some affected by the impact of arranged in 1,680 retail units e-commerce, consumer spending is continuing to grow, albeit at a let to over 590 tenants lower rate.
Total retail sales are forecast to grow over the next five average lease length to first break of 15.6 years years, with out-of-town shopping locations maintaining the trend of taking an increasing share.
Driven by factors including convenience Key features in the out-of-town portfolio are: and enhanced choice, out-of-town is expected to see sales growth open A1 use, applying to 85% of our retail park schemes of 18.5% to 2011 compared to in town at 5.8% Verdict.
including 11% open restricted, which can attract Retailers find the size and layout of out-of-town space high street retailers advantageous, while the overall costs of occupation and servicing larger schemes, usually over 100,000 sq ft, capable of such locations are typically lower.
Migration or expansion by tenants dominating their catchment area from the high street to out-of-town is continuing with several utilising flexibility of unit size and configuration, to ensure that we can new store formats.
The UK food retail sector is also strong with offer retailers their preferred floorplate at both shopping parks operators stepping up expansion to provide increasing non-food where trend is towards smaller units for efficient trading sales capacity.
All retailers require ongoing flexibility of unit use and superstores and configuration, with favourable car parking ratios.
Accordingly, schemes we can manage overall to improve the tenant mix there is strong demand for the types of out-of-town retail parks and to provide better facilities from cafes to cashpoints in an and superstores in which we are invested, against an increasingly environment which will increase shoppers dwell time and improve constrained supply.
Conversely, the market development pipeline is sales densities for our retailers, while keeping occupational costs expected to increase availability of in-town shopping centre space at a reasonable level in each case to benefit the retailers trading over the next five years.
These features are producing higher than and our opportunities to generate rental growth.
average rental growth for out-of-town retail.
We calculate that we are the largest owner of UK superstores, other than the occupiers themselves.
The superstore operators are gaining an increasing share of consumer expenditure through broadening including completed value of committed developments product ranges, especially non-food, while maintaining their 24 The British Land Company PLC Operating and Financial Review customer appeal of convenience and accessibility.
In an increasingly restrictive planning environment which is limiting new supply of these assets, the retailers continue to require more and larger, flexible stores, and are prepared to commit to full lease lengths of over 20 years.
The profile of rental growth with highly secure income is an attractive asset for British Lands portfolio.
We have added to our portfolio in this sub-sector this year through the purchase of a 50% interest in 21Tesco superstores high quality assets in good locations let on 20 year leases to Tesco with RPI linked annual rent increases.
The sale of New Cross Gate, with a Sainsburys superstore, at a sub-4% yield and 20% above book value, provides further evidence of market demand and pricing, which should assist our superstore portfolio valuation going forward.
The Meadowhall Shopping Centre of 1.5 million sq ft is also an important component of our out-of-town portfolio and probably the best scheme of its kind in the UK, with exceptionally strong ongoing customer appeal.
Our strategy is to capitalise on these strengths, positioning Meadowhall for attractive low risk growth through active management and ongoing refurbishment.
This is expected to be complemented by the introduction of investment partners to the assets ownership structure, and we have recently announced our The Peacocks, Woking plans to offer the market the opportunity to acquire such a stake in Meadowhall.
Asset management and development Initiatives continue apace, including the acquisitions and disposals, In-town: 2.1 billion portfolio lettings, rent reviews, unit reconfigurations, refurbishments, 7 shopping centres 3.7 million sq ft developments and the major project at Meadowhall, all as set out 38 department stores 5.6 million sq ft earlier in this report.
In summary across the retail portfolio, during 53 high street shops this year: 11supermarkets 214 rent reviews were concluded at 7.9m per annum BL share above the previous rent and overall 5.8% above ERV Key features 226 lettings and renewals generated 15m per annum BL share shopping centres 839m of new rent Our focus for in-town shopping centres is on those which have implementation of 225,000 sq ft of additional space at mezzanine specific asset management opportunities.
The centres are typically: level in retail park units part of the c1million sq ft of potential located within large catchment populations such projects within the portfolio well anchored and the dominant retail scheme in the area improving tenant mix and shoppers choice at out-of-town retail of sufficient size to enable future redevelopment to provide parks by replacing catering units of c 4,000 sq ft with several new sales space smaller units of c1,000 sq ft let to retailers including Costa where we believe income growth can be achieved through and Subway our proactive asset management, including introduction of amendment of the planning consent for the development of the additional customer facilities which will also be income retail park at Giltbrook, Nottingham has been achieved.
Some 50% generating, such as catering and leisure operations.
of the new floor area is under offer and we expect to generate department stores 945m premium rents at this attractive regional destination park.
These stores are fully let to Debenhams and House of Fraser with a weighted average term of over 30 years.
Income growth The market is very competitive in the UK and retailers are focused on from these assets is underpinned by provisions in the leases for margins and selective on trading locations.
As a result tenants are guaranteed increases in rent, such that gross rents will increase becoming more demanding and we are seeing an increase in market by some 5m 14% over the next five years.
incentives for less than prime space.
We expect modest rental growth All the stores are located in town centre retailing locations rates for the sector overall, with increasing differentiation depending and opportunities for adding value are under review, including on location, planning, trading performance, tenant mix and unit sales and development.
However, the diversity and quality of our portfolio enables high street shops 348m us to respond positively to trends, deliver the required accommodation Disposals in the year of 27 high street shops, and two in-town to our tenants and take advantage of new retailing concepts, such as supermarkets have been made, for a total of 146m, tightening Marks & Spencer Simply Food, Tesco Home Plus and Asda Living our focus in the sector, and where particularly good market stores.
We are also expanding in Europe, through PREF and our own prices have been achieved.
More such disposals are planned.
investments and developments, as set out earlier in this review.
The British Land Company PLC 25
