OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OUR STRATEGYAIMS TO CAPTURE SUPERIOR TOTAL RETURN THROUGH THE HIGH OCCUPANCY AND RENTAL GROWTH WHICH RESULTS FROM SUCCESSFULLY BUILDING OUR BUSINESS AROUND CUSTOMER NEEDS In executing these strategies our bedrock disciplines are: Introduction a focus on areas where we have or can build competitive This Operating and Financial Review OFR sets out what British advantage Land has achieved in the year under review.
It shows how our actions clarity that our business success will come from serving fit the strategies we have laid out.
It shows the business and financial customers well results of those actions.
We seek to highlight positioning for the a bias to high-quality assets, with long lease profiles and future, risks in our business and how we are managing them as favourable demand and supply characteristics well as giving Key Performance Indicators KPI to judge progress.
strong integrated risk management skills blending leasing, Importantly we show also the way our business is shaped by and development, asset and liability risk into a single attractive responding to the needs of our customers and the wider needs of and secure growth proposition for shareholders society in relation to the built environment of which we represent a confident, entrepreneurial, performance-driven culture an important part.
particular regard for long-term income cash flow growth an appreciation of the importance of sustainability to our customers and other stakeholders in the built environment Objectives and strategy on which we operate.
British Lands primary objective is to produce superior, sustained and secure long-term shareholder returns from management of British Lands activity in 2006 7 our chosen real estate activities and their financing.
Our strategy aims to capture superior total return through the This was a year of real progress and achievement for British Land.
high occupancy and rental growth which results from successfully We delivered outperformance for shareholders whilst strengthening building our business around customer needs.
We seek to do this in the Companys prospects to deliver more in the future.
As we noted a number of ways.
Property sales and purchases adjust the market last year, investment market led capital growth is slowing.
Our focus and sector mix of our property portfolio to best capture growth trends on adding value in a more demanding environment is founded on our in customer demand.
Within our selected markets we also recycle customer-led strategy.
This way we can capture high occupancy levels capital, buying and selling buildings to improve the appeal and and rental growth to provide future outperformance for shareholders.
growth prospects of our holdings.
And we look to create more value The commentary in this Review highlights the actions we have from new development in areas where demand for the best new taken to produce financial outperformance in line with the strategy space is highest.
Our occupancy and rental growth is further we describe above.
These actions rest on the effectiveness of our enhanced by active asset management to hone our buildings people and, as before, much work has gone into building still further customer appeal.
our human capital and a performance culture with which to execute The importance of the investment markets which interlink with our business plans.
our occupier markets also dictates that adroit financial management, Under Portfolio Reshaping we report on over 3 billion gross partnerships and deal-doing complement our property based property purchases and sales.
These reduced our holdings in market strategies to capture and translate property returns most efficiently sectors where we forecast weaker customer demand and reinforced to our shareholders.
our market leadership positions where prospects are strong.
It also shows how, even in favoured markets, we keep capital working hard by investing in property best placed to capture demand trends whilst reducing our holdings in more mature assets where we cannot do much more to improve them.
The British Land Company PLC 13
