Directors Report The Directors present their report and the audited accounts for the Substantial shareholdings year ended 31 December 2007.
At 7 March 2008 the following interests in voting rights had been notified to the Company in accordance with the provisions of the Business of the Group Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services The principal business of the Group, being the Company and its Authority: subsidiary undertakings, within the meaning given by the Companies Issued Ordinary share capital 270,669,635.
Act 1985, is property investment and development, together with the Percentage of management of its properties.
A list of the Companys principal Number of issued Ordinary subsidiary undertakings as at 31 December 2007 is given on Name Brixton shares share capital page 58.
Government of Singapore Investment Business Review Corporation Private Ltd 28,033,995 10.36% HBOS plc 19,308,710 7.13% A comprehensive review of the development and performance of the Companys business for the year to 31 December 2007 and a Cohen & Steers, Inc 13,382,223 4.94% description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Stichting Pensioenfonds ABP 11,954,937 4.42% Company are included in the various reviews which precede this Legal & General Group plc 10,886,906 4.02% report.
Barclays plc 8,675,073 3.21% Dividends Annual General Meeting An interim dividend of 4.8p per share has been paid on the Ordinary The Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held at 10.30 am shares and the Directors are now recommending a final dividend on 24 April 2008 is sent separately to shareholders with this report.
of 8.8p per Ordinary share on the issued Ordinary share capital.
The venue for this meeting is the May Fair Hotel, Stratton Street, This makes a total dividend of 13.6p per share and represents an London W1J 8LT.
increase of 11.5% over the total dividend per Ordinary share paid in respect of 2006.
If approved, the final dividend will be paid on 1 July Authority to allot shares and dis-application of pre-emption 2008 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on rights 30 May 2008.
The ex-dividend date will be 28 May 2008.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting includes two resolutions Directors dealing with the allotment of Ordinary share capital.
The present membership of the Board is shown on page 12.
Resolution 9 deals with the authority of the Directors to allot and Peter Dawson and Steve Lee were appointed as Directors on grant rights over the unissued share capital of the Company.
This 5 December 2007 and Mark Moran was appointed as a Director authority was last renewed at the Annual General Meeting held on on 7 March 2008.
All of the other Directors listed were in office 17 May 2007.
If approved, the renewed authority will authorise the throughout the year.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM to be Directors to allot up to an aggregate nominal amount of 12,232,591 held on 24 April 2008, Steven Owen will retire by rotation and, being for a five year period from the date of the passing of the resolution.
eligible, offer himself for re-election.
In addition Peter Dawson, 12,232,591 is the total unissued Ordinary share capital of the Steve Lee and Mark Moran will also retire and offer themselves for Company and represents 18.08% of the Companys issued Ordinary re-election as the 2008 AGM will be the first since their appointment.
share capital as of 7 March 2008.
The Directors presently have no Mark Moran does not have a service contract with the Company.
intention, with the exception of the various share schemes as described in the Report on Directors Remuneration, of exercising Details of Directors interests in the Companys shares are shown on this authority.
The Company does not currently hold any shares in page 24. treasury.
Properties The Directors are of the view that it would be helpful to have at their disposal a relatively small number of Ordinary shares which may be An external professional valuation of the Groups properties on an excluded from the normal pre-emption provisions, where this is of open market basis was carried out as at 31 December 2007. benefit to the Company.
Therefore Resolution 10 authorises the The result of the valuation was a surplus of 16.8m after allowing Directors to allot equity securities and to reissue any shares which for disposals and capital expenditure on properties and the valuation may have been held in treasury for cash, without first offering them has been included in the balance sheet.
Details of the valuation and to existing shareholders.
Other than in connection with a rights issue, movements in the Groups properties during the year are set out in the authority contained in this resolution will be limited to an note 12 on page 37. aggregate nominal value of 3,383,370 being 5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital on 7 March 2008.
This authority was last renewed at the Annual General Meeting held on 17 May 2007.
13 Directors Report continued Purchase of own shares Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Companies Act 1985 allows a company, if authorised by its shareholders, to purchase its own shares.
Shareholders approval is The Board has reviewed the Companys compliance with the revised now being sought to authorise the Company to purchase on the Combined Code the Code on Corporate Governance issued in London Stock Exchange not more than 27,066,963 Ordinary shares June 2006. being 10% of the issued Ordinary share capital of the Company at a The Company has, throughout the year, been in full compliance maximum price for each issued Ordinary share, exclusive of with the principles and provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, expenses, of 5% above the average of the middle market quotations with the exception of the point noted in the second paragraph of as taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the The workings of the Board and its Committees below.
five business days preceding the date of purchase.
The minimum price for each Ordinary share, exclusive of expenses, will be 25p, The workings of the Board and its Committees which is the nominal value of an Ordinary share.
The Board The effect of any such purchase will clearly depend on the price at which it is made.
The power will only be exercised if the Board is The Non-executive Directors comprise the majority of the Board and satisfied that such purchases are in the long-term interests of are kept fully informed of all areas of the Companys activities so that shareholders and will result in an increase in net asset value per they are able to participate fully in all aspects of the Companys share and or an improvement in earnings per share.
The Directors strategy and control.
believe that the share purchase proposals are in the best interests of Louise Patten is Chairman of the Board and Tim Wheeler is the Chief the Company and accordingly, Resolution 11 will be proposed as a Executive of the Company.
Their roles are separate and clearly Special Resolution at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
David Scotland is the Senior Independent Non-executive The Directors presently have no intention of exercising this authority.
The current Non-executive Directors, being Louise Patten, Nicholas Fry, Stephen Harris, Mark Moran and David Scotland are As at 7 March 2008, options were outstanding over 4,702,691 considered by the Board to be independent.
Non-executive Directors Ordinary shares in the Company, such number of shares are not appointed for specified terms, as recommended by the representing 1.7% of the total number of issued equity shares in the Code, but are subject to election and re-election by shareholders at Company as at that date.
If the Company were to purchase 10% of least every three years.
The Non-executive Directors understand that its Ordinary shares, in exercise of its power under this paragraph, the Board will not automatically recommend their re-election by shares subject to options would comprise 1.9% of the Companys shareholders.
The biographies of the members of the Board appear on page 12.
Amendment to Articles of Association These demonstrate a range of experience of sufficient calibre to bring The Notice of the Annual General Meeting includes a resolution independent judgement on the issues of strategy, performance, Resolution 12 to adopt new Articles of Association.
resources and standards of conduct that is vital to the success of the Company.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper The new Articles of Association update the Companys current management of the Company.
A statement of Directors Articles of Association, primarily to take account of the changes that responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is set out on have been brought about by the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 page 25 and a statement on going concern is set out on page 15.
The changes proposed include: deleting references to extraordinary resolutions which concept is not being retained in the The Board meets regularly reviewing financial performance, ensuring 2006 Act : permitting a general meeting to be convened to consider adequate funding, setting and monitoring strategy, examining major a special resolution on 14 days notice: granting proxies the right to acquisitions and disposal possibilities and reporting to shareholders.
demand a poll and vote on a show of hands: granting shareholders The Non-executive Directors have a particular responsibility to ensure the right to appoint multiple proxies: removing the requirement for a that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully Director to retire on attaining a particular age: granting the board the considered.
To enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors power to fund a Director in defending certain proceedings: and receive appropriate and timely information.
Briefing papers are increasing the cap on Non-executive Directors base fees to distributed by the Company Secretary to all Directors in advance of 300,000.
The new Articles of Association if approved will also, with Board meetings.
The Directors may take independent professional effect from October 2008, give the Directors authority to approve a advice in appropriate circumstances at the Companys expense.
Directors conflict of interest subject to certain safeguards.
A more During the year there were six Board meetings, three meetings of detailed explanation of these and other amendments is set out in the the Audit Committee, two meetings of both the Remuneration Appendix attached to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
Committee and the Nomination Committee, which had full attendance except that David Scotland was unable to attend one Corporate governance Board meeting.
The Company is committed to high standards of corporate A Board self assessment evaluation was carried out during the year governance.
The Board is accountable to the Companys which covered structure and content of Board meetings and all shareholders for good corporate governance.
The Statement below Board processes and communication channels.
The results of the describes how the principles of corporate governance are applied to evaluation were considered at a meeting of the Board.
the Company and reviews the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
The Board has adopted a formal corporate Separate meetings were also held between the Chairman and the governance manual which is updated on an ongoing basis.
Non-executive Directors to evaluate the Executive Directors performance and between the Non-executive Directors only to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
14 Evaluations were also carried out during the year of the Audit, Internal control Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The Board recognises that it is responsible for the Companys The following Committees deal with the specific aspects of the system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has approved terms of reference for system can only provide reasonable assurance and not absolute these Committees and the Company has published these terms on assurance against material misstatement or loss, as it is designed to its website.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Audit Committee It is a requirement of the Code that the effectiveness of the system of The Audit Committee is currently chaired by Nicholas Fry and its internal control, including financial, operational and compliance current membership is set out on page 12.
Mark Moran will take over controls and risk management, is reviewed by the Board.
as Chairman of the Audit Committee with effect from the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2008.
The Committee meets not less The Board carries out a review of significant business risks and than twice a year and meetings are also attended, by invitation, by formally considers the scope and effectiveness of the Companys the Chief Executive and Deputy Chief Executive.
system of internal control annually.
This review covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of management.
The risks are identified by the Executive Directors matters including the half-year and annual financial statements before using their detailed knowledge of the Companys activities and of their submission to the Board and monitoring the controls which are those areas of the property and financial markets which impact on its in force to ensure the integrity of the information reported to objectives.
The Board considers risk management and internal shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises the Board on the control on a regular basis during the year.
There is an ongoing appointment of external auditors and on their remuneration and process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks discusses the nature, scope and results of the audit with the external faced by the Company.
No significant weaknesses have been auditors.
The Audit Committee may also meet with the Companys identified during the year under review.
As the Company has a relatively small number of employees there is Nomination Committee a high level of senior executive involvement in the majority of business The Nomination Committee is chaired by Louise Patten and its transactions.
The Company has four Executive Directors who also sit current membership is set out on page 12.
The Committee is on the fifteen person Operations Board who manage the day to day responsible for reviewing the size, structure and composition activities of the business.
required of the Board, making recommendations on changes to and The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but considering succession planning for Directors and other senior has decided that because of the scale and focus of the Company it executives.
In appropriate cases, recruitment consultants are used is not justified.
However, it is a matter that is kept under regular to assist the process.
Remuneration Committee Going concern The Remuneration Committee is chaired by David Scotland and its current membership is set out on page 12.
The Report on Directors The financial statements, which appear on pages 27 to 51, have Remuneration is set out on pages 18 to 24. been prepared on the going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that Relations with shareholders the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Communications with shareholders are given high priority.
The various reviews on pages 2 to 11 include a detailed review of the Payment of suppliers business and future developments.
There is regular dialogue with, The Board maintains a policy of paying suppliers promptly in and presentations are made to, existing and prospective institutional accordance with the terms and conditions agreed with them.
year-end its trade creditors represented 18 days 2006: 17 days The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with purchase.
private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are normally available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting on 24 April 2008 can be found in the Notice of the Meeting.
The Board indicates the level of proxies lodged on each resolution and the balance for and against the resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
15 Directors Report continued Corporate Responsibility advance for marketing brochures and other company publications estimated to be produced during 2008.
A total of 290 tonnes of C0 2 Brixton is committed to being a socially responsible company.
It seeks to enhance relationships with stakeholders and manage key Corporate Responsibility CR issues such as climate change, Brixton has started to switch to a greener electricity tariff sourced health and safety and land contamination.
from good quality Combined Heat and Power plants for the electricity purchased for the common parts of its property portfolio.
All the information published on CR is assured by WSP By 31 December 2007, it had moved 30% of its electricity supply Environmental and their assurance statement can be found under contracts across to the new tariff the rest will be switched during the CR section of our website.
The statement states that:- Brixtons 2008 in line with contract terms.
It is also working to introduce CR reporting provides a detailed and accurate representation of the recycling collections at all multi-occupier estates where practical by progress that has been made during 2007.
Brixton has made a the end of 2008, including estates where it does not currently have significant commitment to embed sustainability into its operations responsibility for waste collection.
and engage with key stakeholders.
The assurance review has identified considerable progress by Brixton during the reporting A key environmental risk for Brixton is land contamination due to past period.
industrial activities or fuel spillages.
Environment audits are carried out prior to the acquisition of new properties to identify any potential How we manage corporate responsibility contamination.
During 2007 Brixton spent approximately 570,000 Brixton has a CR Policy Statement plus a range of more detailed on costs associated with the investigation, monitoring and policies to guide employees on specific aspects of CR.
Steve Lee, Operations Director, is the Board member with overall Customers responsibility for CR.
He oversees Brixtons CR programme and Brixtons goal is to be the landlord of first choice in its chosen provides an annual report to the Board on performance.
Customer service is therefore a key priority for the business.
CR Committee is made up of managers from different areas of the business and meets quarterly.
Implementation and day-to-day Customer Service Managers visit all customers regularly on average management of CR policies is the responsibility of the Companys every six weeks and a 24-hour helpdesk is available.
independent customer satisfaction survey is commissioned annually to measure customer satisfaction ratings.
Every employee can play an important role in CR at Brixton.
As part of their annual performance appraisal, employees are asked to Employees consider how they can contribute to the Companys CR values.
Brixton has an equal opportunities policy and monitors the diversity Brixton is included in the FTSE4Good Index and participated in the profile of employees.
Women accounted for 38% of staff and 25% of 2006 Business in the Community BITC Index.
The Companys managers as at 31 December 2007.
An awareness training session overall score in the BITC Index was 89% silver band and it was for senior managers on equality and diversity was held in 2007. placed in the list of top 100 Companies that Count.
Brixton also All employees receive an annual performance appraisal and training participates in the annual Carbon Disclosure Project CDP survey is provided to help employees develop their skills and reach their and was included in the list of best reporters in the 2007 survey of potential.
Brixtons Code of Conduct sets out the standards FTSE 350 companies.
expected from employees and forms part of the employment Environment contract.
In 2007, a training session on business conduct and ethics was held for senior managers.
Brixton recognises that a key sustainability challenge for the business is climate change, since the construction and running of buildings Local communities has a significant carbon footprint.
It has therefore produced a guide Brixton supports community organisations local to its property to climate change and sustainability for its employees and a similar portfolio as well as various charities.
Over the past two years Brixton guide for occupiers of Brixton owned and managed properties.
The has supported the following community partnership projects in its guide for employees sets out the key climate change impacts for three main locations: each of its main business activities and a checklist of actions to take.
The occupiers guide looks at how Brixton can work together with its Heathrow a project with London Cyrenians Housing to refurbish occupiers to address climate change issues.
accommodation for homeless people in Hounslow.
In an effort to incorporate sustainability into the design of new Park Royal a project to build a new garden and outdoor area at buildings, Brixton has introduced a checklist of environmental criteria a long term care home run by St Mungos.
for new developments and a similar checklist for refurbishment Trafford Park a training course for visually impaired people Skill projects.
This is delivering results for example, the new X2 Step run by Henshaws School for Blind People.
development at Heathrow has incorporated the use of ground source heat pumps and two wind turbines have been installed at Brixton is working to establish a new community partnership project Polar Park, Heathrow.
A workshop on sustainability will be held for in 2008 with the charity Wooden Spoon.
This will provide physical construction contractors in 2008 and Brixton will in future monitor the training equipment at Oaklands School, a special school in carbon footprint of construction projects.
Since 2002 Brixton has, through The Carbon Neutral Company, Brixton allows employees to take one day off work per year for offset the C0 generated from business travel.
Employees gave 34 work days in support of community 2 extended the scope of its C0 offsets to also cover energy use in its projects during 2007.
The Company also matches money raised by 2 own offices and therefore became carbon neutral in respect of its employees for charity up to an agreed maximum.
A payroll giving own energy and travel.
Brixton has also purchased C0 offsets in scheme was established in 2006.
2 16 Brixton takes great care to be considerate towards neighbours and Charitable donations works hard to keep sites and estates tidy.
All contractors on new During the year the Group made contributions of 79,000 2006: development major refurbishments are required to sign up to the 95,000 to UK charitable organisations, including the Local Considerate Constructors Scheme.
Business partners Political donations Brixton seeks to build long-term relationships with a small number of The Groups policy is not to make any political donations and none best in class business partners.
An annual Supply Chain Award is were made during the year.
given to Brixtons partner of the year.
Brixtons pre-qualification questionnaire for new business partners has been extended to Significant agreements include an assessment of their approach to CR.
The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to disclose the Brixton has introduced new processes to assess the CR following significant agreements that take effect, alter or terminate on performance of business partners within its estate services supply a change of control of the Company: chain.
These include an annual CR questionnaire and a CR question 150m 5.25% Bonds 2015 in the monthly scoring system.
A target has been set to extend the CR assessment to other business partners in construction and 210m 6% Bonds 2019 refurbishment during 2008.
Under the terms of each of the above Bonds, a holder of the Bonds Further information is available in the Corporate Responsibility section has the option to require the Company to redeem or, at the on our website www.
Companys option, purchase its Bonds at its principal amount plus accrued interest for the relevant period if there is a change of control Health and safety of the Company and a Rating Downgrade or a Negative Rating Event The Board is committed to continuously improving the management occurs.
An independent, external consultancy carries A Rating Downgrade occurs where the rating is withdrawn or out an annual audit of health and safety at Brixton.
Their findings and changed from an investment grade rating to a non-investment grade recommendations are reported to the Board as part of its annual rating or if the rating is below an investment grade rating is lowered review of health and safety.
An action plan is developed and by one rating category.
A Negative Rating Event occurs if the implemented to deal with any issues identified during the audit.
Company does not seek a rating of the Bonds or is unable to obtain The Company has an established Health & Safety Management a rating of at least investment grade.
System which sets out the Groups detailed policies and procedures.
Chris Sheedy, Senior Operations Director, Development Disclosure of Information to the auditors Management is accountable to Steve Lee for implementation of the So far as each person who was a Director at the date of approving health and safety policy.
A Health and Safety Committee, chaired by this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being Chris Sheedy and comprising managers from different areas of the information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its business, meets four times a year to review health and safety policy report, of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries of and practice and to suggest ways in which the management of fellow Directors and the Groups auditor, each Director has taken all health and safety can be improved.
the steps that he she is obliged to take as a Director in order to have Regular risk assessments are carried out at all properties managed made himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to by B-Serv.
This includes vacant units and common areas of multi-let establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
Appropriate action is taken to address any risks identified during these assessments.
Development, refurbishment and Auditors maintenance work at Brixton properties is carried out by independent Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in contractors on our behalf.
We work closely with contractors on office as auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as health and safety issues and a contractors health and safety record auditors to the Company and authorising the Directors to determine is an important consideration in their selection.
Construction activities their remuneration will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
are managed in accordance with the requirements of the Construction Design and Management Regulations 2007.
By order of the Board All employees share responsibility for maintaining a safe workplace Richard Howell Company Secretary and health and safety training is part of induction training for all new 7 March 2008 employees.
Additional health and safety training is provided for any Brixton employees working on or visiting construction sites.
The Company is pleased to report that there were no work-related lost time employee accidents in 2007 2006: nil.
