Directors report Introduction issued ordinary share capital of the Company as detailed in the The directors present their report together with the audited directors remuneration report on page 36. financial statements for the year ended 30 December 2007.
There were no contracts of significance subsisting during or at the Results and proposed dividends end of the year in which a director of the Company was materially The consolidated income statement is set out on page 40 and interested.
No director had a material interest in the share capital shows a loss on ordinary activities after taxation of 166.8 million of other Group companies during the year.
Share options The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 17p Details of outstanding share options granted to the directors under per ordinary share on 13 June 2008 to members on the register the 1998 Share Option Schemes, are disclosed in the directors at the close of business on 18 April 2008, which together with an remuneration report on page 36. interim dividend of 10p per ordinary share, paid in 2007, makes a total dividend of 27p per share for the year.
Substantial shareholdings In addition to the interests of the directors, the Company has been Principal activities, trading review and future developments notified pursuant to Section DTR5 of the FSA Disclosure & The principal activity of the Group is that of a co-investing Transparency Rules of the following notifiable interests in its issued asset manager.
share capital as at 31 March 2008 the latest practicable date prior to the issue of this report : A review of the activities and prospects of the Group is given in the Chairmans statement, on page 19 and the operating and financial Fund Manager Number of shares % review on pages 20 to 25.
Morgan Stanley Investment Management 6,527,683 9.19 Neuberger & Berman 3,963,828 5.58 Business review Fidelity Investments 3,736,528 5.26 Legal & General Investment Management 3,394,551 4.78 The information that fulfils the requirements of the Business RMB Asset Management 3,293,467 4.64 Review including key performance indicators can be found on United Nations Pensions 3,270,000 4.60 pages 2 to 18 which is incorporated in this report by reference.
Barclays Global Investors 2,453,658 3.45 Martin Barber 2,385,367 3.36 Dimensional Fund Advisors 2,364,455 3.33 Post balance sheet events are set out in note 37 on page 75.
Algemene Pensioen Groep formerly ABP Investments 2,324,656 3.27 More detail on the financial risks facing the Company is set out in note 25 on page 67.
Purchase of own shares The Company undertook a limited share buyback programme The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to the in June and July 2007, under the authority granted by the members of the Company.
The annual report contains certain shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 11th June 2007, forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, at which the Company was given authority to purchase up to performance and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, 10,785,920 of its ordinary shares of 10p each.
During the year these statements involve uncertainty since future events and ended 30 December 2007, the Company made on-market circumstances can cause results and developments to differ repurchases totalling 1,442,598 of its own ordinary shares, materially from those anticipated.
The forward-looking statements representing 1.99% of the issued share capital, for an aggregate reflect knowledge and information available at the date of consideration of 16,993,325.79.
The repurchased shares were preparation of this annual report and the Company undertakes cancelled.
The present authority for the Company to purchase its no obligation to update them.
Nothing in this annual report should own shares will expire at the Annual General Meeting to be held be construed as a profit forecast.
The directors will seek fresh authority for the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares.
Directors The directors of the Company during the period were: M Barber Capital structure retired 31 March 2008, T Chandos, A Coppin, K Ford, PY Gerbeau, The Company has one class of ordinary shares with equal A Lewis-Pratt retired 28 June 2007, H Mautner, X Pullen, P Stobart, voting rights.
In addition, the trustees of the Long Term W Sunnucks, P Newton and M Wolstenholme.
H Scott-Barrett was Incentive Share Scheme have the right to vote on behalf appointed to the Board on 1 April 2008. of the Companys employees.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, A Coppin, K Ford and The Company has agreements in place which alter upon X Pullen will retire from the Board by rotation and offer themselves a change of control of the Company as follows: for re-election.
H Scott-Barrett, who having been appointed by the Board would vacate office at the conclusion of the AGM also offers The asset management agreements the Company has in respect himself for re-election.
of its three funds can be terminated by the fund partnerships if there is a change of control of the Company, which is defined to The Company maintains insurance for the directors in respect be either 50% of its issued share capital being held by or on behalf of liabilities arising from the performance of their duties.
of a single entity or group or 30% or more of its issued share capital being held by or on behalf of a single entity or group if, Directors interests in addition, one half or more of its executive directors over the The directors and, where relevant, their connected persons within previous 12 months cease to be the executive directors.
the meaning of Section 252 of the Companies Act 2006 are interested in 4,328,323 issued shares representing 6.09% of the Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 27 Directors report continued A similar definition applies to the 175 million bank facility with Auditors information HBOS.
The 30% change of control provision differs and requires Each of the persons who is a director at the date of approval of this that more than 50% of the directors at February 2006 cease to be annual report confirms that: directors, or to constitute 50% of the Board.
If this occurs the loan would be repayable.
So far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and Use of financial derivatives The use of financial derivatives is set out in note 25 on page 67.
The director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of Charitable donations any relevant audit information and to establish that the The main thrust of our charitable support is at local level through Companys auditors are aware of that information.
our fund investments as described on page 18.
At Group level we have made small donations during the year totalling 18,364 This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance 2006: 12,500. with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Payment of suppliers Explanation of business to be conducted at the The policy of the Company is to settle supplier invoices within the Annual General Meeting terms of trade agreed with individual suppliers.
Where no specific Resolutions 1 to 9 are proposed as ordinary resolutions.
This means terms have been agreed, the Company endeavours to make that for each of those resolutions to be passed, more than half of payment within one month of the receipt of the goods or service.
the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Resolutions 10 to At the year end, the Company had an average of 14 days 2006: 13 are proposed as special resolutions.
This means that for each of 28 days purchases outstanding.
those resolutions to be passed, at least three-quarters of the votes cast must be in favour of the resolution.
Compliance with combined code The directors consider that all the resolutions to be put to the A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 37 to 39. meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Your Board unanimously recommends Responsible business that you vote in favour of the resolutions.
The responsible business statement is set on page 16 to 18.
Ordinary resolutions Employees Resolution 1 Accounts and reports The Company is committed to a policy that treats all of its Company law requires the directors to present to the meeting the employees and job applicants equally.
No employee or potential audited annual accounts and the directors and auditors report for employee receives less favourable treatment or consideration the year ended 30 December 2007. on the grounds of race, colour, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, sex, sexual orientation, marital status, or disability.
Nor is any Resolution 2 Declare a dividend employee or potential employee disadvantaged by any conditions The resolution proposes to declare a final dividend of 17p per share of employment or requirements of the Company that cannot be on the ordinary shares of the Company for the year ended justified as necessary on operational grounds.
This is proposed to be paid on 13 June 2008 to members on the register at the close of business on 18 April 2008, During the year, the Company maintained arrangements to provide which together with an interim dividend of 10p per ordinary share, employees with information on matters of concern to them, to paid in 2007, makes a total dividend of 27p per share for the year.
regularly consult employees for views on matters affecting them and to make all employees aware of financial and economic factors Resolutions 3 to 6 Re-appointment of directors affecting the performance of the Company.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, A Coppin, K Ford and X Pullen will retire from the Board by rotation and offer themselves Stakeholder pensions for re-appointment.
In accordance with the Articles of Association As a result of the Governments introduction of stakeholder H Scott-Barrett, who having been appointed by the Board would pensions in April 2001, employers must provide their employees vacate office at the conclusion of the AGM also offers himself for with access to a stakeholder pension scheme.
The Chairman has confirmed that A Coppins appointed consultants, who put such a scheme in place, and performance continues to be effective and he demonstrates also nominated a stakeholder pension provider at that time.
commitment to the role and that he should therefore be put Employees have been able to join this scheme since May 2001. forward for re-appointment at the AGM.
Dividend Reinvestment Plan Biographical details of all the directors standing for election appear The Company operates a Dividend Reinvestment Plan, under on page 26 of the report.
The Board recommends that you support which shareholders can use their cash dividends to buy more the election of each of the retiring directors standing for election.
shares in the capital of the Company.
The plan is available to all shareholders.
Details of the terms and conditions of the Dividend Resolution 7 Re-appointment of auditors Reinvestment Plan can be obtained by contacting the Company The Company must appoint auditors at each general meeting at Secretary at the registered office.
The timetable for the 2007 final which accounts are presented to shareholders to hold office until dividend is set out on page 89. the conclusion of the next such meeting.
This resolution seeks shareholder approval to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Registered office Companys auditors and seeks authority for the Companys The Companys registered office address is 10 Lower Grosvenor directors to fix their remuneration.
28 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 Resolution 8 Directors remuneration report for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The Company The resolution proposes that the directors remuneration report currently holds no shares in treasury.
for the year ended 30 December 2007 be approved by the meeting.
The report is set out in pages 31 to 36 of this report.
The directors have no present intention of exercising the authority to purchase the Companys ordinary shares.
The directors would Resolution 9 Directors authority to allot securities only purchase shares if, in their opinion, the expected effect would Section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 requires shareholders be to result in an increase in asset value per share and would authority for the directors to allot new shares or convertible benefit shareholders generally.
securities, other than shares which may be allotted under employee share schemes.
Under resolution 9, which is proposed The total number of options to subscribe for new ordinary shares as an ordinary resolution, the directors seek authority to allot in the Company as at 9 April 2008 was 315,000 representing shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 2,372,464, 0.44% of the Companys issued share capital as at 9 April 2008. representing one-third of the nominal value of the Companys Such number of options to subscribe for new ordinary shares share capital in issue at 9 April 2008 being the last practicable would represent approximately 0.52% of the reduced issued share date prior to the publication of this report.
The authority will expire capital of the Company assuming full use of the authority to make at the conclusion of the Companys AGM in 2009.
This authority market purchases sought under resolution 11. complies with guidelines issued by institutional investors.
The directors have no immediate plans to make use of this Resolution 12 Amendments to the Companys Articles of authority.
As at the date of this report the Company does not hold Association Conflicts of interest any ordinary shares in the capital of the Company in treasury.
The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties which largely codify the existing law but with some changes.
Under the Special resolutions Companies Act 2006, from 1 October 2008 a director must avoid a Resolution 10 Pre-emption rights situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that Under section 89 of the Companies Act 1985, when new shares conflicts, or possibly may conflict with the Companys interests.
are allotted or treasury shares are sold for cash, they must first be The requirement is very broad and could apply, for example, if a offered to existing shareholders pro rata to their holdings.
This director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of special resolution renews, for the period ending on the date of the another organisation.
The Companies Act 2006 allows directors next Annual General Meeting, the authorities previously granted of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, to the directors to: a allot shares of the Company in connection where appropriate, where the Articles of Association contain a with a rights issue or other pre-emptive offer: and b otherwise provision to this effect.
The Companies Act 2006 also allows the allot shares of the Company, or sell treasury shares for cash, up to Articles of Association to contain other provisions for dealing an aggregate nominal value of 355,870 representing in accordance with directors conflicts of interest to avoid a breach of duty.
with institutional investor guidelines, approximately 5% of the Resolution 12, proposed as a special resolution, will, if passed, share capital in issue as at 9 April 2008 being the last practicable amend the Articles of Association of the Company to include date prior to the publication of this report as if the pre-emption such provisions.
The amended Articles of Association will give the rights contained in section 89 did not apply.
The directors have directors authority to approve such situations and will include no immediate plans to make use of these authorities.
other provisions to allow conflicts of interest to be dealt with in a similar way to the current position.
Resolution 11 Authority to purchase own shares At the last AGM in 2007, the Company was granted authority There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide to make purchases in the market of its own shares, subject to whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
This authority, which has not as yet been fully directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will exercised, expires at the conclusion of the Companys 2008 AGM.
be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the Therefore by resolution 11, it is proposed as a special resolution decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good that this authority in respect of the Company is renewed.
faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors will be able to impose limits or conditions when The power is limited to a maximum aggregate number of giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
10,604,916 ordinary shares representing 14.9% of the issued share capital as at 9 April 2008 being the latest practicable date It is also proposed that the amended Articles of Association should prior to publication of this report and details the minimum and contain provisions relating to confidential information, attendance maximum prices that can be paid, exclusive of expenses.
This at Board meetings and availability of Board papers to protect a resolution authorises the Company to pay a maximum price for an director from being in breach of duty if a conflict of interest or ordinary share that is an amount equal to the higher of: i 105% of potential conflict of interest arises.
These provisions will only the average market price for an ordinary share for the five dealing apply where the situation giving rise to the potential conflict has days preceding any such purchase: or ii the higher of the last previously been authorised by the directors.
It is the Boards independent trade for an ordinary share and the highest current intention to report annually on the Companys procedures for independent bid for an ordinary share as derived from the trading ensuring that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are venue where the purchase is carried out.
The authority conferred by operated effectively.
this resolution will expire at the conclusion of the 2009 AGM or 15 months from the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
Resolution 13 Electronic and web communications Provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in The shares repurchased by the Company under the renewed January 2007 enable companies to communicate with members authority would either be cancelled or held as treasury shares.
by electronic and or website communications.
Resolution 13, which No dividends may be paid on shares which are held as treasury is proposed as a special resolution, will allow the Company to take shares and no voting rights are attached to them.
Once held in advantage of the new provisions relating to website communications treasury, treasury shares may be cancelled, sold for cash or used and permit the Company to use website communication as the Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 29
