Directors Executive Directors Non-executive Directors Hugh Scott-Barrett, Chief Executive, 49 Tom Chandos, Chairman, 55 Hugh has been Chief Executive since 1 April 2008.
He was Chairman of Nomination Committee previously a member of ABN AMROs managing board and served Tom is Chairman of Invista European Real Estate Trust and Queens as Chief Operating Officer between 2003 and 2005 and Chief Walk Investment.
He is also on the board of a number of private Financial Officer from 2006 to July 2007.
Hugh brings over 25 years companies.
In addition to his board positions, he has worked in banking experience having also worked at SBC Warburg and investment banking and alternative investment areas such as Kleinwort Benson prior to joining ABN AMRO.
He was educated both venture capital and hedge funds.
He is a Labour member of the in Paris and at Oxford University.
He was appointed as a director of the Company in 1993 and as Chairman in 2000.
Martin Barber, Chief Executive, 63 retired 31 March 2008 Member of Nomination Committee Hans Mautner, Non-executive, 70 Martin was a founder director of the Company in 1979 and has Member of Nomination Committee been involved in commercial property as a developer and investor Hans is President of the International Division of Simon Property for over 30 years.
Martin was, until March 2006, co-Chairman Group SPG, the worlds largest publicly traded retail real estate of CenterPoint Properties Trust, a real estate investment trust, company.
In addition, Hans is Chairman of Simon Global Limited, listed on the New York Stock Exchange and formerly a subsidiary SPGs London-based entity.
He is also a director of a number of of Capital & Regional.
On 31 March 2008, Martin stepped down Dreyfus Corporation managed funds and a member of Lehman as Chief Executive and retired from the Board.
Brothers European Real Estate Private Equity Advisory Council.
Hans was appointed as a director of the Company in 2003.
William Sunnucks MA ACA, Finance Director, 51 Member of Responsible Business Committee Paul Stobart, Non-executive, 50 William was appointed Group Finance Director in October 2002.
Chairman of Audit Committee and member of Remuneration He has been Finance Director of a number of large companies, and Nomination Committees including Securum International and English, Welsh and Scottish After qualifying as a chartered accountant with Price Waterhouse, Railways.
He is a chartered accountant and has an MBA from the Paul spent five years in corporate finance with Hill Samuel before London Business School.
William has responsibility for the Groups joining Interbrand, an international marketing services consultancy, finances, including funding, reporting and financial control.
He joined The Sage Group plc in 1996 as Business Development Director, becoming Chief Executive Officer, UK and Xavier Pullen, Deputy Chief Executive, 57 Ireland, in 2003.
Paul was appointed as a director of the Company Member of Responsible Business Committee in 2003.
Xavier was a founder director of the Company in 1979 and has been active in the property industry for over 30 years.
Xavier focuses Alan Coppin, Non-executive, 57 primarily on the supervision of the Groups fund management Chairman of Responsible Business Committee and member of business together with the co-ordination of all property matters and Audit Committee the development of new business initiatives including Germany.
Alan is currently Chairman of Redstone plc, the telecoms and IT He also has responsibility at Board level for The Junction and FIX UK.
solutions provider and a non-executive director of both Berkeley Group Holdings plc, the urban regenerator and residential developer, Kenneth Ford BSc FRICS, Managing Director of Shopping and Air Command Royal Air Force.
His previous positions have Centres, 54 included being Chief Executive of Wembley plc and, in the charity Ken has been a director of Capital & Regional since 1997 and, as sector, Chairman of The Princes Foundation for the Built Environment.
Chief Executive of The Mall, is responsible for the funds shopping Alan was appointed a director of the Company in 2004. centre portfolio.
Ken has been involved in commercial property for over 30 years.
Philip Newton, Non-executive, 59 Member of Remuneration Committee PY Gerbeau, Managing Director of Leisure, 42 Philip is the former CEO of Merchant Retail Group plc, owners of PY was appointed to the Board in 2003, and as Chief Executive The Perfume Shop, a 150-store chain that he developed from its of X-Leisure in the same year.
He has over 15 years experience in beginnings.
He is Chairman of Windsor Vehicle Leasing Ltd, a vehicle the leisure industry.
PYs career to date has included Vice President finance and fleet management company, and Cornish Kitchen, a of Park Operations at Disneyland Paris and Chief Executive of fast food retail business with 20 stores.
His early career was in the the Dome.
PY has an MBA from one of Frances leading business District Valuers Office and then the property development industry.
schools, teaches on the MBA programme at the London Business Philip was appointed as a director of the Company in 2006.
School and has a Chair of Entrepreneurship at the Imperial College, running a module on the Experienced Economy and Manjit Wolstenholme, Non-executive, 43 Corporate Rescue.
Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member of Audit and Nominations Committees After qualifying as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand now part of  Manjit spent 13 years at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein, latterly as co-Head of Investment Banking, where she was responsible for managing the division as well as advising clients on a wide range of transactions.
She is now a consultant to Gleacher Shacklock, a privately-owned investment banking firm specialising in high level mergers, acquisitions and strategic advice.
Manjit was appointed as a director of the Company in 2006.
