Joint venture and other interests C&R continues to invest in properties on its own account Capital Retail Park, Cardiff and in joint ventures.
These ventures are strictly screened The Capital Retail Park Partnership is a 50:50 joint venture with to ensure that we have the management capability and also PMG Estates Ltd, a Welsh developer based in Cardiff.
to ensure that they do not fall within the fund investment criteria.
Where there is a potential conflict of interest, The project involves the construction of a 280,000 sq ft retail the properties are offered first to the relevant fund.
park in Cardiff, with a land sale of part of the site to Asda for a 90,000 sq ft foodstore.
Practical completion is expected in Joint venture and other interests August 2008.
The project is now 53% prelet.
C&R Cardiff Council is constructing a new football stadium for Cardiff Partners share City Football Club on an adjacent site, due for completion in summer 2009.
Xscape Braehead, Glasgow Capital Shopping Centres 50% Glasgow Fort British Land 50% Manchester Arena GE Real Estate 30% Great Northern Warehouse, Manchester Capital Retail Park, Cardiff PMG Estates Limited 50% We are nearing completion of our active management programme Gt.
Northern Warehouse, Manchester 100% Leisure World, Hemel Hempstead 100% for this building.
When we first took a stake in 2003 the building SNO!zone, ski slope operator 100% had significant vacant space, and needed to be brought to life.
Our leisure team let 44,673 sq ft to London Clubs International and this is now trading successfully as a casino called Manchester 235.
The Xscapes We have also obtained the planning permissions and licensing for a Three Xscapes have now been built, and the first two, at Milton nightclub occupying 38,110 sq ft of the space, and are in advanced Keynes and Castleford, were acquired by the X-Leisure fund in negotiations with a major nightclub operator.
February 2007. Leisure World, Hemel Hempstead The Xscape in Braehead opened in April 2006.
It is 95.4% let and We bought this leisure property through our contacts with Luminar the retail and catering units are trading well.
Leisure, and have a number of ideas for adding value in the medium term.
Glasgow Fort This highly successful fashion park was developed in partnership Earnings businesses with Pillar Property, now part of the British Land Group.
It was sold In addition to the assets businesses on the previous pages, which to the Hercules Fund in 2004 but C&R has a financial interest in are held in the balance sheet at valuation, the Group has two further phases.
earnings businesses which generate substantial income which is not available to many other property companies.
Manchester Arena In July 2006, we acquired 30% of the Manchester Arena in a SNO!zone co-venture with GE Real Estate.
The property is located on an eight SNO!zone is the ski operator which rents the real snow slopes in acre site in the heart of Manchester city centre and comprises the the three Xscapes.
It is wholly owned by C&R, which built it up 20,000 seat MEN Arena, 120,000 sq ft of offices, a 1,075 space car out of the bankruptcy of Leisurenet in 2001.
It is the largest and park and ancillary retail space.
most profitable indoor ski operator in the UK, but expects more competition from new operators and venues in the future.
For C&R it is an opportunity to exploit some asset management opportunities and to use its leisure and co-venturing expertise The strength of SNO!zone within the market has attracted alongside a major investor.
professional and successful businesses to align themselves with the Company through sponsorships and other agreements.
Capital & Regional Property Management CRPM CRPM is the company which employs our specialist property management teams.
It also holds long-term management contracts with each of the three funds.
It earns a regular stream of fee income, which covers the cost of the specialist teams, and also the corporate overheads.
In addition it earns performance fees which are calculated as a proportion of the funds outperformance over a rolling three year period.
In years of poor performance the formula can produce negative fees capped at the amount paid for the previous two years.
14 Capital & Regional Annual Report 2007 Joint ventures and other property interests C&R Size Number of Property Description share sq ft Principal occupiers lettable units Valued at 10 million to 25 million Leisure World: First generation leisure park acquired in 2005 for 100% 156,000 Luminar Leisure, Odeon Cinema 2 Jarman Fields, Hemel Hempstead redevelopment or refurbishment.
Valued at 25 million to 70 million Manchester Evening News Arena Largest indoor arena in the country with additional 30% 154,769 SMG UK Limited, Network Rail, 5 mixed use and retail space.
JD Williams & Co Limited Valued at 70 million to 100 million Great Northern, Manchester Located in Manchester city centre, this converted 100% 366,382 AMC Cinema, Virgin Active, 47 Victorian warehouse includes bars, restaurants, London Clubs International a health and fitness centre, shops and multiplex cinema.
Xscape Braehead, Glasgow This newest Xscape has all the extreme sports of 50% 374,112 Odeon, SNO!zone, Bowlplex, Ellis Brigham 37 Xscape Leeds and MK but also includes golf and football attractions.
