our 2008 first quarter forward fuel price estimate has in addition, because a significant portion of our operations increased to $505 per metric ton compared to our December utilize the Euro or Sterling to measure their results and finanguidance, which reduced our earnings per share guidance by cial condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. $0.
02. in addition, our first quarter 2008 results were adversely dollar reporting currency results in increases in reported impacted by $0.
01 per share from aiDaauras unexpected U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens cruise disruptions.
there has also been some softness in against these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported onboard revenues at certain of our contemporary brands, U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthwhich is expected to be offset by other cruise operating items.
ens against these foreign currencies.
accordingly, we also accordingly, our earnings per share for the first quarter of monitor and report our two non-Gaap financial measures 2008 is now expected to be in the range of $0.
28. assuming the current period currency exchange rates have the above forward-looking statements involve risks and remained constant with the prior years comparable period rates, or on a constant dollar basis, in order to remove the uncertainties.
various factors could cause our actual results impact of changes in exchange rates on our non-U.
S. dollar to differ materially from those expressed above including, cruise operations.
We believe that this is a useful measure as but not limited to, fuel costs, economic conditions, weather, it facilitates a comparative view of the growth of our business regulatory changes, geopolitical factors and other factors that in a fluctuating currency exchange rate environment.
could impact consumer demand or costs.
You should read the on a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net above forward-looking statements together with the discuscruise costs would be $9.
26 billion for fiscal sion of these and other risks under Cautionary note 2007, respectively.
on a constant dollar basis, gross cruise Concerning Factors that May affect Future results.
revenues and gross cruise costs would be $12.
in addition, our nonkEY PERFORmANCE INDICATORS U. S. dollar cruise operations depreciation and net interest We use net cruise revenues per alBD net revenue expense were impacted by the changes in exchange rates for yields and net cruise costs per alBD as significant nonfiscal 2007 compared to 2006.
Gaap financial measures of our cruise segment financial performance.
We believe that net revenue yields are commonly CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTImATES used in the cruise industry to measure a companys cruise segment revenue performance.
this measure is also used for our critical accounting estimates are those which we believe revenue management purposes.
in calculating net revenue require our most significant judgments about the effect of yields, we use net cruise revenues rather than gross cruise matters that are inherently uncertain.
We believe that net cruise revenues is a more critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments and meaningful measure in determining revenue yield than gross uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that matecruise revenues because it reflects the cruise revenues earned rially different estimates would be reported under different by us net of our most significant variable costs, which are conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: travel agent commissions, cost of air transportation and cerShip Accounting tain other variable direct costs associated with onboard and our most significant assets are our ships and ships under other revenues.
Substantially all of our remaining cruise costs construction, which represent 75% of our total assets.
We are largely fixed once our ship capacity levels have been make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our determined, except for the impact of changing prices.
First, we compute our ships depreciation net cruise costs per alBD is the most significant measure expense, which represented approximately 10% of our cruise we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segment costs and expenses in fiscal 2007, which requires us to esticosts rather than gross cruise costs per alBD.
in calculating mate the average useful life of each of our ships, as well as net cruise costs, we exclude the same variable costs that are their residual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improveincluded in the calculation of net cruise revenues.
this is done ment costs by capitalizing those costs which we believe will to avoid duplicating these variable costs in these two nonadd value to our ships and depreciate those improvements Gaap financial measures.
over their estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs and Carnival Corporation & plC | 33
