growing our business internationally is critical to the companys future.
Clearly, our international expansion efforts are working.
micky Arison Asia and the Pacific Rim remain a vastly underserved region with millions of potential cruise vacationers and may represent the next great area of opportunity for expansion for our company.
Recognizing Asias tremendous market potential, in 2006 we deployed the Costa Allegra on five-day cruises from Shanghai.
We will bolster our presence in the region in march 2009 with the Costa Classica, which will offer fourto 14-day Asian cruises departing from the regions most popular homeports.
With expansion plans for both P&O Australia and Princess Cruises, we will also double our capacity in Australia, where our brands already carry 80 percent of all Australian cruise passengers.
With many international economies thriving, more of the worlds citizens have the financial freedom to participate in a greater variety of And while we look for ways to enhance the bottom line, there is one area that is beyond our controlthe cost of fuel, which continues leisure activities, including first-time travel.
A cruise is a great opportunity to see a variety of historic destinations for the first time.
We continue to weigh heavily on our financial results.
In 2008, higher fuel prices are forecast to increase fuel expenses by approximately $400 million comto position the company to maximize the tremendous potential that these emerging economies provide.
pared to 2007, reducing earnings by $0.50 per share.
As you can see, weve made significant progress taking the cruise A WORD OF ThANKS vacation concept, pioneered in North America, and successfully adaptIn 2007, the managers of our various brands in North America and ing it internationally.
We continue to dedicate our efforts to expanding Europe rose to meet many challenges and delivered exceptional results our global reach, as cruising becomes a viable option for an increasing while continuing to expand our global footprint.
I take this opportunity percentage of the worldwide population.
to thank them, along with all of our employees, both shipboard and OUR CORPORATE RESPONSIBIlITY shoreside, for their hard work in delivering exceptional cruise experiences for our guests.
I also want to thank our board for their contributions in hand in hand with our operating performance is a continuing commitment to be responsible corporate citizens, especially when it comes to meeting the increasing pressures and time commitments required to fulfill their responsibilities.
Our commitment to health, environment, safety and security starts I would like to recognize the contributions of two individualsBob Dickinson and Peter Ratcliffewho retired from their chief executive with actively maintaining our ISO14001 Environmental management System certifications and is demonstrated by a wide range of actions, officer posts at Carnival Cruise lines and Princess Cruises, respectively.
Through dedicated service and hard work, these outstanding individuincluding deploying the first prototype exhaust gas scrubber system in Alaska in an effort to reduce air emissions.
als guided our company to unprecedented heights.
Their contributions to the Carnival organization were immeasurable.
Bob and Peter will We have made great strides in this area and will continue to dedicate our efforts toward even more progress.
This year we will publish continue to provide guidance while serving on our board of directors.
We were saddened to learn of the recent passing of a long-time our third annual Environmental management Report as we endeavor to improve our transparency in publicly reporting the details of our on going board member, maks Birnbach.
maks served on our board from 1990 to 2003.
Our condolences and thoughts go to his family and many commitment to the environment.
We have also begun to broaden our scope to include sustainability reporting.
As an initial step, the corporate friends as we remember maks for his wit and wisdom.
And, finally, a word of thanks to our valued shareholders for their responsibility reports published by two of our brands, Costa and AIDA, will be used over time as models for similar reporting by all of our brands.
continued support and, of course, the millions of guests worldwide who choose a Carnival brand for their vacation.
We look forward to 2008 OUTlOOK welcoming you aboard one of our ships soon.
As we face an uncertain economic environment in 2008, we believe Carnival Corporation & plc is well positioned.
Our geographically diverse portfolio of brands is spread over multiple price points, offering consumers worldwide an unparalleled variety of cruise products.
Further, our brands superior product quality and tremendous value provide additional resiliency in uncertain economic times.
micky Arison In todays competitive economic climate, we continue to seek ways Chairman and CEO to reduce costs, including extending economies of scale for our portfolio of brands and achieving improved efficiency through shared services and best practices.
