Directors report Liability risk management Adverse movements in interest rates are one of the main risks to which the group is exposed.
Therefore, in addition to fixed rate debt, interest rate derivatives are used to protect the group against such events.
In a group that actively manages its portfolio with consequent swings in debt levels, flexibility is also important.
Board policy reflects this in that sufficient hedging is required to be entered into such that the total of any fixed rate debt and that fixed using derivative instruments is within a range of 40% to 75% of the total nominal value of debt, excluding leasehold liabilities.
The actual percentage is dependent on the perceived risk to the group.
At the current time, 62% of such debt is covered to give a weighted average cost of debt of 6.05%.
The derivatives are fair valued at each reporting date and the movement in value over the year is reported in the group income statement.
For 2007, this resulted in a debit of 5.1 million.
Under IFRS, changes in fair value of the 175 million secured bond are not required to be reported in the group income statement unless the company has an obligation or has a present intention to redeem the bond other than at normal maturity.
The fair value adjustment for the bond at 31st December 2007 was 15.0 million, equivalent to 14.9p per share, compared with the 22.1 million on acquisition of LMS.
The latter Debt and sources of finance amount was included in the consolidated balance sheet and is being The total of net debt at the 2007 year end was 782.8 million amortised over the term of the bond.
compared with the equivalent figure for 2006 of 349.8 million, and that shown in the interim balance sheet of 947.6 million.
The nominal Share capital value of this net debt was 753.9 million, the difference being the fair As at 18th March 2008, the companys issued share capital value less costs of the LMS bond and the leasehold liabilities.
The fall comprised a single class of ordinary shares.
Details of the ordinary in borrowings in the second half of the year was due to the disposals share capital can be found in note 32 to the financial statements.
mentioned above with all but 34.3 million of the proceeds received Shareholder authority to buy back 10,056,672 ordinary shares was in this period.
The reduction in both borrowings and net assets has left obtained at the companys 2007 AGM.
No shares have been balance sheet gearing at 42.5% compared with that at the half year of acquired in reliance on that authority.
However, in terms of the groups risk profile, the more important profit and loss gearing ratio has been restored to a more normal level The rights and obligations attaching to the companys ordinary shares, of 1.81 after it had fallen at the interim stage, following the acquisition, and provisions governing the appointment and replacement of, as well to 1.50.
The figure of 1.81 compares with that in 2006, prior to the as the powers of, the companys directors, are set out in the companys acquisition, of 1.85.
To complete the debt ratios, property gearing articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies nominal debt divided by the fair value of investment properties at House in the UK or by writing to the groups company secretary.
There December 2007 was 28% compared with 27% at the prior year end.
are no restrictions on the voting rights attaching to the companys This is substantially under half of what a typical conservative bank ordinary shares or on the transfer of securities in the company, except, covenant would be and it demonstrates both the soundness of the in the case of transfers of securities: Derwent London balance sheet and the potential financial resources available to the group.
that certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example, insider trading laws : and The groups financing philosophy has been keep it simple, keep it pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority flexible.
Both Derwent and LMS were financed in a similar manner, whereby certain employees of the company require the approval so the philosophy has not changed since the acquisition.
LMS added of the company to deal in the companys ordinary shares.
a syndicated 375 million term and revolving facility, and a long-term fixed rate secured bond, to DVHs four bilateral revolving facilities.
All the No person holds securities in the company carrying special rights with banks provide committed facilities and the group continues to borrow regard to control of the company.
The company is not aware of any on a secured basis.
Financial covenants are security specific and agreements between holders of securities that may result in restrictions not corporate based.
The flexibility of the revolving credit loans was on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly demonstrated in 2007 with these absorbing disposal proceeds of specified to the contrary in the articles of association of the company, approximately 350 million while remaining available to satisfy the the companys articles of association may be amended by a special demands of acquiring 141 million of property.
At 31st December 2007, resolution of the companys shareholders.
At the 2008 AGM, a special committed bank facilities totalled 918 million of which 370 million resolution will be put to shareholders proposing amendments to the was undrawn.
This level of available resources provides both comfort companys existing articles of association in relation to the provisions and opportunity in the current economic environment.
Only one major of the new Companies Act 2006. facility amounting to 100 million is due for renewal in 2008 November.
Close relationships are maintained not only with existing lending banks Details of the major shareholders of the company are given in the but also a second tier to satisfy future debt requirements.
