Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 25 Directors report Objectives identify development potential and undertake appraisals at an Derwent Londons strategy is straightforward: we add value to our early stage to ensure an appropriate supply of schemes for the properties through asset management and the development process.
With diligence and flexibility, we deliver schemes to the We implement well thought out planning solutions, based on high quality market at the most appropriate time.
Our current major projects 2 architectural design and initiated by enterprising asset management total 40,300m, of which 70% of the space has been pre-let to which reflects our understanding of tenants requirements.
Through this Arup and Burberry.
Additionally, we have planning permission 2 process, our objective is to deliver above average annualised total return for over 84,600m of future projects at properties which have 2 to our shareholders.
an existing floor area of 39,500m and are currently producing a rental income of 8.5 million per annum.
In last years report and accounts we divided this approach into a number of key objectives.
These, together with the progress that has iv Deliver and let projects on time and to cost.
been made during 2007, are reviewed below.
Capital expenditure during the year was approximately 61 million.
Of this, 33 million was invested in Qube, Horseferry House and i Ownership of a portfolio with significant opportunities for Arup Phase II.
As planned, Qube completed towards the end of value enhancement.
the year, and progress has been made with letting.
Horseferry Each year a thorough property-by-property review is undertaken and House and Arup Phase II, both of which are pre-let, are on course incorporated into a five-year business plan.
This years review identified to complete this spring.
Capital expenditure for 2008 is forecast over 50% of the enlarged portfolio as having significant development to be 100 million.
potential, a similar proportion to a year ago prior to the merger.
v Apply and promote contemporary architecture and forward-thinking ii Active lease management to improve rental income.
techniques through the Derwent London design brand.
A key characteristic of the portfolio is its reversionary rental profile We work with a number of architectural practices to ensure there with low passing rents, thereby providing the opportunity for income is a constant flow of new ideas that drive the boundaries of good growth and value enhancement.
At the year end, our average design.
These range from established names to smaller, cutting- 2 central London office rent was 257 per m, compared to 281 per edge practices and enable us to nurture talent and push forward 2 m last year reflecting the lower average rents in the LMS portfolio.
These endeavours were recognised However, on a like-for-like basis, the average rent in the DVH portfolio during the year with the winning of the 2007 Royal Institute of British 2 increased to 294 per m. Architects RIBA Client of the Year award.
We aim to maximise rental income in all of our buildings including those vi Recycle capital for reinvestment when potential is maximised.
As an example, at the Angel Building, In 2007, property disposals totalled 344 million, net of costs, we secured control from the tenant in March, whilst maintaining the and achieved outstanding prices, realising a 130 million profit.
4.2 million per annum rental income until 2010.
Planning permission These were disposals of properties that did not conform with our has now been obtained for a major development.
post-merger strategy and included residential sites, provincial and smaller properties.
Where possible they were sold post-REIT iii Maintain a pipeline of projects that can be delivered according conversion, thereby improving the after tax return.
We will continue to market conditions.
to disinvest mature assets to free up capital for selective The planning process is complex and protracted so it is important to acquisitions and projects.
