Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 27 Directors report Awards substantial surplus coming from the recently completed Qube Our commitment to good design and improving the office working development.
Other properties in this category were Arup Phases II environment was rewarded in 2007 with Derwent London winning and III, Horseferry House, Portobello Dock, Gresse Street and Leonard the RIBA Client of the Year award.
The prestigious accolade was for Street.
Acquisitions saw a 9.9 million deficit, principally as the associated the commissioning of both established and up-and-coming architects transaction costs were written off.
However, these properties contain to deliver a mix of refurbished and new-built offices throughout exciting planning opportunities and offer potential for significant value London.
We also won a RIBA award for 28 Dorset Square, a stylish enhancement in the future.
In April, we won the Property Week Deal of the Year award for the acquisition of LMS and in October, The portfolios underlying valuation uplift was 4.3% compared to 21.6% we were also awarded Property Company of the Year London, last year.
The West End properties, which represent 72% of the portfolio, from Estates Gazette.
Here, good uplifts came from our Belgravia and Victoria properties, which rose by 13.9% and 12.5% respectively.
The remaining properties in central London, 21% of the portfolio, are Property review located on the City borders.
The value of these assets increased by 5.3% over the year with a good performance from our Holborn properties Valuation commentary at 9.8%, principally due to a strong return at The Johnson Building.
The year under review was very much a tale of two halves.
The six Overall, the value of the central London portfolio increased by 5.8%.
months to June showed modest yield compression and strong rental growth performance, delivered through healthy tenant demand and The remaining 7% of the portfolio is located in the provinces historically low vacancy rates.
However, the disruptions in the world and values decreased by 11.2% as valuation yields increased financial markets in the autumn dramatically changed the outlook for and rental growth was limited.
A principal factor in this return was values with the investment market reacting swiftly.
This contributed to the downgrading in value of Strathkelvin Retail Park in Scotland an increase in yields as the availability of finance became restricted.
which comprises just over a third of the provincial portfolio by However, letting activity remained buoyant, especially in the West End, value.
However, we have recently improved the planning use at with rents continuing to increase in the second half of the year.
this bulky goods park and are working on asset management initiatives.
Further progress on the disposal of the provincial Set against this background, the investment portfolio was valued at properties has been made since the year end, with the sale of 2.7 billion at 31st December 2007. our Southampton properties.
The valuation surplus for the year was 94.4 million, before lease At 31st December 2007, the portfolios initial yield, based on the incentive adjustments of 4.1 million.
Properties held throughout annualised, contracted rental income, net of ground rents, was the period contributed 54.0 million, a result of strong rental growth 4.4%, rising to 6.3% on full reversion.
The portfolios true equivalent which compensated for the increase in yields.
In addition, the revaluation yield was 5.7%, showing an increase from 5.4% at the start of the of our development properties added a further 50.3 million with a year and 5.3% in June 2007.
Portfolio yields Rental uplift Rental per annum per annum Yield m m % Annualised year end contracted rental income, net of ground rents 117.6 4.4 2 Letting 21,400m vacant accommodation available at year end 7.7 4.7 2 Completion and letting 32,400m of refurbishments and developments 10.7 5.0 Anticipated rent review and lease renewal reversions 36.6 6.3 Portfolio reversion 55.0 Potential portfolio rental value 172.6 6.3 Y ield based upon the year end valuation and adjusted for costs to complete commenced projects.
I ncludes the Horseferry House pre-letting of 5.3 million per annum.
