Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 23 Directors report The London economy The strong UK economy in 2007, especially in the first half of the year, With our central London focus, the health and trends of Londons helped drive the central London office vacancy rate downwards, from economy are key factors to the group, not only in the generation 4.3% of total stock at 31st December 2006 to 3.0% at the year end, the and growth of rental income but also in the timing and delivery of lowest level since 2001.
Looking at the sub-markets, the City vacancy our projects.
rate dropped from 5.5% to 3.5% whilst the West End, where available space is particularly scarce, decreased from 3.5% to just 2.3%.
These Londons economy accounts for approximately 19% of the UKs total levels are well below the 10-year averages of 7.3% in the City and 4.8% GDP and 15% of its employment.
Its growth and prosperity is strongly in the West End.
Strong letting activity contributed to these falling influenced by the vitality of the financial and business services F&BS vacancy rates with take-up in central London and the West End sector and this has expanded rapidly over recent years.
Consequently, exceeding their 10-year annual averages.
the health of this sector is an important determinant in the demand for the capitals office space.
Despite the recent turbulence in the global During the year, the supply-demand imbalance in the central London financial markets, economic forecasts suggest that over the next office market, especially in the West End, drove rents to new heights five years Londons economy should be more resilient than the rest and we benefited from this in our letting activity.
Tenant demand is still of the UK.
firm, despite the changing economic outlook in the second half of the year that began with the credit crisis, although the mood is undoubtedly 2 Total office stock in central London is estimated at 19.1 million m more cautious.
The West End market looks set to prove more resilient and is subdivided into three distinct regions the City 49%, the than that of the City due to its lower vacancy levels, more diverse tenant West End 42% and Docklands 9%.
The West End has a broad base and limited development pipeline.
tenant base and is home to media, professional & business services and specialist fund management, whilst the City is the Despite strong rental growth in 2007, the increase in yields pushed traditional home of banking, insurance and legal services.
According to the IPD Quarterly Property its creation in the late 1980s, Docklands has been very successful Index, the total return in 2007 for West End offices was 5.7%, in delivering large, modern office space that has attracted tenants outperforming both the City Office Index 3.9%, and the All Property away from the City.
The Citys response was to ease planning Index 4.4%.
Derwent Londons underlying property return over the regulations to allow taller, higher density buildings, thus increasing same period was 11.2%.
the development pipeline and enlarging the City office stock.
By contrast, the supply of West End office space has remained We monitor closely the occupational and investment trends and their extremely tight due to the restrictive planning regulations, which subsequent impact on the office market.
As the properties that form include the requirement for residential provision where additional the next generation of schemes are income producing, we have the office space is proposed.
With conservation areas covering flexibility to adjust the timing of our projects to reflect anticipated market approximately 75% of the West End and nearly 3,900 listed conditions.
Our skills and experience in operating through different buildings, development activity in the area is further constrained.
stages of the economic and property cycles enable us to produce As a consequence, office space in the West End has increased superior returns through this careful timing of our schemes, their design little since the early 1990s.
