Derwent London plc Report & Accounts 2007 95 D irectors D. G. Silverman, 38 R. A. Rayne, 58 Non-executive chairman Mr Silverman joined the board in January 2008.
He is The Hon R A Rayne joined the board following the merger a chartered surveyor and plays an important role in with London Merchant Securities plc where he had been investment acquisitions and disposals.
He has been on the boards of a number of public companies, including First Leisure S. J. Neathercoat, 59 Senior independent director Corporation plc and Crown Sports plc and is currently Mr Neathercoat is a chartered accountant.
He joined the chief executive officer of LMS Capital plc, a company listed board in March 1999 and chairs the audit committee whilst on AIM.
He is also a non-executive director of Weatherford serving on the remuneration and nominations committees.
International Inc. an international oil services company He was previously a managing director of Dresdner quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, and chairman Kleinwort Wasserstein.
of Energy Cranes International Limited.
R. A. Farnes, 62 Non-executive director J. C. Ivey, 66 Non-executive deputy chairman Mr Farnes is a chartered surveyor.
He was previously A chartered accountant, Mr Ivey is a director of RWS the chairman of CB Hillier Parker and joined the board on Holdings plc and was formerly chief executive of The Davis 1st April 2003.
He chairs the remuneration committee and Service Group plc.
He has served on the board since is a member of the audit and nominations committees.
1984 and chairs the nominations committee.
S. A. Corbyn, 63 Non-executive director J. D. Burns, 63 Chief executive officer Mr Corbyn was appointed to the board in May 2006.
Mr Burns has been a director of the company since He is also chief executive of Cadogan Estates, one 1984 and has overall responsibility for group strategy, of the principal private estates in London, and a former business development and day-to-day operations.
He is president of the British Property Federation.
a non-executive director of The Davis Service Group plc and a partner in The Pilcher Hershman Partnership, J. fide Moller, 60 Non-executive director estate agents.
Mrs fide Moller joined the board following the merger with London Merchant Securities plc, where she had been a S. P. Silver, 57 non-executive director since 2002.
She is a non-executive Mr Silver has overall responsibility for acquisitions, design director of Temple Bar Investment Trust plc and Archant and development projects.
He became a director in 1986 Limited.
Previously, she was managing director of Carlton and is a partner in The Pilcher Hershman Partnership.
Communications Plc and a non-executive director of Cookson Group plc, BT plc, AWG plc and J Sainsbury plc.
C. J. Odom, 57 Mr Odom joined the board in 1988.
He is a chartered D. Newell, 65 Non-executive director accountant and has overall responsibility for financial Mr Newell joined the board following the merger with strategy, treasury, taxation and financial reporting.
London Merchant Securities plc, where he had been a non-executive director since 1998.
Mr Newell was N. Q. George, 44 senior partner of Hillier Parker May & Rowden until 1998, A chartered surveyor, Mr George was appointed to the co-chairman of the Europe, Middle East and Africa division board in 1998.
He has responsibility for acquisitions and of CB Richard Ellis Services Inc until December 2000 and investment analysis.
a past president of the British Council of Offices.
P. M. Williams, 48 Mr Williams is a chartered surveyor and was appointed to the board in 1998.
His responsibilities include asset management and supervision of refurbishment and development projects.
