16 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Our market Development completions City and West End Market balance in key sub-markets million sq ft Months supply, office space 6 80 70 5 60 4 50 3 40 30 2 20 1 10 0 1998 2000 2002 2004 2006 2008 2010 0 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 Q1 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 Forecast City West End City West End Midtown Source: PMA Source: PMA London Occupational markets London is our market and for good reason.
It fulls a unique West End role as Europes only true global city and financial centre.
In the West End, where 82% of our portfolio by value is Londons GDP is estimated to have grown by 3.6% in 2006 located including our share of joint venture properties we and is forecast to grow at a faster rate than the rest of the UK have seen robust interest from existing and potential tenants due in large part to its appeal to international businesses and across a wide spectrum of industries, reducing available supply the growth of the finance and business services sector F&BS to less than ten months.
with around 100,000 F&BS jobs forecast to be created over Across the West End take up for the year to March 2007 the next five years.
was 5.8 million sq ft 2006: 5.5 million sq ft and vacancy We analyse the central London markets along two rates have fallen to 4.3% 2006: 6.7% or 3.9 million sq ft, principal dimensions: equivalent to just eight months supply.
This restricted supply, due largely to the challenging planning environment, Occupational demand versus supply of new and second combined with healthy levels of demand, has led to increases hand space: and in prime West End rental values of around 15% in the year to investment activity in commercial real estate.
There has been a modest increase in development starts although we estimate there are only 6.0 million sq ft due Research from a variety of sources and information from to be completed by December 2010. the Groups operations is used to evaluate the direction of these trends in the West End, City, Southwark and other Although strong rental growth has led to a handful of lettings sub-markets.
Leading indicators such as forecasts for changes at more than 100 per sq ft, the average quoting rent in in business head count, new space requirements and expected the West End is still relatively undemanding.
Indeed, only development completions are constantly tracked.
We use this 6.3% of lettings in the core West End are over 90 per sq ft, detailed market insight to inform our portfolio management, as illustrated on the central London rent prole.
The West development and nancing decisions.
End market comprises a series of sub-markets, and there is significant variation in spot rents for grade A quality ofce One such indicator is market balance, or the amount of space space between, and within, various villages.
All sub-markets to let given current rates of take-up expressed in terms of have seen rental value growth during the year but the north months.
Typically, when ofce supply falls to less than of Oxford Street market, in which a high proportion of 20 months, rents start to rise.
the Groups near-term development schemes are located, continues to offer good value for tenants looking for an attractive ofce environment close to the West Ends transport and shopping hubs.
Tower Bridge London Bridge Southwark B g d Blackfriars Bdg Blackfriars Road Great Portland Street Chari ng Cross Road Gloucester Place Baker Street Regent Street ys Inn Road WaterlooBdg Tottenham Court Road Gower Street Park Lane Road don heap all Street reet Cannon Street orn East c London W Lambeth Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Our market 17 Central London rent profile West End Bloomsbury West End North City Core West End Strand West End Core Waterloo Hyde Park Corner Southwark St Jamess Park Green Park Westminster Bdg Victoria West End South Source: Company Knight Frank Proportion of office lettings by rent band 30 per sq ft 3060 per sq ft 6090 per sq ft 90 per sq ft The Groups valuers estimate the rental value of our West End Take up in the City and Southwark markets for the year to ofce portfolio at an average of 44 per sq ft, from which we March 2007 was 8.7 million sq ft 2006: 5.9 million sq ft see good opportunity for growth.
and vacancy rates have fallen to 7.5% 2006: 10.5%.
We estimate prime ofce rental values increased by 22% over The West End retail market comprising 26% of our West End the same period and, in the short term, will grow further.
portfolio has also performed well in the year to March 2007.
Continued performance will depend on the amount of Footfall in the three main retail thoroughfares of Oxford Street, speculative space produced in these markets, and we remain Regent Street and Bond Street was up and retail sales, in central cautious about the effects of new development supply on London in March, were up 10.8% compared to the same rental levels in the medium term in the City market.
Demand from international retailers remains strong.
They seek large, well formatted stores, particularly in Investment markets in central London Oxford Street and Regent Street where the majority of our Transaction values and inward investment into central retail property is located.
London real estate have remained at historically high levels City and Southwark with 15.8 billion traded in the year to March 2007 The growth of the F&BS sector has driven appetite for new 2006: 14.5 billion.
International buyers of direct real ofces in the City and its neighbouring markets.
With this estate have remained particularly active being responsible increase in demand has come the spectre of new supply in the for over 35% of transactions.
shape of potential development schemes on a large scale in a High quality real estate in good locations has maintained its less restrictive planning framework than that of the West End.
appeal to a broad group of potential investors and investment Some of these schemes have been pre-let, whilst others are yields have continued to fall although at a reducing rate as the relying on major occupational requirements over the next year progressed.
As the extraordinary run of yield compression five years.
comes to an end, we expect outperformance to be generated by those buildings with the best rental growth prospects rather than further market yield shift.
With 13% of our portfolio in the course of development and good occupational demand across London, we remain well positioned.
Fleet St Upper Thames t n e Clerk High Holb Marbl Marble e Ar Arch ch Street Oxford m k enwell Road Marylebone Road n a Old Street Bdg b m E Pall Mall a i Strand Piccadilly r o t c i V Bish opsgate
