38 Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Directors Richard Peskin MA, LLM Toby Courtauld MA, MRICS Chairman, Non-Executive Chief Executive Joined the Company in 1967, appointed to With MEPC from 1991 to 2002, joined the Board in 1968 and Chairman since 1986. the Group and appointed to the Board in A Non-Executive Director of Royal & Sun 2002.
A Non-Executive Director of Liv-ex Alliance, London Board, and formerly and a member of the Board of the Central a member of the General Council of the London Partnership, the Management Board British Property Federation and the Estates of the Investment Property Forum and the Committee of the M. C. C. Aged 63.
Policy Committee of the British Property Federation.
Kathleen ODonovan BSc Econ, FCA John Edgcumbe BSc, FRICS Charles Irby FCA Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the A Non-Executive Director of Tilfen Land, Chairman of Aberdeen Asset Management Audit Committees of Prudential and Trinity and formerly a partner of, and a and a Non-Executive Director of North Mirror, member of the Audit Committee of Non-Executive Director of, Hillier Parker Atlantic Smaller Companies Investment Arm Holdings and Chairman of the Invensys and HSBC Property Investments, respectively.
Trust and QBE Insurance Group.
Previously a Appointed to the Board in 1999.
Appointed to the Board in 2004.
Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee of the Court of the Bank of Member of the Audit Committee.
England and a Non-Executive Director of O.
2 Appointed to the Board in 2003.
Chairman of the Nomination and Audit Committees and Member of the Remuneration Committee.
Great Portland Estates Annual Report 2007 Directors 39 Timon Drakesmith BSc, FCA Robert Noel BSc, MRICS Neil Thompson BSc Hons, MRICS Finance Director Property Director Development Director Formerly Group Director of Financial A director of Nelson Bakewell from 1992 to With Derwent Valley from 1996 to 2002 and Operations at Novar plc, previously with 2002, joined the Group and appointed to the previously with Legal & General.
Joined the Credit Suisse and Barclays.
Joined the Group Board in 2002.
A member of New West End Group in 2002 and appointed to the Board and appointed to the Board in 2005.
Company Management Board and a Member in 2006.
Member of the Finance Committee of the of the Council of the Westminster Property British Property Federation.
Phillip Rose MA, FFin, FSI Jonathan Short BSc, ACIB Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Chief Executive officer of Alpha Real Capital Chief Executive officer of Internos and a Non-Executive Director of Hermes Investors and a Non-Executive Director Property Unit Trust.
Head of Real Estate for of Big Yellow Group plc and Chairman ABN Amro from 2002 to 2005 and formerly of the Urban Land Initiative in the UK.
Chief Operating officer of TrizecHahn Previously Chief Executive officer Europe and Managing Director of Lend Lease of Pramerica Real Estate Investors from Global Investments.
Appointed to the Board 2000 to 2007.
Appointed to the Board in 2005.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
