financiaL and PRoPeRty RetURns ReTuRns Our objective is to achieve a return on equity in excess of our cost of equity.
To achieve this return, we set hurdle rates for investment.
The hurdle rates are based on a minimum five-year internal rate of return and are adjusted according to risk and to reflect the lower cost of borrowing in euros where appropriate.
The hurdle rates currently range from 8% to 13%.
When appropriate, the returns that would be generated by buying in the Companys own shares are evaluated against the potential returns from property investment and development.
The table below provides information on the financial returns achieved in 2007 and compares them with appropriate benchmark indices.
The returns include those from joint ventures.
There is no benchmark for total portfolio returns which is comparable with Hammersons geographical portfolio allocation.
IPD data relating to the returns of the French property sector in 2007 will be available only after this Annual Report has been published.
RETURN % BENChMARK % UK portfolio capital return 3.2 IPD Universe capital 7.7 UK portfolio income return 3.9 IPD Universe income 4.6 UK portfolio total return 0.6 IPD Universe total 3.4 Total portfolio capital return 1.6 n a Total portfolio income return 3.8 n a Total portfolio total return 5.4 n a Return on shareholders equity 4.5 Estimated cost of equity 8.8 Total shareholder return over one year 33.8 FTSE 350 real estate index over one year 36.5 Total shareholder return over three years p. a.
7.7 FTSE 350 real estate index over three years p. a.
4.4 Total shareholder return over five years p. a.
19.6 FTSE 350 real estate index over five years p. a.
16.4 More detailed analyses of capital and total returns by business segment are provided on pages 35 and 37 of the Business Review.
The IPD Universe includes retail, office and industrial returns for all grades of property in the UK, although Hammerson does not invest in the industrial sector.
The outperformance of the IPD Universe capital return index arose because prime shopping centres and offices, of the type in which Hammerson invests, have proved more resilient in the recent market conditions than secondary and tertiary properties.
The reduction in vacancy in our London office portfolio has also contributed to the outperformance.
Prime shopping centres and offices also provide low initial yields reflecting the high quality of these assets.
Consequently, the income returns for our portfolio are lower than the index.
For the year ended 31 December 2007, Hammersons return on shareholders equity was 4.5%, after adding back the bond redemption costs, which is below our estimated cost of equity.
The income element of return on shareholders equity will tend to be relatively low given the high quality of the property portfolio, as described above, and the rolling nature of the development programme.
In 2007 the capital return was also low compared with recent years due to the limited valuation growth of the portfolio resulting from the decline in market value in the UK in the second half of the year.
Total shareholder return for 2007 exceeded the FTSE 350 real estate index by nearly three percentage points.
Over the last five years, Hammersons average annual total shareholder return has been 19.6% compared with 16.4% for the real estate index.
