BOARD OF DIRECTORS 3 David Atkins BSc, MRICS 6 1 2 3 4 5 8 11 10 David Atkins, a Chartered Surveyor, joined the Company in 7 9 1998 and was appointed to the Board of the Companys UK business in 2003.
He was appointed an Executive Director of Hammerson on 1 January 2007 and is responsible for the groups UK retail properties.
In addition, he is responsible for insurance and health and safety throughout the group.
4 John Clare CBE, BSc John Clare was appointed a non-executive director of 1 John Nelson FCA, Chairman Hammerson in 1999.
He is the Senior Independent Director, John Nelson, a Chartered Accountant, was appointed Chairman Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and is a member in 2005 and is a member of the Remuneration Committee of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
He is a non-executive and Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
He is the senior director of Dyson James Limited and non-executive chairman independent non-executive director of Kingfisher plc and of Cheapflights Limited.
Senior Advisor to Charterhouse Capital Partners LLP.
5 Peter Cole BSc, MRICS 2 John Richards BSc, FRICS, Chief Executive Peter Cole, a Chartered Surveyor, joined the Company in John Richards, a Chartered Surveyor, joined the Company 1989 as a senior development surveyor and was appointed in 1981 as a development surveyor and was appointed a to the Board of the Companys UK business in 1992.
He was Director of the Company in 1990.
He was responsible for the appointed an Executive Director of Hammerson in 1999 and Companys UK operations from 1993 to 1998 and is Managing Director, Group Investment and Development.
was appointed Chief Executive of Hammerson in 1999.
He is a general council member and past President of the City Property Association.
008 Annual Report 2007 6 David Edmonds CBE, BA, D. Litt 9 Jacques Espinasse BBA, MBA David Edmonds was appointed a Non-Executive Director of Jacques Espinasse was appointed a Non-Executive Director Hammerson in 2003 and is a member of the Audit Committee.
and member of the Audit Committee on 1 May 2007.
He acts as Chairman to the Hammerson Pension Fund Trustees.
He was formerly Chief Financial Officer of Vivendi and He is Chairman of the NHS Direct Trust, Deputy Chairman of a non-executive director of SFR, Universal Music Group Wincanton plc and a non-executive director of William Hill plc and Canal France.
He is a non-executive director of and Keele University Science and Business Park Limited.
He is AXA Belgium, Maroc Telecom, SES and LBPAM.
a member of the Legal Services Commission.
10 Anthony Watson BSc Econ, Barrister at Law, ASIP, FSI Hon 7 Grard Devaux HEC, FRICS Tony Watson was appointed a Non-Executive Director in Grard Devaux was appointed an Executive Director 2006 and is a member of the Remuneration and Nomination of Hammerson in 1999.
He is Chairman of Hammersons Committees.
He is Chairman of the Strategic Investment Continental European Management Board.
He joined the Board Northern Ireland, a member of the Financial Reporting Company in 1986 as general manager and a director of the Council, a non-executive director of Witan Investment groups operations in France, assuming responsibility for Trust PLC and Vodafone Group plc and Chairman of operations in continental Europe in 1999.
He will be retiring Marks & Spencer Pension Trust Limited.
from the Board on 8 September 2008.
He is vice president 11 Simon Melliss BA, FCA of the National Council of Shopping Centres in France.
Simon Melliss, a Chartered Accountant, joined the Company 8 John Hirst BA, FCA, ACT, CCMI in 1991 as group financial controller, having worked in various John Hirst, a Chartered Accountant, joined the Board as financial positions for other companies, and was appointed a Non-Executive Director in 2004 and is Chairman of the Group Finance Director in 1995.
He is a member of the Audit Committee.
He is Chief Executive of the Met Office Committee of Management of Hermes Property Unit Trust and Chairman of ASBISc Enterprises plc and of the Trustees and a non-executive director of Whitbread PLC.
Annual Report 2007 009 Section SENIOR mANAGEmENT UK James Aitchison Director of Taxation James has been Hammersons Director of Taxation for ten years, having previously worked for another property company.
He is Chairman of the British Property Federation Tax Committee and played a leading role in the introduction of UK REITs.
Warren Austin Group Financial Controller Warren spent five years with Coopers & Lybrand in London before joining Hammerson in 1995.
At Hammerson he is responsible for financial reporting and internal control.
Duncan Beardsley Group Treasurer Duncan joined Hammerson in 1996 as Group Treasurer and is responsible for raising finance and treasury risk management.
He also oversees the groups investments in Value Retail.
Andrew Berger-North Director, Retail Parks Andrew joined Hammerson in 2003 and was appointed Director, Retail Parks in 2005.
Andrew is responsible for all aspects of the retail parks portfolio, including acquisitions, disposals, development and asset management.
Jon Emery Managing Director, UK Development Jon joined Hammerson in 1989 and has been responsible for managing several of the groups major developments including The Oracle, Reading and Bullring, Birmingham.
He was appointed Head of UK Development and Construction in March 2005 and is a director of the UK Board.
Phil Groom Director, Human Resources Phil joined Hammerson in 2005.
Prior to this he gained ten years experience of Human Resources with roles at Schering Plough and Racal Electronics.
Nick Hardie UK Finance Director Nick joined Hammerson in 1995 and is a director of the UK Board.
He spent eight years at Marks & Spencer in a number of roles, including Treasury and Financial Planning.
010 Annual Report 2007 Stuart Haydon Company Secretary Stuart joined Hammerson in 1992 and was appointed Company Secretary in 1996.
He is responsible for the groups statutory obligations and corporate governance.
Prior to joining Hammerson he held company secretarial positions at companies in the financial sector.
Bruce Isles Director, Retail Development Bruce joined Hammerson in 2001 having previously been a partner of Donaldsons, Chartered Surveyors.
He is responsible for the UK city centre retail development pipeline.
Sheila King Director, Retail Leasing A chartered surveyor, Sheila joined Hammerson in 1994 from Capital Shopping Centres.
She is responsible for leasing across the UK retail portfolio and for letting strategies for all new retail developments.
John Mulqueen Director, Investment Management London Group John joined Hammerson in 2003 from Liverpool Victoria Asset Management.
He was appointed Director of Investment Management within the London Group in February 2007.
John is responsible for maximising value within the central London office portfolio and new business opportunities.
Chris Smith Director of Corporate Affairs Chris joined Hammerson in 1990 as Director of Corporate Affairs.
He has responsibility for the Companys corporate communications programme and marketing activities.
His early career was spent in the City and he subsequently held senior roles within a number of communications consultancies.
Vinod Thakrar Director, Project Management Vinod joined Hammerson in 1994 as Senior Project Manager on the refurbishment and extension of Brent Cross Shopping Centre.
In 2005 he was promoted to Director of Project Management.
Andrew Thomson UK Operations Director Andrew joined Hammerson in 1994 and was appointed to the UK Board in June 2006.
He assumed his current role in September 2007 and is responsible for the operations of the UK retail business and information technology.
Annual Report 2007 011 Section SENIOR mANAGEmENT FRANCE Eddie Bohbot Director, Retail Management Eddie began his career with Habitat France, subsequently working for Immobilire Carrefour, Segc and SNCF.
Since 2005 he has been Director, Retail Management with responsibility for the French retail assets.
Marie-Franoise Cholin Director, Retail Leasing Marie-Franoise joined Hammerson in 1998 as Retail Leasing Manager.
She was appointed Director, Retail Leasing in 2004.
Prior to joining Hammerson, she worked at L. S. G. I. SCC, where she worked on letting new shopping centres.
Christophe Clamageran Development Director Christophe joins Hammerson France in March 2008 as Development Director.
He previously held senior property roles at BNP Paribas Real Estate, running office and residential development, and was head of the asset management division.
He will assume the role of Managing Director, France, when Grard Devaux retires.
Jean-Louis Coquand Director, Retail Development Jean-Louis was appointed Director, Retail Development in 2004.
He is responsible for shopping centre developments.
Prior to joining Hammerson, he was Deputy Director at Sgc Klpierre and project manager at Meunier BNP Paribas.
Christophe Delaporte Director, Finance Christophe joined the group in 2006 and was appointed as Director, Finance of the French office.
He had previously worked in several US companies in the communications industry.
Grald Ferezou Director, Acquisitions Grald joined Hammerson in 2006, to manage investments in France, after roles with Arthur Andersen Corporate Finance and Nexity.
He has been appointed Director, Acquisitions with effect from April 2008.
Michael Krief Director, IT Michael joined Hammerson in 2002 as MIS Manager and was appointed Director of IT for France in 2004.
He is responsible for the maintenance and development of IT in the Paris office.
012 Annual Report 2007 Jean-Philippe Mouton Director of Operations, France Jean-Philippe joined Hammerson in 2003 as Managing Director of Marketing & Valorisation.
In February 2006 he was appointed Director of Operations and is in charge of the management of the French portfolio.
Valrie Petitbon Director, Marketing & Communications Valrie joined Hammerson in 2007 as Marketing & Communications Director, responsible for the marketing of shopping centres and projects, communications and non-rental income business development.
Previously, she spent several years at Concorde Hotel Group and Grand Optical.
Christophe Rigo Director, Human Resources Christophe joined Hammerson as Director, Human Resources in 2007.
Prior to this, his career was spent in industry and, for four years, as Director, Human Resources at the real estate group Altarea-Cogedim.
Laurent Santiago Director, Project Management Laurent joined Hammerson in 1997 as Project Manager and was appointed Director, Project Management in 2001.
He manages Hammersons offices and mixed-use buildings developments in central Paris.
David Segard Director, Retail Parks David was appointed Retail Parks Director in February 2006.
He is responsible for the creation and management of a retail parks portfolio.
Prior to joining the Company, David spent seven years with Immochan, the property division of Auchan Group, as Retail Parks Director for northern France.
