BUSINESS pROpERTY mARKETS FRAmEWORK AND OUTLOOK The groups strategy is established by the Board and set out in the RetAil PRoPeRty groups annual business plan which covers the following three years.
Overall, in 2007 UK retail sales grew by 4.2%, the fastest rate since The strategy and associated action plans take into account the 2004.
However, there were signs in the second half of the year current and anticipated conditions in property markets.
A review that consumers were becoming more cautious.
Consumer confidence of the property markets in 2007 and the outlook is set out opposite.
fell sharply in the final quarter of the year, resulting in a weak Christmas for many major high street retailers.
The groups real estate strategy is supported by operational and financial strategies implemented within a risk management Conditions for retailers are expected to remain challenging in 2008. framework designed to identify and manage risk.
A summary In order to maintain sales, many retailers have cut prices to win of the principal risks faced by Hammerson and how these are market share.
managed is set out on page 26.
Over the past ten years dominant shopping centres and retail parks Our management reporting systems provide financial and operational have demonstrated rental growth significantly above the market performance measures.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs average.
The former provide attractive destinations, with large which we believe are most important to the groups performance catchments, whilst the latter offer large, accessible space as are shown on page 27 and details of our financial and property an alternative to traditional high street stores.
Management returns are on page 28. anticipates that prime shopping centres and well located retail parks will continue to outperform other sectors of the retail The impact of our business on the environment and our stakeholders property market.
UK PRiMe aNd seCoNdaRy shoPPiNG CeNtRes NoMiNal ReNtal levels 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 Prime shopping centres Secondary shopping centres Source: Property Market Analysis In France, growth in retail spending also increased in 2007, aided by falling unemployment and increased confidence following the Presidential elections in the first half of the year.
Although consumer confidence fell in the second half, retail sales continued to grow robustly.
The French economy is likely to be affected by the problems in global financial markets although it is expected that French real estate markets will be less affected than has been the case in the UK.
024 Annual Report 2007 office PRoPeRty investMent MARkets Central London is one the foremost business districts in the world.
Between 1993 and 2006 the UK commercial property market Although international finance and the business services sector recorded an unbroken run of positive annual total returns averaging dominate, the district hosts a vast array of business types, employing 13%.
In the first half of 2007 yields for prime retail property over one and a half million people.
Benefiting from an extensive remained broadly unchanged, with increases in capital values and skilled labour market, a stable macroeconomic environment due principally to rental growth.
In central London office values and clusters of similar businesses, central London has become continued to increase with a further modest reduction in yields.
an important location for many major multinational corporations.
However, the second quarter of 2007 saw some weakening in As a result London has been voted the best business location in sentiment towards real estate.
This reflected the growing impact Europe for the past 17 years and now attracts over 5.7% of all of interest rate increases, reducing the positive margin between foreign direct investment coming into Europe.
property yields and the cost of borrowing.
This was exacerbated The first half of 2007 saw strong demand from occupiers for prime by the substantial problems in international banking markets in office space in central London.
In the City, prime rents increased the second half of the year, which significantly reduced the capital by 8% to around 65 per sq ft.
However, the office market in central available for property investment.
London is cyclical and we expect demand for space to be lower in Over the past five years, one of the features of the commercial 2008.
Given the additional supply of new office space, the City property market was the significant reduction in the equivalent yield occupational market may soften.
gap between prime and secondary properties.
This had resulted in The central Paris office market performed well during 2007, with relative outperformance of secondary assets and helped to reduce strong rental growth for prime property.
Employment has been the all-property equivalent yield average.
Recently the values of growing at its fastest rate since 2001, increasing demand for office secondary properties have fallen more sharply than prime properties, space and leading to a reduction in vacancy rates from 5.4% to 4.7%.
and we anticipate that this trend will continue in the first half of 2008.
PaRis CeNtRal BUsiNess distRiCt PRiMe aNd aveRaGe aNNUal NoMiNal ReNtal GRoWth UK shoPPiNG CeNtRes seCoNdaRy vs PRiMe eqUivaleNt yields % % % 50 2.5 8 40 7 2.0 30 6 20 5 1.5 4 10 1.0 3 0 2 0.5 -10 1 -20 0.0 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 Q3 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Prime Central Business District Average Central Business District Prime LHS Secondary LHS Difference RHS Source: Property Market Analysis Source: CBRE The central Paris office market benefits from a very broad range of occupiers, without reliance upon international finance and banking.
Although the value of commercial property is forecast to continue In addition, the supply of new space in the Central Business District to fall in the first quarter of 2008, the prospect of lower interest is constrained by rigid planning regulations.
The office market in Paris rates should make commercial property look attractive to investors.
is therefore unlikely to demonstrate the same volatility as the London Encouragingly there have already been signs that those investors office market.
with access to funding are planning to take advantage of lower values.
The investment market for commercial property in France has been strong over the past five years.
France has benefited from lower borrowing rates than the UK which has helped to keep French property relatively affordable.
