BUSINESS pROpERTY mARKETS FRAmEWORK AND OUTLOOK The groups strategy is established by the Board and set out in the RetAil PRoPeRty groups annual business plan which covers the following three years.
Overall, in 2007 UK retail sales grew by 4.2%, the fastest rate since The strategy and associated action plans take into account the 2004.
However, there were signs in the second half of the year current and anticipated conditions in property markets.
A review that consumers were becoming more cautious.
Consumer confidence of the property markets in 2007 and the outlook is set out opposite.
fell sharply in the final quarter of the year, resulting in a weak Christmas for many major high street retailers.
The groups real estate strategy is supported by operational and financial strategies implemented within a risk management Conditions for retailers are expected to remain challenging in 2008. framework designed to identify and manage risk.
A summary In order to maintain sales, many retailers have cut prices to win of the principal risks faced by Hammerson and how these are market share.
managed is set out on page 26.
Over the past ten years dominant shopping centres and retail parks Our management reporting systems provide financial and operational have demonstrated rental growth significantly above the market performance measures.
The Key Performance Indicators KPIs average.
The former provide attractive destinations, with large which we believe are most important to the groups performance catchments, whilst the latter offer large, accessible space as are shown on page 27 and details of our financial and property an alternative to traditional high street stores.
Management returns are on page 28. anticipates that prime shopping centres and well located retail parks will continue to outperform other sectors of the retail The impact of our business on the environment and our stakeholders property market.
UK PRiMe aNd seCoNdaRy shoPPiNG CeNtRes NoMiNal ReNtal levels 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 Prime shopping centres Secondary shopping centres Source: Property Market Analysis In France, growth in retail spending also increased in 2007, aided by falling unemployment and increased confidence following the Presidential elections in the first half of the year.
Although consumer confidence fell in the second half, retail sales continued to grow robustly.
The French economy is likely to be affected by the problems in global financial markets although it is expected that French real estate markets will be less affected than has been the case in the UK.
