Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited Group and passing a special resolution.
The Directors and the Company by parent company financial statements of Cobham plc for the ordinary resolution may appoint a person who is willing to act as year ended 31 December 2007. a Director, either to fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Business review The Articles require Directors who have been appointed by The Chairmans statement on page 4 of the Annual Report the Board since the previous Annual General Meeting AGM together with the Chief Executives review on pages 5 to 7, or who have held office for three years or more since their the Business review on pages 10 to 17, the Financial review previous appointment by shareholders or who, being nonon pages 18 to 22 and the Corporate Responsibility section executive, have held office for nine years or more since on pages 23 to 25 contain information that fulfils the their first appointment by shareholders, to retire from office.
requirements of the statutory business review and are Accordingly, Gordon Page and David Turner will retire from incorporated in this Directors report by reference.
The office at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, will offer statutory business review is addressed only to shareholders themselves for re-appointment.
Neither of these Directors and its purpose is to provide a review of the business and to has a service contract with the Company.
explain the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of The Annual Report contains certain forward looking Association, UK legislation and any directions given by statements with regard to the operations, performance resolutions of the Company, the business of the Company is and financial condition of the Group.
By their nature, these managed by the Board.
The Directors have been authorised to statements involve uncertainty since future events and allot and issue Ordinary Shares and to make market purchases circumstances can cause results to differ from those of Ordinary Shares.
These powers are exercised under authority anticipated.
Nothing contained in this Annual Report should of resolutions passed at the Companys AGM.
be construed as a profit forecast.
Directors indemnity arrangements Principal activities The Company has entered into qualifying third party indemnity Providing a suite of end-to-end avionics products, law arrangements for the benefit of all its Directors in a form and enforcement and national security solutions, and satellite scope which comply with the requirements of the Companies communication equipment for land, sea and air applications Act 2006.
Critical technology for network centric operations, moving information around the digital battlefield, with customised Directors interests and off-the-shelf solutions for people and systems to None of the Directors is or was materially interested in any communicate on land, sea and air significant contract during or at the end of the financial year Providing safety and survival systems for extreme particulars of which are required to be disclosed by the environments, nose-to-tail refuelling systems and wing-tip Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules.
to wing-tip mission systems for fast jets, transport aircraft and rotor craft Details of Directors share interests and of their rights to Delivering outsourced aviation services for military and civil subscribe for shares are shown in the Directors remuneration customers worldwide through military training, special report on pages 35 to 41. mission flight operations, outsourced commercial aviation and aircraft engineering Corporate governance The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out Dividends on pages 31 to 34.
An interim dividend of 1.22p per Ordinary Share 2006: 1.11p was paid in December 2007.
The Directors are recommending Share capital a final dividend of 3.28p per Ordinary Share 2006: 2.64p Details of movements in the share capital of the Company payable on 1 July 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the during the year are given in note 29 of the Notes to the Group register as at 30 May 2008, making a total ordinary dividend financial statements and note 10 of the Notes to the parent for the year of 4.50p 2006: 3.75p.
Board of Directors At the AGM held on 6 June 2007 the Company was The current Directors are listed, together with short authorised to purchase up to 113,386,928 Ordinary Shares.
They held office throughout This authority will expire at the conclusion of the 2008 AGM.
the year with the exceptions of Mark Ronald, who was Although no Ordinary Shares have been purchased by the appointed on 8 January 2007, and David Turner, who was Company during the period from 6 June 2007 to the date of appointed on 1 December 2007.
In addition, Jeff Edington and this report, a special resolution will be put to shareholders at Alex Hannam were Directors until their retirements on 6 June the AGM to renew the authority to make market purchases of 2007 and 31 December 2007 respectively.
the Companys shares up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital of the Company.
The rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association the The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary Articles copies of which can be obtained from Companies Shares and Preference Shares are set out in the Articles.
House in the UK or by contacting the Company Secretary.
Changes to the Articles must be approved by shareholders 28 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Subject to applicable statutes, and to the rights conferred on Under the US$700m short-term acquisition facility the holders of any other shares, shares may be issued with agreement entered into in January 2008, the Company such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary must, in the event of a change of control, repay within resolution decide or if there is no such resolution or so far as 30 days all drawings, accrued interest, fees and other the resolution does not make specific provision as the Board sums owing.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint Further information relating to change of control appears one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate in the Directors remuneration report on pages 36 and 37 representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of under the heading Performance Share Plan and Executive Ordinary Shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation Share Option Scheme.
may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of Ordinary Shares are entitled to receive the Companys annual reports.
Employee share schemes rights of control Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of Ordinary If required to do so by the Company, the trustee of the Shares may requisition a general meeting of the Company or Cobham Share Incentive Plan the Plan will, on receipt of the proposal of a resolution at an AGM.
Information relating to notice from the Company of any offer, compromise, the rights of preference shareholders is contained in the notes arrangement or scheme which affects shares held in the Plan, referred to above.
invite participants to direct the trustee on the exercise of any voting rights attaching to the shares held by the trustee on Voting rights and restrictions on transfer of shares their behalf and or direct how the trustee shall act in relation On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company to those shares.
The trustee will not vote in respect of any every holder of shares present in person or by proxy and shares held in the Plan in respect of which it has received no entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member directions nor in respect of any shares which are unallocated present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote under the Plan.
for every 1 in nominal value of the shares of which he is the holder.
None of the Ordinary Shares carry any special rights The trustee of the Cobham Employee Share Trust the Trust, with regard to control of the Company.
which is used in connection with the Cobham Long-Term Incentive Plan, has the power to vote or not vote at its There are no restrictions on transfers of shares other than: discretion in respect of any shares in the Company held in Certain restrictions which may from time to time be the Trust.
imposed by laws or regulations such as those relating to insider dealing Research and development Pursuant to the Companys code for securities transactions The Group continues to invest in the important area of whereby the Directors and designated employees require Research and Development.
During the year the Group approval to deal in the Companys shares expended 55.0m 2006: 49.3m on non customer funded Where a person with an interest in the Companys shares Research and Development.
The management of each has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to Group business is responsible for identifying and carrying provide the Company with information concerning interests out suitable research and development programmes having in those shares.
regard to particular market and product needs.
The Company is not aware of any arrangements between Further information on research and development appears shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer on pages 6 and 20. of securities or voting rights.
Major interests in shares Significant arrangements change of control As at 6 March 2008, being a date not more than a month The Company is party to the following significant prior to the date of the AGM notice, the Company had been agreements which contain provisions which take effect, notified of the following interests of 3% or more in the alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company Companys Ordinary Shares: Percentage following a takeover bid: Number at date of Under the 300m five-year multi-currency credit agreement of shares notification entered into in July 2005, the Company must, in the event Legal & General Investment of a change of control, repay within 30 days all drawings, Management Ltd 79,427,925 7.00 accrued interest, fees and other sums owing.
Information relating to drawings at the year end is contained on page 22 Lloyds TSB Group plc 79,161,245 6.98 of the Financial Review.
Gestin y Asesoramiento Under the private placement of guaranteed senior notes of Rio Ebro S. L. 57,000,000 5.02 2002 whereby US$225m was raised, the Company must, Aviva plc 55,962,356 4.93 in the event of a change of control, offer to repay the notes.
Any prepayment shall be at 100% of the principal amount AXA SA 55,938,248 4.93 of the notes plus, save in certain cases, a modified makeNewton Management Ltd 55,108,688 4.87 whole amount with respect to such principal amount Barclays plc 38,994,753 3.43 together with accrued interest.
Cater Allen International Ltd 36,300,000 3.20 29 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors report continued Financial instruments Corporate Responsibility Note 26 of the Notes to the Group financial statements Information in relation to the Groups commitment to and note 12 of the Notes to the parent company financial Corporate Responsibility including additional information in statements contain disclosures relating to the use of relation to employment matters is set out on pages 23 to 25. financial instruments.
Creditors payment policy People Payment is generally made by Group companies to their At the end of 2007, Cobham employed 9,500 people on creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business five continents with major population centres in the UK, provided that those terms have been met.
It is the policy of continental Europe, North America and Australia.
the parent company that all invoices are paid within 30 days following the end of the month in which the invoices are Across Cobham, implementation of organisational structures approved.
The total amount of the parent companys trade designed to support the Groups declared strategy of building creditors falling due within one year at 31 December 2007 its capabilities across all functions continued with an emphasis represents 49 days 2006: 46 days worth as a proportion of on collaboration to better utilise resources and increase the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended opportunities for personal and professional development.
In support of this a root and branch review of long-term incentive design was completed resulting in the implementation of Post balance sheet events a new incentive programme and new talent management Note 38 of the Notes to the Group Financial Statements programmes, focusing on leadership development.
In addition contains information in respect of post balance sheet events.
employee performance management systems were updated.
Strategic staffing initiatives across the Company were also Political and charitable gifts supported, including the deployment of a graduate resourcing No contributions were made to political organisations.
The programme open to all Cobham Companies in the UK.
amount donated during the year for charitable purposes was 67,744 2006: 77,846.
Of this sum, donations in excess of Cobham is committed to equal opportunities for all of its 200 to UK charities were made to the value of 10,100 to employees.
The Group aims to ensure that the workplace is armed services charities, 2,450 to health charities, 1,155 free from discrimination: recruitment, selection and career to rescue service charities, 11,203 to business enterprise development are based on competence and job requirements, charities and 1,482 to local interest charities.
irrespective of race, sex, sexual preference, religion, or disability.
Cobham recognises that there is work to be done Land and buildings to fully achieve its objectives in this area, but continues to Details of the carrying amount and market values of the monitor and improve its policies and practices to reflect the Groups investment properties are as disclosed in note 16 requirements of UK age discrimination legislation.
With regard of the Notes to the Group financial statements.
to employees who become disabled, the policy is to take all reasonable steps, including retraining, to ensure that they can Auditors and disclosure of information remain in employment wherever practicable.
Each Director states that: So far as he is aware, there is no relevant audit information The importance of employee development and training is that is, information needed by the Companys auditors in recognised and Group businesses are required to encourage connection with preparing their report of which the employees to take advantage of available and relevant training Companys auditors are unaware: and programmes and opportunities for advancement.
He has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant The Group encourages employee participation and audit information and to establish that the Companys consultation at all levels and also the sharing of relevant auditors are aware of that information.
Such an approach facilitates the development of new ideas and practices that add value to The auditors,  LLP, have indicated the business, promotes team member commitment and their willingness to continue in office and a resolution to helps to focus Company and employee expectations.
re-appoint them will be proposed at the AGM.
In-house newsletters, intranet, extranet and internet communications, Company announcements, team meetings Annual General Meeting and suggestion schemes all play a part in this process.
UK The Companys AGM will be held at 12 noon on employees are given the opportunity to become shareholders Wednesday, 7 May 2008 at the offices of Dresdner Kleinwort in the Company through the Cobham Savings Related Share at 30 Gresham Street, London, EC2P 2XY.
A circular Option Scheme and the Cobham Share Incentive Plan.
containing the notice convening this meeting, together with Under the former, employees can acquire shares through the an explanation of the business to be conducted, is enclosed exercise of options granted at a 20% discount to market value with this Annual Report.
with savings made over three, five or seven years.
Under the latter, shares may be purchased out of pre-tax income.
By order of the Board W G Tucker Company Secretary 14 March 2008 30 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
