Strategy Driving growth in Cobham Cobham is driving growth through the implementation of a three phase strategy commenced in September 2005.
Phase 2 was announced in December 2007 with a strengthening of the divisions, with six consolidated into four.
A phased approach Phase 2 Phase September 2005 The creation of four, larger scale divisions will achieve the following business and commercial advantages: Focus Capability B roader scope for technology development, increased Operational Performance potential for synergies from the integration of operating units Re-shaped portfolio G reater management strength in depth at the divisional level Enhanced capabilities & talent S ignificantly enhanced US sales and marketing and Increased level of PV investment Increased operational efficiency Mo re extensive use of the Cobham brand name, increasing customer recognition Phase 2 December 2007 Strengthened divisional structure Consolidation of divisions to provide scale & critical mass Former structure Strengthened & simplified divisions Cobham Cobham Cobham Cobham Air Cobham Life Cobham Flight Enhanced business front end Defence Antennas Avionics & Refuelling & Support Operations & Electronic Surveillance Auxiliary Services in the USA & India Systems Mission Clarified vision, strategic Equipment objectives & KPIs Personal Safety Phase 3 200 to 20 0 Antennas & SATCOM Composites ERA Technology Organic and acquisitive growth Cobham Cobham Cobham Cobham Continued implementation of Defence Avionics & Mission Aviation strategy with focus on organic Electronic Surveillance Systems Services and acquisitive growth Systems New structure Cobham today is largely recognised as supplier globally with prime contractors a product and component supplier, with and governments, Cobham needs to look, some notable exceptions where the Group feel and behave like a tier two subsystems provides complete subsystems in areas company.
The Group needs to transform such as air refuelling, oxygen supply, from being mainly a tier three supplier vehicle intercoms and aviation services selling great products and components, such as EW training and surveillance.
If to a tier two player providing subsystems, the Group is going to become a preferred with some tier three capabilities.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Driving growth in Cobham Phase 3 Cobham has identified six strategic objectives and four key enablers as part of its ongoing strategy implementation.
Further investment in these four enablers or areas of focus will position the Group for Phase 3, which will run for two years.
Vision To be the most trusted global partner for leading edge aerospace and defence technologies Strategic Objectives 1.
Be a leading subsystems supplier with a comprehensive range of distinctive technologies 2.
Be in the top three in each of our chosen markets 3.
Grow faster organically than the markets in which we operate 4.
Materially enhance growth through strategic acquisitions 5.
Develop a global market presence with a unified brand and identity 6.
Have an efficient organisation with a high performance culture and motivated people Enablers Growth Technology Talent Transformation Focus on the customer and Invest in advanced, market Develop key leadership and Create scaleable Strategic performance management.
Business Units able to incorporate acquisitions.
Build on a significant and Exploit core technologies Actively manage careers with growing US presence.
opportunities across markets Drive economies of scale across and internationally.
Develop capabilities in Increase PV investment to 7%.
Share expertise and consistently Create a vibrant technical apply core Cobham processes.
Grow export business in community with strong home markets.
Build and exploit the Cobham brand.
9 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
