Chemicals and hazardous materials Throughout 2007, Cobham continued Hazardous waste makes up 10%, and to be a corporate sponsor and partner non-hazardous waste makes up 90%, of the following organisations: of total waste production Further Hazardous Materials training S oldiers, Sailors, Airmen and Families has been given to selected employees Association SSAFA Forces help through 2007 The Science Museum A US site has a new system, which Y oung Engineers reduced the amount of coating used per printed circuit board by 85%, Data verification reduced its air emissions by 75%, Cobham is committed to providing eliminated 50 gallons per year of reliable information regarding its hazardous chemicals and flammable Corporate Responsibility performance.
waste, and reduced its production An internal verification programme A Cobham business unit in France is one of the leading suppliers of slip rings for wind turbines.
cycle time by an entire day began in 2004, checking compliance Cobham is committed to complying with Group standards, monitoring with the requirements of REACH systems and raw data.
During 2007, Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation 19 business units, representing 42% and Restriction of Chemical Substances of the Group by turnover, across the legislation in the EU and has retained USA, Europe and South Africa were industry environmental regulatory subject to the verification process.
experts to assist in ensuring that Any data errors identified were Cobham business units take appropriate corrected in the totals for the relevant steps to respond.
Business units are development of REACH is at an early required to provide an action plan to stage, Cobham has already identified address any recommendation made.
and is addressing several key areas The action plans are reviewed regularly at Group level.
Data is reconciled to Community account for acquisitions and disposals, At Group level, Cobham continues to and changes in foreign exchange rates.
Dividend direct its community support at national pence campaigns.
Business units are encouraged 54 to engage with local communities where 07 their products and services are sold and 73 in which employees work and live.
06 75 Priority is given to causes directly 05 supporting the achievement of educational, engineering and scientific Reportable injuries Incidence rate Dividend Earnings per Ordinary share underlying objectives, related to the development pence pence per 100,000 employees of a responsible, sustainable aerospace 54 548 and defence industry.
As more than 07 07 50% of Cobhams revenues are 73 720 from the military market, the Group 06 06 also supports those who have served 75 677 or are serving in the Armed Forces.
05 05 Earnings per Ordinary share underlying pence 548 07 720 06 677 05 25 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007.
J S Patterson CBE, MBChB, FRCP, Non-executive Chairman Chief Financial Officer Fmed Sci Appointed to the Board in 1990, Appointed to the Board in 2003, Warren Independent Non-executive Director Gordon Page, age 64, joined the Group Tucker, age 45, joined the Group as Appointed to the Board as a as Managing Director of Flight Refuelling Group Financial Director.
Prior to joining Non-executive Director in 2005, Limited having previously been he qualified as a chartered accountant, John Patterson, age 60, qualified in Commercial Director military engines worked at Lazard, held senior finance medicine in 1971 and obtained a of Rolls-Royce plc.
He was appointed positions at British Airways plc and Membership now Fellowship of the Deputy Chief Executive in 1991, was Deputy Group Financial Director Royal College of Physicians in 1974.
Chief Executive in 1992 and Chairman in of Cable and Wireless plc.
He joined ICI now AstraZeneca in November 2001.
He is Chairman of the 1975 and in December 2004 John Governments Department for Business 5.
A J Stevens BSc, CEng, FIET, FRAeS was appointed to the main Board as Enterprise and Regulatory Reform Chief Operating Officer Executive Director responsible for Industrial Development Advisory Board, Appointed to the Board in 2003, Andy development.
He is a Director of the Non-executive Chairman of Hamworthy Stevens, age 51, joined the Group as British Pharma Group and is a former plc, FKI plc, Air Tanker Holdings Limited Managing Director of the Aerospace President of the Association of the and PHWarr plc, a Director of Lockheed Systems Group.
Prior to joining he British Pharmaceutical Industry, Martin UK Holdings Limited and a qualified as a chartered engineer at a former Non-executive Director of Governor of Canford School.
He is Pro Dowty Group and subsequently became Amersham PLC and a former member Chancellor of Cranfield University and is Chief Operating Officer of Messier of the supervisory board of the UK a Past-President of the Royal Aeronautical Dowty International before joining Medicines Control Agency.
He is Society, The Society of British Aerospace Rolls-Royce as Managing Director, Chairman of the remuneration Companies Ltd and of the Chartered defence aerospace.
He was appointed committee and a member of the Management Institute.
He is Chairman of Chief Operating Officer in September nomination and audit committees.
In January 2008 his responsibilities were extended to include P&L for all 9.
MScEE Independent Non-executive Deputy Independent Non-executive Director Chairman 6.
M Beresford CBE, MAMechSc, FIEE Appointed to the Board as a NonAppointed to the Board as Independent Non-executive Director executive Director in 2007, Mark Ronald, Non-executive Deputy Chairman in Appointed to the Board as a Nonage 66, was, until his retirement at the 2007, David Turner, who is a chartered executive Director and first elected by end of 2006, Chief Operating Officer of accountant and aged 63, is also a shareholders in 2004, Marcus Beresford, BAE Systems plc and Chief Executive Non-executive Director of the age 65, is Chairman of Ricardo plc and Officer of BAE Systems Inc, its whollyCommonwealth Bank of Australia.
was a Non-executive Director of Spirent owned US subsidiary.
Previously he was He was previously Chief Executive at PLC until late 2006.
He was an Executive Vice-President, program management Brambles Industries Limited between Director of GKN plc from 1992-2002 and with Litton Industries and Chief 2003 and 2007 and Finance Director Chief Executive from 2001-2002.
He is Operating Officer of AEL Industries.
at the same company between 2001 the Senior Independent Director and is Mark is currently a Non-executive and 2003.
Prior to that he was Group a member of the nomination, audit and Director of ATK Inc and DynCorp Finance Director at GKN plc from 1994. remuneration committees.
International Inc and Non-executive He was a Non-executive Director of Chairman of BAE Systems Inc. Whitbread plc until 2006.
P Hooley FCA, MSc He is a senior adviser of Veritas Capital member of the audit, nomination Independent Non-executive Director LLC and a management consultant.
Appointed to the Board as a NonHe is a member of the nomination executive Director in 2002 and first and remuneration committees.
A E Cook CBE, BSc, CEng, FRAeS elected by shareholders in 2003, Chief Executive Peter Hooley, who is a chartered Appointed to the Board in 2001, accountant, is aged 61 and was Group Allan Cook, age 58, joined the Group Finance Director of Smith & Nephew plc Retirements from BAE Systems where he was Group until mid-2006.
In July 2006 he was Jeff Edington retired from the Board in Managing Director of programmes and appointed Non-executive Chairman of June and Alex Hannam in December 2007.
He BSNmedical Luxembourg Holdings was formerly Group Managing Director Sarl, a group engaged in medical textile of GEC-Marconi Avionics and Chief products.
Previously he was a NonExecutive of Hughes Aircraft Europe.
executive Director of Powell Duffryn plc He is also President of The Society from 1997 to 2000.
He is Chairman of of British Aerospace Companies Ltd, the audit committee and also a member Chair of the National Skills Academy for of the nomination and remuneration Manufacturing, board member of the committees.
Industrial Forum and board member of the UK Ministerial Advisory Group for Manufacturing.
He is a member of the nomination committee.
27 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
