Business review Cobham Avionics and Surveillance The Division has been enlarged by Cobham Antennas commercial and SATCOM business being absorbed into Cobham Avionics and Surveillance.
This Division has delivered excellent PV programmes have been initiated to already adopted the antenna include organic revenue growth in the year and meet customer demand for integrated Qatar, Emirates, KLM and Air France.
maintained the record margins achieved surveillance systems, from smart in 2006.
The avionics, search and rescue, filtering of data from the perimeter to On 28 August 2007, the acquisition Law Enforcement and National Security computer aided content analysis at the of Patriot Antenna Systems Patriot LENS and SATCOM businesses all centre.
The Division now supplies was completed for a cash consideration showed growth.
virtually all digital video and control links of US$18m, with an additional cash used on US robotic Improvised Explosive consideration of up to US$27m, Tactical radio sales and aircraft digital Device disposal platforms.
intercom systems continued to see The business is based in Michigan, robust growth throughout the year as A multimillion dollar SATCOM antenna USA and designs and manufactures public safety organisations worldwide order was secured in August from a parabolic antennas and a range of increase spending on communication maritime broadband provider, Ship Equip specialist Radio Frequency RF equipment.
Search and rescue products AS of Norway.
Patriot provides products, benefited from large military orders.
The Cobhams antennas because of their technology and capabilities that can be demand for avionics products developed quality and durability in demanding exploited across Cobhams antenna under PV programmes remains robust, environments such as the North Sea.
businesses, particularly in the growing particularly for rotary wing equipment, The antennas will provide ships with US government and military Satellite with the Division continuing to secure fixed cost internet email and low cost On The Move markets.
positions with Original Equipment voice over internet protocol telephone Manufacturers OEMs.
A new range of coastal marine On 3 January 2008 the acquisition of Cobham was selected by L-3 antenna systems for television S-TEC Corporation S-TEC, a company Communications to supply the US Navy reception at sea was launched.
based in Texas, USA, was completed for with a comprehensive Cobham cockpit With three versions, these antennas a cash consideration of US$38m.
S-TEC suite of avionics equipment for the TH-57 provide higher gain and improved designs, certifies and manufactures training helicopter retrofit programme.
3-axis movement control for better autopilots for general aviation aircraft.
stability in severe sea conditions.
Increasingly avionics suppliers need Cobhams French businesses capitalised to be able to supply autopilots to their on excellent opportunities for the sale The Federal Aviation Administration customers, as the market is moving of avionics and precision engineered approved the HGA-7001 High Gain towards integrating these with other components into Airbus, Eurocopter and SATCOM antenna for use in cockpit products, such as Cobhams Electronic other OEMs.
Special mission helicopters communication, passenger internet and Flight Instrumentation System displays, to and fixed wing military trainers continue other communications applications, save weight, wiring and integration costs.
to drive growth for avionics products.
making it eligible for installation on any commercial aviation platform.
This Increasing security concerns around the antenna has been selected by Rockwell globe led to record sales in the LENS Collins and Boeing for the 787, 747-8 business.
Wireless digital video and audio and 777 programmes and to date is the surveillance technologies and covert only ARINC-781 the standard that subject and internet surveillance products defines the next generation of smaller, continue to be actively sought by robotics lighter weight fuselage-mounted OEMs, government, military, and civil antenna compliant antenna that has security and intelligence organisations.
Airlines that have 0 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Divisional highlights Results Revenue Robust growth in the sale m of avionics products 326.9 07 Increasing security concerns 281.0 led to record sales in the 06 LENS businesses Trading profit m Good orders received for 51.9 marine and aerospace 07 SATCOM antennas 45.9 06 Organic revenue growth of 17.5% The HGA-7001 SATCOM antenna has been selected for the Boeing 777 and will be used by airlines including Qatar, Emirates and KLM.
Patriot Antenna Systems was acquired in August 2007.
Their 12m antenna is used by the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in the USA.
Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
