An A310 Multi Role Tanker Transport aircraft trailing hoses from wing mounted refuelling pods.
Cobham provides the 754 buddy store refuelling system for the Su-30 fast jet.
Divisional highlights Results Revenue First deliveries for the Royal m Australian Air Force marks 262.8 delivery of Cobhams 1,000th 07 253.1 air refuelling system 06 Exceptionally strong sales of Trading profit m High Mobility Multipurpose Wheeled Vehicle HMMWV 54.1 07 Improved Restraint Systems 44.9 06 Record sales and order intake for microclimate cooling systems Organic revenue growth of 13.9% 4 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Cobham Mission Systems Cobham Mission Systems was formed from a combination of the Life Support and Air Refuelling and Auxiliary Mission Equipment Divisions.
Cobham Mission Systems delivered Full rate production of the BRU-61 A On 10 December 2007, the acquisition excellent organic growth.
As previously Small Diameter Bomb SDB carriage of the assets and intellectual property guided, the air refuelling business began system commenced following the award of Associated Design and Development to return to its long-term growth trend from Boeing of a contract for Lot 4.
Electronics Inc ADDE was completed with margins normalising and the order Tranche 2 deliveries for the Eurofi ghter for a cash consideration of US$4.5m.
Headline Typhoon commenced in support of an ADDE is a market leader in miniature revenue was adversely impacted by the award from BAE Systems for Saudi Arabia.
linear cryogenic cooler products used 2006 disposal of Drger Aerospace and in military and commercial infrared by the impact of currency translation.
On Board Inert Gas Generating System systems for observation, guidance, follow on orders were received for the targeting and missile warning detection First deliveries have been made to EADSC-17 aircraft with new contracts for the and will enable a fully optimised CASA for the Royal Australian Air Force CH-53K helicopter and VH-71 Presidential  subsystem to be A330 Multi-role Tanker and Transport helicopter.
Initial deliveries for the offered to customers.
The business will aircraft marking the delivery of Cobhams Boeing 787 aircraft fuel tank inerting be integrated into Cobhams Mission 1,000th air refuelling system.
The same system, which was developed with PV Systems unit in Iowa, USA during the 90X pod type, developed under PV, is funding, were completed on schedule.
fi first half of 2008. offered for the UK FSTA and the USAF KC-45A solutions.
The HMMWV Improved Restraint System programme for the US Armys TankThe Division started to make deliveries automotive and Armament Command against the 16 ship sets ordered to fl fleet of HMMWVs was exceptionally provide buddy store refuelling for the strong, securing new orders to retrofi t an Su-30 fast jet aircraft.
Revenue for the additional 20,000 ship sets with ongoing 754 buddy store is expected to continue production increasing the installed base to alongside sales of the Su-30 aircraft over 100,000 vehicles.
The Division will look to the next fi five years.
The telescopic probe leverage this success to new requirements for the V-22 Osprey tilt-rotor aircraft for MRAP vehicles and JLTV.
entered full rate production with a multi-year buy contract for deliveries to The Division had record sales and order 2017.
The Division secured an important intake for microclimate cooling systems development contract to supply as new orders continued for the US telescopic probe hardware for the F-16 Army Air Warrior application and the conformal air refuelling tank system.
product was successfully adapted to a This programme will enable the F-16 new ground vehicle application in the aircraft to demonstrate probe and drogue Stryker armoured vehicle.
Over 5,000 compatibility a key requirement for the microclimate cooling systems have been upcoming Indian Air Force Medium fi elded with the US Army by the year end.
5 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
