Business review Cobham Defence Electronic Systems The Division has been enlarged by the military business of Cobham Antennas being combined with Cobham Defence Electronic Systems.
Cobham Defence Electronic Systems Identification systems, as well as the In the UK, the Division was selected achieved another year of strong organic F-18 Radar & EW systems, and the to supply Direction Finding equipment growth, after an exceptional 2006 F-16 E F. Further research and and navigation communication antennas performance.
Headline results were development funding was secured for for the AgustaWestland Future Lynx impacted by the 2006 disposal of Precision applications including the AARGM programme.
Cobham will provide Antennas and by currency translation.
missile and various F-16 and F-18 complete tailfin assemblies for 70 aircraft avionics systems.
Development aircraft utilising composite technology Cobham Defence Communications contracts were also awarded for the with integrated, conformal antennas.
was awarded its second Queens Award second phase of the USAF Scaleable for Enterprise for a 300% increase in Panel for Efficient Affordable Radars The completion of the acquisition of exports of digital Vehicle Intercom programme and additional Digital Lansdale, based in Pennsylvania, USA, Systems over the past three years.
Sales Receiver Exciter contracts for phased was announced for a cash consideration of these products have continued to grow, array radar systems.
The Division now of US$240m on 25 February 2008. including deliveries for the latest MRAP has well established positions on the Lansdale is a world leading developer vehicles in the USA and deliveries to eight F A-22 tactical fighter with over 150 of EW technology and supplier of EW new international customers.
microwave modules per aircraft in subsystems for military aircraft.
The production and almost 100 modules acquisition is highly complementary to A new Integrated Digital Soldier System per aircraft already in development for the existing Cobham Defence Electronic IDSS providing Command, Control, the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.
The Systems US microwave business Communications and Situational Divisions aftermarket business was bringing additional subsystem product and Awareness capability to the infantryman strengthened with a US$20m multi-year resource and will accelerate Cobhams went into service with the British Army spares and repairs contract with the plans to establish itself as a premier RF and formed the basis of the Future USAF for F-15, F-16 and C-130 aircraft.
Infantry Soldier Technology C4I Light Subsystem growth was evident in system successfully trialled in 2007.
The the supply of commercial weather On 16 January 2008, the agreement to Eagle Close Combat Radio was launched, radar antennas, military search and purchase SPARTA, a company run from which is compatible with the IDSS, surveillance radars, waveguide pallet Washington DC, USA was announced following a collaborative development assemblies and front end assemblies for a cash consideration of US$416m.
with ERA Technology, part of Cobhams for ground based SATCOM terminals.
The acquisition is subject to regulatory Avionics & Surveillance Division.
There was also strong organic growth and SPARTA shareholder approvals and for ground communication antennas, is expected to complete towards the end Significant development programmes including SATCOM and high bandwidth of the second quarter of 2008.
SPARTA were secured for the US ballistic data link, and EW antenna systems.
will transform Cobhams position in the missile defence system, high reliability high growth US intelligence market and integrated space modules, helicopter Two contracts were received for a total of will add technology focused systems radar system upgrades and new circa 7,000 ultra high frequency SATCOM engineering and support capabilities for applications on existing manned antennas for MRAP vehicles, with orders through-life programmes across defence reconnaissance aircraft and unmanned for a similar quantity expected in 2008. markets.
The acquisition of SPARTA aircraft such as the Global Hawk.
Shipments of telescoping masts for use represents a major step forward in in combat conditions rose by 50% in Cobhams technology strategy, as a Follow-on orders were received for 2007 to nearly 8,000 units, with orders significant integrated business supplying the F-22 Radar, Electronic Warfare EW from the US Marines, the Ukraine, the US Department of Defense and and Communication, Navigation and Romania and India.
2 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 A fl fleet of Mine Resistant Ambush Protected Vehicles MRAP fi tted with Cobham UHF SATCOM antennas.
Cobham has almost 100 microwave modules in development for the F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
Divisional highlights Results Revenue Received second Queens m Award for Enterprise 299.9 07 Signifi cant antenna and 300.7 06 intercom orders received for US ground vehicles Trading profit m Excellent position on F A-22 and 74.8 growing positions on the F-35 07 71.7 06 Completion of the Sensor and Antenna Systems Lansdale acquisition and the agreement to purchase SPARTA Inc Organic revenue growth of 8.4% 3 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
