A Bombardier Dash 8 aircraft fi tted with a suite of electronic surveillance equipment for the Australian Border Protection Command.
Cobham operates a fl fleet of 11 B717 aircraft on behalf of Qantaslink.
Divisional highlights Results Revenue The Australian Sentinel m contract commenced service 192.5 on schedule 07 188.4 06 A fi five-year expanded agreement, worth up Trading profit m to AUS$300m, secured with Qantas 21.9 07 20.1 Strategic NATO Air Warfare 06 contract secured for mainland Europe Organic revenue growth of 2.5% 6 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business review Cobham Aviation Services Cobham Aviation Services is the renamed Cobham Flight Operations and Services Division and now has responsibility for overseeing Cobhams involvement in the UK FSTA Programme.
Cobham Aviation Services revenue grew The Air Warfare training business was in line with medium-term expectations.
awarded a NATO EW training contract Trading profit was up strongly due to in December 2007.
This contract will engineering modification programmes help to promote the Groups services occurring in the second half and a strong throughout Europe and support advancing performance in the FBH Heliservices growth opportunities in the Middle East.
An agreement has been reached In January 2008 the AUS$1bn Sentinel with Hawker Beechcraft for Cobham contract commenced with the new Aviation Services to be their UK civil Dash 8 aircraft delivered according to and military modification centre which schedule, t o enhance the capabilities of will complement the Divisions special the Australian Border Protection Command mission modification capability.
The aircraft have been extensively modified by Cobhams FBH had another excellent year, winning engineers to accommodate new electroa significant order for 65m to provide a optics, infrared sensors, radars and further four helicopters to the UK Ministry satellite communications, forming a of Defence for 20 years and renewing system which is more capable than the a 9m contract to operate aircraft in military assets of many of the worlds air Cyprus.
In total, approximately AUS$2.5m team of FBH, Bristow Helicopters and of Cobham sensor and communications Serco bidding for the harmonised UK equipment is installed on these aircraft.
In the first quarter an agreement worth up to AUS$300m was secured to operate Qantaslinks entire operational fleet of 11 B717 aircraft for five years, expanding the fleet from eight aircraft.
The Australian business continues to grow with new and repeat orders from the mining and resource industry.
A 17-year relationship with Santos, one of Australias most prominent oil and gas companies, was strengthened with a five-year extension to provide a larger 84-seat aircraft.
7 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
