Business Review Chief Executives Review continued new markets and maintaining and expanding Governance and risk management are essential to invest our excess capital against returning components of both the investment management it to our shareholders.
This financial flexibility our distributor relationships.
process for our investors and our approach to ensures that we have access to the resources maintaining a high quality sustainable business necessary for long-term growth.
The institutional investor sales team is focused on delivering products to the largest and most for shareholders.
Our corporate reputation is fundamental to our business, and maintaining Performance is the measure of the successful sophisticated professional investors.
Our strategy is to continue to grow this sales force and our corporate integrity is the responsibility execution of our strategy.
As an asset of everyone in the Group.
Underlying our management business focused on alternatives, broaden the product coverage.
These strategies will result in our distribution network creating strategy is a strong focus on governance and where the generation of performance is required requirements for high levels of ethical behaviour to be incremental to the movement of the continued growth in funds under management and breadth of product offering, providing which runs through our businesses.
The underlying market, we are constantly challenged importance of our reputation is highlighted by to outperform.
We are proud of our record revenue growth and creating shareholder value.
the focus that governance and reputational risk of long-term performance for investors across is given within the Risk Management and our products.
This track record has fuelled our Investor services standards of the highest level are essential to support our investors Corporate Responsibility sections of this strong growth in assets under management Report.
Our recent global staff survey and provides the momentum for further growth.
Quality in investor services is instrumental in growing confirmed that staff recognise and respect the value of Mans reputation and the importance Our focus on performance is not only for our our distribution network and ensuring that our global launches have been successful.
of their behaviour in protecting it.
In a product investors, but also for our shareholders.
highly regulated environment we view the The Groups financial results continue to show Through a number of technology enabled solutions we have enhanced the efficiency maintenance of high standards of ethical the successful implementation of our strategy.
conduct and best business practices as a Mans strong financial performance places of distributor processes and the quality of client reporting.
The institutional investor competitive advantage in the market.
We it amongst the top performing FTSE 100 therefore work closely with global regulators companies when measured by revenue experience in particular relies on high standards of performance reporting and risk analysis.
to ensure that our sector operates effectively growth, pre-tax margin, EPS growth, and in the context of the overall financial market.
The Groups dividend has This dialogue with distributors and institutional investors provides us with regular feedback on grown at a compound average growth rate Risk management is an essential competency of 33% per annum and the share price has products and strategies.
This service platform provides us with a competitive advantage and at the portfolio manager, business and Group grown at a compound average growth of 23% level.
Active risk management throughout the per annum, over the last five years.
will be a focus for continued investment.
Group mitigates the risk arising from market, credit, liquidity and reputation risk.
Our strong The proposed IPO of MF Global will allow Service is an essential part of our growth strategy.
Its success is reflected in the quality capital position, both in terms of equity capital us to unlock substantial value, which we have and debt resources, ensures that we have committed to return to our shareholders.
It will of our funds under management as measured by both strong product sales and low financial security across differing cycles and also provide focus on our leading franchise in market conditions.
Twin focus on growth from new investors, and stability in existing investors, overarching strategy is to continue to grow Our strategy is to maintain a degree of excess our business franchise for the benefit of our creates increased funds under management and long-term, sustainable shareholder value.
capital and substantial liquidity resources to give investors, and to leverage our competitive us flexibility both to continue to fund growth, strengths to create substantial shareholder value.
and to operate the business effectively under stress situations.
We actively manage our equity base and carefully evaluate the opportunities Man Group plc Annual Report 2007 08
