Financial review SEPTEMBER OCTOBER NOVEMBER Synovate expands in Carat emerges Spain, a top 10 market victorious in the pitch for market research, for Mattels US$250 with the acquisition of million international Metra Seis.
in 1964, with a presence in Barcelona The acquisition of and Madrid, Metra Mindblossom, a fullGlobal leader in using psychology to Seis also brings service digital agency understand consumer motivations, Synovate established skills in in Canada, follows that both automotive and Censydiam, goes digital.
Its respected of Genesis Media in approach now translates online with FMCG: both key September, and puts a suite of integrated products, including a industries for Synovate.
Aegis Media firmly on unique way of using interactive panels.
Aegis delivered turnover of 9,351.2 million 2006: 8,230.2 Income from associates increased from 1.2 million to 3.2 million, an increase of 16.2% at constant currency and 13.6% million.
The majority of this is attributable to QJY Media, our Hong at reported rates.
This growth was substantially driven by increases Kong-listed production and advertising associate.
Along with the good growth in operating profit at both Aegis Media and in volumes in media planning and buying as a result of significant client wins at Aegis Media.
Synovate, this performance helped group underlying operating profit to grow 13.7% at constant currency, and 11.7% at reported We grew total revenue by 14.2% at constant currency, and rates, to 149.4 million 2006: 133.8 million.
11.0% at reported rates, to 1,106.4 million 2006: 996.9 Our underlying profit before interest and tax are stated before net million, principally as a result of exceptional organic growth in both Aegis Media and Synovate.
Acquisitions made a revenue adjusting items of 0.9 million.
This is made up of a 2.0 million contribution of 36.3 million in the year.
goodwill impairment, relating to Aegis Media Asia-Pacific and Synovate Asia-Pacific: a 1.2 million charge for amortisation Gross profit of 946.6 million 2006: 852.1 million was of purchased intangibles 2006: 0.5 million, relating mainly up 14.0% at constant currency, and 11.1% at reported rates.
to proprietary technologies: a 0.9 million loss on disposal of Gross margin, expressed as revenue as a percentage of turnover, subsidiary companies in Japan and India: a 0.4 million loss on remained stable at Aegis Media at 7.6% 2006: 7.6%, with rapid disposal of an associate in India: and a 3.6 million profit on the growth in higher margin non-traditional services, including digital, deemed disposal of part of our shareholding in QJY, following two offsetting continuing gross margin pressure in media planning and new share issues in which we did not participate.
Synovates gross margin, expressed as gross profit as a percentage of revenue, was down by 80bps to 63.1% 2006: A reduced net interest charge of 16.7 million 2006: 17.6 63.9% as a consequence of the mix of services and studies.
million, in spite of higher average net debt arising from 17 Group gross margin declined 30bps to 10.1% 2006: 10.4%.
acquisitions made in the year, reflects good Treasury management and higher interest receivable.
In September we successfully Group underlying operating expenses grew in line with revenue completed a new US$125.0 million US private placement of at 14.3% to 800.4 million 2006: 719.5 million, an increase seven and 10 year notes to refinance our maturing US$118.5 of 11.2% at reported rates.
Staff costs as a percentage of revenue million US private placement.
At Aegis Media, underlying capital to be broadly flat year-on-year, in spite of 16.2% operating expenses increased slightly ahead of revenue at 15.6%, growth in turnover, recording a small underlying working reflecting investment in global initiatives, the impact of restructurings capital outflow of 6.3 million.
Year end net debt was at Carat USA and reduced profitability in our Asia-Pacific business.
The industry-leading Aegis Media underlying operating margin before associates declined slightly from 20.3% to 20.0%.
Our underlying pre-tax profit, after adjusting for the items impacting Underlying operating costs at Synovate increased only 10.6% operating profit set out above and an IAS 39 fair value gain of 1.7 million 2006: gain of 6.9 million, was 132.7 million and helped the underlying operating margin to improve from 7.7% to 8.1%.
Share scheme charges increased from 6.9 2006: 116.2 million.
This is an increase of 16.0% at constant million to 9.1 million.
As a result, our group underlying currency and 14.2% at reported rates.
The net impact of these operating margin was broadly flat at 13.2% 2006: 13.3%.
adjusting items was to decrease underlying pre-tax profit by 0.8 million 2006: 2.7 million increase, as set out in the notes to the Synovates operating margin expressed as operating profit on financial statements.
As a result, statutory pre-tax profit of 133.5 gross profit increased 80bps from 12.0% to 12.8%, ahead of the million 2006: 113.5 million was up 19.6% at constant growth in operating profit on revenue, reflecting the contraction in currency and 17.6% at reported rates.
Synovates gross margin as a result of changes in the business mix.
36 Aegis Group plc DECEMBER Aegis Media agrees to buy Heartland, Chinas leading independent out-of-home media agency, extending Posterscopes YEARS reach in the region.
China is COUNTRIES currently Asias second largest 14 2RUNNING advertising market, growing at 20% a year, with out-of-home The acquisition of SPSL takes Carat is named Media Network of the Year growing ahead of the total Synovate into the rapidly emerging by Campaign for the second year running: market.
Out-of-home has a unique role to play in a rapidly field of footfall measurement and developing economy with an urban population of 130 an unprecedented achievement.
SPSL is the established publication, Carat UK finishes the year as million people, and is expected to receive further boosts leader in Europe, operating in number one in the new business league table, from the Beijing Olympic Games in 2008 and the 14 countries, and publishing the with Vizeum UK at number two.
Shanghai EXPO in 2010. authoritative UK Retail Traffic Index.
We made 17 acquisitions and increased investments in nine Insight: subsidiaries.
We paid 79.8 million in upfront payments 2006: 23.1 million, with total outstanding deferred consideration Jonathon Jephcott, estimated at 58.0 million 2006: 20.2 million.
This was made director of Synovate up of 48.8 million in cash and 4.7 million in shares, subject to Viewsnet, sees virtual meeting agreed performance criteria.
During the period we paid communities replacing 48.3 million in consideration for acquisitions made in previous years 2006: 54.6 million.
real ones in the search for market data Sterling strengthened significantly against the US dollar and related currencies, and to a lesser extent the Euro, in the period.
This has had a significant effect on our results.
Had these rates applied Twenty-five years ago, six out of ten people would have the previous year, our 2006 reported revenue would have been agreed to a 20-minute market research interview.
Now 27.9 million lower and underlying profit before interest and tax the figure is one out of ten.
People used to think it was a 2.4 million lower.
The average rate against sterling was civic duty.
Citizens are increasingly 1: US$2.0022, compared with 1: US$1.8441 in 2006. time poor, and value what time they have.
The period end rate was 1: US$1.9849 31 December 2006: This is changing the landscape for researchers, and is 1: US$1.9589.
The average Euro rate against sterling was why we increasingly rely on panels for our information.
The period end rate was 1: 1.3606 31 December 2006: In the US, where legislation has also empowered people 1: 1.4842. to say No to information requests, paid panels already account for 30-40% of all data capture.
Our statutory tax charge was 39.1 million 2006: 33.4 million, equivalent to a tax rate including deferred tax on In ten years time we will be collecting data in a different goodwill of 29.3% 2006: 29.4%.
The tax charge for the way from different kinds of community and with less year includes a deferred tax expense of 3.9 million 2006: 1.5 emphasis on structured capture.
While there are subjects million for tax deductions in respect of goodwill.
Our underlying that people are prepared to talk about at length in tax charge was 35.2 million 2006: 33.3 million and our structured surveys, these dont include the details of underlying tax rate declined from 28.7% to 26.5%: the result of FMCG purchases.
The emphasis in future will be on qualitative research Underlying diluted earnings per share increased by 18.8% at obtained by, for example, seeding conversations on sites constant currency, or 17.1% at reported rates, from 7.0p to 8.2p.
like YouTube, and building on community communication Statutory diluted earnings per share increased by 17.9% at that already exists.
constant currency, or 16.2% at reported rates, from 6.8p to 7.9p.
Technology is liberating us to collect data in a passive The Board is proposing a final dividend of 1.46p per ordinary fashion and nirvana for market researchers is being able to capture peoples opinions without them regarding share, making 2.3p for the year, an increase of 21.1%.
This will be paid on 29 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at 2 May 2008.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Corporate and social responsibility Much of our work on We are focusing on corporate and social three principal areas: responsibility is people and society: driven and delivered awareness and on an individual advocacy: and market basis.
3 Corporate and Social Responsibility at Aegis Leading the SEE Change In 2007 we made significant progress on a number of fronts Our group-wide sustainability framework, known as Leading in the corporate and social responsibility CSR area.
the SEE Change, is based around Aegis social, economic and We continued to pursue successful established programmes, environmental impacts.
It is designed to ensure that we meet our such as Synovates CARES community involvement scheme and commercial goals responsibly, at the same time as assessing and Isobars Green Bean initiative.
managing our impact on the environment and society at large.
At the same time, we created several new strategic initiatives in Within this framework we are focusing on three principal areas: order to put sustainability at the heart of our business.
This means people and society: awareness and advocacy: and products and our business processes, HR, procurement and service development services.
Each of these workstreams has a dedicated senior team.
will all be viewed through a sustainability lens.
Imperative to this The three workstreams are underpinned by additional workstreams objective was the formation of a steering group of Aegis-wide in reporting, procurement and communications.
Having identified CSR champions an expansion of the corporate responsibility these areas and put in place an internal structure for delivery in committee we had established in 2006 and the development the course of 2007, we will focus on output from the individual of a strategic framework for sustainability across the Group.
workstreams during 2008, with objectives for reduction and The steering group includes representatives from Aegis Media, improvement set for 2010.
Synovate and head office functions.
Chaired by Nigel Morris, We are a member of FTSE4Good and we participate in the CEO of Isobar, attended by Alicja Lesniak, Group CFO, and CSR Media Forum, a group of media organisations developing championed by Robert Lerwill, Group CEO, the steering group CSR and sustainability practices and understanding for the UK presents its findings and work to the full Aegis Board through media sector.
Baselining exercise Our approach In order to develop the policies, procedures and targets set out In our 2006 CSR report, we noted that much of our work below, we completed two pilot waves of research and internal on corporate and social responsibility is driven and delivered benchmarking.
on an individual market basis.
Reflecting our history as an The current baseline was developed with the involvement of our entrepreneurial business with strong local operations, a significant number of individual initiatives were being undertaken and 13 largest businesses and our head office, from which a variety of environmental and social impacts were evaluated.
It was important managed throughout Aegis at a local level throughout the 70 to gauge not only the quantifiable impacts, but also the current countries in which we operate.
Those initiatives continue today, level of interest and actions related to CSR in each region so as to and some are outlined in this report.
establish how best to expand our programme in the coming years.
However, during 2007, the CSR steering group carried out a This exercise involved 31% of our workforce or 52% of our thorough review of our CSR activity and policies, using external workforce and 65% of Group revenue if extrapolated for the entire CSR services for bench-marking and consultancy.
we identified the opportunity for a more structured approach for We have since set ourselves a number of targets for 2010. our CSR programme.
We have already taken some steps to put Individual targets are set out in the following three sections.
that in place, and the framework will inform our CSR activity We believe these targets are stretching but can be attained if during 2008.
The framework and those steps are set out below.
we adopt appropriate measures throughout our business.
Our business is structured around the interplay of local and We will monitor progress on an annual basis, using the GRI global in terms of client relationships, strategy and execution.
Accordingly, we have developed our CSR framework to reflect this aspect of our culture and structure.
38 Aegis Group plc We have since set ourselves As a group, we aim a number of targets for 2010. to foster a culture of Individual targets are set out in wellbeing and the following three sections.
passion for We believe these targets are improvement among stretching but can be attained every one of our 201 if we adopt appropriate employees.
We will monitor progress on an annual basis, using the GRI reporting framework.
and tailored personal development plans.
In 2008 we will extend Our social impacts Within social impacts, we consider our policies and outputs in this exercise to 200 business leaders, and the population covered respect of our employees and our community relations.
Training and development Employee engagement As a group, we aim to foster a culture of wellbeing and passion We require a high level of skills from many of our people, for improvement among every one of our employees.
To develop against a backdrop of considerable change and innovation our policies and practice in this area we conducted the first in our business.
In 2007 we developed a new Aegis-wide leadership programme as a three-level robust leadership employee opinion surveys at Aegis Media and among head office development programme, covering strategy and behaviours, staff and the fifth annual survey at Synovate in 2007 to measure to be run globally across both Aegis Media and Synovate in overall engagement and views in a wide variety of employee and business-related areas.
Participation was 5,036 at Aegis Media 2008.
The new model draws on the findings of 100 interviews and 4,490 at Synovate, an average response rate of 64% and across the Group to identify current behavioural values.
At Aegis Media, many of our people initiatives run at a local The results of the surveys show a relatively high level of employee and regional level.
These include the Farfar academy, engagement in each of the groups with an overall engagement launched in 2007 by our Swedish digital agency of the same index of 72% at Aegis Media and 63% at Synovate.
Within this, name in partnership with the Berghs School of Communication in Stockholm.
The academy, aimed at finding, retaining and 91% of Aegis Media and 86% of Synovate respondents said they training the future stars of the agency world, runs a two-year course would be willing to go the extra mile to delight a client: a in digital media, creative and planning with much of the tuition reflection of a very strong commitment to client service throughout Aegis.
At Aegis Media, 80% of respondents also told us that it provided by Farfar.
All second-year students have at least two is important to them that we behave in an environmentally different paid placements across the Isobar network globally, with the aim of placing each in a permanent role at the end of the year.
responsible manner, and 75% in a socially responsible manner.
A key area of focus resulting from the surveys is attraction and In Aegis Media Germany, over 1,300 participants passed through retention of our employees.
Employee satisfaction, and reducing the doors of its Aegis Media Academy, which ran more than 135 employee turnover over the medium term, is a high priority for us.
specially designed training programmes for employees using both external coaches and 50 internal specialists as trainers.
A number of the initiatives described below are designed with this in mind and we are actively working on others.
We consider the In the US we have initiated reciprocal talent share partnerships scores that our employees give us on attraction and retention to with Harvard University and MIT.
At Velocity, we have launched be a good measure of our success in this area and we will look a programme of Gen Y training, helping Generation X to improve our rating in this area by five percentage points by the managers to manage to the demands of Generation Y employees end of 2009. and the potential generational clash of digital natives with digital Succession planning immigrants.
We are also participating in the World Economic Succession planning remains a focus across the Group.
In 2007 Forums female reverse monitoring programme, in which a relatively junior female employee mentors a CEO-level male our annual succession planning exercise covered 180 key roles, employee on issues facing women in the workplace.
for which we detailed a total of 238 individuals, including personal career development.
This was reviewed in its entirety In Synovate we launched a number of business-wide initiatives.
Since then we have put in place a number of These include a new performance management process: succession planning initiatives, including talent pipeline evaluation simplifying performance ratings and linking company, team and Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 91% of Aegis Media We are participating in and 86% of Synovate the World Economic respondents said they Forums female reverse would be willing to go monitoring programme, the extra mile to delight in which a relatively a client.
junior female employee mentors a CEO-level male employee on issues facing women in the workplace.
Corporate and social responsibility individual goals directly to remuneration.
In 2008 we will support Our work-life balance and wellbeing policies offer practical help, this with a Synovate-wide e-learning management platform.
recognising that commitments outside of work, including domestic, We published the first dedicated guide to all Synovate training family and other commitments, need to be fairly balanced with the fulfilment of professional responsibilities.
We were proud programmes and introduced a new personal attributes yardstick a practical tool to help managers improve the performance of their that Vizeum UK and Feather Brooksbank were both included in direct reports.
We completed a Synovate-wide career mapping The Sunday Times Best 100 Small Companies to Work For exercise, giving clear responsibility, knowledge and experience in both 2007 and 2008, and that we renewed our Investors benchmarks for each role, with a series of tools to help employees in People accreditation at Posterscope UK in 2007. plan their career direction.
Employee consultation 2007 also saw the European pilot of the first integrated year-long We have appropriate employee consultation processes Synovate graduate training scheme, accredited by the Market throughout our business, in accordance with local laws.
The first intake participated in an intensive In addition, we update all our employees on a regular basis with Group developments and progress, through newsletters, internal introduction to market research, held in Bulgaria, and followed by three schools: on qualitative and quantitative methodologies, publications, senior management notes and face-to-face meetings.
specialisms in market research and client skills.
In 2008, the People metrics scheme will be rolled out in Asia-Pacific and North America.
Underpinning our people initiatives is the installation of a Group-wide HR management information system which will bring HR policies In 2007 we developed a new HR policy for the group, endorsed improvements in data quality and speed.
In 2007 we selected a by the Board.
This is one of a series of governance policies technology partner and built the technical infrastructure ahead of implemented by Aegis to ensure our employees act responsibly first installation this year: a significant project, involving a software at all times as part of our published group Principles and Policies.
This will be completed in 26 geographies in 2008, including the majority of our largest businesses, with Our HR policy includes policies on human rights, diversity, disability and wellbeing.
This will provide the future data backbone for our succession planning, performance We are committed to treating each employee and applicant management and talent management, as well as reliable fairly and equitably.
We base employment decisions on merit, people metrics across the Group.
experience and potential, without regard to race, colour, national origin, sex, marital status, age, religion, disability or sexual Our aim is to better optimise our return on human capital while orientiation.
We are committed to following the applicable being a good employer and giving our people the opportunities labour and employment laws wherever we operate.
We are currently developing a series of people metrics in the areas of strategic competencies, talent development We believe that disabled people have the same rights as nonand deployment, training, leadership, performance focus and disabled to become and continue as our employees.
In the course of 2008 we will possible we provide the same opportunities for disabled people develop a series of externally benchmarked KPIs to assist with as for others.
If employees become disabled we make every delivering our people strategy.
effort to keep them in our employment, with appropriate training where necessary.
40 Aegis Group plc We were proud that Vizeum UK and Feather Brooksbank were both included in The Sunday Timess Best 100 Small Companies to Work 2,600 For in both 2007 and 2008, and that we renewed our Investors A total of 32 Synovate offices and over 2,600 in People accreditation people took part in about 70 CARES projects at Posterscope UK in during the year.
Community relations Our targets We have always actively encouraged community engagement, Employee engagement: action plans to address issues raised and where appropriate we support employees in their charitable at both Aegis Media and Synovate: development of employee activities.
In 2007 we made significant progress in community turnover reduction plan for 2010 during 2008: five percentage relations, particularly at Synovate.
The CARES programme, point improvement in attraction and retention scores by end established in the US in 2003 and initially run on a local basis, 2009: is now actively managed through a global committee.
Formed Training and development: inclusion of CSR principles and at the end of 2006, this is sponsored by Synovates global HR workshops in leadership training programme: development of director, who also sits on Synovates executive committee.
CSR initiatives and knowledge sharing tools across key regions CARES is an employee-run initiative, aimed at encouraging work in both Aegis Media and Synovate by end of 2008, to allow to support childrens charities, through fund-raising, donating time for best practice sharing: and in-kind support.
During 2007, the global CARES committee Succession planning: expansion of senior succession planning has built local committees to support the activities in the individual population to 200 key roles in 2008: Synovate offices, developed measures for assessing outcomes of activities and driven an increase in charitable activity within HR policies: further refinement of HR objectives and policies Synovate, resulting in a year-on-year increase of approximately during 2008 at local level, incorporating principles defined 60% in the number of charities supported.
in central HR guidelines: A total of 32 Synovate offices and over 2,600 people took part People metrics: installation of HR MIS in most major markets in about 70 CARES projects during the year.
Through CARES we by end of 2008: development of Group-wide KPIs by end of raised a further 0.1 million, and made donations in kind worth 2008: 0.1 million in 2007.
In 2008 we intend to take the learnings Community relations: continuation of progress with CARES from CARES and expand to the activities of Aegis Media.
in Synovate, with a further increase of charitable activities: The majority of community initiatives at Aegis Media were expansion of CARES into Aegis Medias key markets by end operated on a local basis in the year and are too numerous to of 2008: capture of impact of initiatives and key measurements detail individually.
They included Vizeum Frances support for consistently across the Group.
Solidarits a charity committed to fighting waterborne diseases Our environmental impacts with over 600,000 of free advertising space in broadcast and Our direct environmental impacts relate principally to energy out-of-home media.
Aegis Media Germany supported eight godand resource usage at our office buildings and our business travel.
children, both financially and through mentoring, through its Carat Kinder und Jugendhilfe programme, established in 1999.
In addition, we have a number of indirect impacts, as a result In the US, Carat Cares achieved record fundraising results in of the media mixes we plan and buy, and the execution of 2007.
In the UK, Carat remains the only media agency to be campaigns and projects for clients across the world.
We are a member of Business in the Community, with 2007 charitable currently working on innovative approaches to achieve a clear projects including pro bono strategy consultancy and media understanding of these impacts in order to manage and reduce planning for the Breast Cancer Campaign.
Aegis Media UKs them over time.
programmes also include a reading scheme for the Gateway School and payroll and time giving for Time & Talents Westminster.
Excluding all fund-raising by employees, we made charitable donations as a Group of a further 0.2 million 2006: 0.3 million in 2007.
As a Group, we do not make political donations.
