Letter to shareholders In 2007, it became more important than ever to focus on the Reflecting our confidence in future, while keeping our feet firmly planted on the ground.
the excellent health of your Uncertainty in the financial world and fundamental structural change reshaping our industries continued to make waves.
Company, and the Boards Our markets, however, remained healthy, and our competitive view that dividends form advantages meant that Aegis delivered an11th year of above market growth coming both from new and established one important element of territories and disciplines.
shareholder return, we are It was a challenging year in the global stock markets, with the fallproposing to increase the out from the US credit crunch severely affecting investor confidence around the globe.
The media sector and in particular agency total 2007 dividend by groups like ours were not immune to this change in sentiment.
As a result, shareholder returns were disappointing right across our industry.
Nonetheless, we believe our business model is resilient and that our prospects remain bright in spite of whatever challenges 2008 may bring.
The availability of new technologies and media fragmentation continue to have a material effect on consumers behaviour as they take advantage of increased leisure choices and the opportunity to influence the media agenda as never before.
The internet alone has ensured that consumers are no longer an audience: they are now a community with which a business must have a dialogue, an interaction not just confined to an eight-week marketing campaign but through the full 52 weeks of the year.
16 Aegis Group plc Lord Sharman, Robert Lerwill, chairman chief executive officer These new behaviours also mean that an understanding of what These 2007 results show once again that it is our 15,200 people are doing and why they are doing it has greater currency.
people who really count at Aegis.
Our culture of innovation and entrepreneurialism provides a key differentiator to our competitors.
The market research industry is seeing structural demand growth as businesses scramble to remain competitive in old and new markets In 2007 we welcomed almost 1,300 more employees to the alike.
Significant growth in the emerging economies is helping to Group, as a result of our expansion and through acquisitions.
fuel this demand, along with the increasing sophistication of Among these were Alicja Lesniak, our Group chief financial officer.
consumers right across the globe.
Alicja joined us in March, following the relocation of her predecessor, Jeremy Hicks, to the US.
With 25 years previously Against this backdrop, Aegis grew revenue at 9.8% organically, spent in the agency world, Alicja has already made a significant twice as fast as the market, and ahead of all our competitors.
Revenue rose by 14.2% at constant currency to 1,106.4 million 2006: 996.9 million, with underlying pre-tax profit up 16.0% Dialogue with our shareholders remained active and fruitful.
at constant currency to 132.7 million 2006: 116.2 million.
Our largest shareholder, Bollor Group, twice called for a Underlying diluted earnings per share grew 18.8% at constant shareholder vote on the subject of Board representation.
On both occasions, this proposal was rejected by a majority of voting shareholders on corporate governance grounds.
Reflecting our confidence in the excellent health of your Company, and the Boards view that dividends form one important element of Looking forward, we are cautiously optimistic about the outlook shareholder return, we are proposing to increase the total 2007 for 2008.
Trading so far this year has been healthy.
we remain alert for possible signs of softening and ready to take appropriate action to protect our profitability.
Against this The execution of our strategy to expand our services in both digital backdrop, we expect to deliver a further good year, thanks to and emerging markets developed well, with particular success in Aegis superior services, our recent new business wins, the 17 digital.
One quarter of Aegis Medias revenue came from digital acquisitions we made in 2007, and Isobars unique position as last year, far above our nearest competitor, and 20% of our Group the worlds largest digital agency network.
revenue came from emerging markets.
In 2008 we would expect both those percentages to grow further.
New assignments were won right across the Group, both locally and internationally.
In both Aegis Media and Synovate, more and more clients want to appoint partners to work across regions, and increasingly in some cases, globally.
We are investing for this trend in Aegis Media and Synovate: expanding our global account management in both businesses.
