Underlying operating Our strategic aim is to create revenue growth margins 2007 sustainable and profitable growth, ahead of the global Aegis Media 20.0% Aegis 9.8% advertising and market Synovate 8.1% research industries.
We will Aegis 10.3% do this by continuously Media Group 13.2% innovating in marketing Global communications both in our 4.6% 2006 adspend products and services, and the Aegis Media 20.3% way we run our businesses Synovate 8.9% in order to build effective Synovate 7.7% bridges between our clients Market Group 5.2% brands and their consumers.
research 13.3% Key performance indicators in detail Our framework Our primary business objective as a group is to win and retain Closer than ever to clients Clients are the most important consideration in almost everything client mandates and to service our clients to the very highest levels of satisfaction.
Our strategic focus is on winning and retaining their business, and applying all our resources to help Ours is a very competitive industry, where successful businesses solve their business problems.
have to perform on a number of fronts to grow and prosper.
We work hard to make our client relationships as productive and These include: efficient as they can be for both parties.
That means offering clients delivery of high service levels: more services, and extending the geographies where we carry out continuous improvements in client value-added and productivity: work for them.
It also means having the flexibility to mould our own constant innovation, with new products, services and ways of internal teams and structures to mirror their own, and to answer doing business.
Many of our client contracts are structured to incentivise us to Investing for organic growth deliver to specific targets on productivity levels and client service.
Our aim is to have organic revenue growth that is faster than our We also use a number of non-financial KPIs across our businesses.
We achieve this through investment in our business These differ by type of business and geographic region.
In many to drive innovation and new solutions.
cases we consider them to be commercially sensitive and it would That investment can take many forms: hiring new talent: not be appropriate to publish them externally.
acquiring companies that will fit well within Aegis Media or For these reasons, we consider our overall financial performance Synovates existing network: and developing our own tools, to be the best measure of the value we can create for our clients, models, platforms and technologies in-house.
and hence for our shareholders.
In addition, last year, we Transformation of our business highlighted the four specific KPIs set out below and on the facing With the world around us transforming, we are determined to page as further measures of our business progress.
remain ahead of the curve.
Digital is everywhere today, and we Having reviewed these KPIs, we continue to believe they see emerging business models on all fronts: in the consumers own are a useful guide to the successful execution of our strategy.
home: with our media partners: in our clients worlds: and in our Where possible, we will generally look to broadly maintain or own business.
And emerging markets and new technologies are improve on each of these KPIs year-on-year, and where that is letting us develop new ways of carrying out our client work and not the case, to explain why not.
Group organic revenue growth versus In both businesses, we are constantly evolving our own ways of our markets working: making behind-the-scenes investment across all our We calculate organic growth by adjusting for acquisitions and businesses in new software and systems to improve our service currency movements.
We treat all acquisitions as if they had to clients while constantly increasing our own efficiency.
been in the Group for the comparable period in the prior year.
Total shareholder return, 2007 4. International relationships with our largest clients 2007 130 23 Aegis Media countries client 120 8 110 Aegis Media products client 23 100 Synovate countries client 2006 90 22 80 Aegis Media countries client 7 70 Aegis Media products client J F MAM J J A S O N D 19 Aegis FTSE Media International agency group Source: Bloomberg Synovate countries client Group organic revenue growth in 2007 was 9.8%, up from Priorities for 2008 7.7% in 2006.
This was well above growth in the global In 2008, we will continue to deliver on our strategic framework, advertising market at 4.6%, and in market research at 5.2%.
through a number of initiatives, including those set out here: It was also higher than every one of our major competitors.
Underlying operating margins Closer to clients We calculate operating margin as a percentage of operating Investment in global client-facing resource to deliver account profit before associates over revenue.
management benefits for major clients: Our underlying operating margin eased 30bps in Aegis Media, Investing in organic growth to 20.0% 2006: 20.3%, largely as a result of planned Further roll-out of network specialisms, including search, investment to position Aegis Media for future growth.
Synovates sponsorship and experiential and mobile: operating margin improved by 40bps to 8.1% 2006: 7.
7%, Further development of tools and solutions: reflecting excellent cost control and measures to reduce our Business transformation underlying cost base through more efficient ways of working.
Monitoring and assessment of a number of agency As a result of these two movements, Group operating margin integration pilots: was slightly down year-on-year at 13.2% 2006: 13.3%.
Continued development in digital through acquisitions and network innovation.
TSR relative to our sector Synovate Total shareholder return TSR measures appreciation or decline in the share price, and assumes all net dividends paid are reinvested.
Closer to clients Optimising our existing Global Client Relationships programme: All figures are calculated in Sterling.
Global roll-out of new local client relationships initiative: In 2007 concerns about the global economic outlook impacted Investing in organic growth the performance of agency groups.
As a result, Aegis TSR was Active programme of tool development including re-purposing disappointing.
We delivered a TSR of 14% against a FTSE of existing solutions: Media sector TSR of 1%.
An international agency group Further roll-out of network specialisms, including industry consisting of GfK, Havas, Interpublic Group, Ipsos, Omnicom, practices and specialist solutions: Publicis, TNS and WPP delivered TSR broadly in line with our Business transformation own, at 10%.
Aggressive targets for offshoring data-processing from 4. International relationships with our largest clients 14 highest cost markets: In 2007 we worked for our 20 largest Aegis Media clients in an New outsourcing partnerships in CATI for highest cost markets.
average of 23 countries: up from 22 for the same client universe in 2006.
We worked with them in an average of eight product areas, up from seven in 2006.
And, we worked for Synovates 16 largest clients making up the Tier 1 and 2 Global Client Relationship accounts in an average of 23 countries, and up from 19 in 2006.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Marketplace Fig1: Consumers in one or more category at least monthly All European online adults Creators 10% 39% Young European online Critics 19% 57% consumers Collectors 9% 17% Joiners 13% 52% Spectators 40% 81% Inactives 53% 14% Source: Forrester The big picture Platform convergence, media fragmentation and the advance of digital are no longer merely buzz phrases.
Today, these transformational trends are a reality, providing consumers with a dizzying array of new ways to find information, entertain themselves, communicate with others and build communities of interest.
This is having a far-reaching effect on consumer behaviour in all its forms, and in turn on any business which concerns itself with understanding or talking to consumers.
Until recently, people spent time at home watching or listening to a handful of TV and radio channels.
Now, they have hundreds of TV and radio channels, both traditional and on-demand, alongside millions of pages, forums, communities, podcasts, games and download sites on the internet and mobile phones at their fingertips.
Consumers are taking control of what they watch, what they listen to and how they communicate.
The statistics show how and where.
The number of high-speed broadband connections globally is growing swiftly, predicted to be a third of the worlds 1.5 billion online connections in 2008.
At 3.3 billion mobile subscriptions, there is now one mobile for every two members of the worlds population, with Western Europe and Russia boasting a penetration of over100%.
Digital TV take-up continues to grow, with nearly half of TV households worldwide forecast to be digital by end of 2012.
China is driving the growth, and will account for a quarter of all digital TV households by 2012.
Todays teenagers dubbed digital natives are predicted to spend 80% of their waking time with digital media by the end of this decade.
As a result, our job both in Aegis Media and Synovate is to navigate the seismic effects of these changes on how consumers consume, interpreting true trends, cutting through hype and providing genuine insight.
20 Aegis Group plc MULTI-TASKING Hours per week spent: Fig 2: Multi-tasking: the norm Weekdays in Hong Kong Reading books 200 Working Commuting Sleeping 180 Housework chores Other entertainment 160 Shopping Talking on the phone 140 Going out with friends Playing sports 120 Playing Offline video games 100 Eating drinking Studying 80 Extra-curricular classes Attending school class 60 On the Internet Watching video DVD 40 Listening to music Listening to radio 20 Reading magazine Reading newspaper 0 Watching TV 0600 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300 0000 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 Source: Synovate 0700 0800 0900 1000 1100 1200 1300 1400 1500 1600 1700 1800 1900 2000 2100 2200 2300 2400 0100 0200 0300 0400 0500 0600 At the same time, the worlds businesses and brands are becoming Everybody connected to everyone and everything global.
For cost, technology and efficiency reasons, companies The internet whether accessed by a static or mobile device stands and falls by its ability to enable people to interact.
Allowing now often look to align their campaigns or research projects across a number of continents.
This shift in approach is having a the consumer to tailor information requests, search for products or significant impact on marketing strategy, procurement and budgets, experiences or play with others online has contributed to its first with growth driven increasingly by emerging markets in more phase of growth.
Fast broadband connections now combine swift established product categories.
Below we set out the ways in download speeds with always-on connectivity.
It is the latter which these major changes in consumer behaviour and the trend which is driving the internets next phase of development.
for globalisation will affect our marketplace this year and beyond.
Communities, blogs, forums, social networks and contributions The new consumption: behaviours from amateur users within the new generation of sites have been The current phase of change in how we consume media is dubbed web 2.0 by many industry observers.
It is predicted that this type of activity will grow to be at least one-half of all characterised by a number of trends.
Some of these originate internet-based content consumption over the next ten years, from the consumer, some from business: all are linked.
Media meshing The sheer number of media outlets available has had a Social networks In 2007, social networking went through exponential growth, fragmentary effect on traditional mass media channels, particularly in the UK and Europe.
Consumers use these online sites especially TV.
But its not just that people have more choice: to augment their offline social lives, interacting with their existing they are increasingly consuming more than one medium at once.
Known as media meshing, this is characterised by a blurring of friends and using them as a tool to find other like-minded people.
the boundaries between activities and the channel or platform.
Facebook, Bebo and MySpace are interactive communities, not audiences in the traditional sense, and have grown fast over the Examples include watching TV while surfing the internet: listening last 12 months.
In December 2007, one visit in 50 from a UK to music or watching videos downloaded on a mobile phone: internet user was to Facebook.
or streaming radio through the internet and simultaneously chatting But this space is tricky for advertisers, even for a simple display with friends through an instant message service.
Content is unregulated and unmonitored, potentially can lead to attention deficit or even media saturation, where leaving brands vulnerable to negative brand associations.
consumers are being bombarded with so many messages that each loses its efficiency.
Above all, though, media owners have to be careful not to exploit communities, as Facebook found with its Beacon Media meshing also means it is harder to reach consumers.
application, which collected data on users shopping habits to In 1995 it took three TV ads to reach 80% of women in the US.
This caused a significant backlash and By 2000 it took 97.
Mass media, while unrivalled in its impact in accusations of invading privacy when it launched.
some situations, no longer provides a fide facto scale of audience.
Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Marketplace Fig 3: Frequency of search engine use among online users Multiple times a day 32% At least daily 22% At least weekly 29% % At least monthly 54 9% of online users conduct daily internet searches Less than monthly 6% Havent performed search within past 6 months 2% Source: Jupiter Done well, however, marketing in this way either through Search at the heart of internet behaviour existing sites or by creating a unique social network can be Over 50% of users say they search online at least once a day very effective.
A 2007 Aegis Media campaign for Reebok put fig.
Search engines have partly or wholly taken over from a social networking at the heart of an initiative to change the number of important offline behaviours.
Trawling the high street for perception of the brand amongst runners.
Run Easy was a new item of clothing or present for a friend: buying a newspaper: designed to focus on the enjoyment in running.
The campaigns researching an essay or potential new employer: visiting a travel site, www.
com, offered forums, applications for agent can be replaced by a visit to a search engine.
As a result, creating a map of favourite run routes, playlists of running they have become a powerful marketing tool.
Search engines are tunes and upload photos.
now cited in research as the single greatest source of influence when making a purchasing decision online fig.
The consumer as producer, creator, commentator Online, publishing is no longer limited to businesses with a But what impact will these behaviours have for those seeking to printing press or broadcasting licence.
Anyone can put a written understand changing consumer behaviour?
What opportunities word, an image or a video into the public domain for all to see: and what threats do they present?
And how are they redefining making communications much more transparent and empowering the media landscape?
With search acting as the gateway for so many online and offline As a result, there has been an explosion in the number of actions it is increasingly the key to the way media is planned, and people who create content online: more than half of online the source of reliable, real-time, predictable data.
Outlined next is teens in the US are reputed to be content creators.
Consumers how this will affect the media landscape of the future.
are contributing to, and sometimes leading, the agenda for news, New search: a database of intentions opinion, comment and interpretation of everything from individuals Search advertising will make up around 43% of digital marketing to brands.
The big search engines, dominated by Google, The statistics speak for themselves.
A new weblog an online are already in hot pursuit of the next generation of search tools.
journal or commentary is created every second of every day.
While website search results are already sorted by relevance Online encyclopaedia Wikipedia has 9.25 million articles in according to how many other pages link to and from them 253 languages.
Googles video sharing site YouTube serves there are further developments in the pipeline.
Personalisation upwards of 30 million videos a day and photo-sharing portal will require signing in to an engine, so it can record your search Flickr had 43 million unique users globally in January 2008. preferences.
This will enable the engine to factor in your location, age and gender and learn your likes and dislikes, delivering This activity is led by the young.
1 shows, over a third of better results.
young European consumers online are creating digital or internet content, whilst more than half are criticising or participating in discussions about an opinion or a news story.
22 Aegis Group plc Fig 4: Sources of influence for online Fig 5: Global media spend by category consumers making shopping decisions 2007 41% Website 18% TV 2008 41.5% Saw in store 15% 23.9% Word-of-mouth Newspapers 14% 22.5% Category influencer 11% 13.5% Magazines Salesperson 6% 13.2% TV ad 4% 7.8% Radio 7.7% Mail catalogue 3% News entertainment media 3% 0.5% Cinema 0.6% Email news 3% 5.8% Search engine 3% Outdoor 5.8% Web ad 3% 7.5% Internet Magazine newspaper ad 2% 8.7% Source: DoubleClick Source: Carat Searching video is also a work in progress.
At the moment, The holy grail is combining behavioural and attitudinal data to word tags are attached to a video allowing it to be categorised.
reach a more robust predictive model for what a consumer will do, reducing the need for real-time experiments and spending money This is only really suitable for very short clips.
Since videos are both visual and audio and could be feature-length films in a much more efficient, effective and targeted way.
With six in 10 US internet users watching Aztec has already begun to do this in a retail setting, and with our online video content every week, being able to index audio-visual acquisition of SPSL we will now look for opportunities in customer content is crucial for the growth of the online TV market and the and purchase tracking, marrying retail data with real-time footfall advertising that will help to fund it.
information to create a realistic picture of how a consumer behaves in a retail environment.
Due to its influence on and by other media consumption, marketers are increasingly looking to put search at the heart of The major hurdles to reaching this are primarily practical.
Some of their planning strategy.
Some agencies are devising tools which the bigger internet-based media owners are building or acquiring allow measurement of the impact of each medium on a consumers the ability to measure effectiveness.
But most platforms are far search behaviour in real-time alongside the impact of each from comprehensive.
Tracking new media can be very difficult, medium on each other.
Since an individuals behaviours work especially with regard to ownership of the customer data.
as a mix across many different media, this is a necessary and For example, in mobile each network provider owns proprietary welcome route for improving planning, measurement and return data about its users.
But unifying this would take a common on investment for a marketing initiative.
Apart from the reluctance of the networks to share data with their competitors, devising a system to work Analytics and insight on all phones has so far proven prohibitively complex.
Similar The fragmentary behaviours described above make people issues exist with measuring in-game advertising.
There is also very difficult to categorise, rendering the old definitions of the issue of amalgamating data from different sources different consumer groups by demographics alone much less useful.
media owners to see what a customer is doing on all platforms, Analysis of information needs to go beyond trends to reach an rather than just the internet.
empathy with consumers, and a way of predicting behaviour on an ongoing basis rather than just an isolated response to a In addition, consumers are beginning to wake up to the fact particular stimulus.
Added to this, businesses need to understand that their behaviour is being tracked, particularly online.
They have become aware of the value of this data.
This affects every aspect of their communications with consumers across more than one territory.
As a result, getting insight takes on a different tone.
By using the internet, brands can incentivise and understand the consumer on a much wider scale than before.
