Green Bean was launched in Isobar in 2005.
It is a self-help sustainability programme, promoted globally and activated by passionate ONE AND Green Bean champions in Isobar agencies around the world.
The initiative covers five categories: saving energy: reducing water: ONLY reducing waste: cutting down on travel-related pollution: and being a force for good.
In the UK, Carat remains the only media agency to be a member of Business in the Community, with 2007 charitable projects including pro bono strategy consultancy and media planning for the Breast Cancer Campaign.
Corporate and social responsibility Green Bean initiative Property Green Bean was launched in Isobar in 2005.
It is a self-help We have limited immediate control in many cases over property, sustainability programme, promoted globally and activated by being a tenant not a freeholder in the overwhelming majority of passionate Green Bean champions in Isobar agencies around our buildings.
However, along with travel, our resource usage, including energy and water, has been the primary focus on our the world.
The initiative covers five categories: saving energy: reducing water: reducing waste: cutting down on travel-related baselining exercise, and we are working on policies that we can pollution: and being a force for good.
implement in partnership with our landlords, as detailed below.
Travel To date, Isobar agencies in 14 markets have participated, along with Aegis Media Asia-Pacific and Carat Sponsorship.
Our baselining exercise shows that travel per employee accounts Green Bean provides the toolkit and stimulus for Isobar agencies for an average of 1.5 metric tons of CO annually.
International 2 to reduce resource consumption and adopt sustainable behaviours travel is a reality in a group like ours, in 70 countries, but we are across the world.
Through the Green Bean Awards, we can committed to reducing our travel footprint significantly, as set out in measure progress against a number of targets across its the targets below.
In 2007 the Green Bean Award was jointly won by Our targets OneDigital in Australia and iProspect in the US.
Green Bean now Green Bean: start the roll-out of Green Bean: new generation has a proven track record as a catalyst for sustainability in our across selected regions and businesses in 2008: group.
As a result, we intend to make Green Bean the prototype programme for both Aegis Media and Synovate globally.
Sustainability workshop: further sessions in 2008 and diffusion The Group-wide adoption of Green Bean will start in 2008. of learnings around Aegis: Sustainability workshop Procurement: introduction of standard review schemes including In October we held our first Sustainability Workshop, in CSR considerations in supplier selection process by end of conjunction with the Future Foundation and The Ecologist.
Attended 2008 on worldwide basis: introduction of supplier assessment by 60 people from across Aegis, the event explored sustainability forms for all IT equipment supplies, office supplies and food themes including insight into the ethical consumer, understanding consumables, in accordance with ISOs and other domestic the trends in sustainability, what this means for brands and what standards and sustainability indications in key Western markets it means for our own business.
This was the first in a planned by end of 2009: definition of specific standards by product programme of events which will also include sessions at the annual categories by end of 2009: introduction of all the above conferences of both Aegis Media and Synovate during 2008. combined with standard business terms and conditions and a standard selection process by end of 2009: Internal communications During 2007 both Synovate and Aegis Media Asia-Pacific Energy and water: working with landlords to develop policy introduced regular columns into their staff publications, outlining and standards for in-house renewable energy supplies and steps employees can take to manage their environmental impacts.
reduction of draw on national grid supplies by 2010: introduction of standard Green office policy by end of 2008, Global procurement policy to include recommendations on tap drinking water where We are currently working on a major new Group-wide possible and roll-out of water conservation methods in lavatories: procurement initiative, to be completed in the course of 2008. bottled water policy where regions will ensure local water Our new policy will formalise existing practice and make sourcing only: sustainable procurement consistent across the group, and will cover areas including energy and water, IT and stationery, as well as property and travel.
42 Aegis Group plc We are currently working on a major new GroupVizeum is the first wide procurement initiative, to be completed in UK media agency the course of 2008.
Our new policy will to adopt Noughtilus: formalise existing practice and make sustainable measuring the procurement consistent across the Group, and environmental will cover areas including energy and water, IT impact of and stationery, as well as property and travel.
communication channels by CO 2 equivalent.
Stationery: 60% of paper to be recycled paper by end of Economic and environmental 2010: reduction of consumption of paper related products impact measurement by office by 20% by end of 2010 against current baseline: Early work in this area includes the licensing of Noughtilus standardisation of paper and ink specification in all priority by Vizeum UK: the first UK media agency to adopt this new campaign measurement tool which measures the environmental western markets by end of 2009: impact of communication channels by CO equivalent.
2 IT: introduction of shared initiatives with suppliers eg: end-of-life by end of 2009 through global tender: standard Our targets utilisation replacement policy for hardware by end of 2008: Products and services: launch of services and product definitions workstream through initial workshops in 2008: Property: assessment of Green certificate where applicable delivery of new products and services to clients as part of as part of property approval process: policy on key LEED or ongoing business, embedding sustainability principles in BREAM and other elements for consideration in assessing products and service creation by 2010: new buildings for leases and acquisitions in the UK and Asia by end of 2008: Business process definition: launch of our social transformation, ethical and environmental reporting and change programme, Travel: introduction of global umbrella travel policy that Leading the SEE Change, in three different organisations within recommends video-conference usage and ensures management Aegis Media as pilots for 2008: continue to roll out the Leading sign-off on travel by end of 2008, with active promotion of desk the SEE Change programme across the entire Group by 2010: top video-conference capability and usage: employee car share policies and bike scheme policies in all western countries Economic and environmental impact measurement: launch subject to local legislations by end of 2009 : 20% reduction of Noughtilus in selected pilot case studies for 2008: definition of total miles travelled by air per capita globally by 2010. of measurement approach on how economic impact should be calculated by end of 2009.
Economic impacts Our economic impacts include our products and services, As a Group, we are actively embracing sustainability as a the wealth and employment we generate, and the work we positive force for our business.
We have made considerable do for our clients.
We believe the application of sustainability progress during 2007 in understanding our impacts and principles in this area will be profound, both in terms of our defining our broad ambitions in this area.
2008 will be a strategic development and the management of our impacts.
significant year in terms of implementing some early Group-wide policies and developing further business initiatives to underpin Products and services our commitment to this area.
We will measure progress and Within our CSR framework, we have a workstream specifically report back on this progress to our shareholders and other focused on developing products and services with sustainability stakeholders in 12 months time.
This will include a review of our entire supply chain.
Notable examples of sustainable product development in Synovate include our 2007 Climate Change survey in partnership with BBC Worldwide and Synovate Motoresearchs sixth annual survey on consumer attitudes towards advanced propulsion and alternative fuels.
