18 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Acting responsibly Over the past year, we have further reviewed Passion for quality This successful programme will be further and continued to build on our Corporate We are passionate about delivering superior extended to include our buying colleagues Social Responsibility CSR strategy against food and service to our customers and take in North America early in 2008. the increasingly complex environment in pride in achieving this.
We look to replicate which we operate.
As a result, we have success, learn from mistakes and develop We operate a Speak Up programme so that renewed and strengthened our determination ideas, innovation and practices that will help our employees can raise, on a confidential that Compass should continue to improve its us improve and be leaders in our marketplace.
basis, any concerns about how we conduct our CSR journey.
Our whistle-blowing programme Win through teamwork is available to 99% of our employees and we We regard CSR as a sustainable approach We encourage individual ownership but will complete the roll-out to the balance of our to business that seeks benefits for all our work as a team.
We value the expertise, employees in the remaining countries during stakeholders, be they customers, employees, individuality and contribution of all our the course of 2008.
Ongoing work continues communities, the environment or the employees, working in support of each other to be undertaken throughout the business to Company and its shareholders.
We support and sharing good practice, in pursuit of raise employee awareness and regular reports sound CSR policies and practices for good shared goals.
are also provided to the Audit Committee business reasons.
Our commitment to of the Board.
CSR is not simply a response to increased Can-do market attention to this area, but acts as a We take a positive and commercially Corporate Responsibility Committee reinforcement of the way that our business aware can-do approach to the day-to-day We have established a Corporate operates on a daily basis.
The Board believes opportunities and challenges we face.
Responsibility Committee of the Board, to that the progressive integration of CSR across provide direction and guidance on all aspects the Group and the inclusion of broader social Responsibility of business practice and responsibility ensuring and environmental issues into our decision We take responsibility for our actions, consistent application everywhere we operate.
making will help us achieve our business goals individually and as a Group.
Everyday, The committees primary responsibilities and act as an essential building block for everywhere we look to make a positive include: overseeing health, safety and growth in shareholder value.
contribution to the health and wellbeing environmental practices, business conduct, the of our customers, the communities we work positive promotion of employee engagement Corporate culture in and the world we live in.
as well as diversity and community Our values investment.
The committee comprises Our vision is detailed on the inside front cover Code of Ethics Sir Roy Gardner Chairman, Richard of the Annual Report.
Our strong set of The Compass Code of Ethics sets out our Cousins, Andrew Martin, Steve Lucas, values is key to achieving this: defining what, social, ethical and environmental commitment Jane Kingston Group Human Resources collectively, we believe in and the basis of towards each of our stakeholders and the Director, and Mark White.
everything we do: communities in which we operate.
The Code underpins our CSR programme and supports A commitment to develop Openness, trust and integrity our business integrity.
During 2007, we performance indicators We have a commitment to open dialogue and launched a specific ethical business training We want to track our progress along our CSR transparency with all of our stakeholders.
programme for our European buying team journey and to update our stakeholders on the which supports an ethical approach to progress we are making.
We are developing and We set the highest ethical and professional business practice, the protection of human refining a common set of key performance standards at all times.
We want all our rights and clearly sets out the behaviour indicators KPIs and targets to measure our relationships to be based on honesty, respect we expect from buyers when dealing with CSR success.
These will provide us with a and fairness.
our supply partners across Europe.
means to monitor and manage performance at a Group level, complementing existing measures at a business level.
For example, Speak Up Our whistle-blowing programme is now available to we are working to assess our environmental 99% of our employees globally.
performance using the model recommended by the UK Government Agency DEFRA, and are selecting future KPIs that are relevant to our sector.
We have identified greenhouse gases, particularly CO emissions and waste, 2 as our key environmental impacts.
From October 2007, we implemented a web-based tracking tool across our Top Ten countries representing more than 80% of total Group revenue, to collect the necessary environmental performance data that we require, the results of which will form the basis of our reporting for our 2007 08 CSR review.
19 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 and make clear whats expected in the Top Ten countries Employee survey The Top Ten countries representing more than In 2007, over 150,000 employees had the opportunity workplace.
Our employees believe managers 80% of total Group revenue.
to participate in our global employee survey.
are good communicators keeping people informed of changes that may affect them, while also providing constructive performance feedback.
USA UK We have also been able to compare our results with those of other multinational, multi-site France service-oriented businesses.
It is pleasing to note that in certain areas we rank above other Japan major employers.
How our managers give helpful feedback and how the Company values Canada ideas and opinions are just two examples.
Germany While the survey gives us the ability to target our efforts and resources in those areas that Italy have the greatest influence on engagement, one of the real successes has been making the Spain results accessible to all employees, especially Netherlands those in our units sites.
People believe in the survey, and globally more than 6 in 10 expect Switzerland positive action to be taken on the results.
Our next global People Survey is planned for early 2009 and will include additional countries to those participating in the 2007 survey such that we will aim to reach some 160,000 employees.
Our people Our positive can-do attitude means We employ over 360,000 people in around people are motivated to go the extra mile Developing our people 64 countries.
Our success is dependent on the and the results show that our new Guiding We know from the results of our survey that contribution of our employees.
They remain Principles are fast becoming part of everyday we need to do more to help our people our most important asset and represent the life at Compass.
develop their skills and further their careers face that Compass presents to the world.
This is something we A key objective is to ensure that we provide will continue to focus on in 2008 through Our Guiding Principles a workplace environment that encourages our global employment brand, talent Health, Safety and Environment First Delivering for Clients and Consumers and supports our employees in achieving their management and various learning and Developing our People and Valuing Diversity best personal performance.
An engaged and development programmes.
Profitable Growth motivated workforce will enable our people Constant Focus on Performance and Efficiency to achieve their performance goals.
Training and development programmes for all employees are important both for our Over the last five years, we have conducted In addition, three-quarters of employees who employees to fulfil their potential and to the a number of employee surveys across the responded agree that we are focused on ability of the business to achieve its goals.
In line with our new HR and delivering excellent service.
The development of leadership skills of business strategies, we recently evolved the senior managers is also a key objective and way we conduct these surveys to help us better We are able to compare some of our 2007 Compass has enabled an increasing number understand how we can maximise employee results with those achieved in our 2005 survey.
of participants to attend in-house or external commitment, retention and discretionary Very positively, we see solid improvement in programmes.
Since its inception in 2003, our effort, in other words engagement.
ratings for health and safety, embracing current Compass Group Masters Programme diversity and people being treated fairly has seen over 60 members of our global In April 2007, over 150,000 people from regardless of their gender, age, race, senior management graduate and achieve 20 of our largest businesses representing background or beliefs.
Moreover, internal an MSc in Business Leadership.
Through over 90% of total Group revenue had the perceptions of the Group being a good the programme each student applies their opportunity to participate in our new Your corporate citizen also show improvement.
experience and skills to a business challenge Voice People Survey.
This year we extended that directly relates to the business priorities our use of web surveys while also giving many Health and safety is at the heart of everything in their job role and has measurable impact.
of our employees the opportunity to share we do.
The survey results support this as The structured programme involves extensive their views using the telephone.
people continue to agree that we place a internal and external research, drawing on high priority in this area and around 8 in internal and external best practice and theory, Overall, the results from our 2007 survey are 10 people feel they are equipped to do their as well as practical issues such as resources, very encouraging and our response rate of job safely and well.
61% was slightly ahead of that seen in our 2005 survey.
Employees have a clear line of At the unit site level, people are delivering sight with our new mission and understand improved service and performance by how they contribute to success.
Our Unit Managers are a the Group is making the right changes to be real strength and highly regarded by their successful, has a clear sense of direction and teams.
They are respectful towards colleagues is successfully focusing on both long-term strategies and short-term results.
Business & Industry Fine Dining Healthcare & Seniors Education Sports & Leisure Defence, Offshore Vending 20 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Acting responsibly continued We continue to devote significant attention We believe that each of us at Compass has a Health and safety have always had a special and resources to the training of our moral obligation to safeguard each other, our focus for our offshore and remote site employees.
Over 81,500 days of staff training customers and the environment by operating workplaces, where our customers demand the were provided during the year in our largest a safe, injury free and healthy workplace, very highest operational standards.
A good businesses representing more than 80% of serving food that is always safe to eat and example of our success is in Denmark, Group revenue.
which minimises our impact on the where our ESS support services team on the environment.
To ensure best practice, we have South Arne platform in the North Sea have Equal opportunities developed a set of policies, minimum completed five years of providing services to We regard the promotion of equal operating standards and behaviours to be our customer with no lost-time incidents.
We rolled out across our Top Ten as a minimum, expect all of our employees to be treated with by December 2008.
These standards are We received further recognition of our success respect and dignity.
Our equal opportunity based on the strictest regulatory requirements in this area when our ESS support services policy is designed to ensure that both current and industry best practice.
Indeed, world-class team in Kazakhstan were proud to have and potential employees are offered the same performance continues to be our aim, seeking achieved the significant milestone of reaching opportunity to do a job regardless of sex, over the next five years to set the benchmark 2,000,000 man-hours worked without a Day race, colour, religion, nationality, ethnic for our industry.
Away From Work Case at the Tengizchevroil origin, age, sexual orientation, marital status Village.
We are responsible for the safe and or disability.
We value the diversity of our We strive to continuously improve our efficient running of this remote site serving people and strongly believe that a more performance and from October 2007 started approximately 3,000 meals per day, with diverse workforce is a more creative to measure our performance against a set of difficult working conditions and extreme workforce, and one better able to adapt to clear KPIs and targets to assure our customers temperatures.
The more our employees reflect the and others who work with us that we are diversity of our clients and customers, the operating the safest environment possible.
Our UK business reached a health and better equipped we will be to service their Specifically, we: safety milestone this year, with the 50,000th needs.
We believe we have the right policies in Compass employee gaining the Quality place to meet or exceed legal requirements in seek to prevent injury to any employee, Through Hygiene and Quality Through this area, although we continue to undertake customer or contractor: Safety qualifications from the Institution of further work to explore the factors that are consider the safety implications of our Occupational Safety & Health IOSH.
We critical to achieving greater diversity.
procurement decisions: have enjoyed a successful partnership with initiate a full risk assessment programme IOSH for several years, with the training Reward upon commencement of a new contract: body providing food safety and health and Our remuneration policy seeks to deliver ensure that every employee is properly safety training via distance learning to our improved performance throughout the trained to safely perform their work: and customer-facing employees.
business, balancing short-term success with have in place appropriate consultation the attainment of our longer-term business arrangements to enable our employees and From October 2007, we began to measure goals and shareholder return.
We work to their representatives to communicate and and report on the number of days lost across attract and retain people of proven ability, raise concerns about health and safety our Top Ten, as a result of health and safety experience and skills.
Under our pay and management.
We will include the results of lost reward programme, in the year to day injuries in our 2008 CSR report and our 30 September 2007, the Group paid gross We also expect similarly high standards from aim will be to expand the reporting of days employee pay of 4,518 million.
Within this our suppliers and business partners.
lost across the Group and to consistently figure, social security contributions and improve and reduce such numbers.
payroll taxes together with pensions and other employee costs amounted to 638 million and 76 million respectively.
Safety first Our ESS support services team on the South Arne Platform in the North Sea achieved five years of service A safe and healthy workplace to the client with no lost-time incidents.
Our number one operational priority remains health, safety and the environment for the 20 million daily consumers who eat and drink with us.
All management and Board meetings throughout the Group feature a Health and Safety update as one of their first agenda items.
The Board reviews the Health and Safety and Food Safety policies annually to ensure that they each continue to reflect our aims and aspirations with a continued alignment with legislation.
Supporting the Board is our internal Health, Safety and Environment Forum made up of technical specialists from around the Compass globe.
It has become the key body responsible for promoting policy, setting standards, measuring compliance and sharing best practice in these areas across the Group.
21 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Diet and nutrition Healthy eating As a global foodservice company, we We support schools, parents and pupils to choose a healthy, balanced diet.
recognise that we have an enormous impact on what our 20 million daily consumers choose to eat and drink.
Our contribution to their diet and nutrition is our most significant impact.
Our primary concern is that the food we serve is prepared to the very highest standards using quality products and ingredients and, at the very minimum, we comply with all relevant legislation and approved codes of practice.
Initially developed in our UK and US businesses, we are progressively implementing during 2008, a healthy eating framework called Balanced Choices, which will form the basis in a minimum standard for implementation in our Top Ten.
The framework is based on sound science, regulatory requirements and industry best practice.
To become a registered Balanced Choices outlet, the staff must undertake a detailed training programme.
In the UK, over 600 units are already qualified to operate Balanced Choices and in Belgium, Balanced Choices has recently been officially endorsed by the Belgian Government.
In our US business, almost 1,500 units offer Balanced Choices to their customers every day.
Around the world, our consumers are In 2007, we have seen the amount of becoming increasingly mindful and Fairtrade coffee that we buy increase to 3.4 We are working closely with our customers knowledgeable about the nutritional aspects million cups per year across Europe, which and through them with our consumers as of what they choose to eat.
We are, therefore, represents a 10% increase on last year.
well as our suppliers, governments and using frameworks like Balanced Choices to regulators across the globe to respond to enhance nutritional labelling across our food Environment public health issues such as those associated product range, providing customers with A key driver towards our success is the degree with obesity and diet.
We aim to provide a the information that they need to make of autonomy which is afforded to local wide choice of menu items so that consumers informed choices.
management teams, allowing them to serve seeking healthier options are well served.
local markets in the most appropriate manner.
Responsible supply chain To support their activities, we have developed In the UK, our Education businesses The provenance and origin of the food an environmental policy supported by a Scolarest in state schools and Chartwells for we purchase is a key consideration for us.
minimum operating standard and a set of the independent sector recognise that We require that food is only purchased from behaviours that are being introduced into all teaching children, and increasingly their authorised suppliers and is always prepared our operations.
The underlying principles parents, about food and getting them under conditions that do not expose it relating to the environment cover: the enthused about healthy eating is key.
We to the risk of contamination.
We expect our integration of environmental management promote a whole school approach, supported suppliers to comply with the social, ethical into our business operations to reduce our by information for parents, extra training for and environmental standards specified in known impacts: the commitment to our teams and also encourage pupils to eat our Vendor Assurance Programme.
Across compliance with all relevant environmental healthily with a range of initiatives, including our Top Ten, our suppliers are assessed legislation and best practice: a commitment to cooking workshops in schools.
All Scolarest according to risk assessment criteria, to ensure strive for continual improvement: and a school meals meet the UK Governments that they too adhere to our own exacting commitment to ensure proper communication food-based standards and 60% of primary approach.
We also recognise the benefits with, and training for, employees to enable schools also meet the more strict nutrient of working closely with them, especially in them to meet our standards.
We are aiming, standards which will be introduced in 2008. developing markets, to share knowledge and over time, for our behavioural policy to set the expertise that will help both organisations benchmark for our industry.
Another innovative example of our maintain the standards that our clients and commitment to improving the wellbeing of customers have come to expect.
We have set clear environmental objectives in children, is the BackPack programme in the following areas to: Atlantic City, USA which helps ensure that Increasingly, we work with local producers to some of the neediest children have enough improve their skills and capabilities to help reduce the water and energy used in our nutritious food to eat over the weekend.
them develop new markets and support principal office and production units: Each Friday, our Chartwells team provide the local community.
Our ground-breaking reduce the CO emissions of our 2 backpacks filled with healthy, non-perishable Farm to Fork programme is one such vehicle fleets: food that are collected by the children in the example of working with local producers.
reduce the waste packaging of our supply programme, providing them with sufficient This programme, started in 1999 by our Bon chain: and food to last the weekend.
The children return Apptit team in the USA, set a new standard seek to reduce food miles by increasing the the empty backpacks on Monday morning, for how a foodservice company could support use of seasonally available products sourced so that they can be filled again.
The Bon Apptit initiative from the relevant domestic markets.
to purchase from within 150 miles of each caf has grown at an unprecedented rate with local purchases exceeding US$55 million in 2007.
22 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Acting responsibly continued In October 2007, we introduced a web-based Our UK business is mindful of running a cardboard packaging which is currently used reporting tool to track and report globally, in large fleet of vehicles with relatively high to transport fresh produce to our units.
a consistent manner, on our CO emissions.
mileage and the subsequent effect this may Already in use in our business in Switzerland 2 We have initially launched the tool with our have on the environment.
Consequently, those and the Netherlands, we are now trialling this Top Ten countries and will extend the drivers who choose company vehicles with initiative in our UK business where, once fully programme to more countries in 2008. low CO emissions are acknowledged with an implemented, we can expect to save at least 2 incentive payment for every one unit of CO 2.5m kg of packaging waste per annum.
2 The tool will help us to measure such areas as: emission below 170 that their chosen vehicle emits.
This scheme is being evaluated for We are developing Group-wide guidelines petrol and diesel used by company cars potential implementation to our other on the management of recycling and waste and fleet vehicles: countries.
Our French colleagues have made directly purchased electricity, which good headway already with an initiative generates greenhouse gases including CO At unit level, our UK business has for the last launched in 2006 to segregate their waste for 2 emissions relating to our main office two years organised the collection of used recycling purposes.
In 2007, over 70% of our locations and significant production units cooking oil from our units for conversion French outlets participated in the programme across our Top Ten countries: and to bio-fuel, with over 80% of used cooking oil which represents a 5% increase on the 2006 volume of general office waste generated currently diverted to this use.
per annum relating to our main office our logistics partners in the UK have begun locations and significant production units switching their commercial fuel use to Compass In The Community across our Top Ten countries.
We have a strong track record in community engagement and investment.
Compass In The These results will act as the baseline data for Leiths caf at the British Library was one Community, now in its 10th year, recognises 2007 08 and form the platform for our of the first establishments in London to sign the best community-based initiatives from environmental reporting in future years.
up to the Climate Care programme, which across the Compass world.
Each year, we In our 2008 CSR Report, we will publish offsets customers carbon footprints.
The hold an award ceremony to recognise, our performance and clearly state our Last Word was conceived as an enhancement reward and celebrate our global community improvement targets for 2009. to the services already provided at the engagement programmes and the teams that British Library and as a response to the make them happen.
Projects promote healthy As in all other areas, Compass requires growing trend for ethical and responsible lifestyles, tackle social exclusion, improve similarly high standards from its suppliers and management.
Leiths pays to offset all its employment chances and promote sustainability contractors.
Additionally, in the majority of carbon emissions including the travel costs and diversity.
Whilst it is not possible to list our locations where we are not directly of the staff and supply of food from depot here all the worthy projects with which responsible for the procurement of utilities, to unit, and all on-site energy costs.
Where Compass In The Community has been equipment, fuel etc.
we are working closely possible, energy efficient lighting has been involved, the following are just a few of with our clients to consider how best to used and all appliances are minimum A rated the many good news stories.
improve the environmental performance of for energy efficiency.
We value our membership of Business in Within our European supply chain, we are the Community BITC, an organisation During the year, we have made good progress currently trialling the use of re-usable plastic which seeks to inspire, engage, support in logistics efficiencies, such as where our crates for the transport of our fresh produce and challenge companies to continually French colleagues have worked closely with with the aim of maintaining hygiene but improve the impact they have on society their nominated logistics partners to significantly reducing the amount of and the environment.
consolidate the range of products required by our business to fewer logistics providers.
Outlets consequently require fewer deliveries 2007 Compass In The Community Winners of the 2007 Compass In The Community but without negatively impacting on the way Awards, recognised for their community investment in which they operate.
During the last three in health, nutrition and health and safety programmes.
years, the streamlining of logistics providers and the increase in the average weight per delivery has helped to reduce the total number of deliveries into our French business by 350,000 deliveries over the period, thus reducing the CO emissions.
2 23 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 As a major player in our industry, we Donations Charitable donations recognise our responsibility to bring on and During the year to 30 September 2007 in the year to 30 September 2007: champion culinary talent and expertise.
The UK and Ireland business work with 1.16m Hoxton Apprentice, a highly successful We are members of the PerCent Club and social enterprise restaurant in London, through our Compass In The Community demonstrates our continued commitment.
programme and the fund raising efforts of PerCent Club The venture provides in-work support and our employees, we have donated a total of through Compass In The Community and the fund raising efforts of our employees, total donations mentoring and is operated by Training for 1.25 million in monetary resource and in monetary resource and donations in kind: Life.
Their aim is to provide training and donations in kind.
support to individuals from the local community who have been unemployed on In addition, a payroll giving initiative in our 1.25m a long-term basis and to provide them with UK business has generated more than a chance to re-enter society.
We are proud 140,000, supporting over 87 different Payroll giving initiative to have received a re-accreditation of the charities during the last year.
by the UK business in the last year to: previous Big Tick awarded for the restaurant at the 2007 BITC awards.
Achievements Like many listed companies, Compass 87 charities In July 2007, our UK and Ireland ESS team CSR performance is rated by independent initiative for the rehabilitation of female organisations that assess the extent to prisoners also won a BITC Example of which companies effectively manage Excellence award.
The programme provides social, environmental and ethical matters.
2007 training and support, including the chance to gain National Vocational Qualification In 2005, we became a member of the UKs 2007 catering qualifications, training in customer FTSE4Good Index Series following its Policy service, health and safety and basic food Committees decision that we had met the preparation.
Barriers to employment are criteria for inclusion in the Index.
The effectively removed, helping ex-offenders FTSE4Good Index aims to measure the from HM Prison Drake Hall find work and performance of companies that meet globally make a fresh start following their release.
recognised CSR standards and to facilitate investment in those companies where such Since 1994, our Chartwells team in the issues are a deciding factor for investors.
US has been in partnership with Pioneer House in Peabody, providing an advocacy As a signatory to the United Nations Global and support network to members of the Compact, we are also committed to taking community with mental health illnesses.
action to support and uphold each of the The programme provides assistance with principles it describes in relation to business employment, housing and education, with integrity, human rights and the environment.
the transitional and supported employment programmes offered by Chartwells, helping A further index, the Dow Jones Sustainability to give these members of the community a Index, assesses companies corporate stable and productive work experience.
responsibility strategies in terms of corporate governance, economic performance and An innovative approach from our ESS team impact on the environment.
In 2007, we in Bogota, Colombia, resulted in a significant scored a creditable 71% overall score for and sustainable improvement to the lives of our approach to community investment the inhabitants of the economically depressed 2006: 65% against a sector maximum score small town of Pueblo Viejo, Colombia.
By teaching best practice safety standards and handling procedures, our team helped make the towns fish-breeding programme more productive, resulting in increased fish production and better overall fish quality for community consumption and external sale.
