24 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Directors Report Report of the directors The Companys dividend reinvestment Subject to any restrictions below, shareholders The directors submit their plan will continue to be available to eligible may attend any general meeting of the annual report and the audited shareholders.
Shareholders who do not Company and, on a show of hands, every consolidated accounts of the currently participate in the plan and wish shareholder or his representative who is Company and its subsidiaries to do so can obtain an application form and present at a general meeting has one vote explanatory booklet from the Companys on each resolution and, on a poll, every for the year ended 30 September registrars, Capita Registrars contact details shareholder or his representative who is 2007 for the Registrars are given on page 91 or present has one vote on each resolution for from the Companys website at www.
compassevery ordinary share of which they are the Principal activities and business review group.
The latest date for receipt of new registered shareholder.
A resolution put to Compass Group PLC is a holding company, applications to participate in respect of the the vote of a general meeting is decided on its subsidiaries are organised into four 2007 final dividend is 2 February 2008. a show of hands unless before, or on the geographic areas and these are set out on declaration of the result of, a vote on a show page 3.
The principal activities of the Group Disposal of assets of hands, a poll is demanded by the chairman are the provision of contract foodservice On 29 November 2006, the Company of the meeting, or by at least five shareholders and support services to clients in around 64 announced its decision to sell Selecta, its or their representatives present in person countries around the world.
Details of the European vending business.
The sale and having the right to vote, or by any development and performance of the Groups completed on 2 July 2007 for a consideration shareholders or their representatives present businesses during the year and an indication of 772 million on a debt and cash free basis.
in person having at least 10% of the total of likely future key performance indicators voting rights of all shareholders, or by any and information regarding principal risks and Future development shareholders or their representatives present uncertainties are set out together with the The Groups strategic focus continues to be in person holding ordinary shares on which information that fulfils the requirements of on the organic development of its existing an aggregate sum has been paid up of at least the Business Review on pages 13 to 16 and core businesses.
one-tenth of the total sum paid up on all is incorporated into this report by reference.
Share capital Results and dividends General Shareholders can declare final dividends by The Groups consolidated income statement, At the date of this report, 1,894,687,283 passing an ordinary resolution but the amount set out on page 41 shows an increase of 16% ordinary shares of 10 pence each have been of the dividends cannot exceed the amount in Group operating profit from 457 million issued, are fully paid up and are quoted on recommended by the Board.
An analysis of revenue the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, the pay interim dividends on any class of shares and operating profit is set out on pages 49 Company has entered into a level I American of the amounts and on the dates and for the and 50 in note 1 to the consolidated financial Depository Receipt programme with the periods they decide provided the distributable statements.
There have been no significant Bank of New York Mellon, under which the profits of the Company justify such payment.
Companys shares are traded on the over-theThe Board may, if authorised by an ordinary counter market in the form of American resolution of the shareholders, offer any The 2007 interim dividend of 3.6 pence Depository shares.
shareholder the right to elect to receive new per share 2006: 3.4 pence was paid to ordinary shares, which will be credited as fully shareholders on 6 August 2007.
The directors During the year ended 30 September 2007, paid, instead of their cash dividend.
recommend a final dividend of 7.2 pence options were exercised pursuant to the per share 2006: 6.7 pence making a total Companys share option schemes, resulting Any dividend which has not been claimed dividend for the year of 10.8 pence per in the allotment of 9,679,856 new ordinary for 12 years after it became due for payment ordinary share, an increase of 7% on the shares.
A further 1,352,327 new ordinary will be forfeited and will then belong to the 10.1 pence paid in respect of last year.
shares have been allotted under these schemes Company, unless the directors decide otherwise.
Payment of the recommended final dividend, since the end of the financial year to the date if approved at the Annual General Meeting, of this report.
If the Company is wound up, the liquidator will be made on 3 March 2008 to shareholders can, with the sanction of an extraordinary registered at the close of business on 1 February Rights attaching to shares resolution passed by the shareholders, divide 2008.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend The rights attaching to the ordinary shares among the shareholders all or any part of the from 30 January 2008. are defined in the Companys Articles assets of the Company and he can value any of Association.
The Articles of Association assets and determine how the division shall be may be changed with the agreement of carried out as between the members or shareholders.
A shareholder whose name different classes of members.
The liquidator appears on the Companys register of can also transfer the whole or any part of the members can choose whether his shares assets to trustees upon any trusts for the are evidenced by share certificates benefit of the members.
No shareholders can i. e. in certificated form or held in electronic be compelled to accept any asset which would i. e. uncertificated form in CREST the give them a liability.
electronic settlement system in the UK.
25 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Voting at general meetings The Board may decide to suspend the Resolution 13 set out in the Notice of Any form of proxy sent by the Company to registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a Meeting will be proposed as a Special shareholders in relation to any general year, by closing the register of shareholders.
Resolution to renew the directors limited meeting must be delivered to the Company, The Board cannot suspend the registration of authority last granted in 2007 to repurchase whether in written form or in electronic form, transfers of any uncertificated shares without ordinary shares in the market.
The authority not less than 48 hours before the time gaining consent from CREST.
There are no sets the minimum and maximum prices which appointed for holding the meeting or other limitations on the holding of ordinary may be paid and it will be limited to a adjourned meeting at which the person shares in the Company.
maximum of 10% of the Companys issued named in the appointment proposes to vote.
ordinary share capital at the date of this Variation of rights report.
This authority will enable your No shareholder is, unless the Board decide If at any time the capital of the Company is directors to continue with the 500 million otherwise, entitled to attend or vote either divided into different classes of shares, the share buy-back programme announced on personally or by proxy at a general meeting or special rights attaching to any class may be 9 April 2006 and which was subsequently to exercise any other right conferred by being varied or revoked either: extended on 12 May 2007 to 1 billion.
a shareholder if he or any person with an Furthermore, this authority will enable your interest in shares has been sent a notice under i with the written consent of the holders of directors to continue to respond promptly section 793 of the Companies Act 2006 at least 75% in nominal value of the issued should circumstances arise in which they which confers upon public companies the shares of the class: or consider such a purchase would result in an power to require information with respect to ii with the sanction of an extraordinary increase in earnings per share and would be interests in their voting shares and he or any resolution passed at a separate general in the best interests of the Company.
interested person failed to supply the meeting of the holders of the shares Company with the information requested of the class.
Any purchases of ordinary shares will be within 14 days after delivery of that notice.
by means of market purchases through the The Board may also decide that no dividend The Company can issue new shares and London Stock Exchange and any shares is payable in respect of those default shares attach any rights to them.
If there is no so purchased may be cancelled or may be and that no transfer of any default shares shall restriction by special rights attaching to placed into treasury in accordance with the be registered.
existing shares, rights attaching to new shares Companies Acquisition of Own Shares can take priority over the rights of existing Treasury Shares Regulations 2003.
The These restrictions end seven days after receipt shares, or the new shares and the existing Company currently holds no shares in by the Company of a notice of an approved shares can rank equally, or the existing shares treasury but the Regulations allow shares transfer of the shares or all the information can take priority, but the rights of existing repurchased by the Company to be held as required by the relevant section 793 notice, shares are deemed to be varied unless the treasury shares that may be subsequently whichever is the earlier.
rights expressly allow it by a reduction of cancelled, sold for cash or used for the paid up capital or if another share of that purpose of employee share schemes.
Transfers of shares same class is issued and ranks in priority for The directors consider it desirable for these The Board may refuse to register a transfer payment of dividend or in respect of capital general authorisations to be available to of a certificated share which is not fully paid, or more favourable voting rights.
provide flexibility in the management of provided that the refusal does not prevent the Companys capital resources.
dealings in shares in the Company from Repurchase of shares taking place on an open and proper basis.
On 12 May 2007, the Company announced Issue of shares The Board may also refuse to register a that its 500 million on-market share buyThe directors propose in Resolution 11 set transfer of a certificated share unless i the back programme, begun in June 2006, would out in the Notice of Meeting to renew the instrument of transfer is lodged, duly stamped be extended by a further 500 million authority granted to them at the Annual if stampable, at the registered office of the utilising some of the proceeds arising from General Meeting held in 2007 to allot equity Company or any other place decided by the the sale of the Selecta vending business.
It is shares up to an aggregate nominal value of Board accompanied by the certificate for the anticipated that the programme will complete 63,100,000 representing approximately share to which it relates and such other over the next six months.
During the year one-third of the ordinary shares issued at the evidence as the Board may reasonably require ended 30 September 2007 181,407,434 date of this report the section 80 authority.
to show the right of the transferor to make the ordinary shares of 10 pence each of the If approved at the forthcoming Annual transfer, ii is in respect of only one class of Company representing 8.64% of the General Meeting, the authority will expire no shares, and iii is in favour of not more than ordinary shares in issue on 1 October 2006 later than 15 months from the date on which four transferees.
were purchased and cancelled for a the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion consideration of 575 million including of the Annual General Meeting to be held in Transfers of uncertificated shares must be expenses.
A further 34 million ordinary 2009, whichever is the sooner.
carried out using CREST and the Board can shares of 10 pence each representing refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated 1.75% of the ordinary shares in issue on share in accordance with the regulations 1 October 2007 have been purchased for governing the operation of CREST.
a consideration of 105 million before expenses and cancelled since the end of the financial year to the date of this report.
26 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Directors Report Report of the directors continued The limited power granted to the directors Directors at last years Annual General Meeting to allot Brief particulars of the directors in office at equity shares for cash other than pro rata the date of this Report are listed on page 17 to existing shareholders expires no later than and further details of the Board composition 15 May 2008.
Subject to the terms of the are disclosed in the Corporate governance section 80 authority, your directors report.
Sir James Crosby and Tim Parker recommend that this authority should be were appointed to the Board as non-executive renewed.
Resolution 12 set out in the Notice directors on 17 February 2007 and Susan of Meeting will be proposed as a Special Murray was appointed to the Board as a nonResolution to give your directors the ability executive director on 11 October 2007.
Each until the Annual General Meeting to be held of them will stand for election at the Annual in 2009 to issue ordinary shares for cash, General Meeting.
The directors standing for other than pro rata to existing shareholders, re-election at the Annual General Meeting in connection with a rights issue or up to a are Sir Roy Gardner and Steve Lucas.
Each limit of 5% of the ordinary share capital director, being eligible, offers himself for issued at the date of this report.
In addition, election or re-election and each, following and in line with best practice, the Company a performance evaluation during the year has not issued more than 7.5% of its issued save for Susan Murray, continues to be share capital on a non pro-rated basis over effective and demonstrates commitment to the last three years.
Your directors have no his respective role.
It is the view of the Board present intention to issue ordinary shares, that each of the non-executive directors bring other than pursuant to the Companys considerable management experience and employee share schemes.
The directors independent perspective to the Boards recommend that shareholders vote in favour discussions and they are considered to be of Resolutions 11 and 12 to maintain the independent of management and free from Companys flexibility in relation to future any relationship or circumstance that could share issues, including any issues to finance affect, or appear to affect, the exercise of their business opportunities should appropriate independent judgement.
Directors interests in shares Details of cancellations of existing shares and The directors who have held office during issues of new shares are set out in note 24 to the year ended 30 September 2007 had the the accounts on page 74, which also contains following interests in the ordinary shares of details of options granted over unissued the Company.
30 September 2007 1 October 2006 or date of retirement or on appointment Major shareholdings 1 Peter Blackburn 5,000 5,000 2 The following major shareholdings have been Peter Cawdron 24,200 24,200 Richard Cousins 200,000 100,000 notified to the Company.
Sir James Crosby 34,000 Sir Roy Gardner 175,000 100,000 % of issued capital 2 Val Gooding 5,502 5,502 Franklin Resources, Inc. and its affiliates 9.32 Gary Green 624,270 624,270 Legal & General Group Plc 6.00 Sven Kado 33,000 12,500 Steve Lucas 1,000 Harris Associates L. P. 3.01 Andrew Martin 158,559 110,027 Tim Parker 20,219 Sir Ian Robinson 6,289 1,289 1.
Peter Blackburn retired as a director on 31 October 2007.
Val Gooding and Peter Cawdron retired as directors on 31 December 2006 and 16 February 2007 respectively.
There were no changes to the shareholdings of those directors in office at the date of this Report between 1 October 2007 and 28 November 2007.
