17 Compass Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Board of directors 1 3, 5 4, 6 01 Sir Roy Gardner 05 Sir James Crosby 09 Tim Parker Chairman Age 62 Senior independent non-executive Non-executive director Age 52 Appointed Chairman in July 2006 having been director Age 51 Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
He is appointed to the Board as senior independent nona former Chief Executive of the AA and a former Appointed to the Board in February 2007.
He is executive director in October 2005.
He is a senior non-executive director of Alliance Boots Plc.
a non-executive director of ITV plc and is Deputy advisor to Credit Suisse, a non-executive director Chairman of the Financial Services Authority and 3, 4 of Willis Group Holdings Limited, President of the 10 Sir Ian Robinson is a former Chief Executive of HBOS plc.
He is a Energy Institute, Chairman of the Advisory Board of Fellow of the Faculty of Actuaries.
Non-executive director Age 65 the Energy Futures Lab of Imperial College London, Appointed to the Board in December 2006.
4, 6 a member of the International Advisory Board of the 06 Sven Kado He is Chairman of Ladbrokes plc formerly Hilton IESE Business School at the University of Navarra, Non-executive director Age 63 Group plc, a non-executive director of Scottish & President of Carers UK, Chairman of the British Newcastle plc and Siemens Holdings plc.
He is a Appointed to the Board in April 2002.
He is Olympics Appeal Committee for the Beijing Games former Chairman of Amey plc, Chief Executive of Chairman of Marsh & McLennan Holdings GmbH and Chairman of the Apprenticeship Ambassadors Scottish Power plc and non-executive director of and was previously Chief Financial Officer of Nixdorf Network.
He is a former Chief Executive of Centrica ASDA plc and RMC plc.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Computer AG, Chief Financial Officer of Dyckerhoff plc, Chairman of Manchester United plc, Finance Academy of Engineers, a Fellow of the Institution of AG and senior advisor of Principal Finance Director of British Gas plc, Managing Director of Chemical Engineers and a member of the Takeover Group Nomura International.
GEC-Marconi Ltd and a Director of GEC plc and Panel.
Sir Ian received his Knighthood in 2000 for a former non-executive director of Laporte plc.
2, 6, 7 services to the electricity industry.
07 Steve Lucas Sir Roy received his Knighthood in 2002 for services Non-executive director Age 53 to the gas and electricity industries.
2, 8, 9 11 Mark White Appointed to the Board in July 2004.
He is Finance 2, 8 General Counsel and Company Secretary 02 Richard Cousins Director of National Grid plc having been previously Age 47 Executive Director, Finance of Lattice Group plc.
Group Chief Executive Age 48 He is a chartered accountant and has held a number A solicitor who joined Compass Group on 1June 2007.
Appointed to the Board in May 2006 and appointed of senior finance positions with Shell International He is secretary to the Audit, Disclosure, General Group Chief Executive in June 2006.
He is a Petroleum Company and British Gas.
More recently Business, Nomination and Remuneration non-executive director of HBOS plc.
Richard was he was Treasurer at BG Group.
Mark was previously Group Company until December 2005 Chief Executive Officer of Secretary and Counsel of Wolseley plc and Company BPB plc, having held a number of positions with Secretary of Enterprise Oil plc and Rotork plc.
08 Susan Murray that company since joining it in1990 and is a former Non-executive director Age 50 non-executive director of P&O.
Chairman of the Nomination and Corporate was with Cadbury Schweppes plc and BTR plc.
Appointed to the Board in October 2007.
Member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee non-executive Chairman of Farrow & Ball and a 3.
Member of the Nomination Committee 2, 8 non-executive director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL 03 Andrew Martin 4.
Member of the Audit Committee International PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets 5.
Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Group Finance Director Age 47 6.
Member of the Remuneration Committee PLC and Imperial Tobacco PLC.
She is a former Appointed to the Board in March 2004.
Chairman of the Audit Committee non-executive director of Aberdeen Asset previously a partner with Arthur Andersen and 8.
Member of the Executive Committee Management PLC, a former Chief Executive of 9.
Trustee of the Compass Pension Scheme held senior financial positions with Forte Plc and Littlewoods Stores Limited and former Worldwide Granada Group PLC.
Following the disposal of President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff the Hotels Division in 2001, Andrew joined First Company, part of Diageo plc.
Susan is a Fellow of Choice Holidays PLC as Finance Director.
He is an the Royal Society of Arts and a council member of Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants the Advertising Standards Authority.
in England and Wales and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Taxation.
8 04 Gary Green Group Managing Director USA, Canada and Mexico Age 50 Appointed to the Board in January 2007.
Joined the Group in 1986 in a senior finance role in the UK and became a UK director in 1992.
Gary relocated to the USA in 1994 as Chief Finance Officer of the Groups North American business and in 1999 became Chief Executive Officer.
He is a chartered accountant and in 2001 received an honorary doctorate from Johnson & Wales University in the USA.
