We made only a few, very carefully selected acquisitions In the UK we have restructured into three in the UK in 2007, focusing on exceptional opportunities  business units the Slough to complement existing holdings in key locations.
Trading Estate, London Markets and National Markets.
Meanwhile, we generated some 232.8 million from the This structure is an evolution of the successful move to sale of UK properties including trading properties, a regional structure which started over two years ago.
mostly in the first half of the year before investment As previously announced, John Heawood, Executive market conditions deteriorated.
As a result of our asset Director, UK Property, will be leaving the business in the management, development and capital recycling in the summer of 2008.
John has played an important role in UK, we have grown the UK rental income for the year by developing the UK portfolio over a number of years and 3.8 per cent excluding lease surrender premiums and we wish him well for the future: a search for his the average ERV of our investment portfolio increased replacement is well under way.
by 6.0 per cent to 89.1 per sq m 8.30 per sq ft. UK Strategy and Business Model average rental growth from lettings and rent reviews SEGRO is an international property investment company was relatively subdued, showing a 1.4 per cent increase which owns and manages Flexible Business Space over December 2006 ERV, slightly above the 1.2 per cent designed to meet the current and future needs of our level in the equivalent IPD indicator for industrial rents: customers.
Flexible Business Space is the term we use within this, we achieved 3 per cent average growth from to cover warehousing, other industrial-type properties rent reviews.
and offices in suburban locations.
We develop and NAV per share was 690 pence, down 3.9 per cent from acquire properties throughout Europe, concentrating on last year end and adjusted diluted NAV per share which major urban centres and logistics distribution corridors.
adds back deferred tax on investment properties was Our objective is to create value for our shareholders, down 9.2 per cent 13.2 per cent since June 2007 at underpinned by attractive dividends.
These declines reflect the well documented achieve this is to acquire, develop and manage Flexible reduction in commercial property valuations affecting Business Space in locations likely to benefit from strong all sectors of the UK market in the second half of 2007. customer demand and long-term economic growth.
We The IPD All Property Index showed a capital reduction of recycle capital by selling properties which do not fit our 11.7 per cent between June and December 2007, whilst strategy or when we believe we can no longer add value Industrial recorded a 10.8 per cent reduction.
Our UK to such properties.
investment portfolio showed a 11.3 per cent valuation reduction since June, with Continental Europe recording We seek to develop or acquire industrial estates, a 0.2 per cent positive movement in the same period.
business parks or equivalent clusters of properties with critical mass in each geographic market in which we Management changes operate.
A number of management changes were made in 2007 which will ensure SEGRO is well placed for the years SEGRO aims to provide a high standard of customer ahead.
After three years leading the rapid and service and actively manages its portfolio of properties successful expansion of our Continental European to optimise value through customer or asset business, Walter Hens is now using his proven dealmanagement, development and redevelopment.
making skills to head up a newly created Group Business Development function.
This function will be Over the past three years, we have been actively building responsible for driving our relationships with major a pan-European property portfolio, capitalising on the cross-border customers, particularly focusing on the higher returns and lower borrowing costs available big box logistics market and on data centres.
Property is a local business and our operational model is to employ local people with We appointed Ins Reinmann to become head of our the necessary technical expertise and market knowledge Continental European business from January 2008. to identify the right opportunities and to serve our Inss initial priorities will include reinforcing SEGROs customers in each location.
This enables us to respond processes to most effectively manage our burgeoning quickly to opportunities and changing circumstances.
European business and to provide a strong platform for future growth.
We manage our business through two strategic business units the UK and Continental Europe complemented by a Group Business First Quarter Highlights 2007 Development function see graph and supported by a number of corporate functions including Group Strategy, Finance, Procurement, Acquisition of industrial estate at Human Resources, Secretariat, Marketing and Corporate Sunbury near Heathrow announced Communications.
Sale of part of Centennial Park, Elstree Investment returns Anchor 6,700 sq m pre-let secured at All investment opportunities are subjected to a rigorous review and Winnersh largest pre-let in Reading approval process overseen by the Groups Capital Approvals Committee since 2001 boosting plans for which comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Finance Director, 60,000 sq m redevelopment of Business Development Director, Head of UK, and Head of Continental Winnersh Triangle Business Park Europe.
Particularly large investments are also reviewed by the Board.
We assess all investment proposals against risk-adjusted financial return targets which are derived from the Groups weighted average SEGROs commercial property management cost of capital, adapted for each project.
This takes account of local organisation chart market factors such as currency, economic or political risk, tax rate and project type eg speculative or pre-let development.
Group Business Continental United Kingdom Development Europe Projects are reviewed as they progress to ensure they are on track to deliver the expected returns and a formal review of all previously completed investments is carried out and reported to the Board Group-wide Three Business Units: Belgium annually.
co-ordination of London Markets Czech Republic multinational National Markets France As 2007 progressed we adapted our internal hurdles for the approval customer Slough Trading Germany relationships Estate Hungary of capital expenditure to reflect changing market conditions and, in Big Box logistics Italy Data centres The Netherlands particular, the risks associated with the declining investment market Poland conditions and threat of global recession.
Our current targets are to achieve total pre-tax returns IRR of between 9 per cent and 14 per cent from development projects, dependent on the location, type and profile of each project.
Development SEGRO is a development-led property investment company and our development pipeline is a key driver of future growth.
The Group has an extremely well-located land bank of approximately 534 hectares, with the potential to develop almost 2.5 million sq m of buildings over several years.
At todays prices, this would entail future development expenditure of approximately 1.7 billion and could produce annual rents in the region of 184 million net of rents which will be given up on currently income-producing buildings to be redeveloped, giving an estimated cash yield of 11 per cent on future expenditure including financing costs or 8 per cent taking into account the current book value of the land bank 662 million.
During 2007, 343,651 sq m of development space was completed, Second Quarter Highlights 2007 of which 252,206 sq m or 73 per cent had either been sold or let by the year end.
This level of success, combined with our excellent lettings in 2007, and the pre-lets already secured, gives us Successful launch of SEGRO corporate particular confidence in the current development programme.
identity 306,679 sq m of development was under construction at the end of Largest Thames Valley pre-let of the 2007, of which 113,686 sq m had either been let or sold.
At this year announced as part of 29,000 sq m stage of the year a further 465,529 sq m of developments has been deal with O2 on the Slough Trading provisionally scheduled to start construction in 2008 and this will be Estate adapted as the year progresses to ensure that we are developing in line with market demand and that the consequential financial Specialist data centre successes returns are likely to meet out requirements.
continued with 6,000 sq m letting to Rackspace on the Slough Trading Estate Identifying and acquiring attractive sites in good locations, SEGRO positive momentum continued in managing the planning process, developing the right products to Continental Europe announced over coincide with likely customer demand, and letting the space are our 80,000 sq m of lettings including core competencies.
A pre-requisite for any development proposal 37,000 sq m of logistics lettings in approval is a robust business case, clearly demonstrating that Poland and over 15,000 sq m of acceptable risk-adjusted returns will be delivered.
business park lettings in Germany Based on current expectations and anticipated market conditions, In June SEGRO agreed the strategic we expect most of the current development pipeline to take disposal of its US healthcare business approximately five years to deliver.
for $2.9 billion to be followed by a 250 million special dividend for Customer focus shareholders In recent years SEGRO has done much to improve its standards of customer service, seeking to reinforce long-term relationships with Further expansion in the Heathrow area customers in general and to respond to the specific needs of plus the disposal of a 100 million specialised market segments.
SEGRO aims to be a company that is portfolio of mature assets to Legal & easy for customers to deal with and has encouraged and rewarded General employee behaviour that is aligned with these objectives.
SEGRO believes that focusing on customer satisfaction drives higher retention rates and helps to attract new business resulting in stronger overall returns.
In the UK we measure our customers satisfaction annually and assess progress against internal and external benchmarks, enabling us to identify and act upon any issues of concern to customers.
In the UK in 2007, 77 per cent of occupiers said their satisfaction levels were either good or excellent, up on the 73 per cent score in the previous year.
In Continental Europe many similar customer service initiatives have been employed in each country.
In 2008 the next phase of this measurement will be a greater co-ordination of approach and the launch of a similar survey to that used so successfully in the UK.
Key performance indicators SEGRO has a comprehensive suite of performance measures, which are used by Management and the Board to set targets and assess performance in the context of our strategic objectives.
We continue to work to ensure our KPIs are fully aligned to our objectives and cover both financial and non-financial performance, and this has resulted in three non-critical KPIs being replaced this year.
These measures are cascaded and expanded on throughout our business where we monitor performance at more detailed levels.
The key performance indicators, KPIs, currently used at Group level are those that are considered to be business critical and are set out in the table below along with our performance achieved in 2007: 2007 2007 2006 Key Performance Indicator Targets Performance Performance Description & Commentary TO DELIVER ATTRACTIVE TOTAL RETURNS IN THE PERIOD Optimise Financial Performance 1 Adjusted profit 142.1m 153.7m 142.7m Profit before tax after EPRA adjustments and excluding before tax exceptional items, allowing useful comparison between reporting periods on a consistent basis.
Exceeded prior year and target for the year.
1 Adjusted earnings 28.7p 32.2p 25.1p Adjusted profit before tax and excluding deferred tax per share on investment properties.
This is a measure of the amount of earnings the Company has generated for each share in issue over the period and enables shareholders to track the earnings on a consistent basis over time.
1 Total Return 0.7% 19.2% This is a measure of the return generated for each share over the period, based on the growth in the adjusted net asset value and including any dividends paid to shareholders.
Lower than prior year due to impact of valuation deficits.
Manage Costs Operating costs 30.8% 31.8% 29.3% This is a measure of property operating expenses plus administration costs, expressed as a percentage of gross rental income plus trading profits, which helps us to track and manage our costs effectively.
See Financial Review on page 36 for explanation of increase.
Effective Tax Rate 3-5% 1.4% 14.0% This is a measure of the adjusted tax charge in the income statement expressed as a percentage of adjusted profit before tax, which helps us to track and manage our tax costs to ensure that effective and proactive tax planning is in place to minimise our tax expense.
TO PROVIDE A PLATFORM FOR ATTRACTIVE FUTURE RETURNS Grow Rental Income New Income Secured 17.5m 7.3m Annualised rental income on space taken up during the year less annualised net income lost on space taken back.
This represents new recurring income generated for future periods, which will contribute towards future financial performance and returns to shareholders.
Good level of new income secured.
Optimise Assets Total space let in 568,000 596,000 353,000 This measures the amount of space let in the period, improving our recurring the period sq m rental income stream and demonstrating our commitment to getting the most from our assets.
Vacancy rate at end 12.8% 8.9% 10.9% This measure helps us to track and manage our vacancy levels, ensuring of the period the appropriate focus on making the most of our assets and improving future financial performance.
Construction starts 458,000 393,000 446,000 This measure demonstrates our continued investment in our property in the period sq m portfolio, looking to ensure we obtain the best return from our assets and continue to grow and generate improved financial performance.
Lower starts reflect the flexibility of pace of the development pipeline.
Land bank at end of 534 411 This measures land available to ensure continued investment into our the year ha property portfolio.
Good land bank for future development opportunities.
TO ACHIEVE HIGH LEVELS OF CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Grow Rental Income Customer Satisfaction 73% 77% 73% This is a key focus within our business which enables us to monitor how 2 Index our customers rate us, which in turn helps us to identify areas for improvement.
At present this is only measured across the UK business but we intend to incorporate the European customer base in 2008.
Lease renewal rate 68% 74% 68% This measure is also a reflection on customer satisfaction relationship including percentage of management and helps us to identify areas for continuous improvement.
2 break options not exercised Exceeded prior year and target for the year.
Sustainability Third Quarter Highlights 2007 In managing SEGROs resources we are ever more conscious of the need to actively and sustainably manage resources in the widest sense.
With environmental issues therefore also moving higher up Largest acquisition in Continental our agenda, it was also the right time to give even greater focus Europe to date 197 million to this area with the appointment of a dedicated senior manager.
8.1 per cent net initial yield sale A search process was launched in late 2007 and, in early 2008, and leaseback with Neckermann.
fide we announced an appointment for the new role of Head of of an office and distribution park Sustainability reporting directly to the Group Chief Executive.
in Frankfurt In August SEGRO announced the Risk Management successful completion of the $2.9 billion Over the past year the Group has been reviewing its risk management processes and procedures and we have been assisted US disposal agreed in June in this exercise by KPMG.
The continued growth of our business, SEGRO moved into the Lyon market with our expansion into new markets and territories and the increased the acquisition of 50,000 sq m of regulatory pressures that we face create considerable challenges, warehousing and light industrial space opportunities and uncertainties for the Group.
at a prime light industrial location close to Lyon airport The Group views effective risk management as integral to the dayto day business decisions and encourages all of its managers to SEGRO moved into another actively assess risk on a continuous basis.
We also carry out regular, targeted market the Greater Milan formal risk assessments to identify and evaluate risks and industrial belt with the acquisition of a furthermore to identify controls and other risk management 7.4 per cent yield, 68,000 sq m business techniques.
These assessments are underpinned by the following park with a further 50,000 sq of key elements: development potential north of Milan a Hi Tech zone with good road access Identifying significant risks to the achievement of the Groups SEGRO announced a new organisational strategic objectives and management structure designed to Evaluating the risks in terms of the magnitude of their impact ensure that SEGRO is maximising the and the likelihood of their occurrence efficiency of the ways in which we work with our major customers and markets Developing action plans to manage risks, including the development of internal controls Reporting to the Audit Committee and the Board on the risk management process, the assessment of key risks and the status of risk management plans In setting out the Companys principal risks and uncertainties, commentary on possible future developments, and related content, this Annual Report contains statements which, by their nature, should not be considered indications of likelihood or certainty.
The statements are based on the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation of this Business Review, and what are believed to be reasonable judgements.
A wide range of factors may cause the actual outcomes and results to differ materially from those contained within, or implied by, these various forward-looking statements, nor should any of these statements be construed as a profit forecast.
Key Business Risks Description of Risk and Potential Impacts Mitigating factors and risk management strategies General Property Investment Risks Economic downturn causing a difficult trading environment for our Broad geographic spread of investments across Europe reduces customers and reduced investor appetite for real estate assets.
dependence on any single market location.
Loss of customers leading to a reduction in income and profits.
Active monitoring and review of the portfolio to identify assets at risk of underperforming.
Reduction in the value of our investment portfolio or inability to sell properties at acceptable prices.
Assets are reviewed regularly and customer requirements sought through independent surveys.
Our assets fail to comply with new legislation.
There is an active programme of re-cycling and refurbishment.
Where Leasing becomes increasingly challenging and capital expenditure possible a future proof of the buildings is considered at the design stage.
Development Risks Inability to source sufficient land and risk of holding too much The operating management and the Group Capital Approvals Committee development land.
carefully manage the type, amount and location of development land.
See details of development pipeline in the Property Portfolio at page 125.
Dilution of returns due to capital invested in unproductive assets or inability to grow the portfolio and deliver future returns due to lack of growth opportunities.
Failure to obtain, or delay in obtaining, planning consent on land Most sites acquired with outline zoning or planning consent already in place.
Erosion of expected financial returns due to time delays or possible impairment in value of land holdings.
Construction costs exceed budgeted levels or there are delays Contingencies built into all development appraisals.
Transfer of most risk to construction partners.
Erosion of expected financial returns.
Use of specialist in-house project managers.
Letting risk on speculative development schemes.
Total exposure to speculative schemes is carefully monitored by the Group Capital Approvals Committee and details reported to the Board.
Erosion of total returns from capital invested in non-income producing developments.
Sensitivity analysis carried out on all potential investments to ensure target returns can be achieved with delay to leasing assumptions.
Pace of development programme adapted to market conditions.
Health and safety risks the risk of injury or illness to the Groups Group Health & Safety Manager establishes appropriate policies and or third parties construction workers.
monitors accident reports all significant accidents are reported to the Board.
Failure to achieve the Groups CR objectives and damage to the Health & Safety training provided to all employees.
Groups reputation and possible criminal or civil action.
Geographic Risks The political and economic risks associated with investing outside Careful analysis of each market is undertaken before investing in new the UK, particularly in some of the emerging economies.
Local offices set up in all significant markets, staffed by employees who understand their local markets.
Loss of value of investments or failure to achieve adequate risk adjusted returns.
Business Continuity A major disaster or loss of infrastructure.
Key legal and other important documents are retained by external advisors.
Significant interruption to the business resulting in a loss of Back ups of all electronic files are undertaken regularly.
If necessary, colleagues are able to work remotely and we continue to refine our business continuity plans.
Financial Risks Liquidity risk a lack of available funds to meet the Groups needs.
The Group has a flexible funding strategy with substantial undrawn funds available.
Inability to fund developments, and requirement to sell properties at wrong point in the cycle.
Funds availability and financial ratios regularly monitored by the Group Treasurer and reported to the Board quarterly.
The majority of borrowings are fixed see Financial Review.
Increased borrowing costs if interest rates rise.
The majority of foreign currency assets are matched by borrowings of equal amount denominated in the same currencies.
Reduction in the sterling value of assets or earnings if foreign currencies depreciate against sterling.
Internal monitoring procedures are in place to track compliance with the appropriate rules.
Potential tax penalties or loss of REIT status by failing to comply with the new REIT rules in the UK.
