Slough Trading Estate, UK A vision for the future For nearly a century, the Slough At the Slough Trading Estate, SEGRO New transport infrastructure, Trading Estate has led the market in is developing a Vision for the Future landscaping, open spaces and modern meeting occupier needs, continually to ensure that evolving business needs buildings, along with skills and adapting to a changing market place.
training opportunities for local people, The Trading Estates growth and will be key elements of an overarching This regeneration vision will enable success has meant that it has always masterplan to be delivered over 20 the Trading Estate to continue to be a played a central role in the community years.
Modern, flexible business space thriving location for all businesses, of Slough and in the economic for a wide range of companies will be from global companies to exciting development of the Thames Valley.
supported by cafs, bars, a hotel, local start-ups.
The programme is conferencing, health, leisure and However, the increasing globalisation expected to generate many new jobs education facilities to create a 21st of industry presents new challenges and to contribute significantly to the Century working environment.
The Trading Estate has Slough economy.
always been a prime location for Proposals for the masterplan are traditional manufacturing but recently currently at an early stage and there has been an increasing move consultation with local stakeholders towards hi-tech, knowledge-based is being sought prior to the industries.
This type of business development of a detailed scheme.
requires modern, flexible business space.
com Andrew Keir Partnership and relationship are at the heart Programme Manager, O2 of what 02 is about.
With SEGRO we have a long-term partnership, working together with both openness and transparency.
The experience has been a pleasurable one and as a client I feel appreciated.
Space to grow In April 2007, in a move that underlined the Slough Trading Estates position as a premier international business location, SEGRO and O2, a leading mobile phone network provider, were happy to announce the consolidation of all O2s UK head office functions to a single campus location on the Slough Trading Estate.
The agreement, covering more than 29,000 sq m of accommodation, included the development of a new 10,200 sq m building at 264 Bath Road, one of SEGROs largest pre-lets to be completed in the Thames Valley area in 2007.
As part of the portfolio reorganisation, O2, ranked as one of the top ten employers in the UK, will occupy the fourstorey building on a 20 year lease with a 15 year break at an annualised rental income of approximately 3 million.
The building will be linked to its existing premises on Bath Road to form a single campus environment.
The new building will be sustainable in design and benefit from a range of energy saving technologies.
SEGRO fought off stiff competition from a variety of prominent business locations to attract O2, which is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Telefnica S. A.
This deal was yet another indication of the Trading Estates burgeoning popularity among the IT and telecommunications sector, with the presence of companies including Research in Motion, the company behind the BlackBerry, and LG Electronics, forming a robust industry cluster.
The new development is part of an ongoing programme of redevelopment and refurbishment, which ensures the availability of modern stock to meet the diverse needs of both current and potential occupiers.
Andrew Keir, Programme Manager, O2 left and John Thompson, Senior Development Manager, Slough Trading Estate, SEGRO right
