We continue to measure ourselves against targets for captures the salary data for employees working in work related fatalities, reportable incidents, and property development roles in countries across instances of non-compliance with Health and Safety Continental Europe.
Leadership development continued to be a significant theme for us during 2007.
In 2006 we introduced our People new Leadership Development programme.
This bespoke 2007 has been a busy year in terms of our people programme focuses on the development of leaders agenda.
It has seen significant progress in terms of our rather than managers and provides our leaders with learning and development programme, the expansion of the necessary skills to drive our business forward.
Human Resources best practice across our Continental We feel this is fundamental to the overall success European operations and also some significant business and profitability of our business.
In 2007 we continued changes, which has resulted in a reduction in the to run this programme and further courses are number of employees within the Group.
As we have previously reported, during 2007 we disposed At SEGRO we take succession planning very seriously of our business in the USA and sold our interest in the and seek to identify individuals who we believe have the Slough power station.
In the USA, all of our employees skills and aptitude to develop further within the transferred to the new owner HCPI.
At the end of organisation.
We help to identify their development needs December we completed the sale of Slough Heat & and through mentoring and coaching we provide them Power to Scottish and Southern Energy plc SSE.
Whilst with the opportunities to develop their career paths.
we have always offered personal and development opportunities to Slough Heat & Power employees, in SSE In our business we commit to measuring employee they have joined a key player in the energy industry who engagement at least every two years.
We conducted our can offer them a far wider range of opportunities.
last employee engagement survey in autumn 2006 when the overall employee engagement was 57 per cent this As a result of the sale of Slough Heat & Power, in the is against a benchmark figure of 37 per cent for UK UK employee numbers reduced by more than companies Source: Hewitts.
We have focused on taking a third.
forward the results of the 2006 survey and used these Across our operations in Continental Europe we have results to actively inform our people agenda.
made significant progress with our people agenda in As a result of the survey we are now much more active 2007.
We have now established a Human Resources in helping employees to plan and manage their career function based in our Continental European head office development.
This is supported by our annual in Paris.
This function is responsible for providing performance review process, attendance on the specialist human resources advice and support to those leadership programme and the recent restructure in the countries where we have a presence.
We believe this is a UK business has created a number of opportunities for key development given the expansion we have planned career progression.
for Continental Europe in the coming years.
The engagement survey also identified that employees We now have a Group-wide approach to how we reward would like more information about the business with our employees having successfully extended our regards to its organisational goals, direction and remuneration policy to our European operations during performance.
To address this, Ian Coull hosts an all- 2007.
In previous years bonuses were paid to employee briefing four times a year.
These presentations Continental European employees on a discretionary have been well received and will continue to form a key basis.
Most of our Continental European employees now part of our employee communications in 2008. participate in our Group bonus arrangements.
Bonuses are only paid to employees on achievement of a number 2007 was a year of significant progress for our business of performance based targets.
We consider this to be a which would not have been achieved without the drive, key step forward in continuing to develop a performance commitment, loyalty and energy of our employees.
driven culture across our business which helps to keep employees focused on achieving targets as well as Suppliers managing costs.
SEGRO works with a broad number of suppliers ranging from property managers to building contractors.
Our During 2007 we started to benchmark the salaries paid relationships with our suppliers are built on honesty, to our Continental European employees against market fairness and mutual trust.
This is consistent with the arrangements we have had in place in the UK for a We are currently undertaking a review of our approach number of years.
In order to ensure that this data is to procurement.
It is a key business activity and a key robust we participate in an annual survey which SEGRO plc Annual Report 2007 45. enabler to helping us deliver even greater efficiency and major sponsor and helped organise the Slough Skills productivity within the business.
Summit part of the Skills Strategy for Slough campaign: the keynote speaker was Rt Hon John Denham MP, We have developed a Code of Business Ethics which Secretary of State for Innovation, Universities and Skills.
extends to our relationship with suppliers.
We are committed to strengthening our relationships with our During the year Business in the Community facilitated a suppliers.
In 2008 we plan to introduce electronic Seeing is Believing programme in Slough for our senior procurement technologies and modernise the way in executives.
Amongst the organisations visited were which we purchase goods and services from suppliers.
Herschel Grammar with whom the Group has been These changes should improve efficiency and working for many years, PITSTOP an intervention project effectiveness for both SEGRO and our suppliers based on the Slough Trading Estate and SHOC Slough business operations, as well as demonstrating how Homeless Our Concern a homeless centre in Slough.
much we value our relationships with them.
As a result of the visit the Group is now committed to support these organisations both financially and in kind.
At all times we respect the confidentiality between the Group and its suppliers.
We actively promote and Many of our employees take part in a number of our encourage developing relationships with suppliers who Employee Volunteering Schemes.
These included work demonstrate a commitment to meeting socially and on a Willow Garden at Thames Valley Adventure environmentally responsible behaviours.
Playgrounda project for children with special needs, help at the Rainbow Centre at Fareham-a specialist Several times a year we hold workshops with our centre for children with cerebral palsy and a project with suppliers to explain the standards we expect them to meet Groundwork to renovate a garden at a residential home in terms of our commitment to the environment.
These in Slough for adults with learning disabilities.
workshops have proved exceptionally popular and help to generate a better understanding between all parties.
The Group continued to support programmes that help young people such as The Princes Trust and the Additionally we expect our suppliers to ensure they Outward Bound Trust and through our support for the uphold high standards of corporate and ethical Construction Youth Trust the disadvantaged who wish to behaviours at all times.
enter the construction and built environment sectors.
Towards the end of 2007, we launched with Creative In 2008 we will continue to develop our capabilities to Junction the SEGRO Young Artists programme for verify that our suppliers are commercially sound, legally schools in the Thames Valley.
Five schools have been compliant, and maintain appropriate health and safety picked to be paired with a professional artist who will certification to minimise Group supply risks.
Compliance work with teachers and students to develop art work and delivery of a consistent quality of goods and services with a world of work theme.
Our aim is to widen our are important to ensure that we maintain our reputation partnership nationally over the next two years.
and are able to meet our business requirements.
Our aim in 2008 is to collaboratively agree targets with our In 2007 we distributed 24,000 to four charities: the suppliers to embed sustainability and continuous Slough & London Run, Padstones, Slough District improvement in our supply base as much as is practical.
Scouts and the Acorns Childrens Hospice in the Midlands.
Community The Group continues to recognise its responsibilities In 2008 the Group will continue with its community towards the communities in which it operates in the UK programme with an increased emphasis in areas away and Continental Europe.
Although historically we have from Slough and in Continental Europe.
Much of the concentrated our community support in the Slough area, community programme will be devolved to Regional we began in 2007 to reallocate resources further afield.
Directors and Country Managers in Continental Europe.
The Charitable budget for 2007 was 400,000.
We have redrafted our policy for charitable giving that is now more focussed on a smaller number projects Our community programme includes building long-term and encourages a more active participation from our relationships with local partners to deliver a shared employees.
The 2008 Charity of the Year will be Dogs objective: establishing strong, safe and healthy for the Disabled.
communities by investing time and resources into projects that directly address local needs.
Amongst the programmes we have supported were the Kings Norton Restoration Project in Birmingham, PITSTOP in Slough and Young Enterprise in Hampshire.
Andrew Palmer Chairman of the Board of Directors Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee and member of the Nomination Committee Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2006, Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 26 January 2004. he became Chairman on 1 October 2006.
He is Deputy He is Group Finance Director of Legal & General Group plc Chairman of Xchanging Ltd, a Non-Executive Director where he has held a number of financial and operational of Pacific Assets Trusts and KGR Absolute Return PCC, roles in the asset management, insurance and international and Deputy Chairman of Asia House, a charity promoting businesses.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered cultural and other links with Asia.
He was previously Accountants in England and Wales.
Chairman of Exel PLC, CP Ships and Hamptons Group Ltd and in his career he was Managing Director of Hongkong 05.
Christopher Peacock Land and then Jardine Matheson.
He is a Fellow of the Non-Executive Director Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Member of the Nomination Committee 02.
Ian Coull and the Remuneration Committee Chief Executive Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 28 January 2004.
He is a Director of Howard fide Walden Estates Limited, Member of the Nomination Committee a Director of Land Locator Company, and a member of Appointed as Chief Executive on 1 January 2003.
He is also the Strategic Advisory Board of Benson Elliot Real Estate on the London Regional Board of Royal & SunAlliance and Partners 11, L. P. He was previously President & Chief chairs the British Property Federations BPF REITs task Executive Officer of Jones Lang LaSalle.
He is a Fellow force, having been President of the BPF from June 2005 of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors.
Prior to joining SEGRO he was a Director at J Sainsbury plc and held Board and Senior Management 06.
Lesley MacDonagh positions at Ladbrokes, Texas Homecare and Cavenham Non-Executive Director Foods.
He is a Fellow of the Royal Institution of Chartered Member of the Nomination Committee Surveyors.
John Heawood Appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 January 2007.
Group Executive Director, UK Property She is a Director of Bovis Homes Group.
She was previously Appointed as a Group Executive Director on 4 November the worldwide Managing Partner of Lovells, the International 1996.
He is responsible for the UK property portfolio.
Law Firm, a Governor of the London School of Economics, Prior to joining SEGRO, he was a Director at DTZ a member of the Property Advisory Group for the UK Debenham Tie Leung.
He is a Member of the Royal Government and a Council Member of the Law Society.
