company owned in equal shares by the Company All valuations were on the basis of Market Value.
and the Mercers' Company : to our involvement We have assessed Market Value in accordance Valuers in advising the Company and Longmartin with PS 3.2 of the Red Book.
Our opinion of the Properties Limited in respect of landlord and Market Value of each of the properties or summary tenant and other matters: to our involvement in Properties has been primarily derived using advising the Company or some of the Subsidiary comparable recent market transactions on Companies in connection with the acquisition of arm's length terms.
report certain properties and to our involvement on We have not made any allowance for vendors behalf of the Company or one of the Subsidiary sale costs nor for any tax liabilities which may Companies in acting as letting agents in respect arise upon the disposal of any of the properties of certain of the office accommodation.
We have made deductions to To the Directors of Shaftesbury PLC DTZ Debenham Tie Leung is a wholly owned reflect purchasers normal acquisition costs.
"In accordance with your instructions, we have subsidiary of DTZ Holdings plc the ""Group""."
In A full explanation of the Assumptions made in undertaken a valuation of the various commercial the Group's financial year to 30 April 2007, the our valuations and details of the sources of and residential freehold and long leasehold proportion of total fees payable by the Company information are contained within our Reports.
property interests as at 30 September 2007 the and the Subsidiary Companies to the total fee date of valuation held by Shaftesbury Carnaby income of the Group was less than 5%.
We have measured certain of the properties, or Limited, Shaftesbury Covent Garden Limited, parts of properties, either on site or by scaling In accordance with the provisions of Guidance Shaftesbury Chinatown Limited and Shaftesbury from floor plans.
The Company, its managing Note 3 of the Red Book, in undertaking our Charlotte Street Limited, which are subsidiary agents or professional advisers have provided us valuations, we have lotted together certain companies collectively referred to as the with the floor areas of the remaining properties individual properties to form a separate property Subsidiary Companies of Shaftesbury PLC or parts of properties.
a Property or Properties in the manner we the Company, as referred to in our Valuation consider to be most likely to be adopted in the We have read the majority of the leases and Reports dated 16 November 2007 our Reports.
We consider that lotting related documents provided to us in respect of Our Reports were prepared for accounts purposes.
the properties together on the basis reflected in the commercial properties.
Where we have not All properties have been subject to external our valuations would allow a purchaser to read leases, we have relied on tenancy inspections between August and November 2007 capitalise on the estate management advantages information provided by the Company.
and a number were subject to internal inspections.
and opportunities available from such Certain properties were subject to works of comprehensive ownership.
The valuations have been made in accordance repair or refurbishment at 30 September 2007, with the appropriate sections of the current A high proportion of the total value of the or were subject to outstanding retentions and Practice Statements PS, and United Kingdom Subsidiary Companies properties and Properties fees in respect of projects already completed at Practice Statements UKPS contained within is accounted for by properties and Properties that date.
In these instances, the Company the RICS Appraisal and Valuation Standards, 5th situated in adjacent and or adjoining locations in advised us of the amount of the outstanding Edition the Red Book.
The valuations have three specific areas of the West End of London: costs.
The costs will be borne by the Company been undertaken by External Valuers, qualified Carnaby Street and its environs, Chinatown and as they are not recoverable from the tenants.
We for the purpose of the valuations.
the adjoining area immediately west of Wardour have reflected these costs in our valuations.
The Street south of its junction with Shaftesbury total amount of such costs is 1,448,240 and In accordance with UKPS 5.4, we are required to Avenue, and the areas around Seven Dials in the details of the individual sums are included in our make certain disclosures in connection with this western part of Covent Garden.
valuation instruction and our relationship with all dominated by retail and restaurant uses.
In the Company and the Subsidiary Companies.
As referred to above, we have lotted together our opinion, at the date of valuation, this John Bareham is the signatory of our Reports.
certain individual properties to form a separate particular unusual confluence of ownership and This is the third time that he has been the Property or separate Properties.
In the case of use characteristics may cause some prospective signatory of Reports addressed to the Subsidiary three Properties which comprise a number of purchasers to regard parts of the portfolio when Companies.
DTZ Debenham Tie Leung has been individual properties, the majority of such combined as having a greater value than the carrying out this valuation instruction for the properties are held freehold but certain of them aggregate of the individual values of the Company, and now the Subsidiary Companies, are held on long leases.
In order to divide our combined properties and Properties which make for a continuous period since 1996.
As well as valuation of these Properties between the up those parts.
preparing our Reports, we also undertake categories of freehold and long leasehold, we valuations of certain of the properties referred to As required by the provisions of the Red Book, in have undertaken notional apportionments of in our Reports for other purposes, such as undertaking our valuations, we have valued each value between the freehold elements and the secured lending and for inclusion in property or Property separately, rather than long leasehold elements which together shareholders circulars.
Currently, in addition to valuing the portfolio as a whole or in comprise the relevant Properties.
The amounts valuation instructions, there are other feecombinations of parts.
The total valuation arising from these notional apportionments of earning relationships between DTZ Debenham figure below is the aggregated value of the value have been included in the figures Tie Leung and certain of the Subsidiary separate properties or Properties within the representing the freehold and long leasehold Companies or the Company itself.
These relate various categories of tenure referred to below.
The amounts arising from the to our appointment as property and asset notional apportionments do not themselves managers in respect of the properties known as represent the Market Value of the two elements.
Wellington House 6-9 Upper St Martin's Lane, The Subsidiary Companies own a number of 6-8 Shelton Street & 7-13 Mercer Street, 10 11, properties on a freehold basis where they also 12, 13 14, 16-19 & 20 Upper St Martin's Lane, hold long leasehold interests within the freehold 124, 125 126, 127 130 inc 1-3 Slingsby Place, and have not merged the interests.
For the 132 135, 136 137, 138 Beckett House, 140-142 purposes of the freehold long leasehold split & 143 Long Acre, 1, 3-5 &15 17 Mercer Street, below, we have included such properties within London WC2 all of which are owned by the freehold category.
Longmartin Properties Limited, a joint venture 60 AnnualReport2007
