ft. ] 10 38 - 57 29 - 55 30 - 42 35 - 39 30 - 40 Tone of residential estimated rental values [ per annum] 10 9,100 - 10,100 - 7,800 - 9,300 - 13,000 - 52,000 52,000 26,700 17,200 29,000 Notes: 1 The Market Values shown above in respect 3 Estimated rental value ERV is the 6 Average unexpired lease length has 9 Equivalent yield is the internal rate of of the four Villages are, in each case, the respective valuers opinion of the rental been calculated by weighting the leases return, being the discount rate which aggregate of the market values of several value of the properties, or parts thereof, in terms of current rent reserved under needs to be applied to the flow of different property interests located within reflecting the terms of the relevant the relevant leases and, where relevant, income expected during the life of the close proximity which, for the purpose of leases or, if appropriate, reflecting the by reference to tenants options to investment so that the total amount of this analysis are combined to create each fact that certain of the properties, or determine leases in advance of expiry income so discounted at this rate equals Village.
The different interests in each parts thereof, have been valued on the through effluxion of time.
the capital outlay at values current at the Village were not valued as a single lot.
basis of vacant possession and the date of valuation.
The Equivalent Yield 7 Where mixed uses occur within single assumed grant of a new lease.
Estimated shown for each Village has been 2 Current gross income includes total leases, for the purpose of this analysis rental value does not reflect any ground calculated by merging together the cash actual and estimated income reserved the majority use by rental value has rents, head rents or rent charges and flows and Market Values of each of the by leases.
Current gross income does not been adopted.
different interests within each Village and reflect any ground rents, head rents or 8 The initial yield is the net initial income represents the average Equivalent Yield rent charges and estimated irrecoverable 4 The percentage of current gross income at the date of valuation expressed as a attributable to each Village from this outgoings as at 30 September 2007 the and the percentage of ERV in each of percentage of the gross valuation.
Estimated income the use sectors are expressed as a reflect net income after deduction of refers to gross estimated rental values in percentage of total gross income and 10 The tone of rental values and yields is any ground rents, head rents and rent respect of rent reviews outstanding at the total ERV for each village.
the range of rental values or yields charges and estimated irrecoverable date of valuation and, where appropriate attributed to the majority of the properties.
5 The vacancy rate by percentage of ERV is outgoings at 30 September 2007. estimated rental values in respect of the ERV of the vacant accommodation lease renewals outstanding at the date of within each use sector, on a village-byvaluation where the Market Value reflects village basis, expressed as a percentage of terms for a renewed lease.
total ERV of each use sector in each village.
