15 Covent Garden 36 At 30 September 2007, the fair value Performance and Key performance Prospects of the Groups interest rate derivatives benchmarking indicators The West End economy is extremely contracted at that date represented buoyant, with increasing numbers The table on page 3 summarises The key financial objective of the a liability of 0.6 million 2006: 9.3 of visitors and spending being our performance this year against Group is to deliver to shareholders million.
The reduction in the liability reported.
Consequently there is our chosen benchmarks.
sustained out-performance in the reflects the market expectation of strong occupier demand for all long term growth in its net asset future interest rates at higher levels As explained in previous years, uses across each of our villages.
Fundamental to this objective than were previously expected.
we have been unable to identify a This is reflected in sustained is the growth in value of the Groups published property performance growth in rental values throughout The deficit arising on the fair value property assets.
The Group measures index which relates specifically to of the Groups long term debenture our portfolio.
its overall portfolio performance a portfolio of mixed use buildings debt, which IFRS does not allow to against the IPD UK Monthly Index In contrast, current financial concerns such as ours, or recognises be reflected in the results, amounted which, as explained above, tracks in the wider economy are leading restaurant uses as a component, to 14.5 million, based on 61.0 million movements across all main to an increase in property yields and an important element of our of Stock in issue 2006: 24.9 million, commercial property categories on downward pressure on property investment strategy.
We have based on 67.5 million of Stock in a monthly basis.
Our financial resources will therefore used for comparison issue.
The reduction in the deficit performance against this Index is enable us to take advantage of purposes the IPD UK Monthly Index has arisen as a result of Stock set out on page 3. opportunities which are more likely which tracks movements across all repurchases, market expectations to arise in this weakened investment main commercial property categories The rental growth prospects of the of higher future interest rates and market.
We believe the rental growth on a monthly basis.
Shaftesbury is Groups portfolio are the key driver a widening of bond yields.
prospects of our resilient, wella constituent of the FTSE 350 Real of its long term performance.
The key The Group has no legal obligation to located portfolio, together with our Estate Index.
non-financial performance indicators value-creating management crystallise these fair value deficits used within the business measure: As shown in the Performance by further early refinancing of its initiatives, will continue to deliver Summary on page 3, this year our - the extent to which rental levels out-performance in income and fixed rate debt or the early capital value and total returns have are achieved in excess of the termination of its interest rate hedges capital values.
again out-performed the IPD All market rental values assessed by but may consider doing so where Property Monthly indices by the Groups external valuers at there is a clear economic benefit significant margins.
The degree of their last valuation and: to the business.
Jonathan S. Lane Chief Executive out-performance in total return Brian Bickell Finance Director - the ability of management to The Board monitors both actual and was less than that for the portfolio minimise the time that properties forecast performance against the 5 December 2007 return due to the lower yield profile are vacant and not producing covenants contained in the Groups of our assets.
In the case of properties bank facilities.
Our banking After two years of substantial outbeing refurbished, the void period covenants are structured on a performance, we recorded a being monitored includes time Group-wide basis and are broadly negative total shareholder return spent in designing schemes, similar for each of our facilities.
for the year ended 30 September obtaining planning consents, They require us to maintain minimum 2007, of 16.5% against the FTSE carrying out physical works and levels of property security value 350 Real Estate Index, which marketing up to the point of compared with actual borrowings, recorded a negative return of 14.1% completing lettings.
For vacant minimum levels of interest cover over the year.
Adverse sentiment properties ready to let, marketing compared with net property income towards the real estate sector in periods are monitored and and set a maximum level of gearing the second half of the year, after two assessed.
years of exceptional returns, has The Board is satisfied that the key resulted in significant reductions in performance indicator of rental share prices across the sector, growth is meeting its expectations.
which in most cases are now at Void periods are generally at an substantial discounts to net asset acceptable level although where values.
Over the three years to 30 delays occur these are often due to September 2007, Shaftesbury problems beyond the Groups control, produced a total shareholder return such as delays in the planning of 85.7% compared with the FTSE process or the failure of utility Real Estate Index return of 56.5%.
companies to meet their service obligations.
At present there are no indications that capacity constraints within the construction industry are delaying the completion of the Groups schemes.
:37 Business review AnnualReport2007 37 20:32 Carnaby 38 Chinatown 15:48 39 11:32 Carnaby 40 41
