Section 4 Financial Annual Report and 37 Workspace Group PLC statements Accounts 2007 Report of the directors The directors present their report and the audited financial Substantial shareholdings in the Company statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
At 11 June 2007 the directors had been notified of the following substantial shareholdings, amounting to 3% or more of the ordinary Principal activities share capital of the Company: The Group is engaged in property investment in the form of letting Holder % of share capital of business accommodation to small and medium sized enterprises located in London and the South East of England.
At 31 March 2007 ING Investment Management 7.7% the Company had 7 active subsidiaries, 4 of which are engaged in the F&C Asset Management 7.4% Groups core activities.
Details of the Companys subsidiaries are ABP Investments 6.1% listed on page 62.
LI Property Services Limited procures insurance on Standard Life Investments 4.6% behalf of the Group.
Workspace Management Limited acts as Legal & General Investment Management 4.5% manager for all the Groups property investment companies.
Insight Investment 4.4% Workspace Holdings Limited is an intermediate holding company Aegon Asset Management 3.9% and borrower under the Groups facility with Bradford & Bingley PLC.
Scottish Widows 3.7% Dimensional Funds Advisors 3.1% Operating and financial review Man Financial as principal 3.0% Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 required Workspace Group PLC to produce a business review.
The information that has Donations been prepared to a standard which fulfils the requirements of that The Group has made no political donations 2006: nil.
It has business review can be found in the Operating and Financial Review made charitable donations, principally through rental concessions OFR on pages 6 to 36, those pages being incorporated by reference of 95,385 and sponsorship of 24,590, totalling 119,975 into this Report of the Directors.
The OFR reports on the Groups 2006: 154,030. development and performance during the past year, together with its strategy and prospects, with particular reference to stated Key Health and safety Performance Indicators KPIs on pages 2, 3 and 90.
The Groups policy is to provide and maintain safe and healthy working conditions, equipment and systems of work for all its The OFR also includes information in respect of financial and other employees and to provide such information, training and supervision risks under the heading of Risk Management pages 69 and 70 as they need for this purpose.
The Group accepts responsibility for and employee involvement and employee practices pages 16 to 19. the health and safety of other people, who may be affected by its activities.
Profit and dividends The Group profit after tax for the year attributable to shareholders Whilst all employees of the Group have a responsibility in relation amounted to 193.4m 2006: 106.6m.
The directors recommend to health and safety matters, certain staff have been designated the payment of a final distribution of 2.76p 2006: 2.51p, making a workplace responsibilities or other co-ordinating responsibilities total of 4.14p for the year 2006: 3.76p.
throughout the Group, and ultimately, at Board level, the Chief Executive has overall responsibility.
Reports on Health and Safety Land and buildings are made to each Board meeting.
The Groups fixed assets include investment properties, of 1,001.6m 2006: 954.0m, owner occupied property of 2.0m 2006: 2.0m and Employment policies current assets include investment properties held-for-sale of nil The Group aims to create a working environment in which every 2006: 8.2m.
Included in non-current assets is the Groups 18.5m current or prospective employee is given equal opportunity in investment in a joint venture.
This joint venture company holds selection, development and promotion.
A further explanation of the investment property totalling 162.9m at the balance sheet date.
Groups people policies can be found in the Valuing Our People The Groups investment properties and those of the joint venture section of this report on page 16. have been independently valued by CB Richard Ellis, Chartered Surveyors, at 31 March 2007 at open market value.
A Staff Forum has been established to improve communication and consultation with employees.
Directors and their interests Mr A J Hales, Mr H Platt, Mr J Bywater, Ms M Carragher, The Group operates an Employee Share Ownership Trust ESOT Mr B Cragg, Mr J P Marples and Mr R M Taylor served the Company to purchase shares in the market for distribution at a later date in as directors throughout the year.
Dr C J Pieroni served as a director accordance with the terms of the 1993 and 2000 Executive Share until 1 August 2006 at which point he retired after six years service.
Dividends are waived on shares held by the ESOT.
Mr R Dickinson joined the Board as a director on 2 August 2006.
J Bywater, M Carragher and J P Marples retire by rotation and, Purchasing policies and payments being eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General The Group tries, wherever possible, to procure from within its own Meeting.
Brief biographical details of each of the directors including tenant base providing tenants are competitive on price and quality.
those standing for election appear on page 67.
The Groups policy is that, unless agreed otherwise at the time of the transaction, its own payments to others for goods and services The Group has a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy received are made on average within a month of the date of invoice.
which indemnifies the directors and officers against breach of fiduciary duty.
During the year to 31 March 2007 the Groups average payment term from the date of invoice was 27 days.
The parent company has made No director had, during the year, any beneficial interest in any no trade purchases.
contract significant to the Companys business, other than a contract of employment.
Post balance sheet events and future developments Following the year end the Group has exchanged contracts but not Details of the directors shareholdings and options over shares are completed the purchase of a property in London, SE1.
Section 4 Financial Annual Report and 38 Workspace Group PLC statements Accounts 2007 Going concern b Companys power to purchase own shares renewal of authority After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation Resolution 11 authorises the Company to make market purchases that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to within the meaning of section 163 of the Companies Act 1985 on the continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this London Stock Exchange of up to an aggregate of 17,422,108 ordinary reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing shares equivalent to 10% of the issued share capital of the Company the accounts.
as at 20 June 2007, at a minimum price per ordinary share of 10p and a maximum price of 105% of the average of the middle market Risk management quotations of the ordinary shares as derived from the London Stock The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days immediately Company are set out in note 17 g to the financial statements and preceding the day on which that ordinary share is contracted to be in the Corporate Governance section of this report on page 69. purchased.
Key Performance Indicators c Amendments to the Articles of Association The directors are required in the business review to comment upon Company Investigations in relation to Interests in Shares the Groups key performance indicators.
These key performance indicators are reported on elsewhere in this Annual Report and are Certain provisions of the Companies Act 2006 were brought into force provided on pages 2, 3 and 90. in January and April 2007, including a revised regime with regard to company investigations in relation to interests in a companys shares.
Audit information Resolution 12 would, if passed, amend the articles of association to As far as the directors are aware there is no relevant information of reflect this revised regime.
which the Groups auditors are unaware.
The directors have taken all steps that they ought to have taken in order to make themselves The remaining provisions of the Companies Act 2006 are expected to aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the come into force later this year and or during 2008.
Accordingly, it will Groups auditors are aware of that information.
be necessary for the Company to undertake a detailed review of its articles of association in order to reflect the entirety of the new Act.
Auditors It is anticipated that a resolution to adopt wholly new articles of The auditors,  LLP, have indicated their association will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting in 2008. willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they will be reappointed is included as ordinary business at the Annual d Amendments to the Articles of Association General Meeting.
Directors Indemnities Resolution 13 makes amendments to the articles of association Annual General Meeting in relation to directors indemnities.
The amendments are being The 21st Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held proposed in order to reflect the provisions of the Companies Audit, at Magenta House, 85 Whitechapel Road, London E1 1DU on Investigations and Community Enterprise Act 2004, which allow a Tuesday 31 July 2007.
Formal notice of the meeting is set out in a company to indemnify its directors against liability to third parties separate document enclosed with this Annual Report and Accounts arising in connection with any negligence, default, breach of duty or 2007 which contains further explanatory information and the notice breach of trust by its directors in relation to the Company, and to fund of the Annual General Meeting.
its directors defence costs as they are incurred in both criminal and civil cases.
Special business at The Annual General Meeting In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, five resolutions numbered 9 to 13 are proposed as special business and are concerned with the matters set out below.
These matters are By order of the Board explained in more detail in the separate document referred to above.
R Mark Taylor Company Secretary a Directors powers to allot securities renewal of authority 11 June 2007 Resolution 9 gives the directors the necessary authority for the period of five years from the date of the passing of such resolution to allot shares, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5,807,369 being one third of issued share capital of the Company as at 20 June 2007.
Resolution 10 empowers the directors for the period of five years from the date of the passing of such resolution to allot shares for cash or transfer equity securities which are from time to time held by the Company in treasury otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis up to an aggregate nominal amount of 871,105, which is equivalent to 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 20 June 2007.
