Section 3 A clear strategy Annual Report and 21 Workspace Group PLC for growth Accounts 2007 Our priorities and achievements Priorities 2006 07 Achievements 2007 08 Priorities Like-for-like revenue and net asset To continue to increase shareholder 1.
Driving shareholder value To continue to increase all value increased.
Trading PBT reduced value in line with a target of doubling due to the impact of increased over five years.
operating measures to deliver shareholder value.
borrowings to finance further growth and interest rates on these borrowings.
Operating measures Like-for-like occupancy down from To improve like-for-like occupancy To improve occupancy back to 90%, 87.7% to 86.9% during the year, back to 90%, and achieve real rental and achieve real rental growth.
mainly due to the creation of future growth over 5% per annum.
Overall occupancy up from 83% to 84.8% as newly refurbished space was let.
Portfolio management Total acquisitions 70.4m showing To make at least a further 60m To make at least a further 60m 4.84% initial return and a reversionary acquisitions in London in year, acquisitions in year adding to our yield of 8.52%.
Disposals of 171.7m and to target up to 70m disposals existing clusters of properties.
at 4.66% exit yield also achieved at values greater than 31 March with 146m transferred to Glebe book value.
Releasing latent Glebe joint venture established To further increase the momentum development value and progressing.
Planning consent of our activity in this area, in To increase the momentum for the obtained at Highbury Grove.
particular progressing a five-year plan redevelopment and change of use Other initiatives underway.
for the released value in more of our of some 20 or so estates, including directly held estates.
working with partners in a variety of ways.
Customer services New systems of customer information To focus on partnership initiatives Extend customer relations and surveys established.
with our customers that encourage management CRM business sustainability.
review to other areas of customer management.
Brand development Tradelink now has 927customers and To promote the Groups role in wider To continue to develop our brand and is growing.
Increasing evidence that urban regeneration throughout in particular, launch a new initiative local authorities are supportive of London.
encouraging inter-trading amongst Workspace-led regeneration schemes our customers, whilst maintaining Wandsworth, Grand Union, etc.
our customer relationships to improve those with gatekeepers in London, particularly local authorities and other public bodies.
