Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 12 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2007 A FLEXIBLE OFFER Flexible product, flexible manner, flexible buildings.
By offering a flexible lease we have to be flexible both in helping our customers relocate as well as providing workspace that is versatile in floor plan or use.
Flexibility is an essential feature of accommodate such churn but also the Workspace Group.
A key feature of our capacity to review our portfolio constantly, product is the flexibility of our tenancy to test it against tenant requirements to 31% terms.
Our SME customers can take space ensure that it services their needs.
In turn 31% of our customers that move confident in the knowledge that if their this can create demands for flexibility in our office are able to find accommodation circumstances change, they can move on, buildings, in their capacity to reconfigure elsewhere in our portfolio often to new accommodation with us, space to match the changing needs of our without residual liability.
With the opportunities created easier for our customers to make the through the growing demands of a growing necessary commitment.
To do this we in London community, this flexibility will turn need to be flexible, to have the capacity increasingly involve renewed use of our to manage the 30% per annum churn that properties.
In all a flexible product supplied this flexibility creates.
This requires not only in a flexible manner in flexible buildings.
that we have the management systems to 1.
Barley Mow Centre, W4 2 3 To access more information about our flexible offer, go to workspacegroup.
co. uk @ business space search Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 13 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2007 Customer loyalty A A Lettings to former customers 31% B Lettings to new customers 69% B 31% of customers, when looking for new business space find something suitable and move within our portfolio.
Main picture: Clerkenwell Workshops, EC1R See page 29 for more details on this site.
Minimum time to break clause Minimum lease term A A 1yr 90% B B 1yr 10% The majority of our customers occupy their units under an agreement that they can terminate within three months, so giving them the flexibility they need to change accommodation as their business changes.
Length of stay with Workspace A A 1yr 30% B 1-2 yrs 20% C 2-3 yrs 12% D 3-4 yrs 9% F E 4-5 yrs 6% F Over 5 yrs 23% E B D C Although customers are generally not committed for more than three months their satisfaction with the service they receive at Workspace encourages them to stay for considerably longer.
