Section 3 A clear strategy Annual Report and 25 Workspace Group PLC for growth Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES REVIEW CONTINUED Joint Venture accommodation in addition to an increased amount of commercial offices and retail The Group believes that of our portfolio approximately 54% will be subject to accommodation.
The current plans envisage more than four times the density intensification change of use over a 54% ten-year period.
On a nearer five-year of occupation at this site.
It is anticipated Workspace portfolio subject that an application for detailed planning basis we estimate that 28% of the portfolio to intensification change of has the potential.
We have recently appointed consent for the proposed works will be use over a ten-year period made this summer.
At the Wandsworth a new Development Director to accelerate our progress here.
Business Village similar good progress has been made.
This property sits alongside The principal initiative in this area this the former Youngs Brewery site, the regeneration of which is being promoted year was the formation in June 2006 of a joint venture with Glebe to promote by Minerva Plc.
Once again, the local authority is receptive to proposals for the the intensification and change of use opportunities for 11 estates owned by regeneration of our property since it assists in their overall planning for the town centre.
Workspace and three owned by Glebe.
A detailed planning application has been submitted for a scheme that more than The joint venture was formed by a merger of the partners respective holdings.
It is doubles the density of accommodation at this location.
It comprises a mixture of supported by Bank of Scotland who have provided a 126m loan facility.
The balance of residential and commercial space with the commercial space being broadly equivalent financial resources required to complete the transaction was provided in equal proportions to that currently on the site.
These total 19.5m each at present.
Workspace continues to In addition to these front-runners, concepts are progressing for all other sites.
These provide the day-to-day management of the properties, whilst Glebe is responsible for the will come forward over future periods, as was anticipated when the joint venture promotion of the regeneration opportunities at the properties.
Neither party charges the was established.
joint venture for the services provided to the joint venture, but Workspace recovers the 1-2 Wandsworth Business 1 Village, SW18 service charge, management and any direct Wandsworth Business Village is costs associated with the properties.
It also included in Workspace Groups receives any fees that are recoverable from Joint Venture JV with Glebe, see tenants for service charge management.
Planning consent will be The financing of the transaction was sought for the redevelopment of the structured to maximise the level of debt site to provide 209 residential reducing the equity requirement from apartments and a purpose-built partners.
As a result, interest costs in the business centre, comprising 112,000 sq ft of small unit space, year have exceeded net revenues resulting a caf and a day nursery current in a small post tax trading loss Workspace floor area is 86,150 sq ft, see image 2. share 0.1m.
Against this the joint venture has recorded a valuation surplus of 2.75m on the transfer values.
This is in addition to the 8.59m surplus realised by the Group by reference to the values at which the 2 properties were introduced into the joint venture in June 2006.
Good progress has been made in the preparation of strategies for each of the joint venture properties.
Progress at Grand Union and Wandsworth is summarised below.
Grand Union stands on a significant site at the entry to the Borough of Kensington and Chelsea.
The Planning Authority supports the replacement of the existing two storey buildings by a more prominent Computer generated image multi-storey complex providing residential Section 3 A clear strategy Annual Report and 26 Workspace Group PLC for growth Accounts 2007 29% Increase in valuation The Light Box, This 75,000 sq ft building near to the Chiswick W4 roundabout on the North Circular has been subject to a 5.5m refurbishment programme: this has created a net valuation uplift of 3.9m or 29%.
The main picture illustrates the newly created cafe, a communal meeting and networking space for use by the buildings many occupiers: such space is a common feature in many of our buildings.
