Section 5 Shareholder Annual Report and 67 Workspace Group PLC reporting Accounts 2007 SHAREHOLDER REPORTING 5 Bernard Cragg BSc ACA Bernard Cragg 52 joined the Board in June 2003.
He is Chairman of Datamonitor Plc and i-mate Plc, and a non-executive director of Mothercare Plc, Bristol & West plc and Astro All Asia Networks PLC.
He was formerly Group Finance Director and Chief Financial Officer of Carlton Communications Plc and a non-executive director of Arcadia plc.
In this section: Board of Directors page 67 6 Patrick Marples MRICS Advisers and headquarters page 68 Property Director Corporate governance, risk management Patrick Marples 51 joined the Board in November 1996 as Property and approach to social, environmental Director responsible for the investment management of the Group's and ethical SEE issues page 69 property portfolio.
He had previously worked as a property consultant Board and committee reports page 74 for the Group since 1987 and prior to that he was an Associate Directors remuneration report page 77 Partner at fide&J Levy.
7 Rupert Dickinson MRICS Rupert Dickinson 47 joined the Board in August 2006.
He is Chief 1 2 3 4 5 Executive of Grainger plc.
Rupert joined Grainger plc in 1992, was appointed a director of the Company in 1994 and Chief Executive in October 2002.
Prior to joining Grainger plc Rupert was at Richard Ellis now CBRE where he worked for five years in commercial development.
8 Mark Taylor BSc FCA Finance Director 6 7 8 9 10 Mark Taylor 56 joined the Board in October 1995 as Finance Director.
Mark is to retire later this year.
He trained with Touche Ross and was previously employed for 16 years by John Laing PLC, latterly as Joint Managing Director of John Laing Developments and director of Group Investments.
Following this he worked for a short period with the Ministry of Defence.
Following the year end Graham Clemett and Angus Boag were recruited respectively as Group Finance Director and Development Director.
The photograph of the Board members 9 Graham Clemett BSc ACA was taken from the top of Canterbury Group Finance Director Court at Kennington Park, SW9.
To find Graham Clemett 46 will join the Board to succeed Mark as Group out more about this development, go to Finance Director.
He trained with KPMG and spent eight years at page 24 of this report.
Reuters Group PLC, latterly as Group Financial Controller, and more recently five years at RBS Group PLC as Finance Director, UK Corporate Banking.
The Board 10 Angus Boag MSc CEng MICE 1 Antony Hales BSc Development Director Chairman Angus Boag 47 joined the Group in June 2007 as Development Tony Hales 59, joined the Board in November 2002 and was Director responsible for identifying and implementing improvement appointed Chairman in December 2002.
He is currently Chairman and regeneration opportunities within the Group's property portfolio.
of NAAFI Ltd and British Waterways and a non-executive director of Prior to joining the Group he was at Manhattan Loft Corporation for Provident Financial plc.
He was previously Chief Executive of Allied 12 years joining as Development Director and appointed as Managing Domecq plc and a non-executive director of HSBC Bank plc, Aston Director in 2001.
Villa plc and Reliance Security Group PLC.
Non-executive 2 Harry Platt MA MRTPI Member of Remuneration, Nominations and Audit Committees Chief Executive Member of Nominations Committee Harry Platt 55 joined the Board as Director and General Manager in April 1991, became Managing Director in April 1992 and Chief Executive in October 1999.
He was Chief Executive of Harlow District Executive Committee Responsibilities Council between 1983 and 1989 and before that Assistant Chief Executive at the London Borough of Greenwich.
Prior to joining the Harry Platt Chief Executive Group he was Operations Director of Dixons Commercial Properties Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of the CHE Hotel Madeleine Carragher, Operations Director Group PLC.
Responsibilities include: Estate management, Lettings, Building Maintenance & 3 John Bywater FRICS Development and Marketing.
John Bywater 60 joined the Board in June 2004.
He retired as an executive director of Hammerson plc in March 2007 and is now Patrick Marples, Property Director Managing Director of Caddick Developments Ltd.
He is a nonResponsibilities include: executive director of the West Bromwich Building Society and of Property acquisitions and disposals, Property valuation issues.
Mark Taylor, Finance Director 4 Madeleine Carragher FRICS Responsibilities include: Operations Director Finance, Company Secretarial, Investor Relations, Maddy Carragher 52 has worked for the Group since its Workspace Energy and IT.
establishment, initially as Estates Surveyor.
She is responsible for the development and implementation of the Group's marketing strategy Angus Boag, Development Director and the promotion, letting and overall management of the Group's Responsibilities include: estates.
She was promoted to the main Board in January 1996.
Intensification and refurbishment assets across the portfolio Prior to joining the Group she was a surveyor at fide&J Levy.
