Section 3 A clear strategy Annual Report and 22 Workspace Group PLC for growth Accounts 2007 CHIEF EXECUTIVES Acquisitions at low REVIEW capital value CONTINUED Undervalued assets with redevelopment use intensification potential in locations Redevelopment set to benefit from profits regeneration schemes Redevelopment Releverage Apply Workspace effect Alternative use Increase in debt Refurbishment Strategy Intensification of capacity Space optimisation The Groups strategy remains both existing use Headroom generated Flexible letting consistent and successful.
Our business for new acquisitions model is illustrated graphically to the right and may be summarised as: focus on the SME market in London: which we believe has excellent long-term growth prospects acquiring properties where we see long-term value: we continue to track Increase in property a large number of potential property Area value acquisitions in London improvement growing rents: our average rent of Higher rents 11.34 per sq ft has substantial Better growth potential to grow, and yet remain Stronger covenant Development affordable for our customers potential?
realising the latent value in our portfolio: targeting where intensification or change of use is possible.
In the longer term, some 54% of the Groups portfolio has such potential, whilst on a five-year basis, there are over 16 estates 28% on impact on distributions was included portfolio valuation.
The cost to Workspace which we are working in addition to the in the circular see page 92 issued to Group will be 18.8m payable in July 2007.
11 transferred to the Glebe joint venture.
shareholders in December 2006 when the However, companies are thereafter relieved Company changed its articles to facilitate of liability for tax on their property income Our target remains to double shareholder operation as a REIT.
A table summarising and gains on sales.
At 30 September 2006, value over the forthcoming five-year period.
these rules is set out below.
the Groups total deferred tax liability was Looking forward this will be achieved by 141.3m of which 138.5m related to continuing to grow rents, increasing our Workspace Group satisfied all of the valuation surpluses.
Following conversion rate of acquisitions, and by accelerating criteria for REITs comfortably and your to a REIT, this liability is avoided.
Your Board our programme for the improvement and Board considered that the Group would was conscious at the time of conversion, that regeneration of existing properties.
Further, the operational with its policy of reviewing its stock and This aligns with the needs for London, requirements for a REIT were not considered disposing of certain properties that had accommodating its growing population to present unacceptable constraints on demonstrated capacity for more intensive in mixed-use accommodation through the Groups business.
Indeed, the Groups and better use in line with the regeneration more intense use of space.
business planning model was compared in plans for London, a number of disposals both a REIT and non-REIT environment.
In would in all likelihood arise in the shorter Two key events in the delivery of this particular, the increased distributions with term and that the taxation savings on these strategy occurred during the year.
Firstly a REIT had little impact on our business would cover a substantial proportion of the the Groups conversion to a REIT and plan since these were compensated for by conversion charge.
Adding this with annual secondly acceleration of our plans to tax charges that would no longer arise with charges on income, the payback of the intensify the use of a number of estates, the result that the resources retained for conversion charge would be relatively partly through the establishment of the reinvestment were largely unchanged.
In simple terms conversion to a REIT joint venture with Glebe.
Further details saved substantial tax liabilities, had a quick on these events and how they assist in the On converting to REITs, companies incur pay-back and does not change our tried delivery of the Groups strategy are given a one-off charge equivalent to 2% of the and tested business model.
The principal characteristics of a UK The key operational requirements of REITs REIT are: REITs include: On 1 January 2007 the Group excluding listed UK resident closed ended property interest cover should be no less than 1.25 its joint venture with Glebe, which does company with only one class of share REITs must distribute 90% of their net not qualify under the initial rules for the any borrowings are on reasonable arms property income after adjustment for REIT regime converted to a Real Estate length commercial terms capital allowances Investment Trust REIT.
REITs were accounts prepared under IFRS where holdings in excess of 10% of the established by the Government to provide at least three properties, none of which Groups equity exist, then additional a more attractive tax transparent vehicle represents more than 40% of the total tax charges may arise for co-ownership of property.
Prior to their value of all properties REITs cannot engage in property creation, investors in property companies at least 75% of income from property development defined as where suffered tax charges both in the Company rental business expenditure in excess of 30% of the and at their personal level.
REITs are largely at least 75% of assets invested in value of the property is incurred unless corporation tax exempt, with tax collection property rental business.
the developed property is retained for being focused at the individual investor.
A detailed description of REITs and their Section 3 A clear strategy Annual Report and 23 Workspace Group PLC for growth Accounts 2007 20% Increase in valuation Enterprise Situated on the South Bank a short distance House, SE1 from the London Eye and OXO Tower, Enterprise House has undergone an 8m refurbishment programme that added two floors and was completed in June 2006.
Current occupancy is now 91% let predominantly to media and television industry occupiers.
See page 28 for more details of our added value programme.
Section 3 A clear strategy Annual Report and 24 Workspace Group PLC for growth Accounts 2007 19% Increase in lettable area Kennington Purchased from Brixton Estates plc in August Park, SW9 2005.
A major 9m refurbishment programme has now commenced to convert the main building at the heart of the site from 158,000 sq ft of industrial space to 188,000 sq ft of office space.
The refurbishment programme is planned for completion by November 2007.
