Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 14 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2007 ALWAYS 1 ADDING VALUE Releasing latent value and improving margins.
We track a large number of acquisitions and once bought extract value by improving the style of management, refurbishing, reusing or extending.
Latent value Improving margins The Groups core activity is investment in, The Group aims to be a good landlord and and the letting of, small-unit accommodation provide the highest levels of customer 54% for SMEs.
As such, it is not a property service.
It recognises that its standards 54% of properties in the portfolio development company.
However, many of and efficiency of service, from the initial are subject to intensification or our estates are not densely developed, are at letting process through to moving in and change of use on a 10-year basis low capital values per sq ft and are in areas occupation, should allow customers to targeted in the Mayors Plan for London for maximise time spent on their own intensification and change of use.
To do this it has developed steadily extract this latent potential.
We will streamlined processes and actively seeks do this in a number of ways including out opportunities to complement its 250% partnerships with others with expertise in accommodation offer.
These currently extend Potential increase in floor these areas such as the Glebe joint venture principally to energy electricity and gas, space at a number of identified and the initiative with United House at our business insurance and telecom services.
intensification properties Wharf Road property and in other different Whilst these provide a useful supplement to ways.
The Group has spent a considerable earnings, their main objective is to increase amount of time and effort analysing its the attractiveness of the Groups core portfolio to identify and prioritise the accommodation offering and support the opportunities on those properties which have maintenance of high levels of occupancy 22 significant potential for value enhancement and improving rental income.
Properties are subject to density in the near-term.
This analysis has indicated increases currently or in the that 54% excluding the properties At 31 March 2007 the Group supplied gas medium term transferred to the Glebe JV have potential and electricity to 1,174 customers, had for improvement through reconfiguration 760 business insurance customers, 660 of space, intensification or other regenerative internet connectivity customers and 1,530 activity.
Of these 22 are either in development telephone users.
at present or show potential for implementation of major projects in the short to medium For many years the Group has operated a term.
Clearly, the release of these properties tenants directory a Yellow Pages type into such programmes has to be balanced guide to services offered by our customers with the need to maintain an appropriate level and preferential terms made available by of accommodation to continue to serve our them to other Workspace customers.
Tradelink service operates within the Groups website.
Tradelink see below goes Details of the Groups current programme beyond a service to Workspaces customers of works to improve and add value to its to source suppliers by providing the properties are given on page 28. opportunity to network and establish collaborations with others through which The Group has issued a separate publication each may benefit.
describing its approach to regeneration see below.
Section 2 Leading in a Annual Report and 15 Workspace Group PLC growth market Accounts 2007 1.
Wharf Road, N1 1 Computer generated image Currently under construction, and with planning consent for a mixed use residential and commercial scheme.
See page 30 for more details of the scheme.
Main picture: Thurston Road Industrial Estate, SE13 Computer generated image Planning consent was granted on this site during the year for a mixed-use residential and retail scheme.
