Corporate governance Non-executive directors Remuneration Committee David Dunn Chairman Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong Michael Buzzacott independent advice and judgement.
At present there are four such directors, including the Chairman, and the Senior Martin Flower Independent director, David Dunn, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Stanley Musesengwa Groups operations is enhanced by regular divisional presentations and by site visits.
The Remuneration Committee, which consists of non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration No non-executive director nor the Chairman: policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors.
The Group Chief has been an employee of the Company or Group Executive is normally invited to attend all its meetings.
The directors remuneration report is set out on pages 23 to 30 has, or has had, a material business relationship with the Group and a resolution will be proposed at theAGM to approve the report.
received, or receives remuneration other than a directors fee or share options or is a member of the Group pension scheme Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website.
The Committee met five times in 2007.
A self evaluation has close family or business ties with any of the Groups advisers, directors or senior employees of the effectiveness of the Committee was undertaken with no significant issues revealed.
holds cross directorship or significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies or bodies represents a significant shareholder Nomination Committee Martin Flower Chairman has served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Michael Buzzacott Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on David Dunn pages 18 and 19.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
Mike Humphrey Stanley Musesengwa The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at theAGM.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It meets on an ad hoc basis.
Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website.
Board Committees The Board has three main Committees and their terms of reference are published on the Groups website.
Other executives The Committee met four times during the year.
The Committee continued the effort started during 2006 to identify a suitable attend the meetings of these Committees when invited to do so by the Committee chairman.
External search consultants, Spencer Stuart, were engaged to identify initial candidates.
The Chairman then met candidates before recommending a shortlist to the Committee.
Subsequently, Committee members Audit Committee and the Group Chief Executive interviewed the candidates before recommending to the Board that Stanley Musesengwa Michael Buzzacott Chairman be appointed.
David Dunn Stanley Musesengwa During the year the Committee oversaw the development of a succession plan for the senior management team.
The process involved the assessment and evaluation by external consultants, Whitehead Mann, of the members of the Group TheAudit Committee, which consists of the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, meets at least twice a year.
Executive Committee and the Finance Committee, other than the Group Chief Executive, against defined leadership It assists the Board in observing its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up criteria.
The results of the evaluations were presented to the Committee byWhitehead Mann and then were reviewed by to date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair the Committee with the assistance of the GroupVP Personnel.
Consequently, development activities have been identified reflection of this position.
It also assists the Board in ensuring that appropriate accounting policies, internal financial for, and undertaken by, the executives concerned and these will be reviewed by the Committee midway through 2008. controls, internal audit activities and compliance procedures are in place.
Terms of reference are posted on the Companys website, including its role and the authority delegated to it by the Board.
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate and Committee members bring considerable financial and accounting experience to the Committees work.
Members have that all the non-executive directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required recent employment in either finance or accounting roles or comparable experience in corporate activities as set out in time for the proper performance of their duties.
their biographies on pages 18 and 19.
Michael Buzzacott became chairman of the Committee on MikeWards retirement from the Company after the 2007AGM.
Stanley Musesengwa was appointed to the Committee when he was appointed Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account as a director in May 2007. existing experience, qualifications and skill sets.
Audit independence Board and Committee evaluation The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups auditors,  Towards the end of the year a process of self evaluation designed to assess the effectiveness of the Board, the Chairman LLP PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
The PwC audit partner is present at allAudit Committee meetings to ensure and each of the Committees was conducted using a questionnaire.
The results were summarised and presented to the Board full communication of matters relating to the audit.
and were the subject of a frank and open discussion.
No items of contention were identified.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by theAudit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of PwCs own system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by theAudit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and then referred to the Board for approval.
The rotation of audit  within PwC is required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC have been, and are, subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Committee so that audit independence is not compromised.
The chairman of theAudit Committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds: part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been adequately considered.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
32 Corporate governance Corporate governance 33 Corporate governance Other Committees Investor relations The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive.
He utilises a series of The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The main forum for communication Committees to assist him in this task.
with private investors is theAGM which all members of the Board attend and where they are available to answer questions raised by shareholders.
The annual report and accounts including notice ofAGM are sent to shareholders at least twenty Group Executive Committee working days before the meeting.
The level of proxies lodged on eachAGM resolution and the balance for and against each Mike Humphrey Chairman Group Chief Executive resolution is declared by the Chairman after the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands providing there has Sean Christie Group Finance Director been no call for a poll.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which David Barraclough President Asia Pacific includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Miguel fide Bellis President LatinAmerica Bryan Dobson President Global Operations The Board invites the Companys brokers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic and investment Steve Foots President Consumer Care Europe environment, Crodas performance, both generally, and in comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are Kevin Gallagher President NorthAmerica discussed.
When appropriate, meetings are held between the executive directors and institutional investors.
Keith Layden President Actives & EnterpriseTechnology Internal control Kevin Nutbrown President Industrial Specialities Europe The Code principle C. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness Louise Scott Company Secretary & Legal Counsel of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and The Group Executive Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director and the heads of regional report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In accordance with theTurnbull guidance 2005 and in order to discharge business and operational functions.
It meets quarterly and its remit is responsibility for the development and implementation this responsibility, the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the and delegated authority.
assessment and control of risk and the prioritisation and allocation of resources.
In particular there are clear procedures for: Finance Committee capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review The Finance Committee meets monthly to review monthly operating results, identify operational and risk issues and financial reporting, within a comprehensive financial planning and accounting framework examine capital expenditure proposals.
Its members are: monitoring of business risks.
During the year the Company has continued its formal procedures for the assessment and Mike Humphrey Chairman Group Chief Executive review of all business risks under the direction of the Risk Management Committee which reports regularly to the Board.
Sean Christie Group Finance Director Such procedures have been embedded into the system of internal control.
Graham Myers Group Financial Controller Treasurer There are also clear procedures for monitoring the system of internal financial control.
This is a process which involves: Bryan Dobson President Global Operations confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of Risk Management Committee the system for which they are responsible Sean Christie Chairman Group Finance Director internal audit work carried out by Deloitte &Touche LLP who report to theAudit Committee David Barraclough President Asia Pacific reports from the external auditors.
Miguel fide Bellis President LatinAmerica Bryan Dobson President Global Operations The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation throughout the financial year and Steve Foots President Consumer Care Europe up to the date of approval of the annual report.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal Kevin Gallagher President NorthAmerica control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure Keith Layden President Actives & EnterpriseTechnology to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Graham Myers Group Financial Controller Treasurer Going concern Kevin Nutbrown President Industrial Specialities Europe The financial statements, which appear on pages 38 to 78, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making Louise Scott Company Secretary & Legal Counsel appropriate enquiries, including a review of forecasts, strategic plans and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable The Risk Management Committee was expanded during the year to include all members of the Group Executive Committee expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the and the Finance Committee other than the Group Chief Executive.
Its role is to evaluate, propose policies on and monitor foreseeable future.
processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Compliance Routine Business Committee The information contained in this report demonstrates that the Company has complied fully with the Code throughout 2007.
The Routine Business Committee comprises the two executive directors with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee.
