l Remuneration Committee DIRECTORS REPORT BOARD OF DIRECTORS n Audit Committee s Nomination Committee 1 Ron Mackintosh l s 5 Paul Goodridge Finance Director Non-executive Director, Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination Committee Mr Goodridge served as Finance Director for CSR from January 2002 to 29 February 2008, having joined the Company in 2000.
Prior to joining CSR, Mr Mackintosh has served as a non-executive director of CSR since May 2004 and was appointed Chairman with effect from 2 May 2007.
Mr Goodridge was Head of UK finance for PA Consulting.
From 1990 to 1997, Mr Goodridge had a variety of senior financial positions at Black & Mr Mackintosh is a non-executive director of software company Fidessa group plc.
Mr Mackintosh has held a number of senior executive positions Decker Inc. and Charringtons Fuels Limited.
Mr Goodridge is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Age 42. in European technology companies.
Between 1992 and 2000 he was chief executive of Computer Sciences Corporations CSC European business 6 Chris Ladas which had revenues of $2.5 billion.
He is also a former director of Gemplus Operations Director SA, and the former chairman of each of Smartstream Technologies Ltd, Mr Ladas was appointed a director of the Company on 1 January 2008.
Northgate Information Solutions plc and also of Differentis, a privately owned He has served as CSRs Senior Vice President, Operations since May IT consultancy which he co-founded in July 2000.
Between January 1996 and May 2000, Mr Ladas served as the vice 2 Joep van Beurden president of operations at Micro Linear Corporation.
Prior to 1996, Mr Ladas Chief Executive Officer held several managerial and technical positions at National Semiconductor, Mr van Beurden was appointed Chief Executive Officer of CSR on Fairchild, Harris, Sperry, Motorola and Signetics.
Mr Ladas holds a B. S. in 1 November 2007.
Mr van Beurden has over ten years of experience in chemistry from Arizona State University, US.
He is also a member of the managing technology companies in the US and Europe.
For the three years Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers and a member of the Europe, prior to joining CSR, he was Chief Executive of NexWave Inc. a provider of Middle East and Africa Leadership Council of the Global Semiconductor embedded software solutions for the consumer electronics market based Alliance Formerly the Fabless Semiconductor Association.
Before joining NexWave, Mr van Beurden held senior positions at 7 Sergio Giacoletto l n s Canesta Inc. a fabless semiconductor company, and Philips Components.
Non-executive Director, Whilst at Philips, he was part of the executive team which established a Chairman of the Remuneration Comittee successful consumer electronics joint venture with LGE.
Prior to that, Mr Giacoletto was appointed a non-executive director of CSR on Mr van Beurden worked for five years for management and strategy 4 January 2007.
In September 2007, Mr Giacoletto assumed the role consultants McKinsey & Company.
Mr van Beurden has also worked as a of Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Giacoletto is executive crude oil trader for Royal Dutch Shell in Rotterdam and lectured in Physics vice president of Oracle Corporation, Europe, Middle East and Africa.
and Electronics at the University of Zambia.
Mr van Beurden holds a Masters Mr Giacoletto also serves as a member of Oracles Executive Management degree in Applied Physics from Twente University of Technology Committee.
Prior to joining Oracle in 1997, Mr Giacoletto was President, in Enschede, the Netherlands.
Value Added Services at AT&T, before which he spent 20 years with Digital 3 James Collier Equipment Corporation in various senior management and executive roles.
Chief Technical Officer, Co-founder Mr Giacoletto has served on multiple company boards and IT industry Mr Collier has served as the Companys Chief Technical Officer since CSRs associations.
He is currently non-executive director of i-flex Solutions Limited, establishment in April 1999.
Mr Collier is a co-founder of CSR.
Between 1984 he is a member of the World Council for Sustainable Business Development and April 1999, Mr Collier held a number of executive and technical positions and is a member of the South African Presidential International Advisory at Cambridge Consultants Ltd, where he formed the microelectronics group Council on Information Society and Development.
Prior to 1984, Mr Collier held a number of executive and technical in Computer Science from the University of Turin.
Mr Collier has a degree in physics from the 8 David Tucker l n s University of Oxford.
Non-executive Director, 4 Anthony Carlisle l n s Senior Independent Director, Chairman of the Audit Committee Non-executive Director Mr Tucker joined CSR as a non-executive director in January 2004.
Mr Carlisle was appointed a non-executive director of CSR in July 2005.
After 19 years as an investment manager with M&G unit trusts, Mr Tucker Mr Carlisle is an executive director of Citigate Dewe Rogerson, where he retired as deputy managing director in 1988.
He is currently a non-executive is responsible for strategic consultancy and client services.
He has over director of Edinburgh UK Tracker Trust plc where, until April 2005, he was 30 years experience in marketing and communications, advising major chairman.
Mr Tucker is a member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants companies in the UK and internationally.
He holds a BA in Economics in England and Wales.
Age 68. and is a Fellow of the Institute of Public Relations.
42 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 1 5 2 6 3 7 4 8 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 43
