DIRECTORS REPORT RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT CSR: ENERGISING THE FUTURE JAMES COLLIER Recognised and respected throughout our industry, James is a co-founder of CSR and has been the Companys Chief Technical Officer since April 1999.
Prior to founding CSR, he worked for Cambridge Consultants Ltd, where he formed the microelectronics group in 1987.
James has a degree in physics from the University of Oxford.
8 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 the Mio brand.
We have also seen growing interest from the smartphone market in Asia.
Towards the end of the year CSR launched RadioPro, a hardware and software solution based on UniFi for building Wi-Fi connected internet radio products.
Wi-Fi is different to Bluetooth and is more suited to any situation where fast transfer of large files between devices is required.
A major reason for our success is that our Wi-Fi solution can coexist effectively alongside Bluetooth in the same device.
For example, consumers can make calls via Bluetooth while also carrying out a Wi-Fi activity such as uploading music files at the same time without the performance of either function being compromised.
No competitor can rival our solution for coexistence between Wi-Fi and Bluetooth.
We have over 30 active customer projects in this segment, awarded predominately as a result of CSRs industry leading co-existence performance.
Looking forward, we see increasing integration of media functionality into handsets as a strong driver Last year CSR invested around $141 million in R&D, with to Wi-Fi due to the requirements to synchronise files with a PC approximately two thirds directed towards existing technologies or other media-store.
such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.
The balance fuelled the pipeline of the future and is already generating exciting opportunities.
For 2008, we anticipate a number of important design-ins from top tier manufacturers.
We also expect to see UniFi being Research is our foundation strength.
We operate at the leadingincorporated alongside Bluetooth in MP3 players and personal edge of science and typically invest around 17% of our revenues in navigation devices, where it will enable faster downloads of R&D in order to maintain and stretch our lead over the competition.
Within our sector, we have a reputation as the place where the In 2008, CSRs revenue from Wi-Fi based products is expected brightest minds are able to do their best work.
Our 700 engineers to be over $20 million.
work in small teams to create the technology that sets standards and helps define the way the world connects.
It is demanding but Developing GPS rewarding work: the technical challenge is a key factor in our ability In January 2007, we acquired NordNav Technologies AB and to attract the most talented people to CSR.
These purchases, supported by our R&D expertise, have created a market-leading Exploiting Bluetooth capability in GPS and, just as we have done with Bluetooth, Our teams continue to push back the Bluetooth boundaries.
we intend to make GPS more specifically our GPS solution BlueCore5, our fifth generation of Bluetooth products, is in universal across the market.
volume production and has multiple design wins at top tier phone original equipment manufacturers OEMs.
BlueCore6 has started What is so special about our GPS?
First, it is a fraction of the cost volume production and has the best performance of any Bluetooth of the alternative solutions because of the synergy our engineers chip on the market delivering the lowest power consumption, best have been able to create between CSRs Bluetooth and GPS.
RF capability and product support.
BlueCore7 is expected to Secondly, ours is predominantly a software solution whereas begin sampling soon.
With each generation, the functionality of others have pursued a hardware approach.
History supports our chips increases while, at the same time, power consumption this choice: every established radio standard has been led by and size decreases.
We are also relentlessly focused on securing software and we are confident that GPS will be no different.
All this delivers important added value to our customers.
In performance terms, our solution gives customers clear advantages.
It is more sensitive in urban canyons and The attach rate the percentage of handsets sold which feature re-acquires a signal more quickly when necessary.
By integrating Bluetooth is already at 50% and we believe it is set to increase GPS positioning technology with the cellular-based system further.
With costs of basic Bluetooth-only chips nearing the $1 developed by Cambridge Positioning Systems, we are able to give mark, it becomes realistic for manufacturers to include Bluetooth accurate fixes deep inside buildings.
For the first time, this means as standard.
cellular operators can offer a reliable service to consumers, an important prerequisite for advanced GPS-based services.
Cost is not the only driver for market penetration.
Legislation worldwide continues to open up new markets for hands-free We believe that GPS functionality will serve as a gateway to billable communication, particularly in cars.
Our own expertise also services offered by mobile operators.
For example, our push to adds significant momentum in the switch to wireless technology.
fix service can identify the nearest restaurant, fuel station or any We are respected industry leaders and our assessments and other location using only 10% of the energy required for a opinions of market opportunities can help shape the industry.
hardware-driven solution and costing the equivalent of less than For example, we have encouraged people to consider the benefits a second of talk time.
of combining Bluetooth with the audio functions.
We are already sampling a chip branded MusiCore, combining all audio functions In the US, legislation demands that all mobile phones are able with Bluetooth and this has been well received by our customers.
to report their positions to emergency services.
Currently, mobile It provides better performance at a significantly lower price than operators dont have the systems and technology to comply alternative solutions.
Our GPS solution will deliver an inexpensive location service which will help phone users in need of emergency Extending Wi-Fi assistance and keep operators within the law.
Although Wi-Fi adoption has been slower than anticipated, UniFi, our Wi-Fi product, is gaining good traction.
UniFi is now in volume production and products with Wi-Fi implementations have started James Collier to emerge.
Using CSR silicon, there is now a smartphone and a Chief Technical Officer personal navigation device on the European market, both under CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 9
