DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION Activities and business review Share Capital CSR is a leading developer and provider of single chip wireless The Companys ordinary shares with a par value of 0.1p per solutions designed to support data and voice communications share, are quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
The rights between a wide range of products over short range radio links.
and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares are More detailed information on the principal activities of CSR plc set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which and its subsidiaries, together with a review of the businesses and can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the to the Company Secretary.
There are no restrictions on the voting Group along with other information that fulfils the requirements rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares.
No person of the Business Review are set out on pages 24 to 35.
The use holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with of financial instruments is covered within the Directors Report regard to control of the Company.
The Company is not aware Business Review.
Details of the subsidiaries and branches of of any agreements between holders of securities that may result the Company are set out on pages 92 and 100. in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
Unless expressly stated to the contrary in the Articles of Association Financial results of the Company, the Companys Articles of Association may be The Groups consolidated income statement, set out on page amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
60 shows an increase to $171.7 million in underlying operating profit compared to an underlying operating profit in 2006 of During the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007, options $151.1 million.
Turnover increased by 20% to $848.6 million from were exercised pursuant to the Companys share schemes.
The number of shares allotted and the consideration received in $704.7 million in 2006 and underlying diluted earnings per share were $0.94 from $0.83 in 2006. respect of such allotments are detailed in note 25 of the Financial Statements on page 79.
In accordance with stated policy, no dividend will be paid in The directors propose Resolution 9 in the Notice of Meeting to respect of the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007 2006: nil.
renew the authority granted at the Annual General Meeting held in 2007 to allot equity shares up to an aggregate nominal value of Acquisitions during the period On 12 January 2007, the Company completed the acquisitions 44,099 representing approximately one third of the ordinary shares issued at the date of this report the Section 80 Authority.
of the entire issued share capital of NordNav Technologies AB NordNav and Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited CPS.
If approved, at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the Section 80 Authority will expire no later than 15 months from the NordNav, based in Stockholm, Sweden, has been acquired for an initial cash consideration of $40 million.
The agreement for the date on which the resolution is passed, or at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009, whichever is the sooner.
acquisition of NordNav provided that a further cash consideration of up to $35 million may be payable subject to achievement of The limited power granted to the directors at the Annual General specified milestones, of which $7.9 million was paid in 2007.
CPS, based in Cambridge, UK, has been acquired for a total cash Meeting held in May 2007 to allot equity shares for cash other than pro-rata to existing shareholders expires no later than consideration of $35 million.
Both NordNav and CPS were private companies, with significant holdings by venture capital institutions.
Subject to the terms of the Section 80 Authority, the directors recommend Resolution 10 in the Notice of Meeting The initial cash consideration for the acquisitions, the deferred consideration paid in 2007 has been and any further deferred that this authority should be renewed so as to give the ability until the Annual General Meeting held in 2009 to issue ordinary shares consideration will be financed entirely from CSRs existing cash resources.
for cash other than pro-rata to existing shareholders, in connection with a rights issue or up to a limit of 5% of the ordinary share capital Future development issued at the date of this report.
The directors have no present intention to issue ordinary shares other than pursuant to the It remains the Boards intention to develop the Group through organic growth and selective acquisition.
The directors recommend that you vote in favour of Resolutions 9 and 10 to maintain the Directors of the Board Companys flexibility in relation to future share issues, including any issues to finance business opportunities should appropriate The directors who served during the year are explained on page 36 of the Corporate Governance report.
Change of Control A Special Resolution will be proposed Resolution 11 in the Notice of Meeting to renew the directors limited authority last granted in All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding options and awards would, 2007 to repurchase ordinary shares in the market.
The authority will be limited to a maximum of 13,229,896 ordinary shares being subject to satisfaction of applicable performance conditions and certain rules of the particular schemes normally vest on a pro-rata 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the date of this report and also sets the minimum and maximum prices which basis and become exercisable on a change of control.
44 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 The directors believe it is advantageous for the Company to have Directors the flexibility to make market purchases of its own shares.
In the Details of the directors of the Board who served during the year are event that shares are purchased, they would either be cancelled contained on page 36.
Biographies of the directors in office at 28 and the number in issue would be reduced accordingly or, subject December 2007 and for Mr Ladas, appointed 1 January 2008 are to the legislation referred to below, retained as treasury shares.
The directors will only make purchases after consideration of the possible effect on earnings per share, the long term benefits to In accordance with the Articles of Association, the directors shareholders and consultation with advisers.
retiring at the Annual General Meeting will be Mr Joep van Beurden and Mr Chris Ladas as they have been appointed since the last The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares meeting.
Being eligible, Mr van Beurden and Mr Ladas offer Regulations 2003 allow shares repurchased by the Company to themselves for election.
Mr Carlisle, and Mr Collier are retiring be held as treasury shares that may be cancelled, sold for cash or by rotation and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
used for the purpose of employee share schemes.
The Company currently holds no shares in treasury.
The authority contained in The interests of the executive directors in the options of the the Special Resolution will expire 15 months after it is given or, if Company are detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 56. earlier, at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2009 but it is the current intention of the directors to renew this Directors interests in shares authority annually.
The register kept by the Company pursuant to section 325 of the Companies Act shows that the directors in office at 28 December Articles of Association 2007 and their families had the under-mentioned interests in The directors propose Resolution 12 in the Notice of Meeting the ordinary shares of the Company.
The table also shows the to adopt new Articles of Association in order to update the holding as at 28 December 2007 of Mr Ladas who was appointed Companys current Articles of Association primarily to take a director effective from 1 January 2008. account of changes in English company law brought about by the Companies Act 2006.
An explanation of the main changes 28 December 29 December 2007 2006 between the proposed and the existing Articles of Association Joep van Beurden is set out in the explanatory notes to the Notice of Meeting.
Anthony Carlisle 4,000 4,000 Due to the phased nature of the Companies Act 2006, it is likely James Collier 1,014,911 1,009,898 that further related changes to the Articles of Association will be Paul Goodridge 23,374 15,000 proposed at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
Sergio Giacoletto 5,000 1 Chris Ladas 75,000 Employee Benefit Trust Ron Mackintosh 75,000 20,000 During 2007, the Company engaged Close Trustees Jersey David Tucker 100,000 80,000 Limited to establish the CSR Employee Benefit Trust the Trust.
1 Mr Ladas was appointed to the Board effective 1 January 2008.
The Trust has been established to facilitate satisfying the issue of shares to employees within the Group on exercise of vested There were no other changes to the Directors shareholdings options under the various share option plans of the Company.
The foregoing holdings do not include the ordinary shares held by the During 2007, the Trust acquired in the open market an aggregate CSR Employee Benefit Trust in which the executive directors are of 1,466,767 ordinary shares in CSR plc.
This was satisfied potential beneficiaries as disclosed above.
through cash drawn down under the terms of a Loan Facility Agreement established at the time of the creation of the Trust Payment of creditors entered into between CSR plc and the Trust.
The details of each The Group agrees payment terms with its suppliers when it enters purchase of ordinary shares in CSR plc is shown in Note 26 to the into binding purchase contracts.
At 28 December 2007 the Financial Statements on page 81. number of creditor days outstanding for the Company was 30 2006: 30 and for the Group was 54 2006: 57.
As participants in the share options plans, the executive directors of the Company are potential beneficiaries from the shares held by the Donations Trust and are therefore regarded for the purposes of the Companies The Company and employees support a number of charities Act as being interested in ordinary shares held by the Trust.
For the period ended 28 December 2007, the Company made charitable donations totalling $4,678.
The Company did not make any political donations during the year.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 45 DIRECTORS REPORT OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION continued Directors responsibility statement Each of the directors at the date of the approval of this report The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, confirms that: Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements.
so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit The directors are required by the International Auditing Standards information of which the Companys auditors are unaware, and IAS Regulation to prepare financial statements for the Group in the director has taken all the steps that he ought to have accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards taken as a director to make himself aware of the relevant audit IFRS as adopted by the European Union and have also elected information and to establish that the Companys auditors are to prepare financial statements for the Company in accordance aware of that information.
Company law requires the directors to prepare such The directors, having prepared the financial statements, financial statements in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 have permitted the auditors to take whatever steps they and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
consider appropriate for the purpose of enabling them to give their audit opinion.
International Accounting Standard 1 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys Substantial shareholdings financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This The following table shows the interests notified to the Company requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, under the Companies Act 1985 of a holding in excess of 3%.
other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set % of issued ordinary share out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework Disclosed holding capital for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
The BlackRock Group 19,494,019 14.73% In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved Barclays PLC 15,993,621 12.09% by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Schroders Plc 13,566,408 10.25% Standards.
Directors are also required to: Legal & General Group PLC properly select and apply accounting policies: and its subsidiaries 7,108,357 5.37% present information, including accounting policies, in a manner Aberforth Partners LLP 6,687,110 5.05% that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable Capital Group International Inc information: and and its subsidiaries 4,985,757 3.77% provide additional disclosures when compliance with the SR Global Fund LP 4,264,325 3.22% specific requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users at 13 March 2008 to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and Going concern financial performance.
After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation at the time of approving the financial statements that The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting the Group has adequate financial resources to continue to operate records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time for the foreseeable future and, consequently, continue to use the the financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, going concern basis for preparing the financial statements which for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of follow.
fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the Auditors requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Deloitte & Touche LLP are the Companys auditors and have expressed their willingness to continue in the office of auditors and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity therefore, in accordance with Section 385 of the Companies Act of the Company website.
1985, a resolution for their re-appointment will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements differs from legislation By Order of the Board in other jurisdictions.
Brett Gladden Company Secretary 27 February 2008 46 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
