DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance The Board is satisfied that Mr Mackintosh is able to devote the The Company supports the principles of corporate governance necessary time commitments to the role of Chairman of the Board.
contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which is appended to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
Mr Tucker is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Goodridge throughout the year was the director responsible for health and The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for safety within the Group.
The directors possess diverse business good governance.
The Company has complied with the provisions experience in spheres complementary to CSRs activities, as well set out in Section 1 of the 2006 Combined Code on Corporate as other sectors.
Biographies of the directors are shown on page Governance, other than the provision relating to the composition of 42.
Mr Brett Gladden served as Company Secretary throughout the Board over the period 30 December 2006 to 3 January 2007. the year.
The statements below describe how the Company has applied The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an the principles identified in the Combined Code.
adhoc basis as required by time critical business needs.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the effective and The Board proper management and control of the Company and Group As at 28 December 2007, the Board comprised seven members, and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
being the Chairman, Mr Ron Mackintosh, three executive directors Its primary roles are to determine and review Company strategy and three non-executive directors.
Of those in post as at 28 and policy, consider acquisitions and disposals, assess requests December 2007, five directors, including Mr Mackintosh had served for major capital expenditure and give consideration to all other throughout the year.
The three executive directors in office at significant financial matters.
This process is undertaken following 28 December 2007 were Mr Joep van Beurden Chief Executive discussions in conjunction with senior executive management Officer CEO appointed 1 November 2007, Mr Paul Goodridge who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the and Mr James Collier.
The three non-executive directors were Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on the progress Mr David Tucker, Mr Anthony Carlisle and Mr Sergio Giacoletto being made in meeting the objectives.
The Chairman ensures that the Board functions effectively, In addition to the appointment of two new directors to the Board overseeing the timely and effective provision of information to the during the year, three directors stood down.
On 2 May 2007, Board and that the business of the Board is properly conducted.
immediately following the Annual General Meeting held that day, A comprehensive file of briefing papers and a meeting agenda is Mr John Whybrow, Chairman and Mr Glenn Collinson, Executive provided for each director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions Vice President both stood down from the Board.
On 1 November are taken by the Board, in conjunction, where appropriate, with the 2007, Mr John Scarisbrick, CEO stood down from the Board.
recommendations of its Committees and advice from external consultants and executive management.
For the period 30 December 2006 to 3 January 2007 the composition of the Board did not comply with the Combined Code The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse business, as regards the balance between executive and non-executive financial and technical experience, details of which are summarised directors.
On the appointment of Mr Giacoletto on 4 January 2007 on page 42 and they each play a full role in the consideration of and for the rest of the financial period, the Board had an appropriate matters brought before the Board.
This includes considering, balance of executive and non-executive directors.
approving and monitoring performance against the strategic objectives of the Group through detailed reviews conducted at The Board is satisfied that an appropriate balance was in place Board level.
Strategic objectives are determined each year and this throughout the year to enable the Board to perform its assessment incorporates a two day offsite meeting attended by the responsibilities effectively.
Board and the executive leadership team that report to the CEO.
Following the end of the financial year, effective 1 January 2008, In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, Mr Chris Ladas was appointed as an executive director.
consideration has been given to the independence of all the Mr Ladas has since May 2000 served as CSRs Senior Vice non-executive directors.
The Board considers all the non-executive President of Operations.
directors to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with In the Corporate Governance report to the 2006 Annual Report and the exercise of independent judgement.
Financial Statements the steps taken leading to the appointment of Mr Mackintosh to the position of Chairman were explained.
Mr Mackintosh has served as a non-executive director of the Company since May 2004.
He is also a non-executive director of software company Fidessa group plc formerly royalblue group plc.
36 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 The letter of appointment for Mr Tucker has been extended for a two The division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman and Mr van Beurden, CEO, is sufficiently clear in the opinion of the year period to 23 January 2009.
A new letter of appointment has been entered into with Mr Mackintosh reflecting his appointment Board that it is not required that they be formally documented.
to the position of Chairman for a three year period to 2 May 2010.
The CEO has day-to-day responsibility for the Group and has reporting to him executive management who in turn are responsible On appointment, all directors are advised that they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, in addition, for the performance of discreet commercial and operational activities of the Group.
The CEO meets regularly with the executive leadership that they are entitled to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
team in various established forums that fit with the operational cycles of the Group.
The CEO formally reports at each meeting of the Board As part of their induction, the directors are provided with a detailed file explaining their role and duties, in addition to background on salient matters arising from the execution of his responsibilities.
information on the Company and Group as well as the function and recent deliberations of the Board and its committees.
In addition, The Board met eight times during the year and the attendance of each of the directors is shown on page 41. where appropriate, meetings with advisers to the Company and Board are arranged to assist in briefing a director on appointment.
During the year, the Board undertook a formal process of Directors are also provided with information and assistance in the performance evaluation.
Each director completed a questionnaire prepared by the Company Secretary, covering a wide range of event of any change in their role.
During 2007, Mr Giacoletto was appointed chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
matters associated with the activities and conduct of the Board and its committees.
The process was conducted without reference Mr Giacoletto was provided with a detailed file of papers and held a meeting with New Bridge Street Consultants LLP, by way of an to external agencies.
A detailed summary of the responses was prepared by the Company Secretary which was considered by the introduction to the role and responsibilities that he was assuming.
Board as an agenda item in December 2007 led by the Chairman.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent The overall conclusion was that the Board and its Committees were performing appropriately.
permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their duties in their capacity as directors to the The Chairman holds regular meetings with all the directors Company.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a director is proven to have acted fraudulently or individually.
In addition, prior to the year end, the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive directors to discuss the performance dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of legal action against the directors and officers.
of the executive directors which concluded that they were each performing satisfactorily.
Communications with shareholders In December 2007, the non-executive directors, led by the Senior Principally via the executive directors, the Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its major Independent Director, met in the absence of the Chairman to appraise the performance of Mr Mackintosh since he assumed shareholders through regular meetings and presentations following announcements of each quarters results.
During the year, the office of Chairman in May 2007.
The non-executive directors concluded that he had performed well.
Mr Mackintosh participated in a number of these meetings.
The Senior Independent Director, Mr David Tucker, is available to In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters all directors are required to retire and submit themselves for they wish to bring to his attention.
The Board is also appraised of re-election at least once every three years.
It is the policy of the discussions with major shareholders to ensure that executive and Board that non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term non-executive directors consider any matters which might be of three years, following which it will be reviewed and as appropriate, raised by those shareholders and to enable all directors to extended for a further period not exceeding three years.
Although the non-executive Non-executive directors should not generally serve for more directors are not asked to meet with the Companys shareholders than nine years.
as a matter of course, their attendance at the Annual General Meeting is required.
Corporate information is also available on During 2007 the letters of appointment for Mr Tucker and the Companys website, www.
Mr Mackintosh fell due for review following the completion by each of their initial three year term of appointment.
Committees of the Board The Board has three committees, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination.
During the year, the Chairman and all the non-executive directors were members of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 37 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Following the appointment of Ron Mackintosh as Chairman During 2007, the Committee met once formally to discuss the of the Board, it was agreed that he would stand down as Chairman appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer and on two occasions of the Remuneration Committee.
Accordingly in September 2007 informally to discuss the appointment of an additional executive Mr Sergio Giacoletto accepted the appointment as Chairman director, culminating in the appointment of Mr Chris Ladas as an of the Remuneration Committee.
As permitted by revisions to the additional executive director effective from 1 January 2008.
Combined Code in 2006, Mr Mackintosh remains a member Mr Ladas has been Senior Vice President, Operations since May of the Remuneration Committee.
This function is responsible for the manufacture, test and supply to customers of the Companys products in addition to Following the appointment of Mr Mackintosh as Chairman of the project managing the successful transition into production of new Board he stood down as a member of the Audit Committee but products and technologies and the continued qualification of continues to attend meetings by invitation.
products and technologies to the satisfaction of the Groups customers.
The Board considers that Mr Ladas existing role In accordance with the Combined Code, the duties of in CSR and previous executive positions which he held in the the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
semiconductor industry will contribute to the balance of skills These are available from the Company Secretary and can be and experience of the Board as a whole.
found on the Companys website, www.
Membership of the Committees is shown on page 42.
The Company Secretary Audit Committee acts as secretary to each of the Committees.
Mr David Tucker is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The other members of the Committee at 28 December 2007 Remuneration Committee were Messrs Carlisle and Giacoletto.
With the appointment of Mr Sergio Giacoletto is the Chairman of the Remuneration Mr Mackintosh on 2 May 2007 to the position of Chairman to the Committee, having been appointed to that position in Board, he stood down as a member of the Audit Committee but September 2007.
The other members of the Committee at 28 continues to attend meetings by invitation.
The experience and December 2007 were Messrs Carlisle, Mackintosh and Tucker.
expertise of the members of the Committee are summarised on page 42.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table on The principal function of the Committee is to establish and review page 41.
The Committee met four times during the year and the terms and conditions for the executive directors, and the overall reported its conclusions to the full Board.
The Committee invites policy framework for the remuneration of other senior executives the Chief Executive Officer, the Finance Director, the Internal Auditor and the Group as a whole.
The Committee met four times during and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings the year and the attendance of its members is shown in the table as appropriate to the business being considered.
Committee has the right to invite any other employees to attend meetings where this is considered appropriate.
The report to shareholders on how directors are remunerated, together with details of individual directors remuneration are The Committee is responsible for the development, implementation shown on pages 47 to 57. and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
Nomination Committee Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
The Committee recommends the appointment and re-appointment The other members of the Committee at 28 December 2007 were of the Groups external auditors and considers the scope of their Messrs Carlisle, Giacoletto and Tucker.
audit work, the terms of their appointment, their fees and the cost effectiveness of their work.
The Committee meets as appropriate to consider appointments to the Board and to consider succession planning at senior levels During 2007, as part of its formal business, the Committee met within the Company.
The Committee reviews the composition on four occasions with the external auditors.
On two occasions of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, the Committee also held separate meetings with the external experience and term of office and seeks to ensure that both auditors at which no executive director or employee of the Company executive and non-executive directors have the necessary skills was present.
and attributes for the future success of the Group.
The Committee retains external search consultants as appropriate and during 2007 engaged Russell Reynolds to assist in the appointment of a new Chief Executive Officer.
38 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system The Committee is aware of and has approved the audit and non-audit services which have been provided by the Companys of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems and processes established by the Board are designed external auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP during 2007.
Those non-audit services concerned advice on tax matters which was to manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, not absolute, considered to be appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the affairs and financial practices in the Group.
The Committee assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of practices and procedures to the Audit is satisfied that, notwithstanding this work, Deloitte & Touche LLP have retained objectivity and independence during the year.
The Companys senior management, in conjunction with external advisers are responsible for undertaking periodic Deloitte & Touche LLP have been the Companys auditors since reviews of the suitability of current systems on which they report to the Audit Committee.
July 2002 and the cost, scope and effectiveness of the audit are reviewed regularly.
During 2007, the Committee commissioned The Audit Committee reviews the findings to ensure the an internal review of the effectiveness of the external auditors and concluded that Deloitte & Touche LLP should be recommended effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented by senior management.
This includes discussions with senior for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
management of the Group and consideration of reports that have been submitted.
These findings are in turn regularly reviewed and In relation to the appointment of external auditors and in order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Committee discussed by the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that this process accords with the internal control guidance for directors set out in has a policy of permitted services which details the services that can be provided by the Groups auditors and those services which the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and that through its interface with management, require specific approval by the Committee.
The policy also details services that the Groups auditors are not permitted to provide.
the Board is aware of the major risks facing the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks, so far as is possible.
The policy has been complied with throughout the year.
The risk evaluation process described in this report has been in place for 2007 and up to the date of approval of the annual report The Committee reviews all proposed announcements to be made by the Group to the extent they contain financial information.
The Committee also monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, Managing risks The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have risk management procedures and compliance controls as well as the statement on internal controls before they are agreed by the been or are being taken to remedy such failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the system Board for each years annual report.
This has involved considering the matters The Chairman of the Committee attends the Companys Annual reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
might be raised concerning the Committees activities.
A summary of the structures and processes in place to identify During 2007 the position of Internal Auditor became vacant as a and manage risks across the Group are set out below.
result of the incumbent transferring to another financial role within the Group.
A new Internal Auditor has been appointed with effect Risk profiling from 14 January 2008.
During the intervening period the internal There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks faced by audit function was performed by external advisers who were the Group, through the conduct of regular meetings by the Groups commissioned by the Committee for specific projects.
senior management, and engagement of external consultants where in the opinion of the Groups Senior Management this is Internal control considered appropriate.
Findings are reported to the Audit Philosophy and policy Committee together with recommended actions for managing The objective of the directors and senior management is to the risks and a timetable for implementation.
The assessment of safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets prioritised risks is refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes of the Company.
Part of this objective requires the development to the business and any observations or proposals arising from of relevant policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure events since the last review.
A schedule of the prioritised risks along proper management of the Companys resources and the with other management information is used to develop an overall identification of risks which might serve to undermine them.
assurance plan for the Group.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 39 DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Controlling risk In 2007, the Group undertook a review of its insurance broker The Group has policies which address a range of key business risks, services which resulted in the appointment of a new global including financial, treasury, health and safety and the protection of broker.
The new broker supported the renewal of the Groups intellectual property.
The policies are made available to relevant insurance programme and has an ongoing remit to review the employees through policy manuals, an intranet site and also via existing programme and recommend improvements where employee briefings on specific topics as appropriate.
Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify that ongoing Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk practices within relevant parts of the Group comply with current The actions arising from external and internal assessments of risks policies.
In addition, policies are themselves reviewed against best are consolidated and during 2007 the results were reported to the practice and in order to take appropriate account of developments Audit Committee.
both within or external to the Groups business operations.
Ongoing steps are being taken to embed internal control and risk The Committee assesses the findings and proposed management further into the operations of the Group and to deal actions for addressing residual risks and also advises on with areas of improvement which come to managements and to areas for further attention.
Business Continuity Planning During 2007, a formal review of the Groups cash control policies During 2007 a project was initiated to refresh the Business was undertaken by KPMG LLP, the results of which were reported Continuity Plan for the Group.
The project was facilitated by the to a meeting of the Audit Committee.
The report concluded that risk management practice of a leading independent consultant.
overall practice within the Group was acceptable, whilst also Through workshops and one-on-one interviews, the potential identifying areas which might benefit from improvement.
A report significant risks were identified and an action plan established to was provided to the Audit Committee detailing the findings and the enable the Group to respond in the event that such a risk arose.
steps taken to address the recommendations and that report was That plan is the subject of continuing work in 2008.
The findings considered at a formal meeting of the Committee.
and steps taken to date have been reported to the Audit Committee.
As part of an ongoing review of the protection of the Groups Internal financial controls intellectual property portfolio and with the assistance of external The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring advisers, the Group undertook a review of the patents obtained and reporting of financial performance and assessing the adequacy through the acquisitions in January 2007 respectively of NordNav of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Risk assessment and Technologies AB and Cambridge Positioning Systems Limited.
evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This The means by which the Group supports the development and includes assessment of the Groups strategic direction, objectives safeguarding of its intellectual property is also periodically reported and financial returns and the risks in achieving them.
to and considered by the Audit Committee.
As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is prepared by The Group has a formal whistle-blowing policy which was last management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by up-dated during 2006 and has been communicated to employees.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via The policy provides information on the process to follow in the a rolling forecasting process and regular business review meetings event any employee feels it appropriate to make a disclosure.
are also held involving senior management worldwide, at which The Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an adequate the Groups overall performance is assessed.
The results of these basis for employees to make representations in confidence to the reviews are in turn reported to and discussed by the Audit Group and for appropriate and proportionate investigation.
Committee and the Board at each meeting.
A summary of the key financial risks inherent in the Groups business is given on The Group carries out a programme of management selfpages 29 to 31 and 34 and 35. assessments over the status of key business risks through formal reviews which consider the risks faced by the business, how these These processes are supported by discrete reviews conducted might be mitigated and who within the Group is responsible for by external advisers, as determined by the Committee, in addition implementing agreed actions.
Where appropriate, external advisers to the routine audits.
are appointed in order to support this process.
40 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 During the year the Committee approved the internal audit plan.
Following the re-assignment of the Internal Auditor to another financial role in the Group, certain tasks identified in the plan were contracted out to external advisers, including audits of internal controls at two overseas locations, the findings from which were reported to the Audit Committee.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls which were in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of signing the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2007.
Attendance at meetings The table below shows the attendance of each of the directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the 52 weeks ended 28 December 2007.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination No.
of Meetings 8 4 4 1 1 J A J van Beurden 2 J D Y Collier 8 P G G Goodridge 8 2 R W Mackintosh 8 2 4 1 A E C G Carlisle 8 3 4 1 S Giacoletto 8 4 4 1 D L Tucker 8 4 4 1 3 J C Scarisbrick 6 4 G Collinson 3 4 J W Whybrow 3 1 1 Appointed to the Board 1 November 2007 2 Following his appointment as Chairman of the Board Mr Mackintosh attended two further meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation, not as a member of the Committee 3 Stepped down from the Board 1 November 2007 4 Stepped down from the Board 2 May 2007 Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 15 May 2008, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all registered shareholders.
By Order of the Board Brett Gladden Company Secretary 27 February 2008 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 41
