Milk purchasing Dairy Crest continues to work to improve its relationship with our supplying dairy farmers.
We also recognise that we need to play our part in building a competitive and efficient UK dairy industry.
A recent significant development has The nature of the relationship with DCD Milk Development Council and the various been the increased number of segregated, farmers is such that when change has organic associations.
added value milk pools that are being occurred in the market, for instance the Organic supply requires specialist created.
Dairy Crest has led the industry sale of Haverfordwest and Aspatria to handling as demand grows and Dairy here, by creating and developing First Milk Co-operative, Dairy Crest Crest is supporting farmers in conversion specialist milk pools for Waitrose and maintained its commitment to the farmers and leading the market in adding value Marks and Spencer.
and allowed them time to make a decision through the growth of organic products.
A new venture to further build supply about their future milk buyer rather than The dairy industry is changing not chain relationships was instigated simply re-assigning their contract to only in the UK and in Europe but across in October 2006 with the announcement a new owner.
It is our aim to build strong of the Sainsburys Dairy Development The relationships Dairy Crest has with relationships through partnership with Group SDDG a first for the industry.
many bodies in the industry is important suppliers, customers and consumers.
The Group is focusing on the future as the industry continues to face a number This will ensure we are all fit to face the to ensure that individual dairy farms can of challenges.
We continue to work with future and compete in this changed build their business and be the best the NFU, as part of Dairy UK, with the dairy market.
within a supportive framework that aids them in improving efficiency and innovation.
Dairy Crests ability to deliver this is based on the field team of Direct Supply Managers DSMs and their industry leading facility, White Gold, which aims to support farmers as they provide to the high standards of Farm Assurance required to supply Dairy Crest.
This assistance will be important as the dairy industry, like all others, faces the environmental challenge.
Dairy Crest Direct DCD is the cornerstone of our relationship with our suppliers.
DCD now represents nearly 1,600 dairy farmers.
The system of regular meetings and farmer representation has encouraged dialogue during a difficult time for the industry ensuring that both parties benefit from a partnership focused on efficiency and a sustainable future for producers.
