UK Spreads and St Hubert down by 12% by value and 13% by A strong branded position volume in the year having grown by 26% by volume over the previous three years.
Market share by value UK The Group is still strongly committed Other 8% Dairy Crest 20% to capitalising on the opportunities Own label 14% presented by the growing trend towards healthy eating.
Consequently the focus of product development in UK spreads Arla 29% Unilever 29% has been on lighter variants of our most Peter Thornton, popular brands.
In May we launched Source: AC Nielsen 52 w e 24 March 2007 Executive Managing Director, Country Life Spreadable Lighter and later Foods division in the year we have further healthier developments planned for both Utterly Market share by value France UK Spreads Butterly and Clover.
Other 6% The UK butter and spreads market Marketing expenditure in the UK Lactalis 16% St Hubert 34% excluding cooking fats grew in the year Spreads business will be significantly to March 2007 by 3% in value to 887 increased during 2007 08 to support million and by 1% in volume.
The highest new product launches and to reinforce growth segment was again spreadable the position of the key brands.
Unilever 44% butter, which grew 11% by value.
The Source: IRI 52 w e 11 March 2007 specific health segment which has been St Hubert growing over recent years declined over We acquired the St Hubert spreads the last twelve months by 8% by value.
The brands St Hubert Country Life Spreadable performed has leading market positions in France 41 and Le Fleurier have declined in line very strongly in the important spreadable and Italy.
The acquisition included an with the Classic segment and are down butter segment with value and volume experienced and capable management 8% and 5% respectively by value.
Clover, our team, a manufacturing site in Ludres, St Hubert Cholegram, the cholesterol market-leading dairy spread brand, near Nancy in northeast France, and an reducing spread, is down 7% by value.
performed well with sales growth of 2%.
administrative office in Rungis, Paris.
However overall brand sales in France However, weaker performances from the St Hubert is making good progress and are up by 7% by value over the last other brands have impacted the overall results to date have been in line with 12 months and St Hubert has increased performance of UK spreads with total expectations.
its share of the French spreads market branded sales down 5% by value.
The total non-butter French spreads to 34% reinforcing its strong number two Country Life packet butter had a weaker market has declined by 2% by value position.
During the year St Hubert also second half, as the packet butter market over the last year to 384 million.
Within launched a new variant St Hubert continues to decline, and sales for the this the Classic segment is down 9% 100% Vgtal.
St Ivel Gold by value and the Health segment is up Sales in Italy under the Vall brand faced challenging market conditions 6% by value.
have shown slight growth during the throughout the year, as competitors in Against this market background year and we have recently launched the the health sector increased marketing St Hubert Omega 3 continues to grow Vall brand in Greece.
activity, and sales were down 26%.
strongly with sales up 22% by value year Utterly Butterly was also impacted by on year.
It has recently become the increased competition and sales were number one brand variant in the French Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 7
