The Dairies division comprises Dairy Crests liquid products, ingredients and household operations.
Revenue is up 14% reflecting the impact of the Express Dairies acquisition and higher volumes to major retailers offsetting lower ingredients volumes.
Profit on operations is up over 50% principally reflecting the benefit of the acquisition.
Overall margins have improved year on year to 2.9%.
million 2006 07 2005 06 Change Revenue 928.0 815.7 13.8% Profit on operations 27.1 17.8 52.2% Margin 2.9% 2.2% Martin Oakes, Executive Managing Director, Dairies division Liquid Products and Ingredients The retail fresh milk market continues returnable container NRC operations The Group now principally uses to grow modestly with sales up 3% by we recently announced the possible its ingredients business to balance value to 2.4 billion.
The biggest growth closure of our Totnes dairy.
We have a seasonal milk supply with flat demand segment remains organic milk, although commenced a consultation process with and year-end stocks of milk powders the market growth has slowed to 27% by employees and unions, which will last and butters were 57% lower than the value year on year from the exceptionally 90 days.
Existing production volumes at previous year.
Despite the continued high levels seen a year ago.
Totnes are proposed to be moved to our implementation of CAP reform, UK and Fresh milk sales to major retailers NRC dairies at Severnside and Foston European ingredients markets have been were up 6% by volume and 10% by and our glass bottling dairy at Hanworth.
particularly strong over recent months value year on year due to some small As expected FRijj, our market leading reflecting the high world demand for business gains and the underlying growth fresh flavoured milk drink, has returned dairy products.
During the year to strong growth this year with sales up we were pleased to be retained as a key 23% by value.
This performance reflects supplier of fresh milk to Sainsburys increased promotional activity and the following a supplier review.
benefits of increased production capacity The Group obtained sales price at Severnside.
Potted cream sales were increases on fresh milk from our major up 3% by value and retailer brand retail customers this spring following flavoured milk sales were up 53% increases in retail prices.
The Group has reflecting a number of business wins.
passed on this increase to our producers St Ivel advance, our branded milk by an increase of 0.25 pence per litre on enriched with Omega 3 launched last our main liquid contract with effect from year, has made progress with sales April 2007 and 1.3 pence per litre to up 83% year on year although volumes those suppliers in the Sainsburys Dairy have levelled off in recent months.
Development Group with effect from To capitalise on the strong growth in March 2007.
In addition prices have risen the organic milk market we launched significantly for both the Marks & Spencer Country Life organic milk in July 2006. and Waitrose dedicated milk pools.
This was a strategic decision to develop Whilst there has been some good our own brand in the organic milk sector progress this year we continue to focus and accordingly we terminated, with on improving operating margins in our effect from the end of December 2006, major retail milk business.
This is through the existing licence agreement for the a combination of cost reduction Rachels brand where we had a contract programmes, operational efficiency packing arrangement.
Early performance projects and investing further in developing from Country Life organic milk has been added value products in this market.
encouraging and we are continuing to Following a strategic review of our nongrow distribution.
