Operating review continued Household The Household business has performed on track to deliver synergies which are other groceries, which grew by 33% year well with a significant increase in volumes expected to peak at 9.0 million in on year.
We again had a successful and turnover following the acquisition 2008 09.
Nine overlapping depots have Christmas, which is a key trading period of Express Dairies in August 2006 and been closed to date and the administration for non-milk products.
The middle ground also reflecting the impact of acquisitions office at Leicester is expected to close market, which includes smaller retailers, made in 2005 06.
Overall Household in the autumn.
This acquisition is schools, hotels and hospitals, remains volumes were up 31% year on year.
consistent with our successful infill very competitive.
We acquired Express Dairies from strategy for our Dairies division, at a price Following the Express Dairies Arla Foods UK plc in August 2006 for which will deliver significant value for transaction Dairy Crest has a doorstep a consideration of 33 million before shareholders and backed by a substantial customer base of approaching 1.6 million working capital adjustments.
households supplied via its unique delivery comprised 76 distribution depots, dairies Our continued marketing and network.
We have been reviewing a in Liverpool and Nottingham and 1,850 canvassing activity has helped reduce number of new proposals to maximise employees.
The acquisition created the the underlying annual decline rate in the opportunity that this customer base UKs market leading doorstep and doorstep to below 8%.
To that effect, in the next few middle ground business with broad business continues to deliver industry weeks we expect to commence the trial coverage across England and Wales.
We have of a number of new service initiatives The benefits from this acquisition are continued to focus on increasing sales in selected depots within our network.
being delivered to plan and we remain of non-milk products such as juice and 14 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007
