Directors report The directors of Dairy Crest Group plc present their eleventh industry developments to reduce packaging waste.
More annual report and the audited financial statements for the year information on Dairy Crests approach to the environment can ended 31 March 2007. be found on page 16 of the Operating review.
Principal activity Competition The principal activity of the Group is the manufacture and The Foods sector is highly competitive.
The Companys future trading of milk and dairy products.
financial performance would be at risk if it failed to compete strongly and lost market share to its competitors.
Review of operations The Groups operations and future developments are dealt with Dairy Crest has a portfolio of leading brands which have been in the Chief Executives review, Operating review and Financial augmented by the acquisition of St Hubert and the disposal review on pages 4 to 22.
These reviews include a discussion of the retail branded cheese business.
These are consistently of certain key performance indicators.
Within the liquid milk business, the Company has strong relationships with certain Principal risks and uncertainties major retailers and there is full involvement of Executive In addition to the opportunities we have to grow and develop Directors in negotiations with these retailers and significant our business, the Company faces a range of risks and focus in delivering high levels of quality and service.
The uncertainties as part of both its day to day operations and its acquisition of the Express Dairies business in August 2006 corporate activities.
The processes that the Board has has made Dairy Crest the market-leading doorstep and established to safeguard both shareholder value and the assets middle-ground business in the UK.
of the Company are described in the Corporate governance statement.
Consumer spending As the majority of the Companys revenue is generated in the The narrative which follows describes those specific risks and UK, the general health of the UK economy and its influence on uncertainties that the Directors believe could have the most consumer spending is important to its success.
A significant significant impact on the Companys long term value generation.
downturn in consumer spending could pose a risk to the The risks and uncertainties described below are not intended to Groups financial performance.
The Companys product base consists of dairy-based Marketplace risks consumables which form part of the staple purchases of the Consumer trends majority of households.
This mitigates the impact on our It is possible that changing consumer trends may reduce the business of any decrease in general consumer spending.
appeal of some of the Companys businesses if those trends are Additionally, with the acquisition St Hubert in January 2007, the not properly anticipated and action is not taken to address Companys geographic reliance on the UK has been decreased.
potential issues at an early stage.
Operational risks Dairy Crest mitigates this risk in a number of ways.
First, the Health and safety Company carries out market research and analyses consumer A major incident resulting from a health and safety failure would trends.
This research is used to anticipate future customer be a significant reputational and financial risk to the Company.
trends and, through new product development, to position itself to benefit from those trends.
An example of this has been the The Company takes health and safety very seriously.
It has continuing development of products focused on health robust management processes focused on quality control risk described in the Chief Executives review on page 4. management and has established major incident procedures that are in place and have been tested.
Dairy Crest continues Our Household business operates in a declining market but to set increasingly high standards for food safety throughout the Company delivers market-leading productivity ratios, has our supply chain and have recently enhanced our Good increasingly focused on non-milk sales and invests in targeted Manufacturing Practice review and audit processes.
marketing and canvassing activity to address the overall decline rate.
More information on Dairy Crests approach to health and safety can be found on page 18 of the Operating review.
There is an increasing consumer awareness of the need to protect the environment and Dairy Crest has long recognised People that this is an integral part of managing the business.
As well The successful delivery of service to the Companys customers as initiatives to reduce the carbon emissions from our relies on Dairy Crest recruiting and retaining people of a high manufacturing sites, Dairy Crest is at the forefront of dairy quality.
The failure to employ appropriate people would put the Companys reputation at risk and could lead to the loss of 36 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 market share.
Dairy Crest is proud of its people.
The Company Directors believes that by taking care of its people, its people will take A list of the directors at the end of the year is set out on page 23. care of its customers and financial performance will follow.
Dairy Crest listens to the views of its employees, has a range of In accordance with the Articles of Association Mr S M D Oliver, employment policies designed to make Dairy Crest a rewarding Mr D J Dugdale and Mr A S N Murray retire by rotation and place to work and emphasises the importance it attaches to its being eligible, seek re-election at the AGM 2007 with the people.
Dairy Crest carries out a rigorous selection process and exception of Mr D J Dugdale.
In accordance with Corporate benchmarks the pay and benefits that it offers to its employees Governance requirements and having completed nine years on in order to recruit and retain the best people for the role.
Talent the Board, Mr S M D Oliver will be seeking re-election annually planning is carried out on an annual basis.
More information on Dairy Crests people can be found on Mr M Oakes was appointed to the Board as Executive page 18 of the Operating review.
Managing Director Dairies on 1 February 2007.
As he was appointed during the year he will retire at the AGM 2007 in External financial risks accordance with the Articles of Association and will seek The Companys financial risk management objectives and election by the shareholders.
policies and risk exposures are described in detail in Note 30 to the accounts on page 74.
Details of the directors remuneration, service contracts letters of appointment in the case of the non-executive directors, Pension funding interests in shares, share options and long term incentive share Dairy Crest operates defined benefit pension schemes.
plan awards are given in the Directors remuneration report on At 31 March 2007, there was a gross combined pension pages 28 to 35. fund deficit of 0.4 million.
There is a risk that this deficit could grow in the event, for example, of poor investment A brief biography of each of the directors which includes their performance or increasing mortality rates.
Recent legislation membership of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration means that, on occasions, it may be necessary to approach Committees is shown on page 23. the Pensions Regulator for pre-clearance of agreements reached with the Pension Trustee at the time of significant Directors indemnities corporate transactions.
Such clearance could include a At the date of this report and during the financial year, requirement to increase the level of funding.
indemnities were in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted by law and Dairy Crests pension risks have been mitigated by the closure the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses of its defined benefit scheme to new entrants on 1 July 2006. arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their As an alternative, a defined contribution pension scheme is powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the Company available to eligible new employees.
The Company also or any of its subsidiaries.
maintains a close dialogue with the pension schemes Trustee Board.
In order to reduce the funding deficit in the scheme Land and buildings the Company has made additional contributions of 17 million The directors have obtained an informal valuation of the Groups since 31 March 2006 and is committed to making a further land and buildings and believe that the current market value in 12 million of additional contributions in the year to existing use of these properties slightly exceeds their book 31 March 2008. value.
Results and dividends Share capital The consolidated income statement is on page 40.
The profit The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, for the year, after taxation, amounted to 49.2 million 2006: together with details of the shares issued during the year, 34.8 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 16.2 are shown in note 24 on page 68. pence per share which, together with the interim dividend of 6.7 pence per share paid on 31 January 2007, makes a total On 18 May 2007, Chase Nominees Limited had a material dividend for the year of 22.9 pence per share.
If approved, the non-beneficial interest of 5.14% in the Company.
No other dividend will be paid on 8 August 2007 to shareholders on the person has notified an interest in ordinary shares of the register on 29 June 2007.
Company required to be disclosed to the Company in accordance with Sections 198 to 202 of the Companies Act 1985.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2007 37 Directors report continued Purchase of own shares Annual General Meeting The Company was granted authority to purchase its own shares The Annual General Meeting will be held at the Chartered to an aggregate value of 10% of the issued nominal capital at Accountants Hall, Moorgate Place, London EC2P 2BJ on the Annual General Meeting in 2006.
This authority expires at Thursday 19 July 2007 at 11.00 am.
Details of the resolutions this years Annual General Meeting and a resolution will be to be proposed, including items of special business, are given proposed for its renewal.
in the Notice of Annual General Meeting and Explanatory Notes which appear on pages 85 to 88.
Employee involvement The importance of good communication is recognised by the The directors believe that the resolutions are in the best Company.
There are also well-established consultation and interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole and negotiating arrangements with recognised trade unions.
unanimously recommend that shareholders should vote in Employees are encouraged to participate in the Sharesave favour of all resolutions.
scheme the details of which are given in the Directors remuneration report on pages 28 to 35.
Post balance sheet events On 4 April 2007, the Group completed a private debt placement Employment of disabled persons in the US and raised 150 million in Euro loan notes and The Company considers applicants for posts compatible 10 million in Sterling loan notes.
The loan notes mature in two with their disability.
Staff who become disabled are retained tranches of 7 and 10 years.
The effective interest rate on the wherever practicable.
On completion of this transaction and subsequent repayment of certain revolving credit facilities of Charitable and political donations 100 million, Group long-term borrowing facilities, including Charitable donations amounted to 0.1 million 2006: finance leases, total 667 million.
Small contributions, mainly of product, were also made to local charities.
No contributions were made On 14 May 2007 the Group announced that it was considering to any political party.
the potential closure of its Totnes site subject to a 90-day employee consultation process.
Should this process result in Supplier payment policy closure of the site in the second half of the year, exceptional Payment dates are established according to the agreed date costs of around 6 million are anticipated.
Approximately of delivery of goods or provision of services and the receipt 3 million of these costs would relate to the write-down of of a correct invoice.
The Group agrees the length of payment property, plant and equipment.
Their carrying value at 31 March terms with each of its suppliers as part of the overall purchasing 2007 was supported by their underlying value in use and agreement.
It is the Groups policy to abide by these agreed therefore no impairment was recognised at that date.
The number of days purchases in the Groups creditors at 31 March 2007 was 24 days 2006: Going concern 24 days.
The Company has no trade creditors and therefore It should be recognised that any consideration of the the number of days purchases in creditors is not relevant.
foreseeable future involves making a judgement, at a particular point in time, about future events which are inherently uncertain.
Auditors Nevertheless, at the time of preparation of these accounts and So far as the directors are aware, there is no relevant audit after making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources The directors have taken all the steps that they ought to have to continue operating for the foreseeable future.
For this reason taken as directors in order to make themselves aware of any they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys the accounts.
auditors are aware of that information.
By order of the Board Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue R J Newton Secretary as auditors of the Company.
A resolution to reappoint Ernst & 21 May 2007 Young LLP as the Companys auditors will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
