DIRECTORS REPORT 40 The Directors present their Report and Accounts for the year POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS ended 30th September, 2007.
On 1st October, 2007, DMG World Media acquired the remaining 51% stake in George Little Management for a consideration of ACTIVITIES US$155 million 77 million.
The principal activities of the Group are set out at the front of the Annual Report.
SHARE CAPITAL Details of allotments in share capital during the year, which The analysis of turnover and operating profit for the years ended arose solely from the exercise of options, are given in note 35.
30th September, 2007 and 1st October, 2006 are included as notes 1 and 2 to the Income Statement.
At the Annual General Meeting on 7th February 2007, the Company was granted the authority to purchase up to 10% of its BUSINESS REVIEW own shares.
The information that fulfils the Companies Act requirements of the business review is included in the Business Review on pages During the year, 4,291,737 A Ordinary Non-Voting shares were 8 to 35.
This includes a review of the development of the business purchased, having a nominal value of 536,467 as part of a share of the Group during the year, of its position at the end of the year buy back programme and to match obligations under various and of likely future developments in its business.
Details of the incentive plans.
The consideration paid for these shares was principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on 32.8 million.
Shares repurchased during the year represented pages 12 to 14.
1.14% of the called up A Ordinary Non-Voting share capital at 30th September, 2007.
This Annual Report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the principal risks and uncertainties facing the The Company disposed of 722,403 of these shares, representing Group.
By their nature, these statements and forecasts involve 0.19% of called up A Ordinary Non-Voting share capital, in order risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend to satisfy incentive schemes.
The Company also cancelled on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
There 6,907,444 shares, representing 1.81% of its called up A ordinary are a number of factors that could cause actual results or Non-Voting share capital at the date of cancellation.
developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements and forecasts.
No EMPLOYEES assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements are Under the Groups general policy of decentralised management, reasonable as they can be affected by a wide range of variables.
it is the responsibility of the management in each subsidiary to The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and encourage the involvement and participation of employees in their information available at the date of preparation of this Annual company.
The methods used vary company by company, but the Report, and will not be updated during the year.
Nothing in this linking to performance targets of a significant portion of Annual Report should be construed as a profit forecast.
remuneration is one widely used means.
RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS The Group gives full and fair consideration to suitable applications The profit after taxation of the Group amounted to 122.3 million.
from disabled persons for employment.
If existing employees After charging minority interests of 15.3 million, the Group profit become disabled they will continue to be employed, wherever for the year amounted to 107.0 million.
practicable, in the same job or, if this is not practicable, every effort will be made to find suitable alternative employment and An interim dividend of 4.45 pence per share was paid on the to provide appropriate training.
Ordinary and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares and the Directors recommend that a final dividend of 9.90 pence per share be paid POLICY ON PAYMENT OF SUPPLIERS on 8th February, 2008 making 14.35 pence per share for the year The Groups policy on supplier payments varies across its 2006 13.05 pence.
These companies have no formal code or standard which deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, DIRECTORS their policy is to ensure that the terms of payment, as specified Biographical details of the Directors of the Company at 20th by, and agreed with the supplier at the outset, are not exceeded.
November, 2007 are set out on page 39.
The Directors remained unchanged throughout the year with the exception of Mr Berry The Company had no trade creditors at the year end date.
who was appointed to the Board on 7th February, 2007 in place of The Groups average payment period, calculated on the basis of Mr Lowy who stood down on the same day.
year end trade creditors, is 68 days 2006 61 days, although this is dependent on the year end date and cannot therefore be The number of shares of the Company and of securities of other regarded as meaningful.
Group companies, in which the Directors or their families had an interest at the year end, are stated in the Remuneration Report on DONATIONS pages 55 and 57.
Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 866,000 2006 809,000.
This excludes the cost of publicity, In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Viscount often provided free of charge by the Groups titles, and funds Rothermere, Messrs Hemingway, Gray, Williams, Dacre, Dunstone raised by them, further details on which are given in the and Beatty retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting on 6th Corporate Responsibility Report on page 38 of this Annual Report.
Each being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
No political donations were made by the Group.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc DIRECTORS REPORT 41 continued SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting As set out in note 35, the Company has two classes of share records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the capital Ordinary shares and A Ordinary Non-Voting shares.
financial position of the Company, for safeguarding the assets, for On 20th November, 2007 the following were interested in more taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud than 3% of the issued Ordinary shares: and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the Rothermere Continuation Limited and other requirements of the Companies Act 1985. parties to an agreement which comes within section 204 of the Companies Act 1985 63.1% The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the company website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom Codan Trust Company Ltd and Codan governing the preparation and dissemination of financial Trustees BVI Ltd trustees of the Esmond statements differs from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Harmsworth 1998 Family Settlement 29.3% AUDITORS STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of FOR THE PREPARATION OF ACCOUNTS this report confirms that: The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements.
The Directors are required to so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit prepare accounts for the Group in accordance with International information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs and have elected to the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have continue to prepare those for the Company in accordance with taken as a Director in order to make himself herself aware of United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
In the case of UK GAAP accounts, the Directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a The Companys auditors, Deloitte & Touche LLP, have indicated true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the their willingness to continue in office and, in accordance with profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution proposing financial statements, the Directors are required to: their reappointment will be put to the Annual General Meeting.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING consistently: The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and 6th February, 2008 at 9.00 am at the Kensington Roof Gardens, prudent: 99 Kensington High Street, London W8 5TT.
Details of all state whether applicable accounting standards have been resolutions, including those to be put as special business, are set followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and out in the enclosed circular to shareholders.
explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis By Order of the Board unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
N D JENNINGS, FCA Secretary In the case of IFRS accounts, International Accounting Standard 1 20th November, 2007 requires that financial statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the faithful representation of the effects of transactions, other events and conditions in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the preparation and presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: select and apply accounting policies properly: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in International Financial Reporting Standards is insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless, having assessed the ability of the Company to continue as a going concern, management either intends to liquidate the entity or to cease trading, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
