BUSINESS REVIEW 17 Associated Newspapers ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS KEVIN BEATTY KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 GROWTH IN PRINT ADVERTISING MANAGING DIRECTOR LEFT LORD ROTHERMERE REVENUE 2 FURTHER INCREASES IN MARKET SHARE BY THE CHAIRMAN CENTRE PAUL DACRE MAIL TITLES 3 CLOSE CONTROL OF COSTS 4 SIGNIFICANT EDITOR IN CHIEF RIGHT GROWTH IN OUR FREE NEWSPAPERS 5 SIGNIFICANT INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATED NORTHCLIFFE DIGITAL 6 LAUNCH OF MOTORS.
CO. UK The strength of Associated Newspapers produced the highest ever promoted sale.
core brands and the diversity of its This was followed by the world exclusive portfolio of businesses produced a solid premiere of The Riddle, the first new film performance in revenue terms.
The Daily to be released free with a newspaper.
Mail achieved a record operating profit As a consequence, market share increased which was offset by the significant by 1% against the previous year to a KEY FIGURES activity in the London evening newspaper record high of 18.2%.
The Mail on Sunday market, continued revenue investment in continues to have more ABC1 readers than REVENUE Associated Northcliffe Digital AND and any other Sunday newspaper, Financial a disappointing result from Teletext.
Mail has more readers than any other 986m finance supplement and You magazine 2006: 955m PRINT PUBLICATIONS is the highest read womens weekly title.
Circulation revenues from Associateds OPERATING PROFIT newspaper operations increased by 1% Following the launch into the London to 378 million, with both the Daily Mail market last year of two free afternoon and The Mail on Sundays circulation newspapers, London Lite published 83m performing ahead of the market.
Costs, by Associated Newspapers and 2006: 99m excluding newsprint, were held to a year thelondonpaper News International, the OPERATING MARGIN on year increase of less than 3%.
Both average daily circulation of the Evening print and digital advertising grew year Standard fell to 274,000 copies.
This on year, resulting in a 5% increase in their represented a year on year decline of 14.6% 8% combined revenues.
but the second half of the year saw an 2006: 10% improved performance in September the The Daily Mail increased its share of the actual circulation was up year on year.
The national daily newspaper market by 0.3% unique and innovative Eros cashless loyalty to 20%, which not only represented the card scheme was launched towards the highest percentage growth of any national end of the year and will be supported by newspaper but also the highest absolute a programme to modernise the point of percentage share of the market ever sale presence on the streets of London to achieved by the Daily Mail.
Daily circulation reflect the Evening Standards up-scale averaged 2,333,000 copies, which was just positioning.
The Evening Standards 1.8% down year on year compared to an companion site, thisislondon.
co. uk, enjoyed overall market decline of 3.1%.
substantial growth in traffic during the year and was enhanced by the addition of The Mail on Sundays average circulation standard.
co. uk launched in September.
was 2,310,000, which was unchanged year Rigorous cost control has ensured that on year in a market that fell by 5.3%.
further significant cost savings were made.
This was achieved by the use of innovative promotions and a new Irish edition, Associateds free newspapers continued to developed out of Ireland on Sunday.
Metro averaged 1,132,000 world exclusive free Prince CD was the copies per morning, up 6% year on year Adjusted operating profit first time a major new studio album had and, with the addition of 250,000 copies in before exceptional items and been released free with a newspaper and September, will show strong distribution amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 18 Associated Newspapers continued ANALYSIS OF REVENUE M growth through the next twelve months.
publishing genre within Associated was With a total of 1.36 million copies daily, announced in July and is continuing.
This 2007 2006 Metro UK will be the largest free newspaper has resulted in a further impairment of the CIRCULATION 378 374 in the world.
Metros website too enjoyed investment.
In May, Buy and Sell, the Irish ADVERTISING phenomenal growth with unique users classified advertising title, was sold.
DISPLAY 350 332 almost doubling to an average of 567,000 ADVERTISING CLASSIFIED 97 104 per month.
London Lite has quickly become Associateds total print advertising OTHER 15 15 the most read evening title in the country, revenues were up 3% to 447 million.
PRINT TOTAL 840 825 with 745,000 readers daily according to the Within that figure, display advertising was DIGITAL 86 59 National Readership Survey, despite its up 6% and classified down 7%.
Metro and TELEVISION 40 51 distribution of 400,000 copies per day being the Daily Mail had excellent years, achieving CONTRACT PRINT 20 20 almost 100,000 less than thelondonpaper.
9% and 8% growth respectively, with 986 955 The Mail on Sunday up 3% year on year.
7Days in Dubai has seen some disruption The Evening Standard was down 24% in to its advertising and distribution a fiercely competitive market with a reduced during the year and did not meet profit circulation and readership.
A review of the cost base of 29%.
Our largest display category, retail, the operation was undertaken, and there enjoyed strong growth, being up 18%.
have been improvements in revenue and profit performance in the second half.
Teletexts television revenues fell by 27%, in part due to the switch of advertisers TELETEXT from Analogue to Digital, despite a ANALYSIS OF REVENUE % Whilst Teletext experienced another significant number of Teletexts customers PRINT CIRCULATION 38% challenging year in terms of overall revenue continuing to use the analogue service.
performance, the business continued to ADVERTISING 35% Display progress its strategy of delivering services PRINTING ADVERTISING 10% Classified across digital television, internet and Formed from a merger of Associateds and OTHER 2% mobile.
This included a major branding Northcliffes printing operations in 2006, DIGITAL 9% re-introduction of its products across Harmsworth Printing is now responsible TELEVISION 4% all platforms supported by an advertising for providing printing services to the DMGT CONTRACT PRINT 2% campaign, which focused on Teletexts role group.
During 2007 the company reorganised in the market as a provider of bite-sized, its operations and began a review of up-to-the minute information and good value the production assets under its control.
During the year Teletext As expected, following the integration of continued to develop the Groups online travel production management, efficiency savings properties, with the launch of new niche sites have already been achieved and further for the UK and luxury markets.
On digital improvements in utilisation are being television, audiences have continued to grow, considered.
As a consequence, a with Teletext remaining the leading text consultation process has been initiated for service on Freeview, ahead of the BBC and staff at the print centre in Staverton, for Sky.
At the end of the year Teletext Extra which an exceptional restructuring charge was launched, an exciting new service for has been taken.
New investment in printing the Freeview platform, accessible from any facilities continued as planned.
The new channel on this platform via the TV guide centre at Didcot has been commissioned button.
This is expected to be available in five and the enhancement of the presses at million boxes by early 2008 and we hope will Surrey Quays is due to be completed before drive increased usage of Teletext on digital.
Christmas, providing the newspaper titles with full colour in January 2008.
Loot had another challenging year, with advertising down 29% and circulation ASSOCIATED NORTHCLIFFE DIGITAL down 16%.
Tight control of costs, including AND showed strong growth from both reorganisation in many parts of the business, its existing businesses and via further resulted in a 17% reduction in total costs, acquisitions.
With over 140 websites but for the first time the title made a small reaching more than 25 million monthly loss.
A detailed review of the role of this unique visitors, AND is one of the leading Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 19 Associated Newspapers continued OPERATING PROFIT SPLIT M players in the UK digital media industry.
in the positions available to job hunters Revenue grew by 46% across ANDs core in these areas as well as improved 2007 2006 classified portals in jobs, property and response to advertisers through Jobsites PRINT ACTIVITIES 92 98 motors, but profits fell by 2 million superior technology.
The joint venture DIGITAL ACTIVITIES 11 13 due mainly to significant investment in with Euromoney saw Jobsite launch TELEVISION -4 0 developing its businesses.
co. uk, providing a market UNALLOCATED leading online recruitment platform for COSTS -16 -12 JOBS 14 Euromoney titles.
In January, Jobsite 83 99 Revenues in the Recruitment division launched a new mobile recruitment increased by 41%.
The Jobsite network offering aimed at temporary workers of sites now comprises over 50 niche and in the construction industry called AND local job boards and has grown ahead of LetJoKnow.
Through its innovative KEY FACTS 2003 VS 2007 expectations.
This year Jobsite launched mobile application, LetJoKnow enables new niche sites for job hunters, contract tradesmen to find their next job 4 YEARS AGO recruitment agencies and corporate clients with minimum effort.
Consistent with its SITES 5 in the Human Resources and Marketing strategy to build out its niche job boards, REVENUE m p. a.
In addition, Jobsite partnered Jobsite acquired JobsGroup.
net, the MARGINfive STAFF 100 with Northcliffe Media and Euromoney to leading recruitment advertising business ADVERTISERS C. 100 power the recruitment channels of their in the engineering sector, at the beginning REACH UK 2m local specialist websites.
Previous acquisitions: In-Retail, with Northcliffe Media involves Jobsite Top-Consultant, Office Recruit, and powering the regional websites jobs Productionbase are all trading as expected.
channels, resulting in a significant increase Margins for this sector remain around 30%.
TODAY SITES 148 ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS REVENUE m p. a.
100m REVENUE M MARGIN 10% 1,000 STAFF 833 ADVERTISERS 15,000 800 REACH UK 9m Run rate annualised 600 Comscore September 2007 400 200 0 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 Excluding Teletext and before 2006 Northcliffes contract print and digital revenues THE COMPLETION OF THE DIDCOT PRINT CENTRE IS THE CORNERSTONE OF THE ASSOCIATED NEWSPAPERS CIRCULATION PERFORMANCE VS THE MARKET TREND GROUPS INVESTMENT IN 1994 952006 07 % DELIVERING FULL COLOUR TO THE MAIL TITLES FROM DAILY MAIL 30.3% Source ABC October September JANUARY 2008.
PERFORMANCE Index 1994 05 100 THE MAIL ON SUNDAY 16.8% AT THE SITE, ALONG WITH THE OTHER SUNDAY NATIONALS -25.0% EXISTING PLANT AT SURREY OTHER DAILY NATIONALS -25.6% QUAYS, HAS ENABLED THE GROUP TO INCREASE THE 140 NUMBER OF FLEXOGRAPHIC COPIES PRINTED ACROSS BOTH ITS NATIONAL AND 120 REGIONAL TITLES.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 20 Associated Newspapers continued PROPERTY MOTORS LoopyLove.
com, The two key digital property brands In January, a newly formed Digital DreamsDiscovered.
com, continue to strengthen with both Automotive Division successfully launched DatingforParents.
co. uk, which complements Allegran operates four out of the UKs top performing in line with our ambitions.
the existing motor dealer inventory ten dating sites and will further improve Findaproperty and Primelocation grew management service provided by this position through its strategy of revenues by a combined 73%.
As part of its growth providing niche sites targeted at key showed good audience growth and have strategy, and to enhance dealer services, consumer lifestyle groups.
been successful in expanding their Complete Automotive Solutions, the UTILITY SWITCHING volumes of estate agent branches and provider of the CloseIt CRM system Simply Switch, which was acquired in UK property listings.
Findaproperty has to the automotive industry was acquired.
August 2006, has struggled in a market expanded outside its London and South The Digital Automotive Division has made of reducing energy prices and increased East heartland into Leeds, Manchester significant progress in generating audience competition from energy suppliers and Liverpool, where over the course growth and securing dealer advertising.
resulting in trading being well below of this year it achieved a strong market The new division has won several high expectations.
We have therefore written share of agents and property numbers.
profile distribution arrangements including down our investment in Simply Switch.
Findaproperty has also formed an Yahoo Cars, and is working in partnership integrated partnership with Northcliffe with Northcliffe Media by powering all of CENTRAL OPERATIONS Media in which its technology powers its regional websites motors channels and ANDs new product development team the regional websites property channels sharing sales resource.
This has made launched two new products in 2007, the and the local newspaper teams sell a motors.
co. uk the third largest motors first being a remembrance site called multi-platform offering.
Primelocation classified listings site in the UK.
The Lasting Tribute, the second being a Green has invested in its television branding Motors division is performing well and site called Big Green Switch.
Lasting campaign, which is paying off and has there will be further investment in this Tribute also partners with Northcliffe increased the number of agent offices to sector going forward.
Media to support its obituary listings.
It has also made excellent progress in developing its data and DATING Excellent progress has been made in display sales, as well as overseas property.
Further investment was made in the dating handing back responsibility for the Margins for this sector remain around 20%.
brands operated through Allegran, i. e. newspapers companion sites to the newspapers editorial and commercial 28% OF INTERNET USERS AND GROWING management.
AND will continue to provide services such as network digital sales, technical design and hosting and other specialist services to these sites.
OUTLOOK Trading projections for the first quarter of the new financial year are encouraging.
Thereafter it is difficult to predict.
Nevertheless, Associated, with its strong brands, diversified portfolio and further planned back-office efficiencies is well placed.
The London market, while still challenging, is improving.
When full colour, increased pagination and more flexographic printed copies are available in January 2008, Associated will have new opportunities and a competitive advantage upon which to capitalise.
Another strong performance is expected from the digital operations, but revenue investment will continue to be made to grow ANDs property and motors sectors in particular.
ANDS SITES ARE NOW USED BY 28% OF ALL INTERNET USERS IN THE UK, Overall the outlook for the next twelve WITH OVER 9 MILLION UK UNIQUE VISITORS.
Comscore September 2007 Daily Mail and General Trust plc
