BUSINESS REVIEW 24 DMG Information DMG INFORMATION DAVID DUTTON KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 UNDERLYING REVENUES GREW BY 17% CHAIRMAN LEFT MARTIN MORGAN 2 UNDERLYING OPERATING PROFIT GREW BY 11% 3 BOLT-ON MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT ACQUISITIONS ENHANCED OUR MARKET-LEADING POSITION 4 OPERATING PROFIT MARGINS ROSE TO 24% EVEN AFTER ABSORBING AMBITIOUS INTERNAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMMES TO FUEL FURTHER GROWTH DMG Information had an excellent year widening the number of perils covered and with a strong financial performance and providing enhanced analytical and data a wide range of developments in the related services to its clients.
These have further enhanced our position as an independent provider of Our financial information companies, essential information, analytics and insight Trepp and Lewtan, also had an outstanding KEY FIGURES to customers in our chosen niche markets.
The level of new issuance in the On a like for like basis, adjusting to exclude commercial mortgage-backed securities REVENUE acquisitions and disposals made in the market, served by Trepp, was at record second half of 2006, and using constant levels although the tightening of the US 293m exchange rates, underlying revenues credit markets in the late summer is 2006: 345m increased by 17% to 293 million and expected to cause a slowdown in activity.
Lewtan saw good growth in products and OPERATING PROFIT services to both the issuers and investors INSURANCE AND FINANCIAL in asset-backed securities.
Although there Operating profit from DMGIs insurance and is now a significant amount of turmoil in 71m financial division rose by 4 million or 14% to financial markets, our financial information 2006: 68m 35 million on revenues up 20% to 110 businesses continue to see good levels of OPERATING MARGIN million.
Risk Management Solutions RMS activity and demand for their services.
makes up more than half of this division.
PROPERTY 24% RMS, the worlds leading provider of Operating profit from the property division 2006: 20% solutions to assist the insurance sector rose by 4 million or 16% to 29 million on in quantifying and managing catastrophe revenue up 20% to 106 million.
and other risks, once again was a strong performer.
The company is pursuing an Landmark Information Group, based in aggressive strategy of increasing the UK, had an exceptional year with geographic coverage of its models, underlying revenues growing by 18%.
DMG INFORMATION REVENUE M 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 amortisation and impairment Excluding Study Group from 1998-2006 of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 25 DMG Information continued DMG INFORMATION OPERATING PROFIT M 18% 70 UNDERLYING REVENUE FOR LANDMARK GREW BY 18% 60 IN 2007.
Sanborn, serving the volumes remained robust and this, together geo-spacial information market, continues with increasing market penetration, fuelled to grow revenues strongly and to improve strong growth.
This was combined with profit margins.
continuing growth in sales of electronic mapping and environmental reports to In its first full year after acquisition participants in a commercial property Genscape grew sales satisfactorily, and GROWTH IN NUMBER OF RMS EARTHQUAKE MODELS YEARS market that was buoyant throughout the continued to research and launch new 20 year.
Landmark also entered the Dutch products.
In the US the company launched 18 home property market during the year and a natural gas monitoring service covering expects to enhance its continental Texas while in Europe it continued to 13 European presence in the near future.
expand geographic coverage for the electricity market.
In the USA, Environmental Data Resources, the leading provider of information used Hobsons had an outstanding year with in commercial property due diligence, also strong sales and profit growth in Europe, 2 showed pleasing growth despite relatively Australia and the US.
In addition to organic flat commercial property transaction growth, two bolt-on acquisitions were 89 93 94 99 00 04 05 07 volumes.
In particular EDR continued to grow completed in the US, with the addition of its sales to commercial property lenders.
Naviance, a leading provider of planning and advice systems to high schools, and Both Landmark and EDR were successful in AY Recruiting Solutions, a provider of completing bolt-on acquisitions to enhance recruitment technology and services to their product offerings to existing customers.
In April EDR acquired Parcel, an electronic platform for creating and delivering OUTLOOK commercial real estate due diligence The prospects for the new financial year reports.
In July Landmark acquired Quest, remain encouraging for DMGI.
Member the market-leading provider of systems companies continue to identify growth designed to manage the exchange of opportunities and we are executing valuation and survey information between a programme of revenue investment, lenders and surveyors.
designed to maintain good growth rates in the medium-term.
Property& year with an increasing rate of sales growth.
The continuation of uncertainties in the credit markets and a downturn in property OTHER B2B transactions could reduce the rate of Operating profit from DMGIs other growth in certain products, but DMGIs Adjusted operating profit business information companies rose by business models are strong and newer before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment 3 million to 11 million on revenue up products are growing well.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
