BUSINESS REVIEW 21 Northcliffe Media NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA LORD ROTHERMERE KEY DEVELOPMENTS: 1 NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA HAD A GOOD YEAR CHAIRMAN LEFT MICHAEL PELOSI 2 IT HAS BEEN REVITALISED AS AN INTEGRATED PROVIDER OF MANAGING DIRECTOR RIGHT LOCAL MEDIA SERVICES 3 UK DIGITAL PUBLISHING REVENUES ROSE BY 77% 4 MARGINS ARE IMPROVING 5 OPERATIONAL CASH GENERATION HAS BEEN STRONG 6 IT CONTINUES TO INVEST IN REVENUE GENERATION Northcliffes operating profit climbed to Recruitment advertising continued to trend 92.5 million, which included 1.5 million downwards for the first half of the year from newly acquired titles in the South falling by 3% but this reversed in the of England.
These titles are rapidly second half increasing by 6% resulting being integrated into Northcliffe and in an overall increase of just under 2%.
are performing in line with expectations.
Property advertising was the star KEY FIGURES This was a record result after excluding performer in 2007, growing by 7% on Aberdeen Journals sold March 2006, the back of a buoyant housing market.
REVENUE Northcliffe Retail sold in June and the contribution from acquired businesses.
2007 was a year of real progress for online 447m publishing as Northcliffe focused all of its 2006: 455m In the UK, operating profits grew by operating centres on becoming integrated 6% on a similar basis.
Operating margin local media publishers.
Responsibility for OPERATING PROFIT increased to 21%, up by over 1% on 2006. online publishing has been handed back Total revenues were flat.
However, costs to local editorial departments and has declined by almost 10 million due to the been enthusiastically embraced by all.
93m continued implementation of Northcliffes Centres no longer think purely print.
2006: 89m business improvement programme, which Instead, editorial departments consider OPERATING MARGIN commenced in the summer of 2005.
In what is the best channel for news.
Stories aggregate, this programme has achieved are broken online when they are ready and savings of 45 million.
Northcliffe has been not to suit print deadlines.
21% revitalised as an integrated provider of 2006: 20% local media services.
The family of This is sites now incorporate video, readers comments and photographs.
In Central Europe, where we also have There has been a major increase in a combined print and online strategy, interaction with users and this is set to Northcliffe International grew its profits develop rapidly over the coming twelve by 53% to 6.9 million.
In September, the number of businesses accounted for 1.5 million UK unique users reached 2.5 million, whereas organic growth in profits was 19%.
an increase of 42% on the year before.
UK The relevance of local media was Trading conditions in the UK continued to appropriately demonstrated by Hull be challenging.
Advertising revenues fell and Gloucestershire during the summer by 2 million 0.7% mainly due to weak floods which hit both these areas.
performances from the motors and retail www.
co. uk provided due to a combination of migration to regular updates to the respective online advertising and the continuing communities.
They also carried videos consolidation of dealerships in the UK.
and a substantial number of photographs Northcliffe is addressing online migration submitted by readers.
Users and page Adjusted operating profit with the launch of motors.
Retail views rose significantly during this period.
before exceptional items and revenues fell by 6% but showed an In Gloucestershire, unique users on Monday amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
improving trend by the third quarter.
22nd July increased to almost 40,000, a rise Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 22 Northcliffe Media continued NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA of over 300% on the previous week.
The site Currently, FindaProperty technology REVENUE ANALYSIS M is continuing to attract a higher level of is in use in the South East and feedback 2007 2006 users.
However, this did not have an adverse is encouraging.
ADVERTISING 304 298 impact on the sale of the local titles.
CIRCULATION 88 86 Newspaper circulation revenues fell by OTHER 23 21 Our commercial teams have also been 1% to 76 million.
Circulations continue to 415 405 active in growing digital revenues, mainly trend downwards.
The most recent figures EX-TRINITY TITLES 6 on the back of the compelling combination covering the January to June 2007 period ABERDEEN RETAIL 26 50 of local print and online.
UK digital showed that our daily evening titles were 447 455 revenues increased by 77% over the down by 5.4%, which was slightly better than previous year.
75% of all jobs which the industry performance for this category.
appeared in print were also posted online Disappointingly, our weeklies were down by and, for this, the customer enjoys an 5.2%, which is behind the industry average entry on the local This is site as well of 3.3%.
This decline was most apparent in as on the national Jobsite board.
our larger weekly titles with circulations above 30,000 copies.
The reasons are not Feedback from local motor dealers who obvious and, therefore, research is being are now using our online automotive commissioned to provide pointers which platform, www.
will allow us to address this trend.
All sites have reached critical mass in terms of the number of local vehicles Despite this downward trend in the sale available for search.
Encouragingly, this of our titles, our portfolios of local media 2007 REVENUE ANALYSIS % digital proposition is allowing us to engage products paid fors, free weeklies, ADVERTISING 73% with a number of lapsed advertisers who monthly magazines, websites and niche no longer buy print advertising.
Almost all products still have significant reach in CIRCULATION 21% online inventory is now generating revenue each of the communities which we serve.
OTHER 6% and we expect this category to show further progress in 2008.
In addition to our focus on digital activities, we continue to innovate in print.
Towards All Northcliffe centres have been active in the end of September, the Bath Chronicle presenting our online property websites was converted from a daily to a weekly to local estate agents and providing clients paid for title.
Circulation of this title had with activity reports.
The response from declined to less than 12,000 copies each estate agents has been positive.
The new proportion of local branches now post weekly has retained all of its important their entire inventory on our This is sites.
advertising platforms of recruitment, A further development over the next few property, motors, retail and leisure.
months will be the roll out of the platform Since publication, sales of the new titles developed by FindaProperty which has have exceeded 22,000 each week, thus excellent functionality.
This should make providing improved reach and response our proposition of local print and online an for advertisers.
New free titles have also even stronger route to market for clients.
been launched in Essex and Leicestershire NORTHCLIFFE MEDIA TOTAL UNDUPLICATED REACH 2007 7.3m 2006 6.2m 2005 6.5m Source: JICREG IMS 2007 THE GRAPH SHOWS THE IMPACT OF THE DISPOSAL OF ABERDEEN JOURNALS 2006 AND THE ACQUISITION OF TITLES FROM TRINITY MIRROR PLC 2007 ON THE REACH OF NORTHCLIFFE MEDIAS PORTFOLIO.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc BUSINESS REVIEW 23 Northcliffe Media continued giving extended coverage for existing GROWING OUR ONLINE USER GENERATED CONTENT advertisers, as well as attracting new customers.
This type of focused product innovation will continue throughout 2008.
CENTRAL EUROPE Northcliffe International delivered profits growth of 53%.
In Hungary, our two regional titles, Kisalfld and Dlmagyarorszg, both performed well, as did our classified titles.
90,000 Online, we launched a jobs board, which is currently fifth in the market.
Extensive 2007 marketing efforts are planned in 2008.
Our motors websites, Aut Bazr and Hasznaltauto, make us the number one for online vehicles.
We are now focusing on the online market for property.
In Slovakia, Pravdas first full year of 52,000 ownership performed in line with expectations.
Pravda is a national daily, 2006 which is number two in the market.
The portfolio of classified publications continued to grow revenues and profits.
Profesia, our online jobs board, is the number one online recruitment site in the 22,000 country and has launched jobs boards into 2005 Hungary and the Czech Republic.
In March, we acquired Autovia.
This site is now the number one website for motor vehicles in Slovakia.
In March, we entered the Croatian marketplace with the acquisition of the market-leading jobs website, MojPosao.
In addition, we have acquired interests in new but fast-growing property, motors and buy and sell websites, which have quickly become number two sites in the market.
These new acquisitions are trading in line with expectations.
OUTLOOK Market conditions in the UK are difficult to forecast for the rest of the new financial year.
There has been a recent slowing of the property market and the impact of the liquidity squeeze has yet to manifest itself fully across the wider economy.
Northcliffe is, therefore, cautious on the outlook for local media in 2008.
However, this will not deter our development plans as we OUR FAMILY OF THIS IS SITES HAS SEEN A MAJOR INCREASE IN USER INTERACTION.
THE FIGURES position our local media businesses to SHOW VOLUME OF VOTES, STORY COMMENTS AND BULLETIN BOARD POSTINGS MADE IN SEPTEMBER be at the heart of all things local and to be OF THE RELEVANT YEAR.
the market-leading information providers to their local communities.
Adjusted operating profit before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets.
Daily Mail and General Trust plc
