REpORT Of THE DiRECTORS The Company is not aware of any agreements THE DiRECTORS SubmiT THEiR REpORT between shareholders that may result in TOGETHER WiTH THE auDiTED GROup aND restrictions on the transfer of securities or of voting rights.
COmpaNy fiNaNCial STaTEmENTS fOR THE yEaR ENDED 31 DECEmbER 2007.
Ordinary shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of ordinary shares BusiNEss rEViEW AND stAtEMENt By tHE present in person and entitled to vote shall futurE ActiVitiEs DirEctors oN coMpLiANcE have one vote and on a poll, every member WitH tHE proVisioNs of The principal activities of the Group are present in person or by proxy and entitled to tHE coMBiNED coDE oil and gas exploration and production.
vote shall have one vote for every ordinary The Company is a public limited company, The Company has been in compliance with share held.
The notice of general meeting incorporated in England and Wales, and its the provisions set out in Section 1 of the specifies deadlines for exercising voting securities are quoted on the London Stock Combined Code throughout the year save rights either by proxy or in person in relation Exchange, under the designation DNX.
The as with respect to Combined Code Provision to resolutions to be passed at the general Chairman and Chief Executives Review and B1.6.
Provision B1.6 recommends that the meeting.
All proxy votes are counted and the the Business Review describe the significant contractual notice provision available to numbers for, against or withheld in relation to developments in the business of the Group Directors should be no greater than 12 each resolution are announced at the annual during 2007 and its future prospects.
Following approval of the new general meeting and in accordance with the remuneration policy at the Extraordinary current requirements of the Combined Code, rEsuLts, DiViDENDs AND General Meeting of 26 September 2006, will be published on the Companys website rEtENtioNs it was agreed that the contractual notice after the meeting.
provision for Mr T P Cross would be reduced The Group profit for the year after taxation There are no restrictions on the transfer of to 12 months.
This has now been effected and before minority interests amounted ordinary shares in the Company other than: with the implementation of Deferred Share to 61,840,000 2006: 41,597,000.
Directors do not recommend the payment of certain restrictions may from time to time a dividend.
be imposed by laws and regulations for The Board will continue to review and report example, insider trading laws and market on the effectiveness of the Groups system EVENts siNcE tHE BALANcE requirements relating to close periods : of internal controls as detailed on pages 40 sHEEt DAtE to 42 and the Audit Committee will review pursuant to the Listing Rules of the During the first quarter of 2008, through a annually the need for an internal audit Financial Services Authority whereby series of market purchases, the Company function.
certain employees of the Company require acquired a further 10,908,483 shares in the approval of the Company to deal in the Faroe Petroleum plc at a cost of 15,943,000, ADDitioNAL iNforMAtioN Companys securities.
increasing the Groups shareholding in that for sHArEHoLDErs pursuant to the Companys various share company to 27.5%.
The following provides additional information scheme arrangements required for shareholders as a result of the corporAtE goVErNANcE implementation of the Takeovers Directive The Company is committed to high standards into UK Law.
of corporate governance and the Board is At 31 December 2007, the Companys issued accountable to the Companys shareholders share capital comprised: for good corporate governance.
This statement describes how the principles of % of total corporate governance are applied to the 000 000 Share capital Company and the Companys compliance with Ordinary shares of 15 pence each 86,048 12,908 100 the 2006 Combined Code Combined Code, which was adopted by the Financial Services Authority for reporting periods commencing on or after 1 November 2006.
The Company will continue the ongoing development of its corporate governance practices to ensure high standards are maintained.
38 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 The Companys articles of association may Change of control Directors receive appropriate training as only be amended by a special resolution necessary.
The appointment and removal of Other than as described above in relation at a general meeting of the shareholders.
the Company Secretary is a matter for the to the Convertible Bonds, and as further Directors are reappointed by ordinary Board as a whole.
described below, the Company is not party to resolution at a general meeting of the any significant agreements which take effect, The Board has a formal schedule of matters shareholders.
The Board can appoint a alter or terminate upon a change of control of specifically referred to it for decision.
In director but anyone so appointed must be the Company following a takeover bid.
addition to those formal matters required by elected by an ordinary resolution at the next the Companies Act to be set before a board The Groups $US400 million debt facility with general meeting.
At each annual general of directors, the Board will also consider ABN AMRO Bank N. V. is terminable by the meeting one-third of the directors who are business strategy and policy, business bank upon a change of control event and subject to retirement by rotation retire from plans, acquisition and divestment proposals, provision of 30 days notice: and any letters of office.
Any director who has held office approval of major capital investment plans, credit outstanding under the Companys letter for more than three years since their last risk management policy, significant financing of credit facility with the Bank of Scotland are appointment will also offer themselves matters and statutory shareholder reporting.
also similarly repayable to the bank but upon up for re-election at the annual general provision of 45 days notice by the bank.
There To comply with the provisions of the meeting in accordance with Combined Code are no agreements between the Company Combined Code and in an effort to strive for requirements.
and its employees providing for compensation continual improvement in the effectiveness Authority is sought at the annual general for loss of office or employment whether of the Board, its committees, and the meeting for the Company to buy back up through resignation, purported redundancy or individual Board members, the Company to approximately 10% of its issued share otherwise that occurs because of a takeover operates an evaluation process.
bid, other than the agreements between The Board meets regularly during the the Company and the Executive Directors Convertible Bonds year with additional meetings as dictated as detailed on page 50 of the Report on Convertible Bonds were issued during the by matters arising.
In addition, there is Directors Remuneration.
year and are described in notes 21 and 25 of frequent dialogue between meetings to the Group Financial Statements.
The Board tHE WorKiNgs of tHE met formally four times during 2007, with BoArD AND its coMMittEEs Pending conversion, the Convertible Bonds 100% attendance from the Board members carry no votes at meetings of the Company.
The Board in office at the time of the Board meeting.
In Ordinary shares in the Company issued on addition, all Directors attended the Annual The membership of the Board is set out on conversion will rank pari passu with the General Meeting in July.
Companys existing issued share capital.
to discharge its duties, all Directors receive The Board is responsible to shareholders On a change of control of the Company, appropriate and timely information and the for the proper management of the Group.
bondholders have an entitlement to exercise Chairman ensures that the Directors take The Board comprises the Non-Executive their conversion rights.
independent professional advice as required.
Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance The Non-Executive Directors have a particular Director, the Technical & Commercial Significant interests responsibility to ensure that the strategies Director and four further Non-Executive Directors interests in the share capital of proposed by the Executive Directors are fully Directors.
Brief biographies appear on the Company are shown in the table on page considered.
Statements of the Directors pages 34 and 35.
Major interests ie, those 3% of which responsibilities in respect of the accounts are range of experience and sufficient calibre the Company has been notified are shown on set out on pages 42 and 43 and a statement to bring independent judgements on issues page 40. on going concern is given on page 42. of strategy, performance, resources and Where matters arose during the year Company share schemes standards of conduct, which are vital to the which required the attention of the Audit, continuing success of the Group.
All Directors The Dana Petroleum plc Share Incentive Plan, Remuneration or Nominations Committees, have access to the advice and services of the holds 14,799 shares of the Company in trust a separate meeting of the relevant Company Secretary who is responsible to for the benefit of employees of the Group.
committee was convened with full the Board for ensuring that Board procedures This includes 11,931 unreleased matching attendance by its members.
These are followed and that applicable rules and and free shares.
The voting rights in relation committees deal with the following regulations are complied with.
In addition, to these unreleased shares are exercisable by specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
the Company Secretary will ensure that the the trustees.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 39 REpORT Of THE DiRECTORS continued Audit Committee suBstANtiAL sHArEHoLDiNgs The Audit Committee, which was chaired The Company has been notified of the following shareholdings of 3% or more in the issued by Mr D I Rawlinson, comprises all the share capital of the Company as at 3 June 2008: Non-Executive Directors other than the No.
of % of issued Chairman, and meets not less than twice shares share capital annually.
This requirement was satisfied in Schroder Investment Management 10,203,847 11.80 2007 and both meetings were attended by all members.
The Committee provides a forum AXA S. A.
4,846,438 5.60 for reporting by the Groups external auditors.
Legal & General Investment Management 4,680,360 5.41 If required, meetings are also attended by the BlackRock MLIM 4,410,978 5.10 Chairman and appropriate members of senior RCM Allianz Global Investors 4,301,602 4.97 management at the specific request of the Committee.
Aegon Asset Management 2,863,078 3.31 Barclays Global Investors 2,745,980 3.17 The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide range of matters including the Interim Report and the Annual Report replacement.
The Board aims to ensure that and Accounts before their respective considers that the current composition of the the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and submission to the Board and the monitoring Board is satisfactory to provide the proper Nominations Committees are available at the of the controls that are in force to ensure the governance, administration and business Annual General Meeting to answer questions integrity of the information reported to the counsel in respect of the Companys affairs.
It and explain details of the resolutions to be shareholders.
The Audit Committee advises will continue to monitor the situation in 2008. proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
the Board on the appointment of external Notice of the Annual General Meeting and auditors and on their remuneration both for Remuneration Committee the related papers are sent to shareholders at audit and non-audit work, and discusses the Full details of the Remuneration Committee, least 20 business days before the meeting in nature, scope and results of the audit with the Companys policies on remuneration, accordance with the Combined Code.
The Audit Committee service contracts and compensation keeps under review the cost effectiveness, payments are given in the Report on iNtErNAL coNtroL independence and objectivity of the external Directors Remuneration on pages 44 to 56.
The Board confirms that during 2007 and up auditors.
In line with the Combined Code, to the date of approval of the Annual Report the Audit Committee is also responsible for rELAtioNs WitH and Accounts it has maintained and updated reviewing annually the requirement for an sHArEHoLDErs the procedures necessary to implement the internal audit function.
Communications with shareholders are Internal Control: Guidance for Directors The ongoing members of the Audit given high priority.
Extensive information on the Combined Code and that these Committee all have recent and relevant about the Groups activities is provided in procedures are still in place.
financial experience as detailed in their the Annual Report and the Interim Report The Board is responsible for establishing biographies on page 35. which are sent to all shareholders.
From 2008 and maintaining the Groups system of onwards, the Group will also issue Interim internal control.
Internal control systems are Nominations Committee Management Statements on a quarterly designed to meet the particular needs of the The Nominations Committee is responsible basis.
There is regular dialogue with major organisation concerned and manage the risks for appointments or re-appointments to institutional shareholders and meetings are to which it is exposed.
With the acquisition the Board.
This committee comprises the offered following the Groups preliminary during 2007 of new organisational units Non-Executive Directors and Mr T P Cross announcement of the year end results and in Egypt and Norway, a new delegation of and is chaired by Mr A M Pelham Burn.
The Company has its own authority structure has now been put in place.
generally meets not less than once annually, web-site www.
com for the By their nature such systems can provide and in 2007 the meeting held was attended purpose of improving information flow to reasonable assurance and not absolute by all Committee members.
The Nominations shareholders as well as potential investors.
assurance against material misstatement Committee is charged with ensuring the Enquiries from individual shareholders on or loss.
There is a continuous process for necessary balance of skills, knowledge and matters relating to their shareholdings and identifying, evaluating and managing the experience is maintained and represented the business of the Group are also welcomed.
The key procedures on the Board.
Members of the Nominations which the Directors have established with a The Board also uses the Annual General Committee are precluded from participating view to providing effective internal control Meeting to communicate with private and in the process to nominate their own are as follows: institutional investors and welcomes their 40 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 Management structure This includes performing or participating Audit Committee in audits of Joint Ventures JV to ensure The Board has delegated periodic review The Board has overall responsibility for JV expenditures have been committed of the system of financial internal control the Group and there is a formal schedule with the necessary JV approval and in to the Audit Committee which has reported of matters specifically reserved for accordance with JV agreements.
The use its conclusions to the Board during the decision by the Board.
Each Executive of financial instruments and the Groups year.
The Board has also consulted the Director has been given responsibility for approach to financial risk management is Audit Committee, during the year, on specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
discussed in the Accounting Policies on other internal control matters.
The Audit The Executive Directors together with page 65 and the Financial Review on page Committee believes that the Companys key senior executives constitute the 32.
The nature of financial instrument risks external auditors adopt an objective management committee, which meets faced by the Group is further detailed in regularly, to discuss day-to-day operational and impartial approach to the audit of note 24 to the Group Financial Statements.
A Country Panel structure has the Group and that this is in no way been set up for Egypt and Norway, with influenced by the extent of non audit work Budgetary process each panel comprising three members, undertaken by the Companys external Each year the Board approves the business including two Executive Directors, and the auditors during the year, as disclosed in plan and annual budget.
Key risk areas Country Manager.
The panel will meet at note 6 to the Group Financial Statements.
Performance is monitored least quarterly, and on an ad hoc basis Such work in 2007 largely related to and relevant action taken throughout the as required, to review performance and advice in connection with the corporate year through the regular reporting to the expenditure items beyond the delegation of transactions undertaken, taxation services Board of changes to the business plan and authority of the relevant Country Manager.
and the Groups financing activities variances from the budget and updated during 2007.
The Board will continue to Quality and integrity of personnel forecasts for the year together with carefully consider how such advice is information on the key risk areas.
The integrity and competence of personnel sourced in future.
The Audit Committee is ensured through high recruitment has considered the need for an internal Investment appraisal standards and subsequent training courses.
audit function but has decided that, given Capital expenditure is regulated by a High quality personnel are seen as an the size of the Group and the system of budgetary process and authorisation levels.
essential part of the control environment.
controls in place, it is not required at For expenditure beyond specified levels, present.
The Audit Committee will continue Identification of business risks detailed proposals have to be submitted to to review this decision annually particularly the Board or Country Panel.
Due diligence The Board is responsible for identifying in light of the Groups expansion into work is carried out if a business or the major business risks faced by the Norway and Egypt.
significant assets are to be acquired.
Group and for determining the appropriate course of action to manage those risks.
DirEctors iNtErEst iN sHArE cApitAL The beneficial interests of the current Directors and their families in the share capital of the Company were as follows: Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares at 03.06.08 at 31.12.07 at 31.12.06 15p shares 15p shares 15p shares C R Goodall 70,103 66,933 57,933 T P Cross 1,001,085 701,360 586,312 D A MacFarlane 91,236 73,036 68,232 S M Paton 23,032 7,032 278 A M Pelham Burn 30,118 47,665 47,665 D I Rawlinson 38,440 38,440 38,440 P J Dayer 3,600 2,000 2,000 B Johnston appointed 24 April 2008 n a n a Includes 261 Free Shares subject to a three year holding period restriction pursuant to the Dana Share Incentive Plan: 155,831 shares subject to a five year holding period restriction, or until termination of employment pursuant to Deferred Share Payment A: and 141,479 shares subject to a five year holding period restriction, or until termination of employment pursuant to Deferred Share Payment B.
These Deferred Share Payments were approved by shareholders at the Companys EGM on 26 September 2006.
Includes 261 Free Shares and 260 Matching Shares subject to a three year holding period restriction pursuant to the Dana Share Incentive Plan Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 41 REpORT Of THE DiRECTORS continued Annual review and assessment Corporate and Social policy, are provided stAtEMENt of DirEctors on pages 16 to 19.
The Board undertakes an annual review rEspoNsiBiLitiEs iN of the effectiveness of the Groups system rELAtioN to tHE group Recognising that a significant proportion of internal control.
This includes a review fiNANciAL stAtEMENts of Danas activities are carried out by other of the Audit Committees assessment of companies, Dana also actively promotes and The Directors are responsible for preparing the system of financial internal control.
supports the application of equivalent HS&E the Annual Report and the Group financial A review took place in December 2007 standards by those suppliers, contractors statements in accordance with applicable and addressed internal control issues and companies who operate on Danas United Kingdom law and those International generally and, more specifically, financial, behalf.
This is particularly true of developing Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as operational and compliance controls and countries, and where the Company does not adopted by the European Union.
The review included operate, Dana seeks to partner with large, reports from, and interviews with, key The Directors are required to prepare Group well established upstream companies, with operating personnel.
financial statements for each financial year a track record of successfully working with which present fairly the financial position of host governments, and of promoting the the Group and the financial performance and coMpositioN of group highest standards of Corporate, Social and cash flows of the Group for that period.
In Details concerning the principal subsidiary Environmental responsibility.
Full details of preparing those Group financial statements undertakings are given in note 39 to the the operators of all Danas licence interests the Directors are required to: Company financial statements.
are on pages 106 and 107. select suitable accounting policies in It is also the policy of the Group to consider HEALtH, sAfEty, tHE accordance with IAS 8: Accounting the health and welfare of employees by ENViroNMENt AND tHE Policies, Changes in Accounting maintaining a safe place and system of work Estimates and Errors, and then apply coMMuNity as required by local legislation.
them consistently: Dana considers health, safety and environmental management to be an integral AuDitors present information, including accounting part of its business.
Dana has a formal policies, in a manner that provides A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP Health, Safety and Environmental HS&E relevant, reliable, comparable and as auditors of the Company is to be proposed Policy which is brought to the attention of understandable information: at the Annual General Meeting.
every employee and contractor working on provide additional disclosures when Dana business.
The policy aims to achieve goiNg coNcErN compliance with the specific requirements first class HS&E performance by promoting The Boards review of the accounts, in IFRS is insufficient to enable users a culture which encourages all employees, budgets and forward plans, lead the to understand the impact of particular contractors and other stakeholders Directors to believe that the Group has transactions, other events and conditions to contribute to its implementation.
sufficient resources to continue in operation on the Groups financial position and Responsibility for HS&E management begins for the foreseeable future.
The financial financial performance: and with the Board of Directors and carries statements are therefore prepared on a through to every employee and contractor state that the Group has complied with going concern basis.
IFRS, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial In Dana operated activities, the Group iNtErEsts iN coNtrActs statements.
makes appropriate resources and training There have been no contracts or available to reduce health and safety risks to The Directors are responsible for keeping arrangements during the financial year employees and contractors to a level which proper accounting records which disclose in which a Director of the Company was is as low as reasonably practicable and also with reasonable accuracy at any time the materially interested and which were strives for a neutral or positive impact on financial position of the Group and enable significant in relation to the Groups business.
the physical and socio-cultural environment them to ensure that the Group financial of the regions in which Dana does business.
statements comply with the Companies Act crEDitors pAyMENt poLicy Dana aims to meet relevant regulatory and and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are The Company and Group policy is to agree legislative requirements as a minimum and also responsible for safeguarding the assets payment terms with individual suppliers and to apply Danas own responsible standards of the Group and hence for taking reasonable to abide by these terms.
The Company does in those countries where appropriate laws steps for the prevention and detection of not have any trade creditors.
and regulations are inadequate or do not fraud and other irregularities.
Details of Danas HS&E performance during 2007 and developments in the Groups 42 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 stAtEMENt of DirEctors DirEctors stAtEMENt rEspoNsiBiLitiEs iN As to DiscLosurE of rELAtioN to tHE pArENt iNforMAtioN to AuDitors coMpANy fiNANciAL The Directors who were members of the stAtEMENts Board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on page 108.
Having made The Directors are responsible for preparing enquiries of fellow Directors and of the the Annual Report and the financial Companys auditors, each of these Directors statements in accordance with applicable law confirms that: and regulations.
to the best of each Directors knowledge Company law requires the Directors to and belief, there is no information relevant prepare financial statements for each to the preparation of their report of which financial year.
Under that law the Directors the Companys auditors are unaware: and have elected to prepare the financial statements in accordance with United each Director has taken all the steps a Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Director might reasonably be expected Practice United Kingdom Accounting to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Standards and applicable law.
The financial information and to establish that statements are required by law to give a the Companys auditors are aware of true and fair view of the state of affairs of that information.
the Company and of the profit or loss of Signed on behalf of the Board by: the Company for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and Thomas P Cross Chief Executive state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with David A MacFarlane reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Finance Director position of the Company and enable them to 6 June 2008 ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 43
