DiRECTORS & OffiCERS coLiN r gooDALL chairman & Non-Executive Director Colin Goodall joined the Dana Board in 2002 following a successful 24 year upstream oil career with the BP group.
A Chartered Accountant, Mr Goodall worked in Africa for a number of companies, including Anglo American Corporation, and became a partner at Touche Ross.
He joined the finance team at BP in 1975, later becoming the first Chief of Staff within the BP group.
From 1995 to 1999 he served as Chief Financial Officer of BP Europe and then as BPs senior representative in Russia.
Mr Goodall has been a lecturer and examiner for London University in the areas of management and finance.
Mr Goodall is a Non-Executive Director of a number of other companies.
In January 2005, he was appointed Chairman of the Dana Group.
tHoMAs p cross chief Executive officer Tom Cross co-founded Dana Petroleum in 1994.
Mr Cross is a Chartered Director and Petroleum Engineer.
After graduating with a First Class Honours Degree in Engineering he went on to hold senior positions with Conoco, Thomson North Sea and Louisiana Land and Exploration.
From 1990 to 1993 he was Director of Engineering at the UKs Petroleum Science and Technology Institute.
Mr Cross is a Fellow of the Institute of Directors, a former Chairman of the Society of Petroleum Engineers and an advisor to BBC Radio on oil affairs.
In 2005 he was elected as Chairman of BRINDEX, the Association of British Independent Oil Companies.
He is also nonexecutive Chairman of AUPEC, a global advisory group on energy policy and economics.
DAViD A MAcfArLANE finance Director David MacFarlane, an economics graduate and Chartered Accountant, joined Dana in 2002.
He has more than 20 years experience in financial control and management in the upstream oil and gas business.
Between 1985 and 1993 he was Finance Director of the MOM Group, later becoming Finance Director for two key subsidiaries of the John Wood Group plc.
He joined Dana from Amerada Hess where during the previous six years he headed finance for its fast growing international exploration and production group and latterly for its substantial N. W. Europe production business.
stuArt M pAtoN technical & commercial Director Dr Stuart Paton was appointed to the Dana Board as Technical & Commercial Director in 2006, having joined the Companys senior executive team in 2003 to lead Danas Business Development and Commercial activities.
Dr Paton is a graduate of Cambridge University, where he gained a First Class Honours Degree in Natural Sciences specialising in Earth Sciences, followed by a Phd in Geology.
At Shell International, in the Hague, he worked on the quantitative assessment of exploration and development opportunities world-wide.
Later at Shell in the UK, he held senior technical and commercial roles as well as being on the commercial leadership team of Shell UK, before joining Dana.
JoHN J ArNtoN company secretary & group Legal Manager John Arnton joined Dana in 2000 as Group Legal Manager and was appointed Company Secretary in the same year.
He began his legal career in private practice and moved to Total Oil Marine as a staff lawyer in 1985.
Mr Arnton joined Occidental Petroleum in 1987 as Legal Counsel, and continued with the Elf Group following its acquisition of Occidentals UK assets in 1991.
He was appointed Legal Manager of Elf Exploration UK in 1996 and became Company Secretary of the Elf Groups UK upstream companies.
Mr Arnton is a qualified solicitor and Notary Public.
He also holds a postgraduate Diploma in Petroleum Law.
34 Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 ANgus M pELHAM BurN Non-Executive Director and senior independent Director Angus Pelham Burn was appointed to the Dana Board in 1999, bringing a wealth of experience in international business development and financing, as well as institutional fund management.
Mr Pelham Burn served as a main board Director of the Bank of Scotland from 1977 to 2000.
From 1975 to 1998 he was a Director of The Scottish Provident Institution, holding the offices of Deputy Chairman and Chairman between 1991 and 1998.
Mr Pelham Burn also held the post of Chairman of Aberdeen Asset Management plc between 1992 and 1999.
He chairs Danas Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
D iAN rAWLiNsoN Non-Executive Director Ian Rawlinson joined Dana in 2005, bringing some 20 years experience in corporate finance and investment, gained with Lazard Brothers and Robert Fleming & Co. Ian read law at Cambridge University and was called to the Bar in 1981.
From 1995 he was based in Johannesburg and became responsible for managing Flemings Southern African corporate finance business advising on numerous major transactions including the London listings of Billiton and South African Breweries.
In 2000 he became Chief Operating Officer of Fleming Family & Partners and was later appointed Chief Executive of The Highland Star Group, a business representing the members of the Fleming family and investing principally in the resources sector.
Mr Rawlinson is a director of a number of private companies, and is Chairman of the Tusk Trust, a charity focused on conservation in Africa.
He chairs Danas Audit Committee.
pHiLip J DAyEr Non-Executive Director Philip Dayer joined Dana in 2006, bringing 20 years of public market and corporate finance experience gained with a number of prominent city institutions during which he has advised a wide range of public companies across a variety of sectors including UK and International groups active in the oil and gas sector.
After graduating in Law from Kings College, London, Mr Dayer qualified as a Chartered Accountant and went on to develop widespread experience as Director or Head of Corporate Finance with Barclays fide Zoete Wedd, Citigoup Scrimgeour Vickers, ANZ Grindlays and Societe Generale.
Latterly whilst focusing on the energy sector, Mr Dayer was Director of Corporate Finance at Old Mutual Securities and Executive Director at Hoare Govett Limited.
BriAN JoHNstoN Non-Executive Director Brian Johnston joined Dana in April 2008, following a highly successful 34 year career with Bank of Scotland HBOS.
Until January 2007, Mr. Johnston was Head of Corporate, Scotland, for Bank of Scotland HBOS the Bank where he led the Relationship Banking Operation managing a team of 600 colleagues in 45 locations.
He also had responsibility for five other niche business units within the Bank.
Mr. Johnston has wide-ranging experience across all areas of corporate and acquisition financing, and has worked with a number of Scotlands top entrepreneurs.
Between 1990 and 1999 he expanded the Banks Structured Finance team in Aberdeen from UK domestic MBO MBI Acquisitions to major international deals for energy sector companies working in the USA, Canada, South America and the Far East.
Mr Johnston is a Non-Executive Director of a number of other companies.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Bankers in Scotland and holds a MBA from Strathclyde University.
Independent Director and member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Member of the Nominations Committee Dana Petroleum plc Annual Report 2007 35
