Our markets, products and services Markets France: Darty: BUT UK: Comet Established businesses Holland: BCC Developing businesses Belgium: Vanden Borre New markets Czech Republic: Datart Italy: Darty Switzerland: Darty Turkey: Darty Products European markets 2006 3bn Kesa presence The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as white, brown and grey electrical goods and related accessories.
35 White Goods comprise large and small sized domestic appliances, such as refrigerators, washing machines, microwaves, coffee machines and 30 irons.
Whilst the large sized domestic appliances benefit from improved 25 innovation, design and environmental efficiencies, they are established 20 markets with high household penetration rate where volume is driven by a need or desire to replace the product.
15 10 Brown Goods includes all vision and audio products such as flat-screen televisions, DVD players, MP3 players and camcorders.
5 0 Grey Goods includes telecommunications and multimedia products GER UK FR IT SP TUR NL POL SWZ BEL such as mobile telephones, personal computers, laptops, digital cameras, printers, scanners, games and electronics.
Both Brown Source: GFK Kesa estimates and Grey Goods are rapidly changing markets driven by the switch from analogue to digital technologies, coupled with price deflation.
Kesa Electricals is represented in seven of Europes key markets.
There is also increasing communication between these products aided by the development of high-speed broadband and wireless networking.
Market share An additional product category, furniture, is only sold by BUT.
Quartile 1 Quartile 2 Quartile 3 Quartile 4 Services Our specialist business model means that we are ideally placed to offer associated services such as home delivery and installation, credit and extended warranties.
In addition, the development of digital convergence has provided us with the opportunity to offer a range of paid for services.
Dartys new services offer includes four installation services, five training services and Darty Box, its own triple play proposition.
Commodity High end Comet has trialled a multi-media support service for home and small business users under the brand IT Therapy.
This will be rolled out in Kesas specialist electrical retailing model 2007 and rebranded as Comet on Call.
Mass merchants Mass merchants concentrate their product offer on the price entry ranges and therefore have an Average Selling Price ASP lower than the market average.
Specialist As specialists, Kesas businesses offer a wider range of high ticket products and related services, thereby enjoying an ASP above the market average.
4 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07
