Directors report The Directors present their Annual report together with the audited Products and services financial statements for the year ended 31 January 2007.
The principal electrical products sold by the Group are categorised as White, Brown and Grey Goods and related accessories.
Principal activities Kesa Electricals plc is a holding company with independent subsidiaries White Goods comprise large and small sized domestic appliances such operating through 690 stores in nine European countries.
It is Europes as refrigerators, washing machines, microwaves, coffee machines and third-largest electrical retailing group by sales.
Whilst the large-sized domestic appliances benefit from improved innovation, design and environmental efficiencies, they are in established The Group comprises four operating divisions: Darty France, BUT markets with a high household penetration driven by a need or desire France, Comet UK and Other businesses which consists of New to replace the product.
Vanden Borre Belgium, BCC Holland, Datart Czech Republic and Slovakia, Darty Italy, Darty Switzerland, and Darty Turkey.
Small domestic appliances have seen the development of new product categories, for example bagless vacuum cleaners and products driven Kesa Electricals businesses share a trading philosophy based on three by fashion and design considerations.
principles: Best Price, Best Choice and Best Service.
This distinctive customer proposition is designed to address the needs of a broad Brown Goods include all vision and audio products such as flat screen customer base, to create strong customer brand loyalty and to deliver televisions, DVD players, MP3 players and camcorders.
a business model that is both profitable and cash generative.
This model has a track record of success within Kesa Electricals and is being rolled Grey Goods include telecommunications and multimedia products such out across the Groups businesses in line with changing customer as mobile telephones, personal computers, laptops, digital cameras, aspirations, so as to differentiate Kesa Electricals retail brands from printers, scanners, games and electronics.
Both Brown and Grey goods are rapidly changing markets driven by In the year the Group expanded its business activities under the Darty the switch from analogue to digital technologies, coupled with price brand by securing three store sites in Istanbul with the first store opened deflation.
There is also increasing communication between these in late 2006. products aided by the development of high-speed broadband and wireless networking.
Kesa Group sales for the financial year to 31 January 2007 were 4.5 billion 16.6 billion 2006: 4.1 billion 16.0 billion with retail The Group also owns the BUT group of stores in France which sells profit of 180.9 million 1266.1 million 2006: 164.9 million furniture as well as electrical products.
In addition, the Groups specialist electrical retailer business model Business and financial review means that it also offers associated services such as home delivery Further information regarding the Group, its progress during the year, and installation, credit and extended warranties.
events since the year end and likely future developments is contained in the Chairmans statement and in the operating business and financial Profit and dividends review.
The information that fulfils the requirements of the business The retained profit for the year amounts to 109.4 million 2006: review as required by Section 234ZZB of the Companies Act 1985 94.7 million.
An interim dividend of 3.25p was paid to the ordinary is incorporated in this Directors report by reference, and can be found shareholders of the Company on 8 December 2006 and, on 21 March on the following pages: 2007, the Directors recommended the payment, on 13 July 2007, of a final dividend of 10.05p, 2006: 9.15p, giving a total dividend for the year of 13.3p 2006: 12.1p.
The final dividend, once approved, will be paid Information Location Pages to those persons on the Register of Members at the close of business on 15 June 2007.
Development and performance Chairmans statement 5 during the financial year Operating business and financial review 6-14 Position at the year end Operating business and including analysis and key financial review 6-14 performance indicators Other performance, Corporate social responsibility 15-17 including environmental and Operating business and employee matters financial review 6-14 Principal risks and uncertainties Directors report 20-23 facing the business 20 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 It has come to the attention of the Directors that when the 8.25 pence Principal risks and uncertainties per share final dividend was paid on 14 July 2006, and the 3.25p interim The business, financial condition or results of operations of the Group dividend was paid on 8 December 2006, although the necessary could be adversely affected by any of the risks set out below.
The Groups distributable profits were available to pay those dividends, the relevant systems of control and protection are designed to help manage and interim accounts had not been filed with the Registrar of Companies control risks to an appropriate level rather than to eliminate them.
Consequently, payment of those dividends was a technical corporate governance report on pages 24 to 28 sets out the operational infringement of the Companies Act 1985.
In order to rectify this situation procedures through which the directors assess and manage risk.
interim accounts have now been filed with Companies House and a special resolution is to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting The Directors consider that the principal risks to achieving the Groups AGM to be held on 23 May 2007.
Further details concerning this are objectives are those set out below.
set out in the separate AGM booklet enclosed with this Annual report for shareholders.
a Economic and market conditions The economic environment influences the level of consumer Directors expenditure on electrical goods in a number of ways.
The state of The names and biographical details of the Directors holding office at the housing market affects spending on white goods in particular, the date of this report are shown on pages 18 and 19.
Particulars of and the feel good factor has a significant influence on discretionary Directors emoluments and their interests in the shares of the Company spending on higher value electrical products.
Many other economic and its subsidiaries are shown in the report on Directors remuneration factors influence customers spending decisions, including interest and related matters on pages 29 to 37.
There were no changes in the rates and levels of personal debt.
Directors interests in shares between the end of the financial year and Actions taken by the Groups competitors, as well as actions taken 21 March 2007. to maintain its own competitiveness and reputation for value, have placed and may continue to place pressure on the Groups pricing, At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting the following Directors will margins and profitability.
be retiring and being eligible are offering themselves for re-election: The Groups business is seasonal, with a high percentage of its annual sales and operating profit generated during the Christmas David Newlands gift and New Year periods.
There are only limited opportunities Bernard Dufau to compensate at other times of the year for any material shortfalls Simon Herrick in sales during the Christmas and New Year period.
The level of profit margin in electrical retailing is largely determined Details of the terms of the appointments for David Newlands, Bernard by the market, consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition Dufau and Simon Herrick can be found in the Remuneration Committee and government regulations.
The Group protects its margins, as far report on page 35 and 36.
Their biographies are set out in the Directors as possible, through its buying arrangements and by maintaining report on page 19.
The Board strongly supports their re-election and an efficient sourcing operation.
Cost structures are actively managed recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions in order to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
b Product life cycles Details of all the Directors service contracts are set out in the report Electrical products such as Brown and Grey Goods are subject to rapid on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 35. change in design and functionality, which shortens their economic life.
As new technologies become commoditised and availability increases, Throughout the year, the Company has maintained liability insurance they usually suffer a level of price deflation.
Careful management is for its Directors and officers against the costs of defending themselves needed in order to avoid loss of value and stock obsolescence when in civil proceedings taken against them in that capacity and in respect products are superseded.
of damages resulting from the unsuccessful defence of any proceedings.
To the extent permitted by UK law, the Company has also provided an c Entry into new markets indemnity for its Directors and officers.
Neither the insurance nor the There are only limited opportunities available, as suitable target indemnity provides any cover where the Director has acted fraudulently companies may not be available for purchase, and there is a shortage or dishonestly.
of appropriate sites to enable rapid organic growth.
Corporate governance d Systems failure The Companys statement on corporate governance is set out on pages The Groups businesses are dependent on the suitability and reliability 24 to 28. of their systems and procedures, especially information technology, warehousing and distribution systems.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 21 Directors report e Financial risk management Substantial shareholding Financial management risks are detailed in the operating business As at 21 March 2007 the following interests of more than 3 per cent and financial review on pages 12 to 14 and in note 22 to the accounts.
in the issued share capital of the Company had been notified pursuant to sections 198 to 210 of the Companies Act 1985 as amended, The principal risk is the foreign exchange exposure arising from the and under DTR 5. varying exchange rates between the euro and pound sterling, which are the Groups two main trading currencies.
Number Percentage of ordinary of issued Name shares held share capital f Legislative, reputational and regulatory risks The Groups operations are subject to extensive regulatory requirements, Blackrock Investments 30,913,598 5.83% particularly in relation to its products and services, its advertising, UBS AG 30,761,869 5.81% marketing and sales practices, its employment and pensions policies and planning and environmental issues.
Changes in laws and regulations Capital Group Companies 26,259,843 4.96% and their enforcement may adversely impact the Groups operations in Legal and General 19,527,907 3.68% terms of costs, changes to business practices, restrictions on activities Barclays PLC 16,651,424 3.14% which could damage the Groups reputation and brands.
Standard Life Investments 16,280,354 3.07% Wellington Management 16,277,430 3.07% The Groups businesses may also be adversely affected by changes in tax laws.
DrKWG 15,913,728 3.01% f Pension risks This represented 32.57 per cent of the issued share capital of the The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK defined Company at that date.
benefit scheme for Comet employees and there is a smaller defined benefit scheme in France for senior Darty and Kesa employees.
Save for the above, no person has reported any material interest Both schemes are currently in deficit.
The amount of the deficit is volatile as a result of changes in the Annual General Meeting assumptions regarding life expectancy, discount rates, inflation and future The fourth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments and the returns 11.00am on Wednesday 23 May 2007 at Jurys Hotel, 16-22 Great derived from such investments.
Changes in pension fund legislation have Russell Street, London, WC1B 3NN.
also caused increases in scheme deficits and uncertainties.
Corporate social responsibility g Employees The Group has a code of conduct which sets out the standards of The Groups success depends on its ability to continue to attract, behaviour expected in the Group and of all who work for the Group, motivate and retain highly-qualified employees.
The highly-qualified in their relationships with employees, customers, suppliers, business employees required by the Group in various capacities are sometimes partners, the community including the environment, government in short supply in the labour market.
and all other stakeholders in the business.
h Leased properties More information on Corporate social responsibility is set out on pages A significant portion of the Groups properties are leasehold, and the 15 to 17.
Group is therefore exposed to substantial increases in commercial property rents.
Share capital At 31 January 2007 there were 529,553,216 ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue together with rights under the Companys Long Term Incentive Plans of 703,943 ordinary shares of 25 pence.
It is intended to satisfy these rights through market purchase, rather than issuing new shares.
Further details of the share capital are given in note 25 to the financial statements.
22 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 Donations Employee involvement The Groups support for charitable causes is principally through the work Group companies actively consult their staff on matters of concern to done by the Groups operating companies to the value of 155,000. them in the context of their employment.
In Europe, where the largest Details of the types of activity undertaken are set out in the corporate numbers of employees are, there is a formal consultation process social responsibility report on pages 15 to 17. through workers councils.
Consultation also takes place through joint consultation committees.
The Group made no political donations and incurred no items of political expenditure.
Information on matters of concern to employees including the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group is also Employment policies disseminated through conferences, meetings, publications and At 31 January 2007 the number of full time equivalent employees electronic media.
working for the Group throughout Europe was 26,493.
Kesa Electricals consists of a number of businesses operating in different sectors.
While An all employee savings plan exists for employees in the UK.
employment practices may vary between these businesses, the Group is, nevertheless, committed to ensuring that: Creditor payment For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to: All employees receive fair and equal treatment irrespective of gender, ethnic origin, age, nationality, marital status, religion, Agree and confirm the terms of supply at the commencement sexuality or disability.
of business with that supplier.
The working environment is conducive to achievement and free from Pay in accordance with contractual and other legal obligations.
Continually review the payment procedures and liaise with suppliers Disabled persons, whether registered or not, have equal opportunities as a means of eliminating difficulties and maintaining a good when applying for vacancies, with due regard to their aptitudes working relationship.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated and that Trade creditors of the Group at 31 January 2007 were 36.6 2006: 36.2 their training and career development needs are carefully managed.
days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the end of the year The assessment of training needs and the provision of appropriate to the amounts invoiced during the year by trade creditors.
The Trade training is delivered to its employees.
creditors for the Company were nil 2006: Nil.
Health and safety Directors disclosure of information to auditors Group companies have a responsibility to ensure that all reasonable The Directors believe that there is no relevant audit information of precautions are taken to provide and maintain working conditions for which the auditors are unaware and each director has taken all steps employees and visitors alike, which are safe, healthy and in compliance that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself aware of any with statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
The Groups companies pursue the objective of minimising the instances of occupational accidents and illnesses.
Examples of this are to be seen Auditors in the employment of health and safety advisers and in the establishment Resolutions concerning the re-appointment of the auditors and of detailed policies and statements of intent.
The Company Secretary authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be proposed has the responsibility to ensure that the Board is presented with a review at the Annual General Meeting.
at least annually detailing how the Group complies with the statutory requirements and appropriate codes of practice.
By order of the Board Simon Enoch Secretary 21 March 2007 Registered Office: 22-24 Ely Place London EC1N 6TE Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 23 Corporate governance Combined Code The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies in formal terms of reference, copies of which are available from to disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in 2003 www.
com which are reviewed regularly, stating the items the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they specifically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board establishes have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
overall Group strategy, including new activities and withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial strategy and the The Board of Kesa Electricals supports the principles of corporate operating budget and monitors divisional performance through the governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that it receipt of monthly reports and management accounts.
The process for complies in full with the terms of the Code.
the approval of acquisitions divestments for the most part is a matter reserved for the Board save that it delegates to the Chief Executive Directors the responsibility for such activities up to a specified level of authority.
The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus one further Similarly there are authority levels covering capital expenditure, which Executive Director and four Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond these levels of division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
authority, projects are referred to the Board for approval.
The four Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be Other matters reserved to the Board include: independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors Overview of control, audit and risk management.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
Andrew Remuneration: Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the The Groups framework of executive remuneration and its cost Audit Committee, is a qualified accountant.
He is considered to have in the light of recommendations made by the Remuneration recent and relevant financial experience.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is Senior management succession plans and the overall direction satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as Non-Executive of management development.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and the The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
details of their respective appointments are set out in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 36.
Copies of their The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for inspection of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This includes at the Companys registered office and will also be available for monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not a Board inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
There is also a procedure under which Directors, in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all the Articles 107 and 108 of the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors have access to his advice and services.
This ensures compliance with the code by providing that all Directors are required to submit themselves for re-appointment at least once The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the every three years.
Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being Directors of a publicly limited company.
The training needs of the The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briefings the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate in the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or terms of appointment.
The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between Board meetings.
24 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 During 2006, the Board, and each of the Audit and Remuneration The Committee normally meets at least four times a year.
Both the Committees undertook performance evaluations.
Using the Higgs external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management are Suggestions for Good Practice as guidance, the individual committee normally present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice members initially completed separate questionnaires.
The results were for the Committee to meet the external auditors without management compiled and analysed by the Company Secretary, who prepared present.
The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right to reports to the Board and each of the committees.
The areas covered request a meeting without other management present, and he regularly included the role of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the meets the Chairman of the Audit Committee without management being Board Board committees, preparation for and the performance at present.
The Group Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend meetings, the effectiveness of the Board Board committees, leadership meetings as appropriate.
and culture and corporate governance.
The results were considered by the Board and each of these committees in meetings.
The Board and The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of meetings Board committees consider that they are operating effectively.
to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all Audit Committee meetings.
The Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, also met with the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of reference the Chairmans effectiveness.
Details of the Chairmans professional which encompass those recommended by the Combined Code, i. e. : commitments are included in his biography on page 19.
To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, During the year to 31 January 2007 the Board met eight times to deal reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements with regular business and a further three times to approve periodic contained therein.
This is felt adequate to enable effective running of To review financial reports for publication and to ensure compliance the Company.
The attendance record of individual Directors at Board with all accounting policies and standards.
and committee meetings is detailed below: To review the Companys compliance with legal and regulatory requirements.
To review the Companys internal financial control and risk Board Audit Remuneration Nomination management systems and to review risk exposures and steps 11 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting taken to monitor and control them.
David Newlands 11 N A N A 1 To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
Jean-Nol Labroue 11 N A N. A 1 To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Peter Wilson 11 531 appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration Michel Brossard 11 531 and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Bernard Dufau 11 531 To monitor and review the external auditors independence, Andrew Robb 11 531 objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional and regulatory requirements.
Simon Herrick 11 N A N A N A To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, including whistleblowing.
The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit, To satisfy itself the Companys code of conduct is being enforced.
Remuneration and Nomination: These responsibilities are discharged in the following manner: a Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of four Non-Executive Directors, At its meetings in March and September, the focus falls on a review considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb of the preliminary announcement annual report and financial Chairman, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard and Bernard Dufau.
The statements and the interim announcement respectively.
On both Committee has at least one member, Andrew Robb, who possesses occasions, the Committee receives reports from the external recent and relevant financial experience.
It will be seen from the auditors identifying any accounting or judgemental issues requiring Directors biographical details, appearing on page 19, that the members its attention.
of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience from positions at the highest level both in the UK and France.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2006 07 25
