06 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Innovations in Cash Systems 2006 2007 has been a landmark year for 1 Spain Teller Cash Dispensers TCDs sold to Spanish banks are more Cash Systems with the introduction of several reliable than ever thanks to a technical alteration put forward by new products.
The two examples featured two Cash Systems colleagues in Madrid.
TCDs sold in Spain above VERTERA and EV86-Series have have eight manual deposits covered by a lid, which is opened been well received by our customers.
Faults with this device led to we are also constantly looking at ways to improve around 240 engineer call-outs every year across the 21,000 TCDs installed in Spain.
Hot line agents Carlos Almazan and the reliability of our existing products as the Javier Arranz above suggested adapting the lid so the example from Spain illustrates.
Microlatch mechanism was no longer needed.
With this change in place, TCD reliability has improved and fide La Rue has significantly reduced its engineer call-outs.
07 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 2 VERTERA Launch 3 EV86-Series Launch Building directly on fide La Rues leading cash recycler, the highly In September, fide La Rue unveiled the next generation in banknote acclaimed TCR Twin Safe VERTERA was launched in October counter technology.
The EV86Series uses fide La Rues unique and offers significantly enhanced detection features, including Ultra Feed technology feed banknotes consistently and reliably fitness sorting capabilities, increased performance and reliability at a rate significantly faster than its closest rival in the market.
whilst meeting the increasing demand for a smaller machine.
It also uses fide La Rues market leading counting technology Andy Brierley and Caron Rashbrook above were just two Mechanical Double Detection which, in tests, outperformed members of an international team who developed the machine.
the rival Opacity Doubles Detect technology used by The new recycler represents a significant evolution in teller competitors by more than 100 times.
Capable of counting automation technology incorporating proven secure document over 2,000 notes per minute, the EV86-Series delivers analysis technology complete with sophisticated full width substantial savings to customers by substantially cutting banknote detection, ensuring that advanced banknote fitness banknote processing time.
It also significantly outperforms the and authentication is now possible in the bank branch.
competition in head-to-head throughput testing.
Gavin Doyle, Global Product Manager, Desktop Products above, was responsible for launching the counter in over 50 countries this year.
08 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Chairmans Statement OUR STRATEGY IS TO RETURN SURPLUS CASH FLOW TO SHAREHOLDERS, WHILE INVESTING APPROPRIATELY FOR GROWTH IN OUR CORE BUSINESSES.
