14 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Business Review Cash Systems Cash Systems World locations KEY DRIVERS Dublin Flen Moscow United Kingdom Vianen Moerfelden Montreal Paris Bern Watertown Chicago Madrid Beijing Lisbon Dallas Delhi Hong Kong Dubai Mexico City Key drivers of business performance Cash Systems Sao Paulo Size and sophistication of commercial Sandton banking segment in country Sydney Number of branches and maturity of retail banking sector Discretionary spend by central Key manufacturing hubs and retail banks Key sales and service centres Security policy relating to the banking sector 2006 2007 2005 2006 Change Sales 333.0m 292.4m 13.9% Service offering and in-territory support network Underlying Operating Profit 28.7m 18.4m 56.0% before net exceptional charges of Nil 2005 2006 : 3.4m Price competition Supply chain efficiency Divisional Strategy Cash Processing Solutions CPS R&D innovation The strategic focus for the Cash Systems CPS provides consultancy led cash Strategic Business Units SBU is handling solutions, including banknote Material costs e. g. steel, printed outlined below.
Within each SBU there sorters and software systems, to help circuit boards is a continuous emphasis on driving central banks, note issuing authorities, Foreign Exchange transaction costs operational efficiency: commercial banks and cash-in-transit companies worldwide process cash Branch Teller Automation efficiently and improve customer service.
The key objectives are: In mature markets the focus is on Optimising branch revenue, enhancing delivering innovation through superior the customer experience and facilitating vault management design, which we secure and efficient branch banking by now refer to as Enterprise Cash enabling the teller through automation.
This includes the development of hardware with superior Supporting and developing our position detection capabilities combined with as the global market leader in teller sophisticated software giving real time automation products serving the retail management reports, all of which is bank sector.
Our focus will be the secured with consultancy and support.
continued delivery of innovation including the introduction of the VERTERA Further focus is given on emerging portfolio of teller cash recyclers and markets such as Brazil, CIS, China innovations around the European and India, and on particular segments Central Bank European Recycling of the market which complement the Framework BRF, coupled with an Groups Currency operations.
CPS will additional emphasis on the key growth also build on its reputation with BRF markets, particularly North America, compliance.
and a further drive for operational productivity improvements.
15 fide La Rue Annual Report 2006 Business Review Cash Systems United Kingdom detail Original Equipment Manufacture OEM Teller automation volumes were significantly fide La Rue is a leading supplier of Original up on the same period last year driven Equipment Manufacture mechanisms and principally by continued growth in North technologies to the Automatic Teller America, now the largest single market Machine ATM industry.
However, we are now seeing an increased level of competition Our strategy is to maintain our market from cash handling suppliers.
leading position in the ATM market whilst focusing on our growing markets in China Over the past two years we have invested and the Middle East followed by other key in expanding the sales force in our growth markets.
regions and training our sales force in all regions.
In October, fide La Rue launched Knutsford Desktop Products DTP its new teller cash recycling solution, the The Desktop Products business provides VERTERA.
Building directly on fide La Rues an extensive range of note and coin leading cash recycler, the highly acclaimed sorting machines designed to suit all TCR Twin Safe, VERTERA offers Basingstoke note and coin counting tasks in both the significantly enhanced detection features, Waterlooville front and back office environments.
including fitness sorting capabilities, Financial, retail, transport, gaming and increased performance and reliability leisure organisations around the world meet the increasing demand for a smaller Key manufacturing hubs headquarters rely upon these compact cash handling footprint machine.
Key sales and service centres machines for their basic batching R&D facility processes to more sophisticated The Sorter business had an improved counterfeit authentication.
year with double digit volume growth in Divisional Revenues 2007 both large and medium sized sorters.
13.9 per cent on last year Our strategy is to invigorate these OEM ATM mechanisms and Desktop mature businesses through the Products showed strong volume growth 06 07 333.0 continuous introduction of product in products partially offset by some price innovation to expand and enhance the erosion.
Both businesses benefited from 05 06 292.4 product portfolio for our customers.
a lower manufacturing cost base during 04 05 302.2 the second half, reflecting the benefits of Divisional Performance our continued outsourcing of production Divisional product service split In Cash Systems, revenues of 333.0m capacity to China.
During the year the % grew by 13.9 per cent 2005 2006 : DTP business also launched the EV86- 292.4m and underlying operating Series which is the next generation 1 profits of 28.7m were strongly ahead banknote counter to the 2600 series.
of last year 2005 2006 : 18.4m The product has been well received by reflecting both the full benefits of our customers.
restructuring actions and increased 2 sales volumes through the fixed cost base.
The adverse impact of foreign exchange during the year of 1.5m 1 Product 202m 61% was significantly mitigated by the 2 Service 131m 39% outsourcing of component parts to US$ based Chinese manufacturing.
Trading margins improved by 2.3 percentage points, to 8.6 per cent, compared with 6.3 per cent last year.
