04 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Innovations in Security Paper and Print These examples show how innovation underpins all that 1 Optiks Designed and developed at Overton, UK, fide La Rues paper we do from the introduction of a new banknote production facility, Optiks represents a major step forward in feature, Optiks, to entry into the newly emerging paper-based banknote security features and demonstrates ePassport market, to a novel productivity improvement fide La Rues leadership in getting new products successfully which recycles the ink used on our printing presses.
Manufacturing of the feature involves the insertion of an 18mm wide demetallised security thread into the paper combined with an aperture in the paper which you can see through.
The thread manufacture, paper machine operating conditions and thread insertion technology required for Optiks are very different from those associated with existing banknote papers.
05 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 2 Malta Orlof Ink Recovery 3 ePassport Production During the year, a team from fide La Rues Malta banknote fide La Rue is preparing for the introduction of new factory found a way to recover ink used in banknote ePassports with the construction of a new, state of-the-art production on the Orlof printing presses.
Usually, up to passport production facility in Malta.
The International 60 per cent of the ink used in the press is wiped off and Civil Aviation Organisation, which has 189 member states, goes to waste, ultimately as landfill.
The team, including has approved a new global standard for machine readable Ray Borg and Paul Micallef above, found an innovative passports with a persons key biometric data, primarily a way to recover ink before it is sent to the waste treatment digital facial image, embedded in a contactless electronic plant.
The solution for which patents have been applied, has chip which can be read by immigration authorities to verify potential environmental benefits through reduced waste and the holder's identity.
Strong take up of the technology is water usage at all fide La Rues production facilities worldwide.
expected and fide La Rue expects production at the new site to start later this year.
