12 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Business Review Security Paper and Print Security Paper and Print World locations KEY DRIVERS United Kingdom Bray Albany Dulles Zejtun Malwana Kuala Lumpur Key drivers of business performance Nairobi Security Paper and Print Ordering patterns of central banks Midrand Volumes of banknotes paper Capacity utilisation optimisation of operational gearing Currency Overspill demand for banknotes Security Products R&D innovation Foreign Exchange transaction costs 2006 2007 2005 2006 Change Sales 354.5m 318.4 11.3% Security Products Underlying Operating Profit 61.7m 51.0 21.0% Market development and level of before exceptional income of Nil 2005 2006 : income of 0.9m worldwide security risk R&D innovation Divisional Strategy Currency Build on the mature Currency business A significant driver behind the improved - by maintaining its market leadership divisional result was the Currency activities and strong competitive position through which had another excellent year, with continuous innovation, targeted investment the banknote business operating at near in R&D and a continuous emphasis on capacity levels in the second half.
Overall, driving improved operational efficiency.
banknote volumes increased by 19.5 per cent 2005 2006 : decrease of 11.4 per Continue to improve the quality of cent over the prior year, attaining a level earnings in Security Products even higher than that achieved in the Iraq - following the consolidation of the contract year in 2003 2004. business around a core manufacturing base and high value added products there This was partly offset by a less favourable is further potential to develop this business.
work mix compared to the corresponding period last year with an average The focus will be on authentication labels, contribution per 1000 notes down passports including the new ePassports, 12.6 per cent.
The higher overall volumes fiscal stamps market and a broadening of partly reflected increased overspill which the current customer base.
was 26 per cent of the total compared to 17 per cent in the corresponding Divisional Performance period last year.
In particular, the second Underlying operating profit for the half overspill levels were more than Security Paper and Print division of double the comparative period.
In 61.7m was 10.7m ahead of last addition, banknote paper volumes rose year 2005 2006 : 51.0m by 3.6 per cent 2005 2006 : increase of 5 per cent partly driven by the strong print order book.
Looking forward the order book in Currency remains strong, providing good visibility for the majority of 2007 2008.
13 fide La Rue Annual Report 2007 Business Review Security Paper and Print United Kingdom detail Demand for the latest technology in antiSecurity Products counterfeit solutions is still a key driver The Security Products and Identity in the market.
The proliferation of colour Systems businesses also performed well copying, scanning and printing driven principally by strong demand for technologies means that we continue to authentication labels and a strong increase develop anti-counterfeit solutions such in passport orders.
fide La Rues strength as wide threads, holographic devices and is in machine readable passports and we iridescent features.
We also continue to are now expanding our capability to develop and promote paper-making include ePassport.
As a consequence Gateshead Lisburn innovations such as CornerStone and we are investing in a dedicated ePassport Platinum which optimise the strength manufacturing facility in Malta, which is and soil resistance of the paper and expected to be completed in the last Westhoughton improve the lifespan of the banknotes.
This year we have been particularly During the year we launched Solitaire Dunstable Debden pleased with the introduction of Optiks.
an innovative new security feature which Bathford Overton Basingstoke Designed and developed at Overton, UK, appears under normal light as two fide La Rues paper production facility, contrasting colours.
When the feature Optiks represents a major step forward is placed under Ultra-Violet UV light it Currency in paper-based banknote security becomes a single colour, which is an easy Security Products features and demonstrates fide La Rues to remember and check effect which has Currency headquarters leadership in getting new products applications to a wide variety of security Security Products headquarters successfully to market.
Manufacturing documents such as alcohol and tobacco the feature involves the insertion of an tax stamps.
Counterfeits are straightBanknotes base overspill 18mm wide demetallised security thread forward to detect since under UV light a % of sales into the paper combined with an aperture counterfeit feature will appear as two in the paper which you can see through.
This effect makes it The thread manufacture, paper machine an ideal feature for covert inspector 77 62 69 83 74 operating conditions and thread insertion level authentication such as customs technology required for Optiks are very and excise, and other government and different from those associated with commercial officials.
