DIRECTORS REPORT Principal activities Debenhams is the second largest department store group in the UK, with a unique mix of own brands including Designers at Debenhams, international brands and concessions.
It has 135 stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland and nine smaller Desire by Debenhams stores.
In addition to its directly owned stores, Debenhams has a further 36 international franchise stores in 16 countries.
It also sells its products through its internet site www.
Business review The results for the financial year are set out in the accounts and notes to the accounts on pages 50 to 99.
The business review, the Chairmans statement on pages 4 to 5, the Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 15 and the Finance Directors review on pages 16 to 18, analyse the development and performance of the business during the financial year to 1 September 2007, its position at the end of the year and give an indication of likely future developments.
The contents of the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives review and the Finance Directors review which can be found on pages 4 to 18 form part of this directors report and are incorporated in this report by reference.
Any liability is restricted to the extent prescribed by the Companies Act 2006.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 30 Section 3 Management and governance millions of sq ft million million Percentage growth Percentage decrease million Sales gross transaction value excluding VAT for the financial year to 1 September 2007 were 2,305.6 million.
Space expansion was the major factor behind the growth in total sales.
During the year the Company opened two new department stores, Llandudno and Warrington, re-sited our Wigan store and opened five Desire by Debenhams stores, in Kirkcaldy, Merthyr, Walton-on-Thames, Altrincham and Birmingham Fort.
In addition, on 12 September 2006, Debenhams completed the acquisition of nine Roches stores in the Republic of Ireland which have subsequently all been re-branded as Debenhams stores.
The chart below shows the new stores opened during the year and projected openings: Current and new store pipeline 180 2 170 17 160 3 1 6 4 150 9 1 5 140 9 3 9 130 3 4 133 5 1 120 122 117 110 2005 Stores 2006 Roche Stores Stores 2007 Contracted Contracted Contracted Contracted Stores close opened in close openings opened in closed in close to open in to close in to open in to open in closed post 2006 2007 2007 2008 2008 2009 2010 2010 onwards Desire Department stores Closures Notes: 2007 includes one re-site, 2008 includes three re-sites, the corresponding old stores accounted for in closures Additional closure in 2008 is Dublin Jervis Street The new store pipeline will help underpin future growth and profits.
The directors believe that Debenhams has the potential to increase its presence in the UK and the Republic of Ireland to 240 department stores and 100 Desire by Debenhams stores.
At the beginning of the year Debenhams had 80 core stores, being stores which had neither opened nor been refurbished in the last four years.
Nine of these stores were modernised during the year, with an enhanced level of investment.
Refurbished stores are able to display a greater level of product in a way that is easier for customers to shop.
Brands are clearly delineated and displayed in a more premium way.
The refurbished stores are being used as a model to enforce visual merchandising techniques, such as the space that must be created around fixtures and the number of options contained on each arm.
A further 12 refurbishments are currently taking place, with almost all of the remaining core estate scheduled to be refurbished over the next two years.
This enables better planning and quicker execution of store tasks.
In particular price changes can be made more rapidly, clearly and accurately.
The resulting reduction in employee hours dedicated to price changes permits employees more time to serve customers, this being an important element of Debenhams plans to maximise selling opportunities over the coming year.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 31 Section 3 Management and governance Number of stores DIRECTORS REPORT Sales in the international franchise operation made up 2.2 per cent of total Company sales.
The international store portfolio increased by four stores during the year.
Since then we have opened three new stores and have plans to open a further six franchise stores in 2007 08.
Direct sales through the Companys internet site made up 1.1 per cent of Company sales.
The investment made last year to enhance the stability of the site and the shopping experience for customers now allows the Company to actively drive sales through a broad marketing programme.
2006 07 2005 06 n Retail 89.0% n Retail 96.8% n Desire 1.0% n Desire 0.4% n Ex-Roches 6.7% n International 1.9% n International 2.2% n Direct 0.9% n Direct 1.1% The margin rate for the year was 42.2 per cent of sales, 0.9 per cent below last year.
This reduction in margin as a percentage of sales was the result of a higher percentage of concession to own-bought sales and the impact of the Roches acquisition in its first year.
The percentage margin also reduced because of higher markdowns as the Company focused on a strict clear as you go markdown policy throughout the year ensuring control of terminal stocks terminal stock levels at the end of the year were 3.3 per cent, in line with last year.
After deducting depreciation and interest, profit before tax and exceptional items for the year was 127.5 million 2006: 112.8 million.
A large proportion of the exceptional items relates to non-cash write-offs associated with the closure of Debenhams store in Jervis Street.
Following the Roches acquisition Debenhams is consolidating its operations into one store in Dublin.
Terms were agreed in June 2007 to assign the lease on Jervis Street to Arnotts: Debenhams will continue to trade in Dublin city centre from its 140,000 sq ft store in Henry Street.
The profit after tax for the financial year ending 1 September 2007 was 79.0 million 2006: 43.7 million.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 3.8 pence per ordinary share, to be paid on 4 January 2008 to members on the register at the close of business on 7 December 2007.
This together with the interim dividend of 2.5 pence paid in July gives a full year dividend of 6.3 pence.
Since the business was taken private in December 2003 there has been a strong focus on cash generation.
The cash generated by the business is derived from its profit after adding back depreciation and working capital where the movement was cash positive compared to last year less capital expenditure which totalled 96.5, the majority of which was on new stores and refurbishment.
Net debt at the end of the year was 1,016.5 million.
The Company seeks to foster a rewarding and satisfying working environment through its reward and benefit structures, through consideration of and flexibility to meet employee requirements of which further details are given in the corporate responsibility report on pages 24 to 25, and through communication with employees and providing opportunities for feedback.
The key performance indicator is the rate of labour turnover.
In addition to incentives the share schemes and the bonus programmes foster an interest in the Companys financial performance, it is important that the Company involves employees in business issues and recognises and addresses concerns or difficulties in their roles.
For example, one of the benefits of the introduction of radio frequency technology is that it streamlines the previously cumbersome and unsatisfying process of manually effecting price reductions in stores.
At the beginning of the financial year the Company consulted with its employees about future pension arrangements the 60 day consultation period came to an end on 15 September 2006.
In the light of that consultation certain changes were made to the Companys proposals, such as increasing the life assurance cover and continuing to permit contributions to the additional voluntary contribution schemes.
The Company further promoted opportunities for regular feedback during the year through: The Employee Consultation Forum.
Elected employee representatives are an important part of the communication framework.
Their role is not only to gather information and views from the employees they represent but they are also consulted on a wide range of business initiatives.
The executive directors also held regular sessions with a cross section of volunteers from around the business the Feedback Forum, to gather informal feedback on new ideas and existing practices.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 32 Section 3 Management and governance A new initiative was ask the board.
This gives any employee the opportunity to ask a question of the board or to raise an idea for consideration.
In addition to the quarterly magazine Business News, periodic meetings were held with head office employees and conference calls with store employees to provide updates on business performance and key initiatives.
This business review does not include details of Debenhams corporate responsibility programme: a separate report is set out on pages 19 to 27.
Principal business risks and uncertainties Debenhams is a large and complicated business.
There are a number of risks and uncertainties, both from external factors such as the economic environment and internal factors such as the retention of key management that could substantially impact its performance.
Statements made in the annual report that look forward in time or express managements beliefs, expectations or estimates regarding future occurrences and prospects are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the United States federal securities laws.
These forward-looking statements reflect Debenhams current expectations concerning future events and actual results may differ materially from current expectations or historical results.
Any such forward-looking statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties.
It is not possible to schedule all risks and uncertainties but major risk factors include: i Debenhams ability to predict or fulfil customer demands or preferences: ii competitive pressures in the highly competitive retail sector.
Debenhams competitors include not just other general retailers but specialist retailers, supermarkets and other low-price high-volume retailers, and internet operators: iii new store and modernisation performance: iv factors outside Debenhams control such as adverse economic conditions, a downturn in the retail industry, changes in the financial or equity markets, industrial unrest, adverse weather, natural disaster, war or terrorist activity: these could particularly have a major impact during peak selling periods: v events that negatively impact the Debenhams brand, for example in areas such as product quality, supply chain practices and health and safety: vi the departure of key personnel: vii work stoppages, slowdowns or strikes or operational disruption: viii personal injuries or property damage relating to a major Debenhams or supplier location through fire or other risk: ix the effectiveness of Debenhams brand awareness and marketing programmes: x disruptions or other adverse events affecting Debenhams relationship with or the performance of its major suppliers, store card provider, designers or concessionaires: for example certain designers are very important to its business, a large quantity of Debenhams merchandise is manufactured by a small number of suppliers etc: xi risks associated with Debenhams properties, all of which are now held through leasehold interests or former properties for which Debenhams may have potential liabilities in the event of default of the current tenant: xii loss of business or additional expenditure from regulation: and xiii currency and hedging risks a substantial proportion of Debenhams imports are paid for in US dollars, interest rate risks, credit risks and financial covenant risks under the credit facilities.
The Companys internal control process is set out on pages 39 to 40.
The corporate responsibility report, on pages 19 to 27, details the key environmental performance indicators and risks.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 33 Section 3 Management and governance DIRECTORS REPORT Events since the year end Since the year end the Company has opened two new department stores, in Welwyn Garden City on 10 October 2007 and Lanelli on 25 September 2007 which together with the newly re-sited department stores in Exeter which opened on 20 September and Derby on 9 October bring the total number of stores in the UK and the Republic of Ireland to 144.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company are shown in note 28 to the financial statements on page 80.
No shares were allotted during the period.
Major shareholders As at 23 October 2007, the following notifications have been received from holders of material interests in 3 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital: Percentage Number of of issued shares share capital Unity Investments ehf, Unity One ehf and Baugur Group hf holdings through a total return swap with an option for physical settlement 116,000,000 13.5 TPG Shareholder Group 113,135,197 13.2 CVC Shareholder Group 79,498,424 9.3 Merrill Lynch Shareholder Group 53,443,493 6.2 Bestinver Gestion SGIIC, S. A.
48,513,840 5.6 BlackRock Inc 41,320,750 4.8 Lazard Asset Management LLC Group 34,448,811 4.0 Wellington Management Company, LLP 34,721,468 4.0 Newton Investment Management Limited 33,920,576 3.9 AXA S. A.
31,505,666 3.7 UBS AG 32,019,753 3.7 Mellon Financial Corporation 30,579,196 3.6 Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited 25,833,875 3.0 The takeovers directive The Company has one class of share capital, ordinary shares.
All the shares rank pari passu.
The TPG, CVC and Merrill Lynch shareholders entered into an orderly market agreement amongst themselves, as part of the flotation which may limit the number of shares which each of them may sell within specified periods of time.
This agreement expires on 31 January 2008.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Companys shares.
The Debenhams Retail Employee Trust 2004 owns 103,602 shares in the Company 0.01 per cent : any voting or other similar decisions relating to those shares would be taken by the trustees, who may take account of any recommendation of the Company.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The board has power to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming AGM within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Company except that the supplier agreements with all major cosmetic suppliers contain termination provisions on change of control.
There are no agreements providing for compensation for directors or employees on change of control.
Directors and directors interests The directors of the Company during the year are set out in the corporate governance report on page 37.
The interests of the directors in the shares of the Company are contained in the directors remuneration report on pages 41 to 47.
No director had, during or at the end of the year, any material interest in any contract of significance in relation to the Groups business, except that until 9 May 2007 the directors were subject to the constraints on the sale of their shares in the Underwriting Agreement entered into between the Company and others on 3 May 2006 in advance of the IPO.
In addition to the indemnity provisions in their Articles of Association, the Company and other Group companies have entered into a direct indemnity agreement with each of the directors and certain other officers or employees of the Group.
In addition the Company has purchased directors and officers insurance.
Copies of the indemnity agreements are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 34 Section 3 Management and governance Employees Debenhams is committed to promoting policies to ensure that employees or applicants for employment are treated equally, regardless of gender, marital status, race, colour, nationality, ethnic or national origin, religion, disability, sexual orientation or age, and are not disadvantaged by conditions or requirements which cannot be shown to be justified.
It applies employment policies that are fair and equitable and which ensure that entry into and progression within the Company are determined solely by job criteria, personal ability and competence.
The Companys policy is to apply best practice in the employment and training of disabled persons.
Full and fair consideration is given to every application for employment from disabled persons whose aptitude and skills can be utilised in the business and to their training and career development, including, wherever practicable, the retraining and retention of staff who become disabled during their employment.
A new Company induction course and DVD, on both employment and customer care issues for disabled people, were produced during the year, a Disability Awareness week was run in May 2007 and the Company has revised its equal opportunities policies and created a disability champion in the HR team.
Further information on employee and disability programmes are given in the corporate responsibility report on pages 24 to 26.
Payment of suppliers It is the Companys policy to pay suppliers in accordance with the agreed payment terms provided that the invoice is properly presented and not subject to dispute.
The ratio, expressed in days, between the amounts owed by the Company to trade creditors at the end of the year and the amounts invoiced by suppliers in the financial year ended 1 September 2007 was 57 days 2006: 53 days.
Financial instruments Debenhams does not enter into financial instruments for speculative trade.
Details of financial instruments entered into for underlying risks are set out in note 23 on pages 73 to 75.
Political donations It is the Groups policy not to make donations to political parties.
There were no disclosable expenses made during the financial year which fall within the definition of a political donation under the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000.
Charitable giving Details of the Companys charitable activities are given in the corporate responsibility report on pages 19 to 27.
The Group made direct donations for charitable purposes in the financial year of 96,000 to the Breast Cancer Campaign 2006: 150,000.
Other donations amounting to 60,000 were made in the financial year ended 1 September 2007.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they have adopted the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Disclosure of information to auditors Each of the directors of the Company at the time when the directors report was approved confirms that: a so far as the director is aware, there is no information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b he has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any information needed by the Companys auditors in connection with preparing their report and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Independent auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution dealing with their reappointment as auditors of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM will be held at 1 Welbeck Street, London W1G 0AA on Tuesday 4 December 2007 at 3.30pm.
Items 1 to 11 will be proposed as ordinary resolutions.
More than 50 per cent of shareholders votes must be in favour for these resolutions to be passed.
Items 12 and 13 will be proposed as special resolutions.
At least 75 per cent of shareholders votes must be in favour for these resolutions to be passed.
The board recommend that shareholders vote in favour of all the resolutions.
Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 35 Section 3 Management and governance DIRECTORS REPORT Ordinary business The ordinary business at that meeting will be the laying before the Company of the report and accounts, the approval of the remuneration report which is on pages 41 to 47, the approval of the final dividend which if approved will be paid on 4 January 2008 to shareholders on the register of members on 7 December 2007, the re-election of directors, the re-election of auditors and the setting of their fees.
In accordance with the provision of the Combined Code of Corporate Governance issued by the UK Listing Authority, four directors, Richard Gillingwater, Peter Long, Dennis Millard and Rob Templeman are seeking re-election by shareholders at the Companys AGM.
The directors have all confirmed that they will stand for reappointment.
Biographical information on each of the directors is contained on pages 28 to 29 and details of their skills and experience are set out in the report of the Nomination Committee and the remuneration report.
Messrs Gillingwater, Long and Millard are independent non-executive directors, forming part of the balance between independent non-executive and other representation on the board.
Rob Templeman has been Chief Executive of the Group since December 2003.
The Chairman has confirmed, following performance evaluation, that the performance of all directors including the non-executive directors is effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
Although their appointments may be terminated on one months notice, the board appoints the non-executive directors for an initial three-year term subject to re-election and the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles of Association of the Company.
Auditors must be appointed at every general meeting at which accounts are presented to shareholders.
It is normal practice for the Audit Committee of the Company to be authorised to determine the auditors fees.
Resolutions 8 and 9 cover these matters.
Special business Resolution 10 seeks authority to communicate with shareholders electronically.
The Company intends, subject to shareholder approval, to make documents and information available to shareholders by publication on its website.
A letter has therefore been sent to all shareholders with this annual report seeking agreement to the use of electronic means in this way for conveying information.
If you do not respond to that letter by 12 December 2007 you will be deemed to have consented to receive documents in this way.
The Company will write to notify shareholders every time information is published on the website and will continue to send hard copies when requested by a shareholder.
Resolution 11 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Companys obligations under its employee share schemes, up to 286,320,000 shares, which is equal to 33.3 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 4 November 2007, being the latest practicable date before the publication of this notice.
This is in line with the guidelines produced by the main investor protection and pension fund committees.
The directors have no specific intention at the moment of exercising this authority.
Subject to this authority being passed, resolution 12 allows the directors to issue, in addition to the Companys obligations under its employee share schemes, up to 42,948,717 shares in exchange for cash without first having to offer the shares to existing shareholders.
This is 5 per cent of the Companys issued share capital as at 4 November 2007, the latest practicable date before the publication of this notice.
The Company will not issue more than 7.5 per cent of its share capital for cash on a non-pre-emptive basis in a rolling three-year period without seeking further authority.
Resolution 13 renews the authority to purchase shares.
The resolution sets out the maximum number of shares which the Company can buy, the highest and lowest price at which they can be bought and when this authority expires.
This resolution follows the rules set down by the Companies Act 1985, the UK Listing Authority and is in line with the guidelines produced by the main investor protection and pension fund committees.
The directors are committed to managing the Companys capital effectively and keep under review the possibility of the Company buying back its own shares either for cancellation or for holding in treasury it is currently the directors intention, were shares to be bought back, for them to be cancelled unless bought for the purposes of employee share schemes when they may be retained in treasury.
The Company will only buy back shares if the directors believe that it is in shareholders best interests and will increase earnings per share.
No shares were bought during the 2006 2007 financial year.
By order of the board Paul Eardley Company Secretary 23 October 2007 Debenhams Annual report and accounts 2007 36 Section 3 Management and governance
