Diageo Annual Report 2007 53 Directors and senior management Age Nationality Position committees Directors 3 Lord Blyth of Rowington 67 British Chairman, non-executive director 2 Paul S Walsh 52 British Chief executive, executive director 2 Nicholas C Rose 49 British Chief financial officer, executive director 1,3, 4 Lord Hollick of Notting Hill 62 British Senior non-executive director 1,3, 4 Laurence Danon 51 French Non-executive director 1,3, 4 Dr Franz B Humer 61 Swiss Austrian Non-executive director 1,3, 4 Maria Lilja 63 Swedish Non-executive director 1,3, 4 William S Shanahan 67 American Non-executive director 1,3, 4 H Todd Stitzer 55 American Non-executive director 1, 3,4 Jonathan R Symonds, CBE 48 British Non-executive director 1,3, 4 Paul A Walker 50 British Non-executive director Senior management 2 Stuart R Fletcher 50 British President, Diageo International 2 James N D Grover 49 British Global business support director 2 Robert M Malcolm 55 American President, global marketing, sales and innovation 2 Ivan M Menezes 48 American President, Diageo North America 2 Andrew Morgan 51 British President, Diageo Europe 2 John C Pollaers 45 Australian President, Asia Pacific 2 Timothy D Proctor 57 American British General counsel 2 Gareth Williams 54 British Human resources director Officer Susanne Bunn 48 British Company secretary Key to committees: 1.
Remuneration Chairman John Pollaers was appointed to the Executive Committee on 1 February 2007.
Information in respect of the directors and senior management is set out below: Lord James Blyth of Rowington was appointed chairman of Diageo plc in July 2000, having been a non-executive director since January 1999.
On 19 July 2007 Diageo announced that his appointment as chairman has been extended until 30 June 2008, when he will be succeeded by Dr Franz Humer.
He was formerly chief executive and then chairman of The Boots Company PLC, group chief executive of the Plessey Company and head of Defence Sales at the Ministry of Defence.
He is also a non-executive director of Anixter Inc in the USA and a senior adviser to Greenhill & Co Inc having previously been a vice chairman.
Paul Walsh was appointed chief executive of Diageo plc in September 2000, having been chief operating officer since January 2000.
He has served in a number of management roles since joining GrandMets brewing division in 1982, including chief executive officer of The Pillsbury Company.
He was appointed to the GrandMet board in October 1995 and to the Diageo plc board in December 1997.
He is also a non-executive director of Centrica plc, a governor of Henley Management College and a non-executive director of FedEx Corporation in the USA.
Nicholas Nick Rose was appointed chief financial officer of Diageo plc in July 1999.
He has served in a number of finance roles since joining GrandMet in June 1992, including group treasurer and group controller and he was appointed to the Diageo plc board in June 1999.
He is also a member of the Main Committee of the 100 Group of Finance Directors and resigned as a non-executive director of Scottish Power plc on 23 April 2007.
Lord Clive Hollick of Notting Hill was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in December 2001 and senior non-executive director and chairman of the remuneration committee in September 2004.
He is a partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and is also a member of the supervisory boards of ProSiebenSat.
1 Media AG and The Nielsen Company, a non-executive director of Honeywell International Inc in the USA, a non-executive director of South Bank Foundation Limited, a founding trustee of the Institute of Public Policy Research and chairman of Londons South Bank Centre.
He was formerly chief executive of United Business Media plc and has held a number of other non-executive directorships.
Laurence Danon was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in January 2006.
During the year she resigned as chairman and chief executive officer of France Printemps, following its takeover by the Borletti Group and RREEF owners of the Italian department store chain La Rinascente and on 1 September 2007 she will join the Executive Board of Edmond fide Rothschild Corporate Finance, in France.
On 1 January 2007 she was appointed a non-executive director of Experian Group Limited and she is also a non-executive director of Plastic Omnium, in France.
Formerly she served with the French Ministry of Industry and Energy and held a number of senior management posts with Total Fina Elf.
54 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Directors and senior management continued Dr Franz Humer was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in April 2005.
He is chairman and chief executive of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and is also a non-executive director of Allianz Versicherungs AG in Germany and a board member of Chugai in Japan.
During the year his term of office as chairman of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries expired.
He was formerly chief operating director of Glaxo Holdings plc and has held a number of other non-executive directorships.
On 19 July 2007 Diageo announced that Dr Humer will succeed Lord Blyth as chairman on 1 July 2008, following his retirement as chief executive of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Maria Lilja was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in November 1999.
She is a non-executive director of Observer AB in Sweden and was formerly head of American Express Europe having played a leading role in building Nyman & Schultz, a long-established Scandinavian travel management company, which was acquired by American Express and has held a number of other non-executive directorships.
William Bill Shanahan was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in May 1999.
He is also a non-executive director of MSD Ignition, Inc in the USA and was formerly chief operating officer and then president of The Colgate-Palmolive Company, having joined that company in 1965 as a sales assistant and held various general management and marketing roles.
H Todd Stitzer was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in June 2004.
He is chief executive of Cadbury Schweppes Public Limited Company to which office he was appointed in 2003 and formerly held a number of marketing, sales, strategy and general management posts subsequent to joining the company in 1983 as an assistant general counsel.
Jonathan Jon Symonds, CBE was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in May 2004 and chairman of the audit committee in October 2004.
He resigned as chief financial officer of AstraZeneca PLC on 31 July 2007 to become a managing director at the Investment Banking Division of Goldman Sachs International on 24 September 2007.
During the year he resigned from the Business Tax Forum of which he was joint chairman and from the Main Committee of the 100 Group of Finance Directors of which he was formerly chairman.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca in 1997, he was a partner at KPMG.
He will retire at this years AGM.
Paul Walker was appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in June 2002.
He is chief executive of The Sage Group plc to which office he was appointed in 1994, having previously been finance director and was formerly a non-executive director of MyTravel Group plc.
Stuart Fletcher was appointed president, International in October 2004, having been president, Key Markets since September 2000.
He has held a number of senior management positions with Guinness, since joining the company in 1986, including managing director of Developing and Seed Markets and previously held various financial positions with Procter & Gamble and United Glass.
James Jim Grover was appointed global business support director in February 2004, having been strategy director since December 1997.
Formerly he held a number of senior strategy positions in GrandMet and worked as a management consultant with Booz-Allen & Hamilton Inc and OC&C Strategy Consultants.
Robert Rob Malcolm was appointed president, global marketing, sales and innovation in September 2000.
Formerly he served as scotch category director and then global marketing director with United Distillers & Vintners and held various marketing and general management positions with Procter & Gamble.
He was appointed a non-executive director of Logitech Inc, in the USA, on 20 June 2007.
Ivan Menezes was appointed president, North America in January 2004, having been chief operating officer, North America since July 2002.
Formerly he held various senior management positions with Guinness and then Diageo and worked across a variety of sales, marketing and strategy roles with Nestl in Asia, Booz-Allen & Hamilton Inc in North America and Whirlpool in Europe.
He is also a non-executive director of Coach Inc in the USA.
Andrew Morgan was appointed president, Europe in October 2004, having been president, Venture Markets since July 2002.
He joined United Distillers in 1987 and held various senior management positions with Guinness and then Diageo, including group chief information officer and president, New Business Ventures for Guinness United Distillers & Vintners and director, global strategy and innovation for United Distillers & Vintners.
John Pollaers was appointed president, Asia Pacific on 1 February 2007, prior to which he held various senior management positions with Diageo, including managing director, Diageo Asia.
He was formerly an engineering officer in the Royal Australian Navy.
Timothy Tim Proctor was appointed general counsel of Diageo plc in January 2000.
Formerly he was director, worldwide human resources of Glaxo Wellcome and senior vice president, human resources, general counsel and secretary for Glaxos US operating company.
He has over 20 years international legal experience, including 13 years with Merck and six years with Glaxo Wellcome.
He was appointed a non-executive director of Wachovia Corporation in the USA on 1 November 2006.
Gareth Williams was appointed human resources director in January 1999.
Formerly he held a number of senior personnel management positions with GrandMet and then United Distillers & Vintners and spent 10 years with Ford of Britain in a number of personnel and employee relations positions.
Susanne Bunn was appointed company secretary of Diageo plc in March 2003.
She joined the group in February 1989 as assistant secretary in the Grand Metropolitan Foods division and since then has held various company secretarial positions within the group.
She was appointed joint deputy secretary in December 1997 and became sole deputy secretary at the end of 2000.
