Diageo Annual Review 2007 25 Board of directors and executive committee Biographies of the board of directors Board of directors 5 Dr Franz Humer 10 Jon Symonds, CBE Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive 1 Lord James Blyth of Rowington director of Diageo plc in April 2005.
He is chairman and director of Diageo plc in May 2004 and chairman of the Chairman Appointed chairman of Diageo plc in July 2000, chief executive of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd and is also audit committee in October 2004.
He resigned as chief having been a non-executive director since January 1999. a non-executive director of Allianz Versicherungs AG in financial officer of AstraZeneca PLC on 31 July 2007 to On 19 July 2007 Diageo announced that his appointment Germany and a board member of Chugai in Japan.
become a Managing Director at the Investment Banking as chairman has been extended until 30 June 2008, when During the year his term of office as chairman of the Division of Goldman Sachs International on 24 September he will be succeeded by Dr Franz Humer.
He was formerly European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries 2007.
During the year he resigned from the Business Tax chief executive and then chairman of The Boots Company expired.
He was formerly chief operating director of Forum of which he was joint chairman and from the PLC, group chief executive of the Plessey Company and Glaxo Holdings plc and has held a number of other Main Committee of the 100 Group of Finance Directors head of Defence Sales at the Ministry of Defence.
On 19 July 2007 Diageo of which he was formerly chairman.
Prior to joining also a non-executive director of Anixter Inc in the USA, announced that Dr Humer will succeed Lord Blyth as AstraZeneca in 1997, he was a partner at KPMG.
He will and a senior adviser to Greenhill & Co Inc having chairman on 1 July 2008, following his retirement as retire at this years AGM.
Nationality chief executive of F. Hoffmann-La Roche Ltd. Age 61.
Committees 11 Paul Walker 2 Paul Walsh 6 Maria Lilja Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive Chief executive Appointed chief executive of Diageo plc Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive director of Diageo plc in June 2002.
He is chief executive in September 2000, having been chief operating officer since director of Diageo plc in November 1999.
She is a of The Sage Group plc to which office he was appointed January 2000.
He has served in a number of management non-executive director of Observer AB in Sweden and in 1994, having previously been finance director and was roles since joining GrandMets brewing division in 1982, was formerly head of American Express Europe having formerly a non-executive director of MyTravel Group plc.
including chief executive officer of The Pillsbury Company.
played a leading role in building Nyman & Schultz, Age 50.
Committees He was appointed to the GrandMet board in October a long-established Scandinavian travel management 1995 and to the Diageo plc board in December 1997.
He company, which was acquired by American Express and is also a non-executive director of Centrica plc, a governor has held a number of other non-executive directorships.
of Henley Management College and a non-executive Age 63.
Committees director of FedEx Corporation in the USA.
Committee 7 Nick Rose Chief financial officer Appointed chief financial officer 3 Lord Clive Hollick of Notting Hill of Diageo plc in July 1999.
He has served in a number Senior non-executive director Appointed a nonof finance roles since joining GrandMet in June 1992, executive director of Diageo plc in December 2001 including group treasurer and group controller and was and senior non-executive director and chairman of the appointed to the Diageo plc board in June 1999.
He is remuneration committee in September 2004.
He is a also a member of the Main Committee of the 100 Group partner of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts and is also a member of Finance Directors and resigned as a non-executive Executive committee of the supervisory boards of ProSiebenSat.
1 Media AG director of Scottish Power plc on 23 April 2007.
Age 49. and The Nielsen Company, a non-executive director of Nationality British.
Committee 2 Paul Walsh Honeywell International Inc in the USA, a non-executive Chief executive director of South Bank Foundation Limited, a founding 8 Bill Shanahan 7 Nick Rose trustee of the Institute of Public Policy Research and Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive Chief financial officer chairman of Londons South Bank Centre.
He was formerly director of Diageo plc in May 1999.
He is also a 12 Stuart Fletcher chief executive of United Business Media plc and has non-executive director of MSD Ignition, Inc in the President, Diageo International held a number of other non-executive directorships.
USA and was formerly chief operating officer and then 13 Jim Grover Age 62.
Committees president of The Colgate-Palmolive Company, having Global business support director joined that company in 1965 as a sales assistant and 14 Rob Malcolm 4 Laurence Danon held various general management and marketing roles.
President, global marketing, Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive Age 67.
Committees sales and innovation director of Diageo plc in January 2006.
During the year 15 Ivan Menezes she resigned as chairman and chief executive officer of 9 Todd Stitzer President, Diageo North America France Printemps, following its takeover by the Borletti Non-executive director Appointed a non-executive 16 Andrew Morgan Group and RREEF owners of the Italian department store director of Diageo plc in June 2004.
He is chief executive President, Diageo Europe chain La Rinascente and on 1 September 2007 she will of Cadbury Schweppes Public Limited Company to 17 John Pollaers join the Executive Board of Edmond fide Rothschild which office he was appointed in 2003 and formerly President, Diageo Asia Pacific Corporate Finance, in France.
On 1 January 2007 she was held a number of marketing, sales, strategy and general 18 Tim Proctor appointed a non-executive director of Experian Group management posts subsequent to joining the company General counsel Limited and she is also a non-executive director of Plastic in 1983 as an assistant general counsel.
19 Gareth Williams Omnium, in France.
Formerly she served with the French Nationality American.
Committees Human resources director Ministry of Industry and Energy and held a number of senior management posts with Total Fina Elf.
Key to committees Nationality French.
Committees Audit Executive Nomination Remuneration chairman
