72 Diageo Annual Report 2007 Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting their Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2007.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE at 2.30 pm on Tuesday, 16 October 2007.
Dividends Diageo paid an interim dividend of 12.55 pence per share on 10 April 2007.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 20.15 pence per share.
Subject to approval by members, the final dividend will be paid on 22 October 2007 to shareholders on the register on 14 September 2007.
Payment to US ADR holders will be made on 26 October 2007.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables ordinary shareholders to invest their dividends in ordinary shares, is available in respect of the final dividend and the plan notice date is 1 October 2007.
Directors The directors of the company who served during the year are listed under Directors and senior management above.
M Lilja, NC Rose, and PA Walker retire by rotation at the AGM in accordance with the articles and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
JR Symonds, CBE will retire by rotation at the AGM and will not seek a further term on the board.
The non-executive directors proposed for re-election do not have service contracts.
Further details of directors contracts, remuneration and their interests in the shares of the company at 30 June 2007 are given in the directors remuneration report above.
The company announced on 19 July 2007 that Lord Blyths term as chairman has been extended until 30 June 2008, when he will be succeeded by Dr FB Humer.
Auditor The auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is willing to continue in office and a resolution for its re-appointment as auditor of the company will be submitted to the AGM.
Disclosure of information to the auditor The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Purchases of own shares At the 2006 AGM, shareholders gave the company renewed authority to purchase a maximum of 279 million ordinary shares.
During the year ended 30 June 2007, the company purchased 150 million ordinary shares nominal value 43 million, representing approximately 6% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at 13 August 2007, for a consideration including expenses of 1,487 million.
Of the shares purchased, 120 million were purchased and subsequently cancelled, 21 million were held as treasury shares under the share buyback programme and 9 million were held as treasury shares for the hedging of grants made under employee share plans.
Business review The review of the business of the company and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company, prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985, comprises the following sections of the Annual Report: the Chief Executives review: the Business description and the Business review.
Significant agreements change of control The following significant agreements contain certain termination and other rights for our counterparties upon a change of control of the company.
Under the agreement governing the companys 34% investment in Mot Hennessy SNC MH and Mot Hennessy International SAS MHI, if a competitor as defined therein directly or indirectly takes control of the company which, for these purposes, would occur if such competitor acquired more than 34% of the voting rights or equity interests in the company, LVMH Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton SA LVMH may require the company to sell its shares in MH and MHI to LVMH.
The master agreement governing the operation of the groups regional joint ventures with LVMH states that upon a change in control of the company being, for these purposes, the acquisition by a third party of 30% or more of the issued share capital having voting rights in the company, LVMH may either appoint and remove the chairman of each joint venture entity governed by such master agreement, who shall be given a casting vote, or require each joint venture entity to be wound up.
Agreements for the distribution of the Jos Cuervo tequila brands allow Casa Cuervo SA fide CV Cuervo the right to terminate such agreements upon a change of control of the company, if Cuervos advance written consent to the change of control is not obtained.
Diageo Annual Report 2007 73 Other information Other information relevant to the directors report may be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Information Location in Annual Report Amendment of memorandum and articles Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association of association Charitable and political donations Corporate governance report Corporate citizenship Corporate governance report Directors appointment and powers Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association Directors indemnities and compensation for Directors remuneration report loss of office Employment policies Business description Continuing operations Employees Events since 30 June 2007 Financial statements note 36 Post balance sheet events Future developments Business review Trend information Purchase of own shares Business review Liquidity and capital resources Research and development Business description Continuing operations Research and development Share capital structure, voting and other rights Additional information for shareholders Memorandum and articles of association and Share capital Share capital employee share plan voting rights Financial statements note 33 Employee share compensation Shareholdings in the company Additional information for shareholders Major shareholders Supplier payment policies and performance Corporate governance report The directors report of Diageo plc for the year ended 30 June 2007 comprises these pages and the sections of the Annual Report referred to under Directors, Business review and Other information above, which are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
The directors report was approved by a duly appointed and authorised committee of the board of directors on 29 August 2007 and signed on its behalf by Susanne Bunn, the company secretary.
Contents Financial statements Year ended 30 June 2007 75 Independent auditors report to the 9% members of Diageo plc in respect of the consolidated financial statements Organic growth in 76 Consolidated income statement operating profit 77 Consolidated statement of recognised income and expense 78 Consolidated balance sheet 79 Consolidated cash flow statement 80 Accounting policies of the group 84 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137 Independent auditors report to the members of Diageo plc in respect of the parent company financial statements 138 Company balance sheet 139 Accounting policies of the company 140 Notes to the company financial statements 143 Principal group companies 1.
4bn Free cash flow 2bn Operating profit 141 m Volume of sales in equivalent units
