Diageo Annual Report 2007 3 A significant year for Diageo Chief executives review Our global priority brands continued consumers a new way to celebrate a special Employee values survey 2007 to meet consumer demand around occasion.
Baileys flavours found more consumers Favourable responses % the world while local priority brands in more markets with their mint chocolate and supplemented these offerings.
caramel offerings while Smirnoff introduced a Passionate about consumers pre-made cocktail to the United States market My team actively seeks to understand consumer needs 83 Diageo has again delivered consistent organic allowing consumers to easily enjoy our Grand Valuing each other growth with volume up 5%, net sales up 7% Cosmopolitan at home whenever they want.
My manager inspires me to give my best 77 and operating profit up nearly 9%.
With improved Freedom to succeed performance against all our measurement In terms of our business operations, North My manager generally understands the criteria, we have reinvested in the business with America delivered strong top and bottom line problems I face in my job 76 marketing up 8%, grown our organic operating growth, International delivered double-digit My manager trusts my judgment within my job 87 Proud of what we do margin by 40 basis points and free cash flow operating profit growth while Europe improved I am proud to work for Diageo 91 to 1,365 million.
We have achieved this while top line growth in the second half.
In addition, I would recommend Diageo as a good place to work 86 delivering cash to shareholders and our share we created a fourth region, Asia Pacific, which Be the best price hit a new high this year.
allowed us to give additional focus to this My manager gives me regular feedback on growing area.
In doing this, we also added my performance 72 We retained our clear position as the worlds a over regional president to our Executive leading premium drinks business.
Our global Committee, John Pollaers.
We welcomed John priority brands continued to meet consumer to this position in February and look forward to demand around the world while local priority his contribution to our business in his new role.
brands supplemented these offerings and innovations led our industry in terms of We announced an investment of 100 million developing new drinks for the future.
in our scotch whisky business with a new malt distillery, expanded grain distilling capacity While there were many achievements by our and increased packaging and warehousing 91 % brands this year, strong performance by our in Scotland.
This planning for the future will scotch whiskies continued to define our business.
meet the growing consumer demand for scotch 91% of our employees are One of our major successes was Johnnie Walker, whisky.
Our outstanding collection of whiskies proud to work for Diageo which was ranked by Impact Databank as the also delivered a significant portion of our profit.
worlds most valuable premium spirit.
The brand We are a business with great offerings for todays also reached sales of over 15 million cases this and tomorrows consumer.
year, one of only three brands to do so.
We are fortunate enough to own a second brand in We look forward to the future and hope that you that elite trio, Smirnoff, which is the best selling will continue to support our business and share in premium spirit in the world.
And while consumers its successes.
in existing markets continued to call for brands like these time and again, we also saw opportunity in developing markets such as Brazil, Russia, India, China and Mexico.
This year produced exciting innovations for our business.
Some highlights included the introduction of the ultimate Johnnie Walker Blue Label variant, King George V. Selling at an Paul S Walsh average price of $400, this luxury drink offered Chief executive 1 00m Diageos investment into its scotch whisky business announced earlier this year
