MAC RF63322 A 8 4 08 08:18 Page 20 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 20 Directors report The Directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements for Dignity plc and its subsidiaries for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2007.
Statement of Directors responsibilities Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year that give a true and fair view of the state of the affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
The Directors are required to prepare the financial statements on a going concern basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company and Group will continue in business.
The Directors confirm that suitable accounting policies have been applied consistently, as explained in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
They also confirm that reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates have been made in preparing the financial statements for the 52 week period ended 28 December 2007 and that applicable accounting standards have been followed.
The Directors are also responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors confirm that as far as each Director is aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Groups auditors are unaware.
The Directors further confirm each of them have taken all steps that they ought to have done as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
The maintenance and integrity of the Dignity plc websites are the responsibility of the Directors: the work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters and, accordingly, the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements since they were initially presented on the Dignity plc investor website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group is the provision of funeral services including funeral directing, crematoria operation and the marketing and administration of prearranged funeral plans.
The principal activity of the Company is that of a holding company.
The principal activities and key performance indicators of the Group are also described on pages 15 to 17 of the Financial Review, which is incorporated into this Directors Report by reference.
A review of the development of the business in 2007, events affecting the Group since the end of the year and likely future developments are referred to in the Business Review.
The review of business activities in the Business Review and Financial Review are in line with the requirements of the Companies Act 1985.
Risks and uncertainties Operational and financial risks are considered in the Business Review and the Financial Review.
The Groups principal operational risks are a significant reduction in the death rate and nationwide adverse publicity, which could affect the Groups market share.
However, the profile of deaths has historically followed a similar profile to that predicted by the ONS, giving the Group the ability to plan its business accordingly.
Adverse publicity is addressed by ensuring appropriate policies and procedures are in place to ensure client service excellence.
An assessment of the Groups exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are managed are included in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
Share capital The issued share capital of Dignity plc at 28 December 2007 consists of 63,240,971 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence each.
All the Ordinary Shares carry the same rights and obligations.
There are no other class or type of share in issue.
During the period the Group issued 1,016,832 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence each.
368,806 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence each were issued to satisfy Long Term Incentive Plan share options exercised in the period and 648,026 shares issued to satisfy options exercised under the Save As You Earn Scheme.
Both lots of options were granted in 2004.
A special resolution passed at the last Annual General Meeting on 8 June 2007 gives Dignity plc the authority to purchase up to 3,111,111 Ordinary Shares of 9 pence each at not less than nominal value and not more than 5 per cent above the average middle market quotation for the preceding 5 business days.
At the same meeting the Company was also given authority to allot Ordinary Shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 1,120,000 of which up to 280,000 may be for cash.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting MAC RF63322 A 8 4 08 08:18 Page 21 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 21 on 6 June 2008.
It is the intention of the Directors to seek renewal of these authorities at that Annual General Meeting.
Results The results for the period are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 36.
Group profit before tax amounted to 30.2 million 2006: 27.2 million.
Dividends An interim dividend of 3.33 pence per share was paid on 26 October 2007.
The Board has declared a final dividend of 6.67 pence per share, which subject to approval at the Annual General Meeting, will be paid on 27 June 2008 to shareholders on the register at 6 June 2008.
This makes a total of 10 pence per share for the period.
Payments policy The Group has no formal code or standard that deals specifically with the payment of suppliers.
However, the Groups policy on the payment of all creditors is to ensure that the terms of payment as specified by, and agreed with, the supplier are not exceeded, provided all trading terms and conditions have been complied with.
The average creditor payment period for the Group was 31 days 2006: 31 days.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Employment policies During the period the Group has maintained its obligations to develop and improve arrangements aimed at involving employees in its affairs.
Methods of communication used include an inhouse newsletter, an employee website, bulletins and management briefings.
This is discussed in more detail in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 12 to 14.
Employment policies are designed to provide equal opportunities irrespective of age, sexuality, colour, ethnic or national origin, religion, nationality, sex or marital status.
Full consideration is given to the employment, training and career development of disabled persons subject only to their aptitudes and abilities.
The Group makes every effort to treat disabled persons equally with others.
Directors and their interests Details of the Directors of the Company who served during the period are shown in the Report on Directors Remuneration on page 26.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, at the Annual General Meeting, Mike McCollum and James Newman retire as Directors of the Company and, being eligible, offer themselves for reelection at the Annual General Meeting on 6 June 2008.
During the period, the Company maintained liability insurance for its Directors and Officers.
The Directors of each of the Companys subsidiaries, have the benefit of an indemnity provision in the Companys Articles of Association.
The indemnity provision, which is a qualifying thirdparty indemnity provision as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the period and is currently in force.
Substantial shareholdings As at 12 March 2008, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital: Holder Number of Ordinary Shares Percentage of issued share capital Lloyds TSB Group plc 5,732,622 9.01% Standard Life Investments 3,544,063 5.60% Tiger Global Management LLC 3,513,901 5.56% Legal and General Investment Management Ltd 3,162,381 5.00% Baillie Gifford and Co 3,136,178 4.96% BlackRock Inc 3,097,322 4.90% Aegon Asset Management UK plc 2,573,861 4.07% UBS Global Asset Management Ltd 2,175,289 3.44% The Goldman Sachs Group 1,902,031 3.01% The takeover directive The Group has one class of share capital, Ordinary Shares.
All of the shares rank pari passu.
There are no special control rights in relation to the Groups shares.
The rules governing the appointment and replacement of Board members and changes to the Articles of Association accord with usual English company law provisions.
The Board has authority to purchase its own shares and is seeking renewal of that power at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting within the limits set out in the notice of that meeting.
There are no significant agreements to which the Group is party which take effect, alter or terminate in the event of change of control of the Group.
Health and safety policy The Groups operations are executed at all times in such a way as to ensure, so far as reasonably practical, the health, safety and welfare of all of our employees and all other persons who may be attending our premises.
This is discussed in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report on pages 12 to 14.
MAC RF63322 A 8 4 08 08:18 Page 22 Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 22 Directors report continued Environmental policy Maintaining the quality of the environment in which we all live is an important concern for the Group.
Donations The Group made charitable donations amounting to 0.1 million 2006: 0.1 million during the period.
There were no political donations.
Further information can be found on page 12.
Going concern The Directors have formed a judgment at the time of approving the financial statements that both the Company and the Group have adequate resources available to continue operating in the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the going concern basis continues to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
Post balance sheet events See note 32 to the financial statements for further information.
Auditors A resolution for the reappointment of  LLP will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Richard Portman Company Secretary 13 March 2008
