Board of Directors Patrick Keith Quarmby 53 EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Director: Corporate Finance Jeremy John Ord 50 Patrick Quarmby was appointed to the Board of Chairman Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in Jeremy Ord was appointed as Chairman of Dimension London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in London and appointment he served on the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Limited from 1996.
He was appointed as Johannesburg in 2000.
He held the combined role of Chairman of Datacraft Asia in July 2002.
Previously he Chairman and Chief Executive Officer until 1 March worked as a tax partner at Ernst & Young South Africa 2004, when Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief and was a director of Standard Bank in London and Executive Officer.
Jeremy previously served as Executive Hong Kong.
He graduated from the University of Cape Chairman of Dimension Data Holdings Limited from Town and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
1987, as the Groups Managing Director and in other senior positions since the Groups 1983 inception.
David Brian Sherriffs 44 Chief Financial Officer Brett William Dawson 43 David Sherriffs was appointed as Chief Financial Officer Chief Executive Officer on 1 March 2004, and was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc on 9 June 2004.
He joined Brett Dawson was appointed as Chief Executive Officer the Group in 1997 as a member of the finance team, of the Group and to the Board of Dimension Data primarily involved in corporate finance activities.
Prior to this David was appointed Vice President of Business appointment he served as Dimension Datas Chief Development for Europe and relocated to Germany.
He joined the Group in From 2003, David served as Group Executive 1997 as Financial Director of the Groups joint venture, Operations and was responsible for business case OmniLink.
He was instrumental in growing the assessments relating to strategic projects.
Prior to joining the Dimension Data Group, David served in business, which exceeded all business plan objectives various financial, corporate finance and strategy roles for and claimed a dominant market share in the South Anglo American plc, including Executive Assistant to the African market.
Following the merger of OmniLink and chairman.
David is a Chartered Accountant SA and Internet Solutions, Brett was appointed CEO of Internet received his MPhil in Management Studies at the Solutions.
In September 2001 he relocated to take on University of Oxford.
the role of CFO of Dimension Data North America, where he focused on integrating acquisitions in that NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS territory.
Prior to joining Dimension Data, Brett was Rupert George Barclay 50 responsible for corporate strategy and planning at Senior independent non-executive director National Brands Limited and held corporate finance Rupert Barclay joined the Board of Dimension Data positions at Anglovaal Limited and KPMG.
He Holdings plc as an independent non-executive director graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand as with effect from 9 June 2004 and is a member of the a Chartered Accountant SA.
Rupert is a partner of Cairneagle Associates LLP and is a non-executive director of Stephen Michael Joubert 49 Lowland Investment Company plc.
He previously served Group Executive Global Solutions in an executive capacity as CFO of Lombard Risk Management plc, director of Group Strategy Stephen Joubert was appointed to the Board of Development at Reuters plc and director of Group Dimension Data Holdings plc at the time of its listing in Strategy at Allied Domecq plc.
He is a graduate of London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Prior to that Cambridge University, has an MBA from INSEAD and is appointment he served as a director of Dimension a Chartered Accountant.
He joined the Group in 1996 as Group Financial Director in Network Leslie Frank Bergman 63 Independent non-executive director Services.
Before that, he was a partner at  for a number of years.
Leslie Bergman joined the Board of Dimension Data He graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand Holdings plc as an independent non-executive director as a Chartered Accountant SA.
Leslie was previously 28 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 with Accenture working in the United States, the United previously economic advisor to South African President Kingdom, South Africa and in Central and Eastern Thabo Mbeki.
He also serves as a non-executive Europe.
At the time of his retirement from Accenture in director of The Kelly Group Limited.
Moss graduated October 2001, he was Regional Manager Partner, from the University of South Africa and has an MPhil Emerging Markets.
Leslie is a director of Foschini Limited, from Sussex University.
Safika Holdings Pty Limited, The Super Group Limited and Leder & Schuh Austria.
amongst its other activities, has formed a minority part He has a BSc in Engineering from the University of Cape of the consortium involved in the BEE transaction with Town and an MBA from Carnegie-Mellon University.
Dimension Data South Africa and has purchased an interest in Britehouse Holdings Pty Limited as disclosed Peter John Liddiard 42 in Note 36 to the accounts on page 83.
The Company Non-executive director has reviewed this involvement, and considers that Moss Peter Liddiard was appointed to the Board of Dimension should continue to be considered as fully independent.
Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director on 2 October 2006 and is a member of the Audit Roderick Rory Michael Scott 48 Committee.
He serves as an executive of VenFin Limited Independent non-executive director and is on the board of Sail Group Limited, Britehouse Rory Scott was appointed to the Board of Dimension Holdings Pty Limited and CV Fibre Network Solutions Data Holdings plc as a non-executive director at the Pty Limited.
He graduated from the University of Port time of its listing in London and Johannesburg in 2000.
Elizabeth and is a Chartered Accountant SA.
He had previously served as a non-executive director on the Board of Dimension Data Holdings Limited, and Wendy Lucas-Bull 54 before that served as the Group Financial Director from Independent non-executive director 1987 to 1991.
He is presently Managing Director of the Wendy Lucas-Bull joined the Board of Dimension Data Scottish Knitwear Group SA Pty Limited.
He is a Holdings plc as an independent non-executive director Chartered Accountant SA and serves as chairman of on 1 July 2005 and is the Chairman of the Remuneration the Audit Committee and a member of the Committee.
She is a member of the Eskom Holdings Remuneration Committee.
Given the length of time that Limited board and the Development Bank of Southern has elapsed since his service as an executive director, Africa and is Chairman of Lafarge Industries South Africa the Company considers him to be independent.
She graduated from the University of the Witwatersrand with a Bachelor of Science degree.
Peter Dorian Dorian Wharton-Hood 68 Independent non-executive director Josua Dillie Malherbe 51 Non-executive director Dorian Wharton-Hood was appointed to the Board of Dimension Data Holdings plc as a non-executive Dillie Malherbe was appointed to the Board of director at the time of its listing in London and Dimension Data Holdings plc in November 2003 as a Johannesburg in 2000.
He is a member of the non-executive director and is a member of the Nomination Committee and the Treasury Committee.
He is the Deputy Chairman of was vice-chairman of Liberty Life for eight years.
He also serves on the board of Datacraft Asia and MidiTV Pty Limited e-tv.
He graduated from He was chairman of the Life Offices Association of SA the Universities of Stellenbosch and Cape Town and on three occasions and president of the Insurance qualified as a Chartered Accountant SA.
He was also a member of the Council of the SA Foundation and a director of Business Against Moses Modidima Moss Ngoasheng 50 Crime.
In 1998 he was chairman of the Governing Body Independent non-executive director of Business SA of which he is now a trustee.
Moss Ngoasheng was appointed to the Board in He graduated from Stellenbosch University with a September 2002.
He also serves as a non-executive Bachelor of Commerce degree.
director on the board of Dimension Data South Africa Member of the Audit Committee.
He is executive chairman of investment Member of the Remuneration Committee.
company Safika Holdings Pty Limited, and was Member of the Nomination Committee.
