Directors report The Directors of Dimension Data Holdings plc Security, Customer Interactive Solutions, Data Centre the Company present their annual report and and Storage and Microsoft Solutions.
In assessing the audited financial statements for the year ended performance and financial position of its operations, the 30 September 2007.
Board uses various financial measures, including: revenue growth, gross margin trends, operating profit PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES growth and operating margin, fixed and variable The Company is a holding company with various overhead cost trends, trade receivables, days sales interests in specialist IT services and solutions providers outstanding and ageing of working capital.
Additional that help clients plan, build, support and manage their IT disclosure regarding these financial measures is included infrastructures.
The Group comprises the Company in the Chief Financial Officer's Operating Review.
and all its subsidiary and associated entities.
Details of The Board also reviews non-financial business the principal subsidiary and associate entities are performance indicators, including client and employee provided on page 96.
The Group applies its expertise in satisfaction survey feedback, productivity ratios, networking, security, operating environments, storage employee attrition and retention statistics.
and contact centre technologies and its unique skills in consulting, integration and managed services to create PRINCIPAL RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES customised client solutions.
The Group has identified certain risk factors and these There have not been any significant changes to the are discussed within the Chief Financial Officers Group's principal activities during the year under review Operating Review.
These are professional liability risk, and the Directors are not aware, at the date of this people retention risk, vendor risk, liquidity risk, currency report, of any likely major changes in the Group's risk, business continuity risk, and new product and activities in the new financial year.
The Groups results could also be Information about the development and performance of affected by other factors, and the factors outlined should the business of the Company during the financial year not be regarded as a complete and comprehensive that fulfils the requirements of S234ZZB of the statement of all potential risks and uncertainties facing Companies Act 1985 the Companies Act is included the Group.
in the Chief Financial Officers Operating Review on pages 16 to 25.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT As required by the Companies Act, the Directors Dimension Data continues to align its research and Report should be read in conjunction with the development with its strategy of establishing world-class Chairmans Letter, the Chief Executive Officers expertise in its lines of business and in its service delivery Review and the Chief Financial Officers Operating capabilities.
The Group continues to invest to achieve Review, which provide information about the Groups strategic alignment across all regions, facilitating the businesses, its financial performance during the year leverage of intellectual property and adoption of best and likely future developments.
For example, the Group has completed some ground breaking work in the development of a zeroBUSINESS REVIEW touch Microsoft desktop deployment offering, and the Position of the Group at year end value of this was illustrated with the Group receiving the The full year results as at 30 September 2007 are Technology Innovation Partner of the Year award at the presented under International Financial Reporting Global Microsoft Partner event in July 2007.
The Group Standards IFRS, as adopted by the European Union.
has also been able to establish a leadership position for the implementation methodology it has developed in the For the year ended 30 September 2007, revenue was fast growing IP-Telephony market.
$3,773.2 million, compared with $3,068.0 million for the previous year.
Operating profit was $123.9 million, DIVIDEND compared with $80.2 million for the previous year.
The Directors recommend the payment of a dividend of Earnings per share amounted to 6.0 US cents 2006: 1.5 US cents per share 2006: 1.0 US cent.
shareholders' approval at the Annual General Meeting Business performance indicators on Wednesday, 30 January 2008, the final dividend will be paid on Friday, 14 March 2008 to shareholders on The Group is primarily managed regionally.
In addition, the Group is focused on six global lines of business: the share register at the close of business on Friday, Network Integration, Converged Communications, 15 February 2008.
30 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 The dividend will be paid in sterling to shareholders on factors affecting the Groups performance.
The Group undertakes an annual employee satisfaction survey to the UK register and in South African rand to generate constructive employee feedback on common shareholders on the South African register, converted themes, such as Leadership, Learning and Development from US dollars as at the close of business on Thursday, and Communication.
The Directors will not be offering a share alternative to the 2007 final dividend.
Employee remuneration The following are the salient dates for the payment of the Dimension Data offers long term incentives to selected proposed dividend: employees and performance related bonus payments.
Announcement of Details of the long term incentives appear in the conversion rate Friday, 1 February 2008 Remuneration Report, and the outstanding share options, Share Appreciation Rights and Long Term Last day to trade on the JSE Friday, 8 February 2008 Incentive Plan awards appear in Note 38 to the annual financial statements on pages 83 to 87.
The total Date trading commences remuneration offerings are reviewed and benchmarked ex the dividend on the JSE Monday, 11 February 2008 annually and follow corporate governance approval Date trading commences procedures.
ex the dividend on the LSE Wednesday, 13 February 2008 Learning and Development Record date on the JSE The Group continues to invest in developing its employee and LSE Friday, 15 February 2008 base.
For Leadership and Management development, 2007 saw its first deployment of the bi-annual Group Payment of dividend Friday, 14 March 2008 Leadership Development Programme, a continuation of No transfers between the UK and South African multiple management training offerings, and continuous registers may take place during the period Friday, leadership engagement events.
In addition, investments 1 February 2008 and Friday, 15 February 2008 both are made in Sales and Technical Development, using days inclusive.
Shareholders on the South African multiple learning interventions, such as boot camps, register should note that, in accordance with the e-learning and classroom learning.
Dimension Datas requirements of Strate, no dematerialisation or investment in its Human Capital has resulted in multiple rematerialisation of shares will be possible from Monday, regional industry recognition awards.
11 February 2008 to Friday, 15 February 2008 both days inclusive.
Technology Investment is made in technology to extract operational CORPORATE GOVERNANCE efficiencies as well as improve user experience.
The Group is committed to high standards of corporate An e-recruitment application is being deployed globally, governance.
A report on Corporate Governance and the intranet platform has been upgraded, and continuous compliance with the Combined Code is set out on investment is made in automating transactional activities pages 34 to 37. such as documenting performance management, recognition, career development and skills assessment.
EMPLOYEES As at 30 September 2007, the Group employed Employee diversity approximately 10,600 employees throughout the world.
It is the Group's policy to promote equal opportunities in Details of employee related costs are included in Note 7 employment for both existing employees and applicants to the financial statements.
for employment, regardless of gender, age, race, national origin and sexual orientation.
Efforts are made Employee consultation and communication to ensure that applications from disabled persons are The Group looks to engage all employees in a shared fairly considered and that disabled employees have commitment to the success of the business and keep equal opportunities in career development.
In the event them informed regarding the business environment and of an existing employee becoming disabled, effort is matters of concern.
The Group consults with them or made to ensure that their employment by the Group their representatives for views in matters affecting them, continues and that appropriate adjustments are made to including informing them of financial and economic their work environment.
Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 31 Directors report continued DIRECTORS The current Directors are listed on pages 28 and 29.
Details of the members of the Board, who served throughout the year except as listed, are given below: Name Position Appointed Jeremy Ord Chairman May 2000 Brett Dawson Chief Executive Officer March 2004 Stephen Joubert Group Executive Global Solutions July 2000 Patrick Quarmby Director: Corporate Finance July 2000 David Sherriffs Chief Financial Officer June 2004 Rupert Barclay Independent non-executive director June 2004 Leslie Bergman Independent non-executive director August 2007 Peter Liddiard Non-executive director October 2006 Wendy Lucas-Bull Independent non-executive director July 2005 Dillie Malherbe Non-executive director November 2003 Moss Ngoasheng Independent non-executive director September 2002 Rory Scott Independent non-executive director July 2000 Dorian Wharton-Hood Independent non-executive director July 2000 Gordon Waddell retired as an independent non-executive director in June 2007.
At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, The holders of the deferred shares have no right to Jeremy Ord, David Sherriffs, Rupert Barclay and receive notice of any general meeting of the Company, nor the right to attend, speak or vote at such general Moss Ngoasheng retire and offer themselves for meetings.
The deferred shares have no rights to re-election in accordance with the Articles of Association.
dividends and on a return of assets in a winding-up, The Company's Articles of Association provide that every entitle the holder to the repayment of the amounts paid director appointed to the Board during the year shall on the deferred shares after repayment of the capital automatically retire and seek election at the next general paid up on the ordinary shares plus the payment of meeting following appointment.
Accordingly share- $10 million per ordinary share.
holders will be asked to elect Leslie Bergman as a nonexecutive director.
ISSUED SHARE CAPITAL The Nomination Committee and Chairman confirm that As at 30 September 2007, the Companys issued share capital was 50,000 deferred shares of 1 each and the directors up for re-election and election continue to 1,551,599,171 ordinary shares of 1 US cent each.
be effective in their roles as directors of the Company, Details of interests of 3% or more in the issued ordinary by virtue of their skills, experience and contribution to share capital of the Company are shown in Shareholder the Board.
Biographical details of those directors seeking re-election and election are set out on pages 28 and 29.
ACQUISITIONS Directors memberships of Board Committees are set Details of acquisitions are set out in Note 31 to the out in the Corporate Governance Report.
Details of annual financial statements.
Directors service contracts, remuneration and interests DISPOSALS in shares are set out in the Remuneration Report.
Details Details of disposals are set out in Note 31 to the annual of the Directors interests in any Group company can financial statements.
also be found in the Remuneration Report.
ETHICS AUTHORISED SHARE CAPITAL The Group embraces the highest standards in its The authorised share capital of the Company is made up business activities, operating in accordance with an of 50,000, divided into 50,000 deferred shares of ethical code that is distributed to employees via the 1 each, and $30 million, divided into 3 billion ordinary corporate intranet.
A copy of the code is available on the shares of 1 US cent each.
com 32 Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 provide their opinion on the financial statements has CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY been provided.
Each of the directors has taken The Group is committed to maintaining a sound reasonable steps to ensure their awareness of any commercial relationship with its creditors.
The Group relevant audit information and to establish that the has no fixed payment policies but negotiates the best Company's auditors are aware of such information.
possible terms with its suppliers.
This information is given and should be interpreted in The Company had no trade creditors at the year end.
accordance with the provisions of S234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
GROUP FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS COMPANY SECRETARY The Group's financial instruments comprise cash and cash equivalents, as well as items such as trade The Company Secretary is ML Taylor details inside back receivables and trade payables that arise directly from cover.
In addition, the Group enters into forward foreign currency contracts to manage some ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING of the currency risks arising from the Group's The notice convening the Annual General Meeting, operations.
Details of the Groups financial instruments together with the proxy form and notes explaining the are provided in Note 39 to the financial statements.
various resolutions, is enclosed with this document.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS By Order of the Board There were no material post balance sheet events.
Michelle Taylor GOING CONCERN Secretary After making due enquiry, the Directors consider that, as at the date of the approval of the financial statements, 13 November 2007 the Group has adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Groups financial statements.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY AND POLITICAL DONATIONS Dimension Datas support for communities and charitable organisations is detailed in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report set out on pages 39 and 40.
Charitable donations and grants made during the year amounted to $162,000 2006: $110,000.
The Company made no political donations in the year under review 2006: nil.
It is not proposed that the Groups longstanding policy of not making contributions to any political party be changed.
AUDITORS Resolutions to reappoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups auditors and authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
To the best of each of the directors' knowledge and belief at the date of approval of this annual report and having made appropriate enquiries of the officers of the Group, all information relevant to enabling the auditors to Dimension Data Annual Report 2007 33
