Governance Directors Report The directors present their report and the audited consolidated financial statements of DSG international plc the Company and its subsidiary and associated undertakings together the Group for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007.
Comparative figures are for the 52 weeks ended 29 April 2006. Business and Operating Review The Business and Operating Review is based on many of the principles contained in the best practice statement Reporting Statement: Operating and Financial Review issued by the Accounting Standards Board ASB.
It covers areas contained in the Directors Report, the Business and Financial Review and Corporate Responsibility Review and should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans Statement on pages 6 and 7.
The areas covered are as follows: Location in Annual Report Page Principal activities, products and services, objectives and strategies of the Group and markets in which the Group operates Directors Report 34-35 Principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, treasury policies and objectives and liquidity Directors Report 36-39 The manner in which the Group measures its performance Directors Report 39-40 Share capital structure Directors Report 41 Review of the development and performance of the business for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007 Business and Financial Review 8-20 Financial position of the Group as at 28 April 2007 Business and Financial Review 21-23 Future prospects of the business Business and Financial Review 9 Environmental matters Corporate Responsibility Review 28-29 Employee, social, ethical and community matters Corporate Responsibility Review 24-28 Principal activities The Company is the parent company of a group engaged in the multi-channel retail of high technology consumer electronics, personal computers, domestic appliances, photographic equipment, communication products and related financial and after-sales services.
The Group also undertakes business to business B2B sales.
The Group comprises three divisions: Electricals, Computing and e-commerce.
The Electricals division operates in four regions: UK & Ireland: comprising Currys, Currys.
digital and Dixons Tax Free in the UK: and comprising Currys, Dixons and PC World in Ireland: the Nordic Region: comprising the Elkjp group of companies which operates in Norway, Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Iceland and the Faroe Islands under brands such as Elkjp, Elko, El Giganten, Gigantti, Lefdal Lavpris and Markantalo: Southern Europe: comprising UniEuro in Italy and Kotsovolos in Greece: and Central Europe: comprising Electro World in Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland.
The Computing division comprises: UK Computing: comprising PC World, PC World Business and The TechGuys: and International Computing: comprising PC City in Spain, Italy, Sweden and France.
PC City France operations are in the process of being closed.
The e-commerce division is made up of Dixons.
co. uk in the UK and FotoVista trading as PIXmania.
Products and services The principal products sold by the Group are categorised as Brown Goods, White Goods, Personal Computing, Mobile Phones and related products.
Brown Goods include televisions, DVD players, audio products, iPods and MP3 players, cameras and camcorders.
These products are characterised by rapid technological advances offering major improvements in quality, functionality, interactivity and design.
34 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance White Goods include washing machines and dryers, fridges and freezers, gas and electric cookers, microwaves, vacuum cleaners and small domestic products such as kettles, toasters, irons and breadmakers.
While these products benefit from innovation, fashion and improved design, they are heavily dependent on the replacement cycle in most markets.
Personal Computing includes desktops, laptops, printers and a wide range of related products.
Computer technology is benefiting from increasing processing power, lower costs and rapidly increasing interaction with digital products.
Increasing use of PCs in the home and in business is a major area of market development for the Group and a new customer support service, The TechGuys, designed to provide expert, fast-track support for increasingly technology-dependent homes, was launched in the UK during the period.
The service is a response to the growing reliance on life-enhancing technologies in the home.
Mobile phones are now a common purchase for most European consumers.
The introduction of new technologies offers significant opportunities for increased functionality and add-on services, including portable audio, photography and e-mail.
The Group also offers its customers financial services such as credit facilities and after-sales support agreements.
Support agreements provide customers with comprehensive advice, access to help lines, prompt repair services or replacement following purchase.
Objective and strategy The long term objective of the Group is to deliver value to shareholders whilst becoming the largest and most profitable specialist electrical retailer in Europe.
The Boards strategy to achieve this goal is embodied in the following key principles: retailing operations shall only be conducted in markets where the Group is, or can become, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer: the Group shall offer customers the opportunity to purchase products and services from a number of channels, principally large efficient space and the internet via online transactions and reserve online with collect at store: to attract a strong customer base, stores shall compete with market-beating prices, an extensive range of products, excellent customer service and outstanding after-sales support: stores shall employ and develop highly motivated sales staff, knowledgeable about the products and services they sell and trained in selling skills and customer service: the Group shall utilise its international scale to buy goods at the lowest cost to enhance margins and provide value to customers: and operations in all countries shall share experience, knowledge and best practice to improve efficiency and to reduce operating costs.
European electrical retail markets The European market for electrical goods and related services sold by the Group is estimated to be in excess of 120 billion per annum.
It is highly competitive, characterised by a relatively small number of global manufacturers supplying goods to local, regional and national electrical retailers.
Specialist electrical retailers are the predominant destination for customers.
Buying groups, general merchants and independents also have a retail presence in most European markets.
The development of the internet delivers enhanced product information and facilitates price comparability for consumers.
Whilst this creates new challenges in terms of margin maintenance, it provides a significant opportunity for DSGi.
The Group believes that over time internet demand will polarise towards the larger retailers with scaleable distribution and systems together with proven after-sales service and support.
Other markets In addition to the core European markets, rapid economic development in a number of major countries, such as Russia, China and India, may provide opportunities for growth over the longer term.
These opportunities may be in the form of buying alliances, joint ventures, acquisitions or greenfield developments.
Such markets are not, however, without their risks, particularly political, economic, financial and regulatory.
DSG international plc 35 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance Directors Report continued Risks to achieving the Groups objective The Corporate Governance Report on pages 43 to 47 describes the processes through which the directors assess, manage and mitigate risk.
The Board regularly reviews the risks faced by the Group.
The directors consider that the major risks to achieving the Groups objective are those set out below.
The Board, however, recognises that the profile of risks changes constantly and additional risks not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impact on attainment of the Groups business objective.
i Economic environment The economic environment impacts on spending on electrical goods in many ways.
House moves and home improvements impact on spending on domestic appliances.
The feel good factor is an important influence on discretionary spending on electrical goods.
Unemployment levels, interest rates, consumer debt levels, availability of credit, taxation and many other factors influence customers spending decisions.
The Group recognises that economic changes, both beneficial and adverse, can affect individual countries and regions.
Management therefore monitors economic metrics and works closely with suppliers to adjust forecasts of demand.
Stock orders are realigned and where possible selling capacity and support services are flexed in response to changing expectations.
Meeting customers needs Customers expect competitive prices.
What differentiates specialist electrical retailers is the wide range of products stocked and the provision of services that customers want, in a convenient location with staff that provide excellent service.
Giving outstanding service is a key ingredient of our Being the Best principles.
Regular surveys of customer satisfaction are conducted across all stores.
The results are used to assess store performance and to drive high standards across each chain.
Customer feedback is used to shape the Groups ranges and to understand where it can be more responsive to customers needs.
Seasonality The Groups business is highly seasonal, with a very significant proportion of its sales and operating profit generated during its third quarter, which includes the Christmas and New Year season.
Competition The Group operates in a highly competitive environment.
There are few barriers to new entrants to markets for the sale of electrical goods.
Businesses therefore join and leave the market and or expand or reduce their product ranges in response to competitive forces.
Different channels to market have different cost structures and different appeal to customers.
The Group continuously monitors the activities of its competitors and potential competitors in each of its markets and takes appropriate action in terms of, for example, its product and service offering and pricing to maintain and strengthen its position.
The Group actively manages its brands through advertising, promotions and enhancing the retail experience with the goal of ensuring DSGis stores are seen as the primary destination for electrical goods.
Market margin pressure The level of margins in electrical retailing is governed by the market.
Consumer demand, manufacturer supply, competition from store and internet channels and regulation taxation all impact on margins.
The Group is focused on protecting margins through maximising its international buying scale, maintaining an efficient supply chain and placing continued emphasis on strong selling skills.
The Group actively manages its cost structures to mitigate the impact of product margin erosion.
Price deflation Electrical goods are typically subject to price deflation as the production of new products and technologies grows and availability increases.
This has been a common feature of the electrical goods market for some time and the Group works closely with its suppliers to bring products to the mass market.
ii Store portfolio The quality and location of the Groups store portfolio is a key contributor to the Groups growth strategy.
The Group principally operates from large out of town stores in convenient locations that are accessible to substantial numbers of customers.
The ability to secure the best sites is critical to building the retail brands.
36 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance The Group has a programme of space expansion both in the UK and overseas.
It actively manages its store portfolio to optimise the location, size and costs of each of its stores.
In areas where the population catchment is lower, franchising of the Groups brands offers the potential for market growth.
During the period, the Group had franchised brands in Norway Elkjp, Italy UniEuro, Sweden El Giganten, Greece Kotsovolos, Denmark El Giganten, Finland Gigantti, Iceland Elko and the Faroe Islands.
iii Employees The Group has a strong reputation for developing retail leaders and sales staff with entrepreneurial spirit.
All retailers face the challenge to attract, develop and retain the right calibre of staff for their business.
Through the Groups retail reputation, development programmes and the career opportunities afforded by the Groups size and diversity of operations, the Board believes that DSGi is well placed to build on its success.
iv Product life cycle and supply Some electrical products sold by the Group are subject to rapid technological change which shortens their life cycle.
Careful management is required to avoid loss of value and or the risk of stock obsolescence when products are superseded.
The Group has extensive experience of managing electrical goods with short product life cycles.
It maintains aged stock records and utilises demand forecasts, price management, accessory offers and point of sale material to sell through the products.
v Entering new markets Expansion through acquisition or the establishment of new businesses is subject to the availability of suitable opportunities.
Companies operating large out of town stores may not be available for purchase and new operations may not be able to find suitable sites for new stores.
Entry into new markets gives rise to risks related to culture, markets, legislation, regulation and access to goods and resources.
The Group utilises its considerable experience of developing new retailing chains through both acquisitions and start ups to mitigate risk.
Extensive research is undertaken and local advice is taken.
If entry is by establishing a greenfield operation the Group will test the market with a small number of stores, prior to a possible roll out of the chain.
Acquisitions made in stages as well as outright acquisitions are considered.
vi Treasury risks and policies Treasury operations are managed centrally within policies and procedures approved by the Board.
Group Treasury reports regularly to the Group Executive Committee and the Tax and Treasury Committee and is subject to periodic independent internal and external reviews.
The major financial risks to which the Group is exposed relate to movements in foreign exchange, interest rates, liquidity risk and credit risk.
Where appropriate, cost effective and practicable the Group uses financial instruments and derivatives to manage these risks in accordance with defined policies.
Throughout the period under review, in accordance with Group policy, no speculative use of derivatives, foreign exchange or other instruments was permitted.
The Groups accounting policies in relation to derivatives are set out in note 1.16 to the financial statements.
Exchange rate risk The Group is exposed to exchange movements on overseas earnings and fluctuations in translated values of foreign currency assets and liabilities.
The Groups principal translation currency exposures are the Euro and Norwegian Kroner.
The Groups policy is to match, in whole or in part, where cost effective, currency earnings with related currency costs and currency assets with currency liabilities through the use of appropriate hedging instruments.
The Group is also exposed to certain transactional currency exposures.
Such exposures arise from purchases in currencies other than in the functional currency of the entity.
The Groups principal transactional currency exposures are the US Dollar and Euro.
It is Group policy to eliminate the currency exposures on such purchases through the use of appropriate hedging instruments such as forward exchange contracts.
Interest rate risk The principal interest rate risks of the Group arise in respect of Sterling cash and investments, internally hedged Norwegian Kroner liabilities and Euro borrowings.
Potential exposure to interest rate movements is mitigated by the Groups policy to match the profile of interest payments with that of its interest receipts.
Further mitigation is achieved with interest based credit commissions received and through the use of interest based hedging instruments.
DSG international plc 37 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance Directors Report continued Liquidity risk It is Group policy to maintain committed bank and other facilities sufficient to meet anticipated financial requirements.
Uncommitted facilities are also maintained and used if available on advantageous terms.
It is Group Treasury policy to ensure that a prudent level of committed facilities is available at peak trading periods, based on forecast working capital requirements.
Credit risk The Group has no significant concentration of credit risk.
The Groups exposure to credit risk on liquid funds, investments and derivative financial instruments arises from the risk of default of counterparties, with a maximum exposure equal to the book value of these instruments.
This is limited as Group Treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties to those with a minimum Moodys long term credit rating of A3 and short term credit rating of P1.
Investments mainly comprise bank deposits, floating rate notes and commercial paper.
The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments.
Sales to retail customers are made predominantly in cash or via major credit cards.
It is Group policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject to credit verification procedures.
In addition, receivable balances are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Groups exposure to bad debts is not significant.
vii Pension risk and policies The principal pension scheme operated by the Group is the UK defined benefit scheme.
This scheme is subject to risks regarding the amount of the liabilities as a result of changes in life expectancy, inflation and future salary increases, risks regarding the value of investments and the returns derived from such investments.
The pension trustee, in consultation with the Company, has implemented changes to the schemes investment strategy to mitigate the volatility of liabilities and to diversify investment risk.
viii Systems failure In common with other large businesses, the Group is dependent on the suitability and reliability of its systems and procedures, including its information technology, warehousing and distribution systems.
The Group has developed emergency procedures which are regularly tested.
The Group carries out evaluation, planning and implementation analysis before updating or introducing new systems that have an impact on critical functions.
ix Outsourcing The Group has outsourced the majority of its UK call handling and IT services.
While these contracts will produce major cost savings, the Group recognises the increased dependency on third parties, in particular the relationship with its IT partner, HCL, to deliver core activities and has put in place appropriate service level agreements within the contracts.
x Damage to property and consequential business interruption The Group operates from a large number of sites, all of which are subject to the risks of fire, weather and water damage and in some cases are subject to earthquake and other specific risks.
The Group regularly reviews and assesses these risks, takes action to mitigate the likelihood and cost of potential incidents and has insurance in place to cover material exposures.
Business continuity plans are in place to respond to major disruption to the business.
xi Legislative, reputational and regulatory risks The Group is subject to a range of legal and regulatory requirements originating from the UK and the European Union, particularly in the areas of consumer protection, health and safety and the environment.
Changes in these laws and regulations and the policies regarding enforcement may impact on the Group in terms of cost, changes to business practices and restrictions on activities.
The Group engages with governmental bodies in the UK and Europe through trade associations such as the CBI and British Retail Consortium, or directly, where it considers it appropriate to do so.
38 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance Tax laws that apply to the Groups businesses may be amended by the relevant authorities, for example as a result of changes in fiscal circumstances or priorities.
Such potential amendments and their application to the Group are regularly monitored and, if relevant, appropriate actions taken to ensure ongoing efficiency.
Social, environmental and ethical risks that might impact on the Groups reputation are regularly monitored by the Board.
Performance monitoring The successful delivery of the Groups strategic objective is monitored by the Board through Key Performance Indicators and the periodic review of Group operations.
Key performance indicators Financial and operational Definition Total sales Growth in total sales.
Like for like sales The ability to grow sales in stores in the Group is an important measure of a brands appeal to customers and its competitive position.
The Board measures like for like sales as sales in stores that have been open for a full financial year both at the commencement and end of the financial period.
Customer support agreement sales are excluded from all UK like for like calculations to remove the distorting effect of the introduction of pay-as-you-go agreements.
Sales targets are set relative to the market and expected economic conditions: the Group requires each of its operations to exceed the level of growth in its designated market.
Market position In line with the Groups strategy to be the leading specialist electrical retailer in Europe, this is an important measure of how well customers are being engaged by the Groups brands in each market.
Retailing operations should be, or be capable of becoming, the number one or number two specialist electrical retailer in that market, measured by market share.
Operating profit Continued growth of operating profits enables the Group to invest in its future and provide a return for shareholders.
Targets are set relative to expected market performance.
Controllable earnings The Group defines controllable earnings as operating profit less a charge based on the average amount of invested capital across the year.
The Group targets to manage controllable earnings in line with longer term strategic objectives.
Free Cash Flow The Group defines Free Cash Flow as net cash generated from operations excluding special pension contributions, plus net finance income, less taxation and net capital expenditure.
The management of cash usage, in particular working capital employed in the business, optimises resources available for the Group to invest in its future growth and to generate shareholder value.
DSG international plc 39 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance Directors Report continued Stakeholder satisfaction Definition Customer satisfaction Results of mystery shopping and telephone surveys.
Staff satisfaction Results of staff surveys.
Staff turnover Number of leavers as a percentage of the average number of employees.
Shareholder Definition Earnings per share The level of growth in earnings per share provides a suitable measure of the overall financial health of the Group and its ability to deliver returns to shareholders each year.
The Group targets growth in underlying diluted earnings per share EPS of 3 per cent over the annual Retail Prices Index RPI.
Total shareholder return This metric provides a relative performance measure over the longer term of the Groups ability to deliver returns for shareholders.
The Group seeks to outperform the FTSE 100 index over a three year period.
Corporate responsibility key performance indicators: The Group monitors five principal corporate responsibility indicators.
These are: staff diversity: health & safety employee accidents: ethical supply chain audits: contributions to the community: and waste recycled.
Details are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 24 to 29, together with the performance results for 2006 07.
These indicators are used to manage the business and in executive management appraisal on a divisional and regional basis.
They enable the Board to identify risks to achieving the Groups objectives and to take mitigating action promptly.
A review of the Groups results and key performance indicators for 2006 07 is set out on pages 8 to 23.
Acquisitions On 3 July 2006 the Group acquired a controlling 77 per cent interest in FotoVista S. A. FotoVista.
The net cash flow for this acquisition, after taking account of disposal proceeds from Primaphot described below, was 167.4 million.
FotoVista is the parent company of PIXmania, a leading European e-tailer of digital photographic and consumer electronic products.
On 15 December 2006 the Group acquired a 40 per cent holding in The F-Group for consideration of DKK 175.0 million 16 million.
The company trades exclusively in Denmark as a retailer of consumer electronics, music and films under the Fona brand.
Disposals On 16 September 2006 the Group completed the sale of its 60 per cent equity interest in The Link Stores Limited to O UK Limited.
2 On 29 March 2007 the Group sold its personal photography business, Primaphot, part of the FotoVista Group, to a consortium of private investors, including a member of senior management.
On 28 April 2007 the Group sold its UK-based Genesis Communications Genesis business to a private investor.
40 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance Post balance sheet events On 24 May 2007, following the exercise of a put option held by the main minority shareholder of P. Kotsovolos S. A. Kotsovolos, Fourlis Holding SA, the Group acquired a further 10 per cent stake in Kotsovolos for cash consideration of 22.9 million 15.6 million.
The acquisition increases the Groups total interest in Kotsovolos to 89.1 per cent.
In 2004 05, a co-operation agreement was entered into by the Group with Eldorado Group Eldorado granting the Group the option to acquire Eldorado in tranches up to 100 per cent by 2011.
On 19 June 2007, the directors notified Eldorado that the Group was terminating this option arrangement.
Dividends An interim dividend of 2.02 pence per share was paid on 2 March 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 26 January 2007.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 6.85 pence per share, making total dividends of 8.87 pence per share for the period 2005 06 8.45 pence per share.
Subject to shareholders approval at the annual general meeting on 5 September 2007, the final dividend will be paid on 28 September 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 24 August 2007.
Total dividends payable to shareholders in the financial period were 157.0 million.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital and changes to the issued share capital during the period, including share options exercised are given in note 23 to the financial statements.
At the annual general meeting on 6 September 2006, shareholders approved a resolution for the Company to make purchases of its own shares to a maximum number of 183 million ordinary shares.
This resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this years annual general meeting.
As at 28 April 2007, the directors had not used this authority.
Substantial share interests At 20 June 2007 the following interests of 3 per cent or more in the issued share capital had been notified to the Company: % of issued share capital Capital Research and Management 10.13 FMR Corp. and Fidelity International Limited 5.63 Barclays PLC 4.55 Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 4.00 Legal & General plc and Legal & General Investment Management Limited 3.56 Oppenheimer Funds, Inc. 3.03 Directors The names of the directors who served throughout the period and up to the date of this report, their biographical details and other information, are shown on pages 30 and 31.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Sir John Collins, Kevin OByrne and Count Emmanuel dAndr will retire at the annual general meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-appointment.
Sir John Collins and Count Emmanuel dAndr were appointed non-executive directors, pursuant to letters dated 3 July 2001 subsequently amended and 30 January 2002 respectively for three year terms ending on 11 September 2005 and 1 September 2005, respectively.
Their appointments for further three year terms upon the expiry of their current terms of office were approved by the Board on 21 June 2005 and 5 April 2005, respectively.
Kevin OByrne has a service agreement with DSG Retail Limited which can be terminated by 12 months notice.
The Board is satisfied that the directors retiring by rotation are qualified for re-appointment by virtue of their skills, experience and contributions to the Board.
Their biographies are shown on pages 30 and 31.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 57 and 58.
No director had any beneficial interests in the shares of any subsidiary undertaking or in any contract or arrangement apart from contracts of service to which the Company or any subsidiary was a party during or at the end of the financial period.
DSG international plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Governance Directors Report continued Policy and practice on payment of suppliers The Groups policy and practice on payment of suppliers is shown in the Corporate Responsibility Review on page 26.
Directors and officers liability insurance Pursuant to Article 145 of the Memorandum and Articles of Association, the directors, secretary and other officers of the Company are entitled to be indemnified by the Company out of its own funds against liabilities arising from the conduct of the Groups business to the extent permitted by law.
The Group has purchased appropriate Directors and Officers insurance cover which in general terms indemnifies individual directors and officers personal legal liability and costs for claims arising out of actions taken in connection with the Groups business.
Charitable and political donations During the period, the Group donated 1,076,000 for charitable activities including 875,000 2005 06 875,000 paid to The DSG international Foundation formerly The Dixons Foundation, a registered charitable trust.
Further details of the Groups charitable activities are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 26 to 28.
The Company made no payments 2005 06 nil, which constituted EU Political Expenditure.
A resolution to authorise the directors to incur EU Political Expenditure in the coming year to an aggregate amount not exceeding 25,000 will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Equal opportunities and employee involvement Details of the Groups equal opportunities policies and the ways in which it seeks to involve employees in the Groups business, together with information about the Groups policy in regard to the employment of people with disabilities are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Review on pages 24 and 25.
Auditors and disclosure of information to auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP are willing to continue in office as auditors to the Company.
Resolutions for their re-appointment and to authorise the directors to agree their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the directors at the date of approval of this report confirms that to their knowledge and belief, and having made appropriate enquiries of other officers of the Group: so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and they have taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held on 5 September 2007 at The Caf Royal, Piccadilly, London W1 at 11.30 a. m. Notice of the meeting, together with full details and an explanation of the business to be considered, is given in a separate letter accompanying this report.
By Order of the Board Helen Grantham Secretary 20 June 2007 42 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
