Directors and Management Board of Directors Sir John Collins Chairman Sir John Collins 65 joined the Board in September 2001 as Deputy Chairman and was appointed Chairman in September 2002.
He is also a director of Rothschild Continuation Holdings AG.
He joined Shell in 1964 and was Chairman and Chief Executive of Shell UK, 1990 to 1993.
He was Chief Executive of Vestey Group from 1993 to 2001.
Previous appointments include Chairman of National Power plc, Chairman of Cantab Pharmaceuticals, a non-executive director of NM Rothschild & Sons, The Peninsular and Oriental Navigation Company plc, BSkyB, Stoll Moss Theatres and the London Symphony Orchestra.
Sir John has also served as Chairman of the Advisory Committee on Business and the Environment, Chairman of the DTI DEFRAs Sustainable Energy Policy Advisory Board, President of the Energy Institute, Chairman of the DTIs Energy Advisory Panel and as a governor of Wellington College.
He is Chairman of the Groups Nominations Committee.
John Clare CBE Group Chief Executive John Clare 56 joined the Group as Marketing Director of Dixons in 1985.
He was appointed Managing Director of Dixons Stores Group in 1988, when he also joined the Group Board.
He became Group Managing Director in 1992 and Group Chief Executive in 1994.
He is a non-executive director of Hammerson plc, Chairman of the Governments Fair Cities Steering Committee, President of ISBA, Chairman of Job Centre Plus within the Government Department of Work and Pensions, and a member of the Edinburgh University Development Board.
In 2005, he was awarded the CBE for services to the National Employment Panel and to Business.
Kevin OByrne Group Finance Director and Head of Computing Division Kevin OByrne 42 joined the Board as Group Finance Director in July 2004.
In January 2006 he also assumed responsibility for the Computing division which includes PC World stores, PC City stores and DSGi Business.
He joined the Group in September 2002 as Retail Finance Director.
Prior to this he held senior finance positions in a number of companies including The Quaker Oats Company and Arthur Andersen.
He graduated from Trinity College Dublin in 1987 and qualified as a Chartered Accountant in 1990.
30 DSG international plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Directors and Management Count Emmanuel dAndr Non-Executive Director Count Emmanuel dAndr 69 joined the Board in February 2002.
He is a non-executive director of La Mondiale insurance, the Holder Group bakery manufacturing and Praxis consulting.
He is Chairman of the Royaumont Foundation, and the Crativalle Association.
His previous positions have included membership of the advisory committee of Banque fide France, Chairman and CEO of Trois Suisses International Group mail order, Chief Executive of Lapaud International, senior consultant with Arthur D. Little, Paris, Development Director of the Express Group newsgroup and international manager of Camping Gaz.
He was a non-executive director of Auchan Group hypermarkets, of Sidel packaging, and Robert Bosch France, and a member of the strategic committee of Ernst and Young France.
Rita Clifton Non-Executive Director Rita Clifton 49 joined the Board in September 2003.
She is Chairman of Interbrand, a non-executive director of Emap plc and non-executive Chairman of Populus Ltd, the opinion pollster to The Times.
She previously spent 18 years in the advertising industry, including positions with Saatchi & Saatchi and J Walter Thompson.
She has been a member of the Governments Sustainable Development Commission, and is on the Assurance and Advisory board for BPs carbon offset programme targetneutral.
She is also a Visiting Professor at Henley Management College.
Andrew Lynch FCA Non-Executive Director Andrew Lynch 50 joined the Board in May 2003.
He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and the Boards designated Senior Independent Director.
Andrew is Chief Executive Officer of SSP, the travel concessions catering company formerly part of Compass Group plc.
He was a director of Compass Group from 1997 to 2005 where he held the position of Group Finance Director from 1997 to 2003 before becoming Chief Executive Officer of SSP in 2003.
His earlier career included corporate finance and financial management positions with Prudential Corporation plc and KPMG.
He is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
John Whybrow Non-Executive Director John Whybrow 60 joined the Board in June 2003.
He is Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
He is Chairman of Wolseley plc, having been a non-executive director between 1997 and 2002, and is also Chairman of Petworth Cottage Nursing Home.
He was Chairman of CSR plc between 2004 and 2007.
He joined Philips in 1970 and was President of Philips Lighting NV and Executive Vice President of Royal Philips Electronics BV.
He received the Polish Order of Merit in 2002.
Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Nominations Committee Member of the Remuneration Committee Independent non-executive director DSG international plc 31 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
