Business and Financial Review PC City in Italy and Sweden continue to perform in line with expectations with sales growth of over 40 per cent in each country operating from ten and nine stores respectively.
e-commerce Division e-commerce Division This is the newest division of the Group and comprises Dixons.
Total sales for the e-commerce division were 451.3 million 2005 06 26.3 million.
Underlying operating profit was 1.2 million 2005 06 nil.
Sales m 2006 07 451.3 Just prior to the start of the year, the Group transitioned the Dixons brand into 2005 06 26.3 a pure play e-tailer and it has had a very successful first year growing sales by Like for like change 182% 182 per cent.
It has expanded the ranges and categories available, which now account for over a quarter of Dixons.
co. uks sales as well as helping to increase Underlying operating profit m the average transaction value.
2006 07 1.2 2005 06 nil Year on year, PIXmania grew its sales by 42 per cent.
In March the Group announced that PIXmanias operating profits this year would be impacted by warehouse and control issues in its supply chain operations.
The Board is confident that these issues have now been resolved.
During the second half of the year, the range of products offered through PIXmania was expanded to include Group ranges of computing and vision products, particularly in France.
Further ranges and categories will be introduced into PIXmania in more countries during 2007, and the Board remains excited about the opportunities for this business as part of the Group.
The business will benefit from Group buying, supply chain and logistics infrastructure.
The acquisition of the 77 per cent interest in FotoVista S. A. the parent company of PIXmania, has brought expertise into the Group that is being used in the Groups other internet and multi-channel operations.
Customer Service During the year, the Group took a number of actions to improve the shopping experience and make life easier for customers.
The Group reduced complexity, improved the range of services, simplified the information it provides and changed the way in which store colleagues are rewarded.
The Group implemented a pioneering employee engagement and training initiative in Currys stores in the UK.
The programme is designed to foster a commitment to teamwork in stores that improves motivation, spreads workload equitably and delivers measurable improvements in customer satisfaction.
This years authoritative Verdict report, How Britain Shops Electricals, pointed to Currys achieving the biggest gains in customer loyalty of any of the retailers profiled.
The initiative has also been implemented in the Groups national distribution operation in the UK.
The Group completed the removal of individual commission from its PC World and Currys stores in the UK, replacing the traditional scheme with a new team bonus, based on total store performance and customer service.
This major change in reward and store culture has been well received by store colleagues and has delivered measurable improvements in customer satisfaction.
In September, the Group launched The TechGuys, the UKs first and only truly national digital support service for UK homes.
The TechGuys became the umbrella brand for the Groups existing service operations.
This service is now available to owners of consumer electronics and computing equipment DSG international plc 19 Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07
