Page 24 Directors report The directors present their report, together with the audited shareholders, the share capital of the Company was 1 financial statements, for the year ended 31st December 2007. consolidated in the ratio of 8 new ordinary shares of 28 8pfor every 9 existing ordinary shares of 25p.
As at 31st December 1 2007 115,222,899 ordinary shares of 28 8p were in issue.
At the Principal activities 2007 AGM, shareholders approved a resolution to permit The principal activities of Aga Foodservice Group plc are the directors to undertake market purchases of its own shares up design, development, manufacture, sale and service of 1 to a maximum number of 11,492,393 ordinary shares of 28 8p premium brand cookers, kitchen and household products.
The resolution remains valid until the conclusion of the The Company sold its Foodservice Equipment businesses on 2008 AGM.
No shares were bought back under this authority 18th December 2007. during the year and at present the Company does not hold any The principal trading subsidiaries are shown on page 70. shares in treasury.
Business review Return of funds to shareholders The Company is required to set out in this report a fair view of Following the share consolidation that occurred on 14th May the business of the Group during the financial year ended 31st 2007, the Company paid a special dividend of 43p per share on December 2007, the position of the Group at the end of the 1st June 2007. financial year and a description of the principal risks and The Company indicated that following the sale of the uncertainties facing the Group.
The information that fulfils this Foodservice Equipment businesses in December 2007, it would requirement can be found in the chief executives review.
The make another significant return of cash to shareholders.
The review of the financial results and of the operations on pages 5 board has considered the various methods of returning cash to to 10: risks and uncertainties on pages 11 to 15: resources on shareholders and has decided that it will make a proposal to pages 15 to 16 and corporate social responsibility on pages 16 shareholders to return 140.0m of cash via a B C share to 21, which are incorporated into this report by reference.
This will provide a one-off opportunity for shareholders to receive the return as capital or income or a Profit and dividends combination of the two.
In addition, the board is proposing to The profit attributable to equity shareholders including consolidate the share capital of the Company in the ratio of discontinued operations for the period was 63.4m 2006: approximately 3 new ordinary shares for approximately 5 31.1m.
The directors have declared dividends as follows: existing ordinary shares.
Full details of the proposed resolutions are included in the separate circular to shareholders.
The return m of cash is recommended by the directors and share Paid interim dividend of 3.85p per share consolidation will be subject to shareholder approval at an 2006: 3.5p per share 4.4 Extraordinary General Meeting EGM.
Proposed final dividend of 7.65p per share 2006: 7.0p per share 8.8 Major shareholdings Total ordinary dividend 11.5p per share As at 14th March 2008, the Company had been notified under 2006: 10.5p per share 13.2 the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of significant holdings of voting rights in shares as set out on the opposite page.
The final dividend recommended by the directors and subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting AGM will be paid on 30th May 2008 to members on the register at Directors and their interests the close of business on 25th April 2008.
Details of the directors who served on the board during the year are shown on pages 22 to 23.
In addition the biographical Share capital details of John Coleman are included.
John Coleman was appointed an independent non-executive director on 6th Full details of the movements in the issued share capital of the March 2008 and is the chairman designate.
He will take up the Company are provided in note 22 on page 64.
On 1st January 2007, the Company had 129,107,928 ordinary shares of 25p in position of chairman after the AGM, when Vic Cocker will retire issue.
On 14th May 2007, having been approved by from the board.
AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 25 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association four facility to encourage rapid response times.
The Group directors will seek re-election at the AGM.
Helen Mahy, Shaun capitalises certain development spend under IAS 38.
During Smith and William McGrath retire by rotation and, being the year, the Group capitalised expenditure on development of eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
election of Helen Mahy, the board reviewed her effectiveness as a non-executive director and concluded that she continues to Supplier payment policy be effective and remains independent in judgement.
She is also The Companys policy is to settle terms of payment with a member of the audit and risk, remuneration and nomination suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction.
Helen Mahy has expressed a willingness and Individual operating businesses within the Group are ability, in terms of time commitment, to continue in her role.
responsible for establishing appropriate policies with regard to John Coleman who was appointed a director on 6th March the payment of their suppliers.
Trade payables at the year end 2008 retires at the AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for equated to 66 days of related purchases 2006: 67 days, for the re-election.
Details of the directors service contracts are set out in the remuneration report on page 36.
Other than service contracts, Employee involvement no director had any material interest in any contract with any The average number of employees within the Group is shown Group company at any time in the year.
The interests of in note 4 to the accounts on page 48.
The Group is committed directors and their connected persons in the ordinary share to a policy of equal opportunity with the objective of capital of the Company are disclosed on page 35.
Options promoting a workplace which is free from discrimination, granted under the Senior Executive Share Option Scheme and harassment and victimisation.
The policy requires that full and Long-Term Incentive Plan are shown on page 34. fair consideration is given to disabled applicants in terms of employment.
Directors indemnities Furthermore, career development opportunities and training The directors have the benefit of the indemnity provision for disabled persons is available as appropriate, with particular contained in the Companys Articles of Association.
This attention paid to the needs of individuals who become provision which is a qualifying third party indemnity provision disabled in employment.
as defined by Section 234 of the Companies Act 2006, was in force throughout the financial year and remains in force.
The The Group has a policy of actively communicating information Company also purchases directors and officers liability to employees concerning the development of the Group and insurance in respect of the Company, its subsidiaries and its how this may affect their interests and of ensuring their directors.
Further details of the Groups human resources policies are provided in the CSR section on page 18.
Political and charitable donations The Company is introducing a new Sharesave Plan, subject to Charitable donations made during the year were 6,337 2006: shareholder approval, and will encourage employees to 6,502.
These donations were made across the businesses participate in the Groups success through share ownership.
principally to local organisations serving the communities in which we operate.
No political donations were made during Health, safety and environmental the period 2006: nil.
It is important to the Group to provide and maintain a safe environment for all employees, customers and other visitors to Research and development its premises and the wider workplace.
The Group complies with Research and development plays an important role in the the relevant health and safety legislation in the jurisdictions in development of the Group with product innovation a key which it operates.
The Groups health and safety policy and feature of the Groups strategy.
Each manufacturing business performance is regularly reviewed by the board.
Further details has its own development department close to its production are included on pages 19 and 20 of the CSR section.
% of % of date of ordinary shares share capital share capital 1 notification of 28 8p each directly owned indirectly owned Boston Holdings LP Inc 10.03.08 26,869,179 23.32 0 Aviva plc 29.11.07 8,659,179 7.04 0.47 HSBC Holdings plc 09.01.08 8,048,122 6.68 0.30 Prudential plc 28.01.08 4,854,832 4.19 0 J P Morgan Chase & Co 30.10.07 5,797,524 0 5.03 Aberdeen Asset Management Ltd 25.01.08 5,765,600 0 5.00 Legal & General Group plc 07.02.08 4,686,714 4.06 0 Principle Capital Investment Trust plc 13.07.07 3,502,382 3.05 0 AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007 Page 26 Directors report The Group also recognises that it is part of the wider community Auditors and that it has a responsibility to act in a way that respects the Ernst & Young LLP E&Y has indicated its willingness to environment and the social wellbeing of others.
The Groups continue as auditors and, accordingly resolutions to reappoint environmental policy and performance against objectives and and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration targets is regularly reviewed by the board.
Further details are will be proposed at the AGM.
included on pages 19 to 20 of the CSR section.
Disclosure of audit information Statement of directors responsibilities In the case of each of the persons who are directors of the Company at the date when this annual report was approved, The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant the remuneration report and the Group and Company financial audit information of which the Companys auditors are statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
unaware: and each of the directors has taken all steps that Company law requires the directors to prepare financial they ought to have taken as a director to make themselves statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as information.
This confirmation is given and should be adopted by the European Union and the Company financial interpreted in accordance with the provisions of section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985. statements and the remuneration report in accordance with the applicable law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards Annual General Meeting Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group and The AGM of the Company will be held at the National Company financial statements are required by law to give a Motorcyle Museum, Coventry Road, Bickenhill, Solihull B92 0EJ true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the on 9th May 2008.
The notice convening this meeting, together Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
with explanatory notes for the special business are set out in a In preparing those financial statements, the directors are shareholder circular which will be posted with the annual required to: report and accounts and proxy voting papers.
At the meeting select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: resolutions will be proposed to renew the authority to issue shares without applying statutory pre-emption rights and to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and authorise the Company to make market purchases of its own prudent: and shares.
Resolutions will also be proposed to change the state that the Group financial statements comply with IFRS as Company name, to introduce a new Sharesave Plan and to adopted by the European Union and, with regard to the make amendments to the Long-Term Incentive Plan Rules.
Company financial statements, that applicable UK Accounting Full details of these resolutions are provided in the Standards have been followed, subject to any material notice of meeting.
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
Extraordinary General Meeting The directors confirm that they have complied with the above The notice convening an EGM and explanatory notes are requirements in preparing the financial statements.
set out in a separate circular to shareholders which will be The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting despatched to shareholders separately.
At the meeting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the resolutions will be proposed to make a return of cash to financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable shareholders of 140m which will involve the issue to them to ensure that the Group financial statements and the shareholders of B shares and or C shares which is intended to remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 1985. give shareholders, where eligible under their prevailing tax They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the regime such as the UK, the flexibility to receive their cash as Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps capital or income, or a combination of the two.
It is also for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
intended that the market price of the Companys ordinary shares should be approximately equal before and after the After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable return, subject to market movements, and, consequently the expectation that the Company has adequate financial resources return of cash will involve the reduction of the number of to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Subject to this resolution being passed, the In preparing the financial statements on pages 38 to 41 on a Company will propose to renew the authority to make market going concern basis, the directors consider that the Company purchases of its own shares, based on the revised number of and the Group have used appropriate accounting policies, shares in issue.
consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent The Company also proposes to make certain amendments to judgements and estimates, and that all accounting standards update the Companys Articles of Association to be compliant which they consider to be applicable have been followed.
with changes implemented under the Companies Act 2006 to The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity date and a separate resolution will be proposed to introduce of the Company website.
The work carried out by the auditors further amendments to the Articles of Association which will take effect on and from the 1st October 2008.
Full details of does not involve consideration of these matters and, these resolutions are provided in the shareholder circular.
accordingly the auditors accept no responsibility for any changes that may have occurred to the financial statements By order of the board since they were initially presented on the website.
Legislation in P M Sissons the United Kingdom governing the preparation and Secretary dissemination of financial statements may differ from Solihull legislation in other jurisdictions.
14th March 2008 AGA FOODSERVICE GROUP ANNUAL REPORT & ACCOUNTS 2007
