Board of directors Gordon Horseld Dorothy Thompson Chairman Chief Executive Age 61 Age 47 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in July 2003.
20 October 2005, having joined Drax in September 2005.
Committee Membership: Committee Membership: Nominations Chairman.
External Appointments: External Appointments: The Chairman of Partnerships UK plc.
A non-executive A non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
director and Chairman of the Audit Committee of Previous Experience: Norwich and Peterborough Building Society.
Chair of Dorothy was previously the head of the European the Council of the University of York.
Chairman of the business of InterGen NV, the power generation Strategy Committee to the Ampleforth Abbey Trust.
subsidiary of Shell NV and Bechtel Inc. responsible for Previous Experience: the management and operation of four gas-red power Gordon retired from  in plants, totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across the January 2003 after 34 years service.
Much of his UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining InterGen NV in professional career was spent as a corporate recovery 1998, Dorothy was initially in banking and subsequently specialist rising to become head of corporate finance was assistant group treasurer for Powergen plc.
and recovery at Price Waterhouse UK and a member Qualications: of the UK rms executive board.
Following the merger BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
with Coopers & Lybrand in 1998, he was appointed to the new management board as the first director of operations of the UK rm , responsible for the new rms nances and for pulling together and rationalising the organisational and support functions of the UK business following the merger.
Subsequently he led the team dealing with the sale of its management consulting business to IBM.
Qualications: D Hons University of York, BA Hons in Economics and a Chartered Accountant, FCA.
Gordon Boyd Peter Emery Finance Director Production Director Age 48 Age 45 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in January 2005.
20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004.
Committee Membership: Committee Membership: Executive.
External Appointments: External Appointments: None.
Previous Experience: Previous Experience: Previously held a number of roles within British Peter joined Esso Petroleum upon leaving university Energy plc including director of corporate restructuring, and held a number of analyst and managerial roles generation finance director and group treasurer.
in the UK before moving to Essos parent, Exxon in Prior to this he worked for a number of other the US to co-ordinate its downstream marketing and companies including Raychem Limited, Mothercare distribution investments outside North America and Limited and Cadbury Schweppes plc.
Peter returned to Esso in 1992 as plant technical services manager at Fawley Renery.
He then Qualications: undertook roles managing various operational areas BCom Hons in Accounting and Business Studies, at the renery before moving to renery maintenance MBA, FCMA, MCT and has completed the Advanced manager in 1997.
He was appointed operations manager Management Program at Harvard Business School.
at Fawley Oil Renery in 2002, with full responsibility for the management and operation of the UKs largest renery and a member of Exxon Mobils European leadership team for rening.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Mining Engineering and completed the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD in 2007.
32 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Tim Barker Charles Berry Senior independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director Age 67 Age 55 Appointment to the Board: Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, and was appointed as the senior 15 December 2005. independent director on 15 December 2005.
He joined Committee Membership: Drax in June 2004.
Committee Membership: External Appointments: Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nominations.
The non-executive Chairman of Eaga plc and a nonExternal Appointments: executive director of Securities Trust of Scotland plc Senior independent non-executive director and of Impax Environmental Markets plc.
Mike Grasby of Electrocomponents plc and a Member of the Previous Experience: Professional Oversight Board of the Financial Independent non-executive director Charles has extensive experience within the UK Reporting Council.
He joined ScottishPower in 1991 and was Age 64 Previous Experience: appointed to the board in 1999.
From 2000 to 2005, Appointment to the Board: From 1993 Tim was Vice Chairman of Kleinwort Benson Charles was Chief Executive of the companys UK 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in December 2003.
Group plc and from 1998, until his retirement in 2000, Operations, with responsibility for over 6,200MW of Committee Membership: he was Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
generating capacity as well as the trading business, Health and Safety Chairman, Nominations and Notably, he was involved with a number of clients energy retailing and strategic transactions, such as Remuneration.
in the energy sector and was an adviser to the UK renewables development.
Charles is also a former nonExternal Appointments: Government on the privatisation of the electricity executive director and Chairman of THUS Group plc.
An adviser to Manx Electricity Authority, a member of sector.
In the mid-1980s, Tim was Director General Qualications: the British Energy Association and the World Energy of the City Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
He is BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and a Masters Council and a director of Strategic Dimensions, a former Chairman of Robert Walters plc.
Qualications: Previous Experience: MA in Economics.
Mike retired from International Power in February 2002 after 36 years in the power industry.
During his career he held a number of senior positions in the UK and international power industry with the CEGB and National Power.
He was manager of Drax Power Station between 1991 and 1995, and director of operations for National Powers portfolio, with responsibilities for over 16,000MW of generating capacity, until 1998.
Mike was also a director of power companies in Portugal, Turkey and Pakistan.
Following the demerger of National Power, he joined International Power as senior vice-president, continuing with his international directorships and leading a major consortium in the Czech Republic.
Qualications: Chartered Engineer, FIET and FIMechE.
Jamie Dundas Independent non-executive director Age 57 Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005.
Committee Membership: Audit Chairman, Nominations and Remuneration.
External Appointments: The non-executive Chairman of Jupiter Investment Management Group.
A non-executive director of Standard Chartered PLC and Chairman of Macmillan Cancer Support.
Previous Experience: Jamies career has been in merchant banking, finance and the property sector.
Jamie spent 19 years with Morgan Grenfell Group, including ten years as a director of Morgan Grenfell & Co Limited.
Jamie was Finance Director of the Airport Authority, Hong Kong between 19921996 before joining MEPC plc in 1997, initially as Finance Director and from 19992003 as Chief Executive.
He is also a former non-executive director of J Sainsbury plc.
Qualications: MA Oxon in Law and a Barrister non-practising.
33 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
