For Drax the year 2007 saw the Operationally we delivered good plant challenge of significant volatility availability in the valuable high margin Developing the Drax business in the commodity markets within Winter months.
In the lower margin We continue to work to identify ways which we operate, but we also saw Summer months we undertook two to build the value of the Drax business.
the opportunity for a satisfactory major planned outages and some commercial return for the hard additional elective outages to enable We anticipate a structural tightness work which the executive team has preventative maintenance.
in the market in the medium term as undertaken to position the business older coal plant and oil plant is retired better within a shifting, but frequently due to emissions constraints and some Safety unclear, regulatory environment.
nuclear plant reaches the end of its The health and safety of our working life.
Our skills in production, Like other companies operating in employees and others working on our trading, and co-ring of renewable the electricity generation sector the premises remains our highest priority.
fuels not only enable us to seek to prospect and consequences of climate Although a satisfactory performance optimise the return from the Drax change is a challenge we take very was achieved by our own staff, plant within the evolving market seriously.
Our decisions announced we were deeply saddened that an and regulatory environment but also early in 2007 to invest in carbon employee of a sub-contractor was position us to capture additional value abatement programmes were a result fatally injured whilst working in an opportunities as we go forward.
of many months work to identify area under the day-to-day control options that would enable us to draw of a contractor.
a commercial balance between our Our people obligations to our shareholders, Our Health and Safety Management I should like to welcome those who securing our future competitive Systems achieved Occupational Health join the Company at an exciting time position and delivering significant and Safety 18001 certication in 2007. as we develop the business as well as annual reductions in emissions of to thank all Drax employees for their carbon dioxide CO2.
Through hard work in a demanding year.
Distributions delivering 10% of our output from co-ring renewable biomass and In line with our policy of distributing upgrading all our high and low cash surplus to the needs of the New Chairman pressure turbines, we will be able to business the Board proposes a further As we announced on 18 December reduce our annual output of CO2 by cash distribution in respect of 2007 2007, at the conclusion of the Annual over three million tonnes from the of 60 million.
This is in the form of a General Meeting on 17 April 2008 end of 2011.
I am pleased to report proposed ordinary dividend of 9.9 pence I shall retire as a non-executive that we have made good progress per share, being 33.6 million and a director and as Chairman of Drax to on both these major initiatives.
special dividend of 7.8 pence per share, be succeeded by Charles Berry who being 26.5 million.
joined the Board in December 2005.
Financial and These further distributions will take operational performance It has been a great privilege to serve the total returned to shareholders in Against the background of the as Chairman of Drax and lead it respect of 2007 to 160 million, and volatility in commodity markets, through a period of significant change to a total of 657 million since listing our financial performance in 2007 over nearly five years.
I have gained in December 2005. was solid rather than spectacular: enormous satisfaction from drawing margins secured for power sold and together an exceptionally talented fuels purchased in previous years for team and to have worked closely Renancing delivery in 2007 dampening the effect with its members as the business has In September 2007, the Board of the lower margins achievable on developed.
I have every confidence announced its intention subject power sales made within the year.
in the future of Drax and in the to market conditions to undertake In the fourth quarter of 2007 the leadership which Charles will bring a renancing of the current debt first deliveries were made under our to the Board when I step down.
As a result of continuing 600MW baseload power contract Gordon Horsfield turbulence in the debt markets, Chairman with Centrica.
This contract extends 3 March 2008 in December 2007 the Board to 2012 and is in line with our trading announced its decision to postpone strategy to contract a proportion of a renancing until market conditions our sales for the longer term.
have improved and the Company can secure more attractive terms.
03 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
