Business Review Description of the Group DS Smith international packaging manufacturer and ofce products wholesaler The Groups activities of Packaging manufacturing and accounts for 15% of the total amount sourced.
Ofce Products Wholesaling are managed through a Severnside particularly concentrates on sourcing used decentralised structure covering four segments: corrugated packaging, referred to as old corrugated cases OCC, which is the most suitable form of waste UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging paper for producing recycled CCM.
Severnside supplies This segment is comprised of three activities: Severnside all of the 0.9 million tonnes of waste paper required by Recycling, which collects waste paper for recycling: the St Regis paper mills and it sells 0.8 million tonnes St Regis Paper Company, which processes the waste on the open market.
paper to produce recycled paper, the majority of St Regis four paper mills produce over 0.8 million tonnes which is corrugated case material CCM used in the of 100% recycled paper.
St Regis is the leading UK manufacture of corrugated packaging: and DS Smith producer of CCM, which accounts for approximately Packaging, which converts CCM into corrugated St Regis Paper Company is 70% of the paper it produces, and is a leading European board and boxes.
The three activities of the corrugated the UKs leading producer of producer of plasterboard liner, which accounts for over packaging supply chain are heavily inter-dependent corrugated case material: all 15% of its production: the remainder comprises other of its output is recycled paper.
although all three maintain open-market positions speciality paper grades.
The Groups Corrugated to ensure competitiveness.
DS Smith manages its Packaging operations account for around 55% of UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging operations St Regis CCM sales.
St Regis external sales are made through Severnside Recycling, St Regis Paper and to over 330 customers: no single external customer DS Smith Packaging.
accounts for more than 5% of the Groups total UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
Severnside Recycling is the leading UK collector and merchant of waste paper, the principal raw material DS Smith Packaging produces 1.1 billion square metres for producing recycled paper.
In total, annually it per annum of corrugated packaging at 32 factories sources 1.7 million tonnes of waste paper by means located throughout the UK.
It is the leading supplier of of collections through its 17 UK depots and opencorrugated packaging to the UK market with a market market purchases from supermarkets and third party share of around 27%.
Approximately 65% of sales go waste merchants.
In addition, Severnsides facilities into the fast-moving consumer goods FMCG sector management function provides general recycling and predominantly for food and beverages, with the waste disposal services for customers in a number of remainder being principally for the consumer durables sectors.
Severnsides main sources of waste paper and industrial sectors.
DS Smith Packaging supplies The Groups corrugated box plants include large supermarket groups and other retailers, many of the leading FMCG companies: no individual in the UK and continental Europe other commercial and industrial organisations and local customer accounts for more than 3% of the total UK supply many of Europes top food authorities.
The largest single source of waste paper Paper and Corrugated Packaging revenue.
The Corrugated Packaging Supply Chain Paper Waste Corrugated corrugated case paper packaging material CCM boxes Recycled DS Smith UK Severnside Recycling St Regis Paper DS Smith Packaging Annual volume 000 tonnes Waste paper collected 1,700 CCM 580 Boxes and board 600 Other speciality papers 250 DS Smith DS Smith Kaysersberg France and Turkey DS Smith Kaysersberg France Continental Europe Italy, Poland, Turkey, Czech Republic Annual volume 000 tonnes Solid board and speciality papers 165 Boxes and board 395 16 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 Continental European Corrugated Packaging pad pools: and a development business, StePac, In continental Europe, DS Smith Kaysersberg produces which specialises in modied atmosphere packaging 0.6 billion square metres per annum of corrugated for preserving the quality of fresh fruit and vegetables packaging at 12 factories located in France, Italy, in transit.
Poland, Turkey and the Czech Republic.
The bulk of The division purchases a wide range of polymers and its CCM requirements are sourced from third parties.
plastic lms, principally polypropylene, high density It has estimated market shares of 6% in France, 3% polyethylene and polycarbonate: the largest polymer in Italy, 8% in Poland, and 5% in Turkey.
Although its supplier accounts for approximately 12% of raw material market positions in France and Italy have recently been costs.
This segment has a widely spread customer base relatively stable, the business has been growing strongly and no single customer accounts for more than 5% of in eastern Europe and Turkey.
DS Smith Kaysersberg DS Smith Plastics total revenue.
produces 0.2 million tonnes of recycled paper principally DS Smith Plastics manufactures taps solid board for use in the manufacture of detergent and dispensing systems in the UK Ofce Products Wholesaling boxes at two mills in France and one mill in Turkey.
Spicers is the leading European wholesaler of ofce DS Smith also owns 49.6% of the leading paper and products: it is ranked as the number one wholesaler in corrugated packaging business in Ukraine: the results each of the UK, Ireland, France and the Benelux region, of this business are reported under associates.
and it is building its position in continental Europe with development businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy.
The Groups continental corrugated packaging operations Its network of distribution centres comprises: UK 9: are particularly strong in heavy-duty and litho-laminated Ireland 1: France 6: Benelux 1: Germany 2: packaging.
Approximately 35% of sales are to the Spain 2: Italy 1.
FMCG sector and the remainder is to the consumer durables, industrial and other sectors.
This segment has Spicers provides a wholesaling service to its customer a large and diverse range of customers, none of which base of ofce products dealers and resellers, who accounts for more than 6% of Continental European principally supply smaller and medium-sized ofces.
It supplies approximately 12,000 dealers throughout Europe and no single dealer customer accounts for Plastic Packaging more than 4% of Spicers total revenue.
Spicers product DS Smith Plastics is a leading worldwide supplier of range of up to 18,000 product lines comprises its own liquid packaging and dispensing systems and holds a Spicers, the leading European 5-Star brand and other branded products of traditional ofce products wholesaler, major European position in industrial returnable transit stationery items, electronic ofce supplies, ofce furniture, operates 22 distribution centres packaging RTP.
janitorial supplies and ofce catering and vending in seven countries.
Its range is communicated to its dealers and In liquid packaging and dispensing, it is ranked as the ofces they supply through printed catalogues and number two globally in bag-in-box packaging systems electronic systems: orders are now principally submitted and injection moulded taps and dispensers, which are to Spicers on-line or by other electronic means.
supplied worldwide to the soft drinks, wine, food and Spicers offers its dealer customers a same-day or an other industry sectors from nine locations in the UK, overnight, next-day delivery service: it also provides Germany, the USA, Australia and New Zealand.
the dealers with marketing and promotional support.
The Group is a leading European supplier of RTP.
Its The business is highly  with extensive product range includes reusable containers, approximately 735,000 line-items being processed boxes and pallet systems, injection-moulded crates, and weekly.
The maintenance of reliable and efficient semi-nished extruded sheet.
These products are supplied systems that are capable of handling the high volume to the automotive, beverage, pharmaceutical and other of customer orders received daily, either by telephone markets from 12 locations in the UK, France, Belgium, or on-line, is a key feature of the business.
Spain, Poland, Czech Republic, Slovakia and the Dominican Republic.
Additionally, the segment contains two small speciality businesses: Packaging Management, which provides logistics services, particularly for pallet and plastic layer DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 17
