Directors and Company Secretary 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 # Non-Executive Director 1 Peter Johnson 3 Gavin Morris 6 Richard Marton Member of General Purposes Committee Chairman Group Finance Director Appointed to the Board on Member of Nomination Committee Appointed to the Board on Appointed to the Board on 13 March 2000 as a non-Executive Member of Remuneration Committee 8 December 1999 as a non- 5 November 2002 as Group Director.
He was previously Chief # Member of Audit Committee Executive Director.
He previously Executive and then a non-Executive Chairman of the Board on held Chief Financial officer Director of Britax International plc.
1 January 2007 and is Chairman positions at Citex Group Ltd, Philips Age 66. of the Nomination Committee.
Lighting Holding BV, Ionica Group 7 Philippe Mellier He is a Member of the Supervisory plc, Alfred McAlpine Plc and Appointed to the Board on Board of Wienerberger AG.
7 September 2006 as a nonwas previously Chief Executive # 4 Bob Beeston Executive Director.
He is currently of George Wimpey Plc and prior Appointed to the Board on President of Alstom Transport and to that Chief Executive of The 5 December 2000 as a nonan Executive Vice-President of Rugby Group PLC.
He is Chairman Alstom Group.
Previously, he 2 Tony Thorne of the Remuneration Committee and was Chairman and CEO of Group Chief Executive is the Senior Independent Director.
Renault Trucks and a Member Appointed to the Board on He is also Chairman of Cookson of the Executive Committee of 1 January 2001 as Chief Group plc and Elementis PLC and AB Volvo, and prior to that held Operating officer and became was previously Chief Executive of senior management positions Group Chief Executive on FKI plc.
Age 65. with Renault S. A. and Ford 5 December 2001.
# 5 Christopher Bunker previously President of SCA Appointed to the Board on 8 Carolyn Cattermole Packagings Corrugated Business 9 December 2003 as a nonAppointed Company Secretary Division and prior to that held Executive Director and is Chairman on 20 November 2000.
She was senior management positions of the Audit Committee.
He was previously Company Secretary of in Shell.
Age 56. previously Group Finance Director Courtaulds Textiles plc and prior to of Thames Water Plc, Tarmac Plc that was a senior legal adviser with and Westland Group Plc.
He is Courtaulds plc, having qualied a non-Executive Director of Travis as a solicitor with Norton Rose.
Perkins plc and Xansa plc and was Age 46. a non-Executive Director of Mowlem Plc and Baltimore Technologies plc.
8 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007
