Business Review Strategy Improving our operations and developing an enhanced business mix DS Smith is an international Group with revenues in mix of our paper and conventional corrugated box 2006 07 of 1,766.1 million, employing over 11,000 businesses: and developing a selected number of people in 16 countries.
The Group recognises that its our specialist corrugated packaging businesses.
activities of Packaging manufacturing and Ofce Continental European Corrugated Packaging Products Wholesaling are quite different: for this reason Our goal is to sustain and build on our existing solid they are managed separately within the Group.
We returns and good growth rates.
We will continue our are confident that we are able to add value to both targeted approach, concentrating on selected markets and that the Groups present composition can meet and higher added-value product segments.
In the shortour objective of generating good returns and cash term a priority is to recover the recent and prospective ows for our investors.
Investment will be concentrated on maintaining the competitiveness of our existing The majority of the markets in which we operate are operations and their expansion, through organic mature and all are highly competitive.
This makes it development and bolt-on acquisitions.
essential for our profitability that we continually raise the operational performance of our businesses while Plastic Packaging investing in the development of new products and Our aim is to grow the profits of our two principal markets which have inherent growth.
In liquid packaging and dispensing, we have an established international position The Groups 2006 07 adjusted In the short-term, we will continue to place strong emphasis return on average capital employed and our priorities are to increase our competitiveness on raising returns in both our UK Paper and Corrugated through structural cost reduction and to expand sales Packaging business and the UK operations of Spicers.
through new product development and penetration into new markets.
In returnable transit packaging, we will Financial Objectives continue to focus on the European market but use our We have four key financial objectives: enhanced development capability to grow in new to achieve a return on average capital employed over markets, particularly in central and eastern Europe.
6.9% the business cycle in excess of the Groups weighted We will continue to make bolt-on acquisitions where average cost of capital, which we estimate to be circa The 2006 07 growth these support either a product range or market extension.
in Group revenue 10% before tax : Ofce Products Wholesaling to invest in market opportunities that offer above Our goal in Ofce Products Wholesaling is to establish the average rates of growth: Spicers business model profitably across the major markets of western Europe.
An immediate priority is to restore to generate sufficient free cash ow to service our profits in the important UK business through improving dividend while providing funds for development: and the sales mix, raising service levels and lowering costs.
66.0m to maintain a strong balance sheet that provides On the continent we will maintain the competitiveness financial resilience and allows the Group to pursue of our major established positions in France and the The 2006 07 Group capital expenditure bolt-on acquisitions.
Benelux region and continue to grow the returns from our developing businesses in Germany, Spain and Italy.
Our performance against these financial objectives is described in the Financial Review on pages 26 to 30.
Investment Our capital expenditure programme will maintain Segment Strategies investment in our key assets and support development The objectives and strategies for each of our four of the strategy.
It will be targeted at three main areas: segments are: 32.0% cost reduction: development of products or markets The Groups gearing at 30 April 2007 UK Paper and Corrugated Packaging offering good profit growth opportunities: and anticipation Our objectives are to improve further the returns from of health and safety or environmental requirements.
our substantial UK market positions and to sustain these Given our range of businesses and our strong market better returns over the business cycle.
The priorities for positions, we are confident that there will be many achieving this are: a continued drive to recover the opportunities for organic development of the Group.
current high input costs: further cost reduction: and We also expect that there will be further restructuring targeting growth sectors of the market.
Investment will in the European paper and corrugated packaging be concentrated on: expanding Severnside Recycling: industry and that this may present opportunities for increasing the efficiency and enhancing the product further development through acquisitions.
DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2007 15
