Board of Directors Philip Rogerson Derek Shepherd 63 Chairman 65 Managing Director International Philip Rogerson is Chairman of Carillion plc, THUS Derek Shepherd, a Chartered Engineer, joined Aggreko Group plc and Northgate plc and a Non-executive in 1988 as Managing Director of the UK business.
Director of Davis Service Group plc.
Until February He was appointed Director of Aggreko Europe in 1991 1998 he was Deputy Chairman of BG plc formerly and became Managing Director in the following year.
British Gas plc having been a Director since 1992.
He joined the Board of Aggreko plc in September He joined the Board of Aggreko plc in September 1997.
In March 1999 he was given responsibility for 1997 and was appointed as Chairman in April 2002.
Aggreko International Power Projects together with the Groups activities in the Middle East, Australia, Rupert Soames Asia, Africa and South America.
He is based in 48 Group Chief Executive Dubai, United Arab Emirates.
Rupert Soames joined the Board as Group Chief Executive on 1 July 2003.
He was formerly with Misys George Walker PLC, where he was Chief Executive of the Banking 50 President Aggreko North America and Securities Division.
Before joining Misys, Rupert George Walker, a United States citizen, joined was with GEC plc for 15 years, working in a number Aggreko in 1987 when the Group initially entered the of their subsidiaries: in the last 4 years of his service temperature control business through the acquisition with GEC he was responsible for the UK, African and of Mobile Air-Conditioning Inc. where he was Asian operations of Avery Berkel.
On 13 July 2007 he Controller and then Vice-President.
A graduate of joined the Board of Electrocomponents plc as a Nonthe University of Texas, he became a Vice-President executive Director.
of Aggreko Inc. in 1988 and was appointed Executive Vice-President in 1997.
In January 2001 he became Angus Cockburn President of Aggreko North America and was 44 Finance Director appointed as an Executive Director of Aggreko plc.
Angus Cockburn, a Chartered Accountant, joined Aggreko in May 2000 as Finance Director.
He was Nigel Northridge previously Managing Director of Pringle of Scotland, 52 Senior Independent Non-executive Director a division of Dawson International PLC, having joined Nigel Northridge was formerly Chief Executive of that company in 1997 from PepsiCo Inc. At PepsiCo Gallaher Group Plc, a position he held for seven he spent five years in various positions, latterly as years, having started his career with that business Regional Finance Director for Central Europe based in 1976 as a trainee manager.
Over his 30 years with in Budapest.
He has worked with KPMG both in Gallaher he held a wide range of senior positions the UK and in the USA and has an MBA from the including Divisional Director Iberia, General Manager IMD Business School in Switzerland.
He is also a Europe and, prior to becoming Group Chief Executive, Non-executive Director of Galiform Plc and a former Group Sales and Marketing Director.
He is also chairman of the Group of Scottish Finance Directors.
senior independent Non-executive Director of Paddy Power plc.
He joined the Board of Aggreko plc on Kash Pandya 14 February 2002.
45 Managing Director Europe Kash Pandya joined the Board on 20 June 2005.
David Hamill He was previously Chief Executive of Johnston 50 Non-executive Director Group plc, and prior to that he was President, Europe, David Hamill, who was appointed to the Board in May Asia & South America of APW, the worlds largest 2007, is Chairman and Chief Executive of ICI Paints manufacturer of specialist cabinets and enclosures and a main board director of ICI, which he joined in for the telecoms and computer industries.
Between 2003 from Royal Philips Electronics where he was a 1996 and 1999, Kash worked for Caradon plc, member of the Group Management Committee.
A latterly as Director of European Operations of the graduate in production engineering and management Radiator Division.
from Strathclyde University, he worked for Honeywell and General Instruments before joining Philips Semiconductors in 1986.
He was appointed Executive 14 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Philip Rogerson Rupert Soames Angus Cockburn Kash Pandya Derek Shepherd George Walker Nigel Northridge David Hamill Robert MacLeod Roy McGlone Andrew Salvesen Board Committees Membership Non-executive Director Audit Remuneration Nomination Vice President of Philips Lighting and Chief Executive Andrew Salvesen officer of the Lamps business group in 1998.
In May 60 Non-executive Director 2001 he became President and Chief Executive officer Andrew Salvesen was appointed to the Board of of Philips Lighting.
Previous to that, he had more than 20 years experience with the Christian Robert MacLeod Salvesen group, including being the Managing Director 43 Non-executive Director of Christian Salvesens former Oileld Technology Robert MacLeod is a Chartered Accountant and has operations and was a Non-executive Director of been Group Finance Director of WS Atkins plc since Christian Salvesen PLC between 1989 and September June 2004.
He joined the Atkins Group as group 1997.
He is Chairman of Eurohostel Limited and a financial controller in March 2003 having previously Director of the National Trust for Scotland.
worked in a variety of senior financial roles at Enterprise Oil plc.
A graduate of Cambridge Company Secretary University, he trained at KPMG.
Hew Campbell 45 Hew Campbell, a qualied lawyer, joined the Company Roy McGlone as Director of Legal Affairs in August 2007 and was 54 Non-executive Director appointed as Company Secretary on 15 January 2008, Roy McGlone joined the Board in September 2002. on the retirement of Paul Allen.
He was previously Until February 2006, he was Chief Executive of BBA Head of Group Secretariat of The Royal Bank of Group plc, having previously held the position of Scotland Group plc.
A Chartered Accountant, he qualied with Price Waterhouse and subsequently held positions with Meggitt plc and BICC plc.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15
