OUR BUSINESS MODELS Aggreko is organised around two different business models Local business International Power Projects Our Local business focuses on the smaller, more Our International Power Projects business concentrates on very large power contracts.
Most projects in this frequently occurring, events.
Although most of this business has a lead-time of more than12 hours, business are worth over 1 million and some can be worth over 10 million.
about 25% of its revenues come from responding to emergencies.
It is therefore essential to have the Customers are mainly in developing countries and capability to deploy equipment and people to the customers site within a matter of hours.
include power utilities, governments, armed forces, oil companies and mining companies.
A typical This business operates from 121 service centres in contract in this business would be for the rental of 20-25 megawatts enough to power over Europe, North, Central & South America, the Middle East, Asia and Australasia.
These service centres look 10,000 households for 6-9 months.
after customers who are normally within a radius of 150 miles and they offer the complete range of our We use standardised equipment: 1 megawatt containerised units of our own design assembled products and services.
in our own factory in Scotland.
These generators are designed specifically to be easily transportable, A typical contract in this business would be worth around 3,000 and last 2-3 weeks.
In 2007 the reliable and robust.
Power projects can arise anywhere in the world and the required response Local business accounted for 71% of our revenues 1 excluding pass-through fuel, amounting to some time is generally days or weeks rather than hours.
To support these projects we concentrate our fleet in a small number of hubs in South America, Europe, the Middle East and Asia.
From each hub large amounts of equipment can be shipped or own rapidly to wherever it is needed.
In 2007, our International Power Projects business generated revenues of 181.2 million, or 29% of Aggrekos 1 total revenue excluding pass-through fuel revenue.
1 Pass-through fuel revenue relates to contracts in our International Power Projects business in Sri Lanka and Uganda where we provide fuel on a pass-through basis.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5 OUR BUSINESS MODELS Who are our customers?
Competitive environment Aggreko serves every industry that uses power, Our biggest competitors are not rental companies, temperature control, or oil-free compressed air, but equipment manufacturers.
When customers need making our customer-base very diverse, both equipment, they have the choice to buy, or to rent.
in terms of geography and market segment.
Most customers choose to buy, rather than rent, equipment although the decision over which path to take will depend on many different factors.
So in terms Aggreko revenue by customer segment of pricing and service, we always have to be focused Excluding pass-through fuel revenue on the fact that customers have a choice, not only from 1 other rental companies, but also from manufacturers.
1 Utilities 29% 10 2 Manufacturing 10% 3 Petrochemical and The barriers to entry in our business are low: many 9 rening 9% companies, small and large drift in and out of rental 4 Construction 8% 8 and competition in each market is erce.
However, to 5 Oil and gas 7% have global scale in our business requires significant 6 Military 7% 7 2 distribution, technical expertise, and a great deal of 7 Contracting 6% capital investment.
Over the last ten years, several 8 Services 6% 6 9 Events 5% of the worlds largest companies have tried to build 3 5 10 Other 13% global scale, but none have been willing to match 4 Aggrekos rate of investment in fleet and global Source: Aggreko internal reports distribution.
There is no single competitor that operates across the same breadth of geography and product markets as Aggreko.
Aggreko revenue by geography Excluding pass-through fuel revenue Typically, competitors in the Local business are either privately-owned specialist rental businesses, 1 5 1 North America 27% or divisions of large plant-hire companies.
Most of 2 Europe 26% 4 them operate in a single country, and often in just 3 Middle East and Africa 32% 4 Asia and Australasia 10% a particular part of a country.
In most countries, 5 South America 5% competition is intense, but the competitors will tend to vary country by country.
There are a relatively 2 small number of larger companies which compete with us across a number of countries.
3 To compete on a global basis in the International Power Projects business requires a large fleet and Source: Aggreko internal reports the ability to sell and deploy it around the world.
No other company has the integrated global network that Aggreko has developed which allows us to move equipment rapidly around the world to areas of high demand.
In many countries sizable local companies, who will often be the distributors of major manufacturers such as Caterpillar, Cummins or Alstom, compete with us for contracts.
6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
