THE MARKET Our market Customers come to Aggreko when they need power, Examples of high-value, infrequent events temperature control or oil-free compressed air.
They or situations we have worked on include: might need it very quickly, for example when a power transformer fails in the local electricity grid, or they Large-scale power shortage Kenya, Sri Lanka may need it for such a short period of time that it and Venezuela.
is not economically viable to purchase a permanent installation.
For example, a major sporting event Major sporting events Ryder Cup, Football might use additional power and temperature control World Cup, SuperBowl.
Natural disasters Hurricanes Katrina and The nature of Aggrekos business means that it is Rita in 2005. event-driven our customers turn to us when something unusual happens.
Events range from the Military and aid agency support for very large and infrequent to the small and recurrent, post-conict re-construction Middle East, such as local power failures.
Examples of lower-value, more frequent, events on which we might work are: An oil renery needs additional cooling during the summer to maintain production throughput.
A glass manufacturer suffers a breakdown in its plant and needs power and oil-free-air compressors while its own equipment is being repaired.
A city centre needs chillers to create an ice-rink for the Christmas period.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 7 THE MARKET How big is the market, and what is our market share?
Because we operate in very specic niches of the By triangulating these techniques, we develop an rental market power, temperature control and oil-free estimate of market size.
In 2003, as part of our compressed air and across a very broad geography, strategy review, we estimated that the world-wide it is very difficult to estimate the size of our market.
market was worth around 1.1 billion, and that it would grow to about 1.3 billion by 2006.
We have A complicating fact is that our own activities serve to since done a great deal of further analysis, and our create market demand Rwanda and the Yemen did latest view is that the 2003 estimate was pretty not gure highly in our market forecasts in 2003, but accurate for the market size at that time, but, given are now important customers as a result of our sales our own growth over the period, our judgement is efforts.
Furthermore, our market is event-driven and that the market has since grown slightly faster than major events such as hurricanes in North America, we anticipated, and we now estimate it was in the Olympic Games, or major droughts in Africa can range of 1.3 billion to 1.5 billion in 2006. influence market size in the short-term.
Given our rental revenues of 489 million in 2007, As there is no third-party research that exactly matches this would imply an Aggreko world-wide share of our business, we have to use a number of different sales of around 33%.
Behind this lies enormous approaches to estimate the size of the global market.
In many non-OECD countries, where the All of our measurements of market size relate to rental rental market is barely developed, and where we are revenue, as services revenues such as fuel and freight called in to provide temporary utility power, we may are highly volatile, and do not have any reection have a very high market share for the period of the on underlying market size.
project, but none when it ends.
In OECD countries where the rental markets are better developed, our share of sales will generally be lower than the 33% For most OECD countries in which we operate, we estimate for our global share of sales.
However, we use three techniques: in nearly all the major markets in which we operate, Aggreko is the largest or second-largest player.
We use market intelligence to estimate the supply-side i. e. how large our competitors are.
This is notoriously inaccurate, as competitors often have much broader product ranges, and it is extremely difficult to work out how much of their revenue comes specifically from generators, and how much from the many other lines of equipment they may offer.
In our Local business, the implementation of our new IT system, and a much sharper emphasis on sector-based marketing, is helping us to develop an improved understanding of our revenue by sector and customer.
For our International Power Projects business, we have invested considerable effort in proprietary research with professional economists to develop models which forecast the supply of, and demand for, power.
Third-party data, where it is available.
8 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Country 10 Country 9 Country 8 Country 7 Country 6 Country 5 Country 4 Country 3 Country 2 Country 1 What is driving market growth?
Growth in Aggrekos Local business is driven In seeking to understand the drivers of growth better, by four main factors: we have devised the concept of Aggreko GDP: this is the GDP of a country weighted to account GDP as an economy grows, so does demand for Aggrekos sectoral mix of revenues.
this means that we are weighted more towards manufacturing than, say, financial services.
Over the Propensity to rent how inclined people are past few years, we have observed that in countries to rent rather than buy.
This is driven by issues where the growth rate of Aggreko GDP is below 5%, such as the tax treatment of capital assets our revenues tend to grow a few percentage points and the growing awareness and acceptance faster than Aggreko GDP.
In economies where of outsourcing.
Aggreko GDP growth is above 5%, we get an increasingly leveraged effect, with Aggreko sales Price this is linked to the first two, but is also growth far outpacing GDP growth.
This is for a dependent on rental equipment availability: if number of reasons, but most notably, simply that there is a surplus, prices will decline, and in when economies are growing fast, customers want times of shortage, prices will increase.
equipment quickly, they want high levels of service, and they want to focus on doing what they are good Events high-value low-frequency events at, rather than owning large amounts of equipment.
change the size of a market, although only temporarily.
For example, the scale of Hurricane The graph below plots this relationship between Katrina in 2005 led to a short-term surge in growth in Aggrekos revenues by country and growth temporary power demand in the areas affected in Aggreko nominal GDP.
We would caution that these by the hurricane.
gures include the impact of the GE Energy Rentals acquisition in December 2006, which will exaggerate the underlying sales growth in some countries, but we feel that the trend they show is directionally correct.
Aggreko Revenue CAGR 03-07 vs Aggreko Nominal GDP % Aggreko GDP Aggreko Revenue 45.0 40.0 35.0 30.0 25.0 20.0 15.0 10.0 5.0 0.0 -5.0 Source: Oxford Economics, Aggreko Management accounts: Note includes GE-ER revenues in 2007 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 2004 2002 2000 1998 1996 1994 1992 1990 1988 THE MARKET What is driving market growth?
Over the last five years none of the markets we To make this situation worse, the next ten years will operate in have been in recession, so we have no see the start of a replacement cycle whereby the reliable data on what happens when GDP growth large amount of generating capacity installed in the goes negative.
However, it is probably fair to assume 1960s and 70s will need to be replaced.
Between that this relationship also works in reverse in other now and 2015, some 25% of the worlds installed words, in times of negative economic growth, our power-generating capacity will be reaching the end revenues would fall faster than the economy as a of its life which we estimate at about 40 years.
And the impact on profits would be severe, as the margin enhancement we see when revenues The combination of these factors lead us to believe are rising would also reverse.
In these situations the that over the next 7 years, the world-wide shortfall benets of geographic diversity will be especially of power generating capacity will grow from about important, as we would shift investment and fleet 50 gigawatts to between 600 and 1,000 gigawatts from under-performing to over-performing economies.
this compares with a global operating capacity of around 4,000 gigawatts in 2006.
If we are right, Overall, we estimate that the market addressed by by 2015, the world will be short of somewhere our Local business for the short-term rental of power, between the equivalent of the entire generating temperature control and oil-free compressed air is capacity of the EU and of the United States.
Such growing at some 2-3% above GDP in developed a shortfall would produce many, many power cuts.
So if GDP grows at 3% on average, our In these circumstances, Aggrekos offering, which is market should grow at 5%.
In countries with rates of to add enough additional generating capacity to put nominal GDP growth that are above 5%, the market the lights back on in weeks, rather than years, will be can grow much faster.
a compelling proposition to more and more customers.
The factors which drive the growth of our International Rolling 3-year average growth Power Projects business are somewhat different.
The in power consumption main trigger of demand is power cuts: when the lights go out in a country, people want power restored as % World OECD Non-OECD 9.0 quickly as possible.
It is a perverse fact that people 8.0 value power most when they are without it.
We 7.0 believe that in many parts of the world, and most 6.0 particularly in many developing countries, there will 5.0 be increasing numbers of power cuts, caused by a 4.0 3.0 combination of burgeoning demand for power and 2.0 inadequate investment in new capacity.
We believe 1.0 that demand for power is going to grow much faster 0.0 than is commonly believed: work we have done with Oxford Economics forecasts that world-wide demand for power will grow by around 5% per Source: IEA, Oxford Economics annum between now and 2015, compared with forecasts by the International Energy Agency IEA of around 3.5%.
Our forecasts are based on a sharp divergence between the growth in power consumption between OECD and non-OECD countries in recent years, as shown in the graph to the right.
10 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 DIRECTORS STATEMENTS Directors Statements Chairmans Statement 12 Board of Directors 14 Directors Responsibilities 16 Directors Report 17 Results and Dividends 17 Business Review 17 Group Strategy 17 Business Line Strategy 19 Looking Ahead 21 Management of Resources 22 Principal Risks and Uncertainties 23 Key Performance Indicators 27 Review of Trading 29 Detailed Financial Review 33 Other Matters 37 Annual General Meeting 38 Auditors 40 Material Share Interests 40 Corporate Governance 41
