Directors Report Business Review Rupert Soames Group Strategy Chief Executive Our strategy, which was initially developed following an in-depth review of Aggrekos business in 2003, has remained consistent for the last four years and continues to be the basis of our business planning.
At its heart, Aggrekos mission is to deliver long-term shareholder value by investing in, and managing effectively, its core business of renting power and temperature control equipment on a global basis.
The strong growth in revenues, margins and returns on capital achieved over the last four years, as shown below, indicate to us that the strategy is the right one, Angus Cockburn and we continue to work relentlessly to implement it.
Finance Director Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel 2007 2003 CAGR Revenue m 634 324 18% Trading profit m 131 42 33% Trading margin 21% 13% Return on capital employed ROCE 26% 13% calculated using average net operating assets Aggrekos strategy is developed by an iterative process The Directors present their report and the of examining the factors which will affect the business audited financial statements for the year ended in the years ahead.
We seek to develop a deep 31 December 2007. understanding of the drivers of demand, changing customer requirements, the competitive environment, Results and Dividends as well as likely developments in technology and The profit for the financial year after taxation was regulation.
We look at our own strengths and 80.7 million 2006: 46.2 million.
The retained weaknesses, and at the opportunities and threats that profit for the financial year of 61.5 million 2006: are likely to face us.
From this analysis, we develop a 29.5 million has been transferred to reserves.
list of investment and operational options, and analyse their relative risks and rewards, bearing in mind the An interim dividend of 3.04 pence per ordinary capabilities and resources of the Group.
share was paid on 16 November 2007 at a cost of 8.1 million 2006: 6.7 million and the Directors now recommend a final dividend of 5.02 pence per ordinary share payable on 16 May 2008 at an estimated cost of 13.4 million 2006: 11.1 million.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Directors Report continued We test our strategy on a regular basis.
Having We made good progress against these objectives conducted a root-and-branch review in 2003 we in 2007: re-examined our conclusions in 2005.
Again, in 2007, we have carried out a thorough review of our markets Total capital expenditure increased in 2007 to and service offerings.
The main conclusions of this 180.6 million, 52.6 million up on the prior year, latest review were as follows: representing 195% of the depreciation charge.
172.4 million was investment in new fleet The strategy developed in 2003 and re-confirmed 2006: 114.1 million.
In terms of operating efficiency, in 2007: The Groups core markets of power and temperature revenue per employee increased by 5%: control rental are growing at a healthy rate, and revenue per of Average Net Operating Assets this gives it plenty of growth opportunities.
has increased by 1%: and ROCE has increased from 22% to 26%.
The in-depth analysis we have made of the drivers Note: All ratios relate to revenue and profit excluding of growth in our International Power Projects pass-through fuel and exceptional items.
business indicates that the world is beginning to face structural shortages of power, which will last many In terms of improving marketing and operational years and which will sustain demand for our services.
reach we opened new locations in Edmonton Canada, Padova Italy and Shanghai: in addition, Our Local business also offers attractive the acquisition of GE Energy Rentals in December opportunities for growth, both from expanding 2006 brought us new service centres in Dorsten existing territories and developing new ones.
Germany, Santiago and Puerto Mont Chile, Campinas Brazil, Mexico City, Rancho Dominguez As a consequence of these conclusions, we believe California and Miami.
Aggreko rented equipment that it is in shareholders interests that we increase in more than 100 countries in 2007. the rate of investment in the business.
The focus of this investment will be: We completed the integration of GE Energy Rentals increasing our revenue-earning capacity, and the faster and at a lower cost than originally anticipated.
choice we can offer to our customers, by increasing the size of our rental fleet: The Group delivered significant growth in revenues improving our ability to serve customers by and earnings in 2007, as shown below: opening new service centres, both within existing markets and extending our reach into new Aggreko Group excluding pass-through fuel markets: and 2007 2006 Growth % improving the operational efficiency of our Revenue m 634 497 27% business by investing in training our employees, Trading profit m 131 85 54% improving processes, and extending our use of Trading margin 21% 17% information technology.
ROCE 26% 22% 18 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Line Strategy The first objective of our Local business strategy is to Supporting the Group strategy, Aggreko has developed create and maintain a clear differentiation between operational strategies for our two different lines of our offering and that of our competitors.
Our research business: shows that Aggreko is regarded by our customers as providing extremely good service, and that we deliver The Local business delivers the complete range of high levels of customer satisfaction.
We are determined our services, from small generators to large cooling to maintain this reputation for premium service and plants, to customers who are typically within a few we do this through the attitude and expertise of our hours driving time of our service centres: staff, the geographic reach of our operations, the design, availability and reliability of our equipment, The International Power Projects business provides and the ability to respond to our customers 24 hours large utility-grade power plants on a global basis to a day, 7 days a week.
power utilities, the military and major industrial users.
The second objective of our strategy is to be extremely The Local business efficient in the way we run our operations.
This is The Local business serves customers from 121 service essential if we are to provide superior customer service centres in 31 countries in North, Central and South at a competitive price, and at the same time deliver America, Europe, the Middle East, Singapore, to our shareholders an attractive return on capital.
This is a business with high a business in which lead-times are short, logistics are transaction volumes: average contracts have a value complex, and we process a large number of low-value of around 3,000 and last for 2-3 weeks.
The Local transactions, an essential pre-condition of efficiency business, excluding pass-through fuel, represents 71% is having high quality systems and processes.
of Aggrekos revenues and 62% of trading profit.
The operation of our Local businesses in Europe and Aggreko Local business North America is based on a hub-and-spoke model 2007 % of Group which has two types of service centre: hubs hold our larger items of equipment as well as providing service Revenue m 453 71% and repair facilities.
Spokes are smaller and act as Trading profit m 81 62% logistics points from which equipment can be delivered Trading margin 18% quickly to a customers site.
The hubs and spokes Capital employed m 363 71% ROCE 23% have been organised into areas in which a manager has responsibility for the revenues, profitability and use of capital within that area.
In this model, most Since 2003, the performance of the Local business has administrative and call handling functions are carried improved sharply: out in central rental centres.
Local business This operating model is delivering a number of 2007 2003 CAGR benets.
For our customers, it means faster and Revenue m 453 258 15% more consistent levels of service and response.
For Trading profit m 81 27 32% Aggrekos Local business, it means an operating model Trading margin 18% 10% which allows us to increase revenues faster than costs.
ROCE 23% 11% In other words, it is allowing us to develop a more scalable business model and, as revenues increase, to improve our margins.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 19 Directors Report continued A further benefit of the Local business model is that International Power Projects now represents 29% of profit and capital employed can be measured at the Group revenues and 38% of trading profit excluding same point in the organisation.
A key feature of our pass-through fuel: culture is to devolve responsibility and authority to the lowest point at which we can measure return on International Power Projects excl pass-through fuel capital employed, which is the key metric of efficiency 2007 % of Group in any business as capital-intensive as ours.
Revenue m 181 29% Trading profit m 50 38% An integral part of the strategy for the Local business Trading margin 27% is the implementation of our Enterprise Resource Capital employed m 146 29% Planning ERP system which will provide a single, ROCE 34% global, IT system for managing our business.
The Note: Pass-through fuel refers to revenues we generate from two customers for whom we have agreed to manage the provision system gives us greatly improved visibility of the of fuel on a pass-through basis.
This revenue stream uctuates business, which will enable us to drive improvements rapidly with the cost of fuel and the volumes taken, while having in operating efficiency.
The system is fully operational little impact on our profitability.
We therefore exclude passin Europe and North America, and is currently being through fuel from most discussions of our business.
We have now begun the process of delivering the full potential of Since 2003, the International Power Projects business the ERP system in terms of real-time information has grown rapidly: and better efficiency through streamlined processes.
International Power Projects In 2003 and 2004, the focus of our strategy for the 2007 2003 CAGR Local business was directed towards expanding market Revenue m 181 66 29% shares and increasing operational efficiency in existing Trading profit m 50 15 35% geographies.
Since 2005, we have been expanding our Trading margin 27% 23% Local business into new territories and market sectors.
ROCE 34% 25% International Power Projects In this business, our strategy is determined by the This business serves the requirements of power observation of two key characteristics of the market.
utilities, governments, armed forces and major The first is that demand can shift rapidly between industrial users for the temporary provision of largecontinents.
Five years ago, South America and Sri scale power-generation.
Power plants range in size Lanka were the largest markets, and Africa was only from 10 megawatts MW to 100MW, and the initial a small proportion of global demand.
In 2007, the contract value will typically be around 1 million, market in Africa was larger than South America and with a duration of around six months, although Sri Lanka combined.
It would not surprise us if this many contracts are subsequently extended beyond situation were to reverse again in the next three this.
The business operates in areas where we do not years.
These shifts in demand were driven in part by have a large Local business.
Most of the customers rainfall patterns, in part by the relationship between are power utilities in Africa, the Middle East, Asia economic growth and investment in permanent power and South America.
The driver of demand in these generation and geo-political issues.
To be successful markets is that our customers economies are growing, in the long-term, therefore, requires the ability to with consequent increases in demand for additional capture demand wherever and whenever it may arise, power which cannot be met in the short-term by and that requires sales, marketing and operational installed generating capacity.
As a result, many of infrastructure to be present in all the target markets.
them face chronic power shortages which damage their ability to support economic growth and increased prosperity.
These shortages are often caused or exacerbated by the variability of supply arising from the use of hydro-electric power plants whose output is dependent on rainfall.
20 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The second observation is that this is a business in Looking Ahead which size brings significant advantages.
There are Our strategy is working well and has produced excellent numerous reasons for this: results.
We have strengthened our competitive position in all markets.
A large business, with global distribution and a large fleet, which can move assets around the world to The acquisition of GE Energy Rentals, completed meet demand wherever it arises can be reasonably in December 2006, was a major step forward in the confident when it invests in new equipment that, implementation of our strategy.
The strategic rationale over its economic life of 8-10 years, the equipment behind the acquisition was that, at a time when will be on rent for enough of the time to keep in Aggreko was growing rapidly, it increased our fleet by place the operational infrastructure needed to about 30%, and at a lower cost than buying new fleet.
support the equipment, and to earn an economic Secondly, it strengthened our position in important return on the investment.
A business which only markets, such as South & Central America, USA, operates in a single region or continent will be Europe, and in certain important market sectors such exposed to significant volatility in demand, and as Major Events for example, the Football World consequently long periods with idle fleet, which Cup and the Olympics.
Thirdly, GE Energy Rentals will seriously dilute investment returns.
employed a large number of talented people who could help support our future growth.
The integration Each year, a number of emergency requirements of this acquisition is now complete and the rationale arise, often as a consequence of breakdown in behind the acquisition remains solid.
permanent generating capacity, for which equipment has to be deployed in a matter of days.
These In terms of the Local business, we will continue to contracts are important because in many cases, they drive operational improvement, focusing on turning are the foundation of long-term, valuable customer our ERP system into a competitive advantage.
To be able to respond to them, intend to grow our market share in North America however, requires the immediate availability of fleet, and Europe, and we will expand the footprint of our and the operational capacity to deploy anywhere Local business in Asia and South America.
It is much easier to nd 30MW of as organic growth, we will also look for opportunities equipment available for immediate mobilisation to grow our business through the acquisition of in a fleet of 2,000MW than in a fleet of 200MW.
companies or assets in our core markets.
It is our experience that it is possible to run large The International Power Projects business has made eets to higher levels of utilisation than small eets.
good progress expanding further in Africa, South This means that large operators can offer better America and Asia.
Our strategy is to continue to pricing to customers.
invest heavily in this business to enable it to further increase its scale and reach.
This will deliver increasing Large operators are able to negotiate better terms revenues and profits and will reduce the volatility with suppliers, and can invest in the design and inherent in the power projects business.
A growing assembly skills which allow them to deliver proportion of our future investment is likely to be in equipment optimised to rental requirements at gas-fuelled generators, which produce lower emissions a lower capital cost than is generally available and which, for some customers, are cheaper to run than to small-scale operators.
We think that this technology could become an important niche in the International Power In summary, a large operator will have lower volatility Projects marketplace in the years ahead.
of demand, better lifetime utilisation of equipment, be better able to respond to emergency requirements, and We believe that the drivers of demand in International will have a lower fleet cost per MW.
In International Power Projects are strong, and will remain so for as long Power Projects, bigger is better and Aggreko is now as developing countries are growing their economies larger than any other competitor in this market, as faster than they can invest in new permanent power well as being the only company to have distribution generation capacity.
Aggrekos ability to offer large in all the major markets.
amounts of reliable power, immediately available and Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Directors Report continued delivered to the point of need, without the requirement Physical assets for customers to commit large amounts of capital is a Many rental businesses provide standard products to compelling proposition for many customers, and will their customers.
The car or hammer-drill you rent is remain so for years to come.
the same as the one you can buy.
Aggrekos equipment is different: manufacturers of generators, temperature Management of Resources control equipment and oil-free air compressors This section describes how we manage our key generally design their product to be installed and resources to deliver the strategy outlined above.
stay in the same location for its working life.
For our business, however, this equipment has to be lifted and People transported thousands of times during its working life.
Aggreko has over 2,900 employees around the world, It must be able to work in extreme conditions the and they are united by a unique culture.
Phrases such same generator might be working in 30C on an oil as customer focused, can-do, completely dependable rig in Russia one week, and in 45C in the Saudi capture part of the ethos of Aggreko employees.
This Arabian desert the next.
Designing and building culture has developed through the years, and derives equipment that can do this while remaining safe, from the fact that very often Aggreko is helping quiet, reliable and compliant with environmental and people and businesses to recover from, or to avoid, safety regulations is a key skill of Aggreko.
Customers are often for a rental company we design and manufacture most dependent on Aggreko people to keep things running, of our equipment, and our specialist in-house teams sometimes under very difficult circumstances.
Our based in Dumbarton, Scotland, understand intimately people are highly skilled, and many of them have the requirements of the environment in which the years of experience.
They are used to reacting quickly, fleet operates.
Not only do we have industry-leading getting the job done professionally and safely, and equipment, we also have a great deal of it 883 they respond well in a crisis.
million worth at original cost as at 31 December 2007.
Given the environment in which we operate, it is Unlike most other rental businesses, we have a policy essential that our people are properly trained, given of keeping equipment for its useful life.
This gives us a the correct level of responsibility and accountability to powerful incentive to maintain it well, which gives it make decisions on a timely basis and are remunerated both longer life and better reliability.
We have a large and incentivised appropriately.
Each part of the number of skilled engineers, well-equipped workshops business has training programmes in place to ensure and rigorous servicing regimes to ensure that our that our employees have the necessary skills to equipment is maintained to the highest standards.
perform their roles to a high level.
This training is a combination of on-the-job learning and specic Taking well-judged fleet investment decisions is a skill development through training courses.
A major key part of Aggrekos management task.
All material component of this training is related to Environmental investments are judged by reference to internal rates Health and Safety EH&S issues.
More detail of our of return, and we monitor utilisation daily.
Fleet is EH&S policies is given on pages 46 to 47. frequently moved between countries to optimise utilisation, and our ERP system gives us the ability The Companys remuneration policy, which is described to manage our fleet on a real time basis across the on pages 55 to 59, is aligned with the key objectives world, which, in turn, will enable us to optimise of growing earnings and delivering strong returns on its deployment and returns.
To underline this point the Groups long-term incentive scheme, and many senior managers annual bonuses, are based on targets set against both earnings per share and returns on capital employed.
22 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Financial resources We also have some businesses which, by their nature, The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its are exposed to particular sectors for instance our normal funding requirements in respect of on-going Australian business is highly dependent on mining working capital and capital expenditure over the activity, and our Middle East business has a large medium term.
These facilities are primarily in the form proportion of its work coming from construction.
of committed bank facilities, totalling 358.0 million at 31 December 2007, arranged on a bilateral basis with We mitigate this risk in a number of ways.
First, having a number of international banks.
The Group does not a global footprint is highly advantageous because we consider that the financial covenants contained in the can shift rental fleet and new investment away from facilities are restrictive to its operations.
135.2 million low-growth economies to higher-growth environments: of the total borrowings of 358.0 million are due to for example, we have recently moved fleet from Europe be renanced in September 2009 with the balance in and North America to the Middle East.
The Group anticipates that it will try to ensure that, as they grow, our businesses build a be able to fully renance the debt maturing together customer-base which is as diverse as possible, to reduce with any additional funding required to support the sectoral exposure.
In the Middle East, for instance, continued growth of the business.
we are investing in our temperature control business which will in time reduce our exposure to construction: Net debt amounted to 202.6 million at 31 December in North America we have special initiatives in place 2007 and at that date, un-drawn, committed facilities to develop our business in under-penetrated sectors.
Thirdly, in the event of a more generalised downturn in demand, we can quickly reduce capital expenditure.
Principal Risks and Uncertainties Given the large depreciation element in the business In the day to day operations of the Group, we face cost base 92.8 million in 2007, reducing capital risks and uncertainties.
Our job is to mitigate and expenditure below depreciation makes the business manage these risks, and the Board has developed a very cash generative which, in turn will reduce debt formal risk management process which is described and interest cost.
Set out below are some of the principal risks and uncertainties which we believe Over the last four years the price of fuel has could adversely affect us, potentially impacting the increased sharply, making power generation much employees, operations, revenue, profits, cash ows or more expensive.
On balance, this has worked to our assets of the Group.
This list is not exhaustive there advantage, because our customers in oil-producing are many things that could go wrong in an operation countries have been spending more money on as large and geographically diverse as ours and the temporary power as they invest in infrastructure, list might change as something that seems immaterial and customers not so blessed have found that the today assumes greater importance tomorrow.
pain of not having power was far greater than the pain of paying more for it.
However, there surely Economic conditions has to be a level at which the price of fuel starts There is a link in our business between demand for our to be a drag on the world economy in general, services and levels of economic activity: this link is and that would hurt Aggreko.
particularly evident in the Local business.
Historically, wherever economies have gone into recession, or GDP growth has slowed, our business has suffered, and the operational gearing inherent in our business models means that variations in demand can lead to much larger variations in profitability.
Even quite small changes in GDP growth-rates in an economy can affect our business for good or ill.
In an economy which is growing at 3%, our business is much busier than in an economy growing at 1%.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 Directors Report continued Events Failure to collect payments The business is, by nature, event driven.
People hire The majority of the contracts the Group enters generators not because it is a cheap form of electricity, into are small relative to the size of the Group, and but because some event or need makes it essential.
if a customer fails to pay a debt, this is dealt with in Aggrekos revenues, cashows and profits can be the normal course.
However, some of the contracts influenced signicantly by external events as evidenced the Group undertakes in developing countries are in the past by hurricanes in North America or by the substantial, and are in jurisdictions where payment contracts to supply power to military camps in the practices can be unpredictable.
The Group monitors Middle East.
These events are, by nature, difficult the risk prole and debtor position of all such to predict and, combined with the high operational contracts regularly, and deploys a variety of techniques gearing inherent in our business, can lead to volatility to mitigate the risks of delayed or non-payment: these in terms of performance.
By developing the business include securing advance payments, guarantees and globally and increasing and broadening the Groups various types of insurance.
As a result of the rigorous revenue base, the impact of a single event on the approach to risk management, the Group has overall Group will reduce.
Additionally, the ability to historically had a low level of bad debt.
However, move equipment around the world allows the Group while the rapid growth in our International Power to adjust to changes in utilisation caused by any Projects business makes it less likely that any bad debt changes in demand.
would be material to the Group, the increased number of contracts and countries we operate in increases the Political likelihood of suffering a loss at some point.
The Group operates in over 100 countries around the world, many of them in Africa, Asia and South Failure to conduct business dealings America.
In some jurisdictions there are significant with integrity and honesty risks of political instability which can result in civil Some of the countries in which the Group operates unrest, equipment seizure, renegotiation or nullification have a reputation for corruption, and, given that of existing agreements, changes in laws, taxation many of our contracts involve large sums of money, policies or currency restrictions.
Any of these could we are at risk of being accused of bribery and other have a damaging effect on the profitability of our unethical behaviour.
The first and most important operations in a country.
way of avoiding this risk is to ensure that people, both inside and outside the Group, know that Aggreko Prior to undertaking a contract in a new country, we does not engage in, and will not tolerate, bribery, carry out a risk assessment process to consider risks corruption or unethical behaviour.
We have a strict to our people, assets and to payments.
The safety of Ethics Policy, a copy of which is available on our our employees is always our first concern.
Rather than just publishing of risk is considered unsatisfactory we will decline to it, we get every employee to sign it when they join the participate in any contract: where there are potential business: every consultant acting on our behalf agrees issues, we develop detailed contingency plans.
Our to abide by it, and every consultancy or agency greatest exposure lies in our International Power agreement has an explicit term stating that the Projects business, and they perform risk assessments agreement will be terminated immediately if the on a contract-by-contract basis.
The Group uses a wide consultant or agent does not abide by our policy.
range of tools and techniques to manage risk, including insurances, bonds, guarantees and cash advances.
24 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Acquisitions Competition It is part of our strategy to acquire businesses in our Aggreko operates in a highly competitive business.
core market which can add value to Aggreko.
In the The barriers to entry are low, and in every major last three years, we have acquired one small business market in which we operate competitors are constantly the temperature control business of Prime Energy in entering or leaving the market.
We welcome this the USA, and one large global business GE Energy competition, as it keeps us sharp, and also helps to Rentals.
We are well aware that buying businesses grow the overall rental market, which in many can be risky, and that statistics show that acquisitions countries is under-developed.
In our view, the greatest areas of risk are: We monitor competitor activity carefully, but ultimately our only protection from suffering material over-paying: damage to our business by competitors is to work relentlessly to provide our customers with a high acquiring liabilities we do not know about: and and differentiated service proposition at a price that they believe provides good value.
Product technology and emissions regulation We mitigate these risks by having a rigorous acquisition The majority of Aggrekos fleet is diesel powered, process, which is overseen by the Board.
All and some of our equipment is over ten years old.
acquisitions are subject to detailed financial modelling, As part of the increasing focus on environmental using different scenarios, so we can understand the issues, countries are introducing legislation related likely returns in various circumstances.
We undertake to permissible levels of emissions, and this has the detailed due diligence, particularly on the operational potential to affect our business.
Our engines are sourced side, and we look for extensive warranties and from major manufacturers who in turn have to develop covenants from vendors.
Finally, we have a wellproducts which conform to legislation, so we are developed and effective acquisition integration model dependent on them being able to respond to legislation.
as demonstrated by the GE Energy Rentals integration.
We also have to be aware that when we buy a generator, we want to be able to rent it for its useful Operational incidents life, and to be able to move it between countries.
The business of the group involves transporting, installing and operating large amounts of heavy To mitigate these risks, we adopt a number of strategies.
equipment, which produces lethal voltages or very First, we retain considerable in-house expertise on high pressure air and involves the use of millions engine technology and emissions so we have a good of litres of fuel which could cause serious damage understanding of these issues.
Secondly, we have very to the environment.
Every day, we manage the risks close relationships with engine manufacturers, so we get associated with this business, and we have carefully good forward visibility of their product development designed procedures to minimise the risk of an pipeline.
And when new products appear particularly accident.
However, if these procedures are not those with improved emissions performance we try followed, accidents can happen, and might result to introduce them into the fleet as quickly as possible, in injury to people, claims against the Group, and to ensure that over time our fleet evolves to ever-better damage to its reputation and its chances of winning levels of emissions performance.
An example of this and retaining contracts.
is the significant investment we have made in the development of our recent gas-fuelled technology.
The Group has a proactive operational culture that Thirdly, if emissions-compliance becomes such an puts health and safety at the top of its agenda in order issue that it begins to impact our business in a material to reduce the likelihood of an accident.
We work very way in some territories, our global footprint will be closely with our customers, employees and Health & a major advantage, as it gives us numerous options Safety authorities, to evaluate and assess major risks to for the re-deployment of our fleet.
ensure that health and safety procedures are rigorously followed.
The Group has developed health and safety KPIs which are reviewed by the Board on a regular basis and are discussed on page 27.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Directors Report continued People Investor Relations and market abuse Aggreko knows that it is people that make the The Groups reputation and or share price could difference between great performance and mediocre suffer due to inappropriate or inadequate engagement performance.
This is true at all levels within the with investors including, for example: failure to business.
We are keenly aware of the need to attract communicate consistent, co-ordinated messages the right people, establish them in their roles and and failure to provide adequate information on manage their development.
As a framework for people performance and events in the business.
Since development we have in place a talent management inevitably management is in possession of marketprogramme, which covers most of the management sensitive information from time to time, the business population.
Under this programme, we try to identify is at risk from market abuse and insider dealing.
the development needs of each individual from the outset, as well as identifying successor candidates Our approach to this is to recognise that investors for senior roles.
have legitimate interests in the Groups business, and that shareholder value will be enhanced by timely, Another risk is that competitors seek to recruit our key clear, open, honest and transparent communication personnel.
For many years Aggreko has been a target with markets and investors.
Accordingly, the Group for recruitment, and we manage this on a daily basis: Chief Executive and Finance Director co-ordinate we actually regard it as a compliment that so many all communications with markets and investors, companies want to recruit our people.
The main and controls are in place to make sure that all mitigation for this is to make sure that people enjoy Group communication corporate, regional and working for Aggreko, and that they feel that they local is consistent and co-ordinated.
The Group are recognised, cared for, and have challenging and also applies very clear rules to prevent market abuse interesting jobs.
Reward is also an important part of and insider dealing.
the equation, and there can be little doubt that our policy of rewarding people well for good performance, Accounting and Treasury major fraud and of having a successful Long-Term Incentive Plan, There is a risk that fraud or accounting discrepancies has acted as a powerful retention tool.
Of the 117 may occur if the financial and operational control people who have participated in the plan in the last framework is inadequate.
This may distort the four years fewer than 10 have left voluntarily.
In order to mitigate this risk, significant work has been undertaken to put in place Information Technology a robust control framework.
Additionally a strong Our business involves high transaction volumes, Internal Audit function reviews the operation of this complex logistics, and the need to track thousands control framework and reports regularly to the Audit of assets on hundreds of sites.
We are therefore heavily Committee.
The risk is also mitigated by recruiting dependent on the resilience of both the application and developing a strong finance function which is software we use an ERP system called Movex and focused on ensuring the accuracy and integrity of of the data-processing and network infrastructure.
A serious failure in this area would immediately and materially affect our business.
The Groups asset values, earnings and cash ows are influenced by a wide variety of currencies due to the The Group has a detailed disaster recovery plan in geographic diversity of the Groups customers and place which is tested on a regular basis.
Our main areas of operation.
The majority of the Groups data centre in Glasgow has high levels of resilience revenue and costs are denominated in US dollars.
built into it, and we also have a physically separate The relative value of currencies can uctuate widely third-party disaster-recovery site.
Additionally, we and could have a material and adverse impact on now have a second data centre operational in Dubai the Groups asset values, costs, earnings and cash which will allow the Group to continue processing ows.
Further discussion of this topic can be found data in the event of a major incident.
26 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Key Performance Indicators The Groups performance during 2007 has shown an The Group uses a large number of performance improvement over the previous two years and is much indicators to measure operational and financial better than the benchmark statistic reported for US activity in the business.
Most of these are studied on rental and leasing industries published by the US a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
A well-developed Department of Labor which was 1.0 in 2006.
Further management accounts pack, with profit and loss discussion of Health & Safety matters can be found statements, key ratios related to capital productivity in this report in the Risks and Uncertainties section and customer satisfaction scores are prepared for page 25 and under Corporate Social Responsibility each profit centre monthly.
FAR was as follows: Year ended 31 December There are five Key Performance Indicators KPIs 2007 2006 2005 which we use as measures of the longer-term health FAR 0.50 0.75 0.98 of the business.
They are: Returns on average capital employed safety: In a business as capital-intensive as Aggrekos, profitability alone is a poor measure of performance: it returns on average capital employed: is perfectly possible to be generating good margins, but poor value for shareholders, if assets and in particular, earnings per share: fleet are being allocated incorrectly.
We believe that, by focusing on return on average capital employed customer loyalty: and ROCE, we measure both margin performance and capital productivity, and we make sure that unit staff turnover.
managers are tending their balance sheets as well as their profit and loss accounts.
We calculate ROCE Safety by dividing operating profit for a period by the average Our business involves the frequent movement of of the net operating assets as at 1 January, 30 June heavy equipment which, in its operation, produces and 31 December.
ROCE was as follows: lethal voltages and contains thousands of litres of fuel.
Rigorous safety processes are absolutely essential Year ended 31 December if we are to avoid accidents which would cause injury 2007 2006 2005 to people and damage our reputation and property.
% %% Safety processes are also a basic benchmark of ROCE 26.7 22.1 18.6 operational discipline and there is, in our view, a close correlation between a well-run business and a safe business.
In our experience, businesses with poor safety records nearly always have other management or operational deficiencies.
The main KPI we use to measure safety performance is the internationally recognised Frequency Accident Rating FAR which is calculated as the number of lost time accidents multiplied by 200,000 being the base for 100 employees working 40 hours per week, 50 weeks per year divided by the total hours worked.
A lost time accident is a work related injury illness that results in an employees inability to work the day after the initial injury illness.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Directors Report continued Earnings per share These questionnaires generate enormous amounts Measuring the creation or destruction of shareholder of data about how customers view our processes and value is a complex and much-debated topic.
We believe performance, and in order to distil this down into a that EPS, while not perfect, is an accessible measure single usable indicator, we track a ratio called the Net of the returns we are generating as a Group for our Promoter Score NPS.
Broadly speaking, it measures shareholders, and also has the merit of being auditable the relative weight of people who think we do an and well understood.
So, for the Group as a whole, excellent job against those who think we are average the key measure of short-term financial performance or worse.
is diluted earnings per share pre-exceptional items Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based In aggregate, our NPS in 2007 was 52 2006: 50. on profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted Within this score, our North American business to exclude exceptional items divided by the diluted improved on last year with levels comparable to weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking or better than many of the best performers across all for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS industries in the United States.
Our European scores was as follows: also have improved on last year and, while respectable, show that there is still room for improvement.
During Year ended 31 December 2007 our International business started to roll out the 2007 2006 2005 Satmetrix system and while we are still in the early pence pence pence stages the results are encouraging.
Adjusted EPS 30.02 19.87 13.72 Staff turnover Customer loyalty In a service business like Aggreko, it is the attitude, The Group deals every year with thousands of skill and motivation of our staff which makes the customers, and we have developed a process by which difference between mediocre and excellent we can objectively measure the performance of our performance, and staff retention is a reasonable business units, not only in financial terms but also proxy for how employees feel about our company.
the extent to which they are making customers feel We monitor staff turnover which is measured as the inclined to return to us the next time they need number of employees who left the Group other than the services we provide.
We believe that real-time through redundancy during the period as a proportion measurement of our performance, as seen by our of the total average employees during the period.
customers, gives us visibility of operational issues Staff turnover was as follows: which might otherwise take months to emerge through the profit-and-loss account.
Accordingly, we Year ended 31 December 2007 2006 2005 use the Satmetrix system, whereby we send customers % %% an email immediately after a contract closes asking Staff turnover 16.2 14.9 15.2 them to ll out a detailed questionnaire of how they thought we performed.
This data is then collated to conform to the same management structure as our This metric has got slightly worse in 2007, although profit and loss accounts, so that in monthly still well within the normal bounds of businesses management accounts we see not only a teams operating in markets similar to Aggrekos.
It is financial performance, but also their operational impossible to diagnose a single cause, but we would performance as measured by how well their customers guess that the strong demand in many of our markets think they have done for the same period.
for skilled power engineers, and the growing reputation of Aggreko, is making us a target for other companies recruitment efforts.
28 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Review of Trading The Groups growth was made possible by the fleet Group trading performance acquired from GE-ER at the end of December 2006 2007 was another excellent year for Aggreko.
Revenues and another significant increase in investment in and profits increased signicantly as a result of strong new fleet during the year.
Total capital expenditure demand, increased fleet investment and the successful for the year was 180.6 million, 52.6 million up on integration of the GE Energy Rentals GE-ER the prior year, at which level it represented 195% of business which we acquired in December 2006. the depreciation charge 2006: 176% of depreciation charge.
172.4 million 2006: 114.1 million was Movement investment in new fleet.
We also received a further 2 2007 2006 As Constant 4.9 million of equipment in relation to the final million million reported currency completion of the GE-ER acquisition.
Notwithstanding Revenue 693.2 540.7 28.2% 35.1% this substantial increase in fleet capacity, the ratio of Revenue excl revenue excluding pass-through fuel : gross rental pass-through fuel 633.8 497.3 27.5% 34.0% 1 assets, which is a key measure of capital productivity, Trading profit 132.9 86.7 53.3% 64.5% remained in line with last year at 74%.
Operating profit 135.9 89.5 51.8% 62.8% Net interest expense 11.7 6.4 81.7 % profit before tax 124.2 83.1 49.4% EBITDA earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation Taxation 43.5 29.9 45.3 % and amortisation for the year amounted to 230.3 profit after tax 80.7 53.2 51.8% million, up 41.5% on 2006 pre-exceptional items.
Basic earnings per Net cash inow was 2.6 million 2006: outow of share pence 30.33 20.05 51.3% 102.3 million, which is particularly pleasing given 1 Trading profit represents operating profit before gain on sale that capital expenditure was 87.8 million higher than of property, plant and equipment.
Working capital movements in the year 2 2006 numbers are pre-exceptional items of 9.2 million pre-tax reected focused cash management with revenue: 7.0 million post tax related to the acquisition of GE-ER.
debtors in line with last year and revenue: inventories only decreasing slightly, notwithstanding the As reported, Group revenue at 693.2 million 2006: acquisition of GE-ER.
540.7 million was 28.2% higher than 2006, while Group trading profit of 132.9 million 2006: 86.7 Update on the acquisition of GE Energy Rentals million was 53.3% ahead of 2006.
This delivered The Group acquired the Energy Rentals business of an increase in Group trading margin from 16.0% in GE-ER in December 2006.
This acquisition increased 2006 to 19.2% in 2007.
Return on capital employed, our world-wide power and temperature control fleet by measured as operating profit divided by average net about 30%, and the integration of the two businesses operating assets, improved to 26.7% 2006: 22.1%.
The organisational challenges associated with integrating the employees from GE-ER Group profit before tax increased by 49.4% to 124.2 into the Aggreko business are now behind us and we million 2006: 83.1 million : profit after tax was 80.7 are delighted by the calibre of our new colleagues and million 2006: 53.2 million, up 51.8%.
Earnings per the speed with which they assimilated themselves into share grew 51.3% to 30.33 pence 2006: 20.05 pence.
All the major property changes have been executed and the GE business was very quickly The impact of currency movements mainly the US transferred onto Aggrekos information technology dollar exchange rate has been to decrease revenue platform.
In terms of the acquired fleet, the great by 27.7 million and trading profit by 5.9 million.
majority has now been re-branded and serviced.
In 2007 pass-through fuel revenues amounted to 59.4 million 2006: 43.4 million and generated a trading profit of 2.2 million 2006: 1.6 million.
On an underlying basis, excluding the impact of the currency movements and the pass-through fuel, Group revenue grew by 34.0% as reported: 28.2% and trading profit by 64.9% as reported: 53.3%.
On the same basis trading margin was 20.6% as reported: 19.2% which compares with 17.1% in 2006 as reported: 16.0%.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Directors Report continued Regional trading performance as reported in million Revenue Trading profit 2007 2006 Change 2007 2006 Change Management Group Geography Line of business million million % million million % Local business North America USA and Canada 168.3 159.0 5.9% 35.6 33.8 5.5% Europe Northern Europe 80.8 66.1 22.3% 9.8 3.5 181.6% Europe Continental Europe 87.1 69.6 25.1% 11.5 7.4 55.4% International: Local businesses Middle East, Asia-Pacic, South America 116.4 77.6 50.1% 24.5 15.7 55.3% Sub-total Local business 452.6 372.3 21.6% 81.4 60.4 34.7% International Power Projects International International Power Projects excl.
Power rental revenue for 2007 was 15.3% ahead of the prior year while Local business: North America temperature control revenue for the year was 18.9% ahead of last year.
Oil-free air rental revenue was 2007 2006 10.8% ahead of the prior year.
$million $million Change % Revenue 337.1 293.1 15.0% As we said at the time of the acquisition, the main Trading profit 71.4 62.3 14.6% challenge in North America was putting to work the 45% increase in power fleet arising from the GE-ER Our Local business in North America, helped by the acquisition.
This fleet is now fully integrated into the acquisition of GE-ER, performed well in 2007 with Aggreko fleet and the majority of the equipment has revenue increasing 15.0% to $337.1 million and trading been serviced and re-branded.
profit increasing by 14.6% to $71.4 million.
Trading margin was in line with last year at 21.2%.
Most areas It remains difficult to forecast future levels of demand showed healthy growth in the year, although revenue for our services in North America, particularly since in the Gulf area and in our cooling tower business, both so much of our profit is generated during the summer of which benefited from the reconstruction work in the season.
Our business has a broad geographic footprint aftermath of the 2005 hurricane season, were below last and diverse base of customers in sectors such as year.
Revenue in the majority of our sectors increased manufacturing, petro-chemical industries, oil & gas on last year, particularly in the petrochemical, extraction and utilities, which will be impacted manufacturing, utilities and events sectors, however differently by any change in the macro-economic revenue in the construction and contracting sectors outlook.
Residential construction inevitably continues declined on the prior year.
to be weak but this has always been a very small 30 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 proportion of our revenues less than 5% in 2007.
Revenue in Continental Europe was 24.7% ahead However we are beginning to see some early signs of 2006 at 127.3 million with trading profit of of a slowdown in certain regions and sectors.
16.8 million being 55.0% ahead of last year, resulting in an improvement in trading margin from 10.6% in Local business: Europe 2006 to 13.2% in 2007.
Rental revenue grew by 28.7%, while services revenue grew by 17.1%.
Within rental Revenue revenue, power increased by 37.2%, temperature 2007 2006 control increased by 14.4% and oil-free air increased million million Change % by 25.7%.
Included within the headline numbers is Northern Europe 118.2 96.9 21.9% revenue relating to major power contracts in Russia Continental Europe 127.3 102.1 24.7% and Greece.
Excluding these major contracts, Total Europe 245.5 199.0 23.3% revenues increased by 21% over last year.
Revenue in all areas was up on last year with strong Trading profit performances from Spain, Italy and France.
In terms 2007 2006 million million Change % of sectors we had good performances from the services, Northern Europe 14.4 5.1 180.7% utilities and manufacturing sectors.
During the year Continental Europe 16.8 10.9 55.0% we opened a new service centre in Padova, Italy.
Total Europe 31.2 16.0 95.2% The focus for our European business in 2008 is to continue the drive for sales growth and margin The European business has delivered a second year of improvement.
We do not expect revenue growth to substantial growth in both revenues up 23.3% and be as high as in 2007, but we have already gained margins increased from 8.0% to 12.7%.
The margins some useful contract wins, including a contract to and returns are still not at the level we would like to provide power for the UEFA 2008 European Football see, but they are heading in the right direction.
Championship in Austria and Switzerland.
Revenue in Northern Europe which comprises Local business: Aggreko International our businesses in the UK, Ireland and the Nordic countries of 118.2 million was 21.9% ahead of the 2007 2006 prior year with revenue increasing in all areas.
We had $million $million Change % particularly strong performances in UK South East Revenue 233.1 143.0 63.0% and UK North, with strong construction and utility Trading profit 49.0 29.0 68.6% sector growth, and in our Events business which undertook a number of large contracts in the period, Aggreko Internationals Local businesses in the Middle including Glastonbury.
East, Asia, Australia, New Zealand, South & Central America had another excellent performance in 2007.
Rental revenue increased by 18.0%, with power In aggregate, year on year revenue grew by 63.0% to increasing by 26.3% but temperature control $233.1 million which resulted in trading profit growth decreased by 1.7% as a result of a generally cool of 68.6% to $49.0 million and a trading margin of summer.
Revenue from our smallest product, oil-free 21.0% as against 20.3% in 2006. air, decreased by 9.8%.
Services revenue, which mainly comprises fuel and transport, grew by 27.4%.
The majority of our depots in the Middle East business Revenue growth was driven across most sectors most reported another year of sharply increased activity notably utilities, contracting and services.
It is levels, with this growth driven by large infrastructure particularly encouraging to see Northern Europe projects particularly in the UAE, Saudi Arabia and trading profit increased by 9.3 million and the Qatar.
Although power is the strongest product in this margin improving from 5.3% to 12.1%.
region, it is pleasing to see our temperature control business almost doubling year on year.
In our Australian business, demand has been strong, driven by the mining industry and utility work.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 31 Directors Report continued The GE-ER acquisition has transformed the scale and Much of the revenue growth came from Africa and reach of our business in South & Central America.
the Middle East but Asia and South America also Revenues more than trebled, with strong demand grew signicantly.
As anticipated, on a sector basis we in the oil & gas and utilities sectors.
In Asia our increased our utility revenues as a percentage of total Singapore business continued its good growth driven revenue, although military revenues continued to grow.
by shipping and shipyard activity and our new business in Shanghai has had a strong start, winning its first Good progress has been made against our strategic major mining project within months of opening.
As objective to increase the scale of our Power Project a result of the success in Shanghai, we have decided business in South America and Asia.
In South America to focus our activities in China from there, and have we won several important multi-year contracts which, closed our service centre in Hong Kong.
in aggregate, require over 100MW of temporary power.
In Asia, we have won an 18-month contract for the Demand continues to be strong throughout most supply of 20MW of gas-powered generation in of Aggreko Internationals Local businesses, and we Indonesia: this is an important step forward for our expect continued growth in 2008, albeit at a slower new gas product, as well as for our Asian business.
In January 2008 we were delighted to be awarded the International Power Projects: Aggreko International supply contract for the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games.
The value of this contract is expected to be in the 2007 2006 region of $35 million and we will provide up to $million $million Change % 130MW of power across 40 Olympic venues in 6 cities.
Revenue excluding With this contract, and in light of the continued strong pass-through fuel 362.8 230.5 57.4% demand for power projects worldwide, we anticipate Trading profit excluding another strong performance from this business in 2008. pass-through fuel 99.1 45.6 117.3% Our International Power Projects business had another outstanding year, with revenues and profits excluding pass-through fuel increasing by 57.4% and 117.2% respectively.
This business continues to run at very high levels of utilisation on a fleet which, as a consequence of record levels of investment, is about 40% larger than a year ago.
During the year our International Power Projects business operated in 52 countries, and signed 27 new contracts and many extensions to existing contracts, including 100MW in Yemen, 40MW in Senegal, 20MW in Indonesia and 30MW in Angola.
The business experienced an abnormally low number of off-hires during the year, as customers chose to extend contracts, and the consequence of this was both higher revenues from reduced off-hire periods and lower costs from lower mobilisation fide-mobilisation charges which drove margins to 27.3%, up from 19.8% in 2006, which is an exceptionally high level.
32 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Detailed Financial Review Goodwill of 38.0 million 2006: 37.8 million is Critical accounting policies not amortised, but is tested annually for impairment The Groups significant accounting policies are set out and carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
in Note 1 to the financial statements.
The impairment review calculations require the use of estimates related to the future profitability and cash Preparation of the consolidated financial statements generating ability of the acquired assets.
requires Directors to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the consolidated Pensions financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual Pension arrangements for our employees vary outcomes could differ from those estimated.
depending on best practice and regulation in each country.
The Group operates a dened benefit scheme The Directors believe that the accounting policies for UK employees, which was closed to new employees discussed below represent those which require the joining the group after 1 April 2002: most of the other greatest exercise of judgement.
The Directors have schemes in operation around the world are varieties used their best judgement in determining the of dened contribution schemes.
estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of judgements could result in material Under IAS 19: Employee Benets Aggreko has changes to our reported results.
The discussion below recognised a pre tax pension deficit of 8.1 million should be read in conjunction with the full statement at 31 December 2007 2006: 13.1 million.
The of accounting policies, set out in Note 1 to the decrease in the pension deficit is mainly as a result of Financial Statements.
additional contributions made by the Company during the year of 5.0 million in line with the Recovery Property, plant and equipment Plan agreed for the Scheme following the actuarial Rental fleet accounts for around 90% 402 million valuation at 31 December 2005.
These improvements of the net book value of property, plant and equipment were partially offset by a lower than expected return used in our business: equipment in the rental fleet is on scheme assets.
typically depreciated over a period between 8 and 10 years.
The annual depreciation charge is sensitive to The main assumptions used in the IAS 19 valuation the estimated service lives allocated to each class of for the previous two years are shown in Note 28 of the asset.
Asset lives are reviewed regularly and changed if Accounts.
The sensitivities regarding the discount necessary to reect current thinking on their remaining rate and longevity assumptions are shown in the lives in light of technological change, prospective table below.
economic utilisation and the physical condition of the assets.
Assumptions Change in Indicative effect on the assumption schemes liabilities Intangible assets Discount rate Increase Decrease by In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations decrease 13.8% increase goodwill arising on acquisition of assets and subsidiaries by 0.5pp by 16.5% is capitalised and included in intangible assets.
IFRS 3 also requires the identication of other acquired Longevity Increase by Increase by intangible assets.
The techniques used to value these 1 year 2.4% intangible assets are in line with internationally used models but do require the use of estimates which may Taxation differ from actual outcomes.
Future results are impacted Aggrekos tax charge is based on the profit for the by the amortisation period adopted for these items and, year and tax rates in force at the balance sheet date.
potentially, by any differences between estimated and Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment actual circumstances related to individual intangible to be made of the potential tax treatment of certain assets.
The amortisation charge for intangible assets in items which will only be resolved once nally agreed 2007 was 1.6 million 2006: 0.8 million.
Included in with the relevant tax authorities.
this charge was 1.3 million related to the amortisation of intangible assets arising from the GE-ER acquisition 2006: nil.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Directors Report continued Currency translation Cashow The net overall impact of exchange rates on currency The net cash inow from operations during the year translation in 2007 was to decrease revenue and totalled 230.2 million 2006: 160.2 million.
This trading profit by 27.7 million and 5.9 million funded capital expenditure of 180.6 million, which respectively.
Currency translation also gave rise to a was 52.6 million higher than in 2006.
Although 5.6 million increase in reserves as a result of year on average net debt for the year was higher in 2007 than year movements in the exchange rates.
Set out in the in 2006, the absolute level at 31 December 2007 was table below are the principal exchange rates affecting 2.6 million lower than at the prior year end at the Groups overseas profits and net assets.
As a result of the decrease in net debt and the increase in shareholders equity, gearing net Per sterling debt as a percentage of equity at 31 December 2007 2007 2006 decreased to 69% from 91% at 31 December 2006.
Average Year End Average Year End Principal Exchange Net operating assets Rates The net operating assets of the Group including United States dollar 2.00 1.99 1.84 1.96 goodwill at 31 December 2007 totalled 554.0 million, Euro 1.46 1.36 1.47 1.49 up 83.8 million on 2006.
The main components of Other Operational Net Operating Assets are: Exchange Rates UAE Dirhams 7.35 7.33 6.77 7.20 million Australian dollar 2.39 2.27 2.45 2.49 2007 2006 Movement Source: Reuters Rental fleet 401.8 311.1 29.2% Property, plant 42.8 41.9 2.1% Interest Inventory 60.0 40.8 47.1% The net interest charge for the year was 11.7 million, Net trade debtors 114.7 96.3 19.1% an increase of 5.3 million on 2006, reecting the higher level of average net debt during the year, mainly A key measure of Aggrekos performance is the return arising out of the acquisition of GE-ER.
Interest cover expressed as operating profit generated from average decreased to 11.7 times from 13.9 times in 2006 net operating assets ROCE.
We calculate the pre-exceptional items but still remains very strong.
average net operating assets for a period by taking the average of the net operating assets as at 1 January, Effective tax rate 30 June and 31 December: this is the basis on which The effective tax rate for the full year is 35.0% as we report our calculations of Return on Capital compared with 36.0% in 2006.
This decrease in the Employed ROCE.
The average net operating assets tax rate largely reects the changes in the regional in 2007 were 508.8 million, up 26.1% on 2006.
2007 the ROCE increased to 26.7% compared with 22.1% in 2006.
A geographic analysis of our returns Dividends on net operating assets is set out in the table below: If the proposed final dividend of 5.02 pence is agreed by shareholders, it would result in a full year dividend 2007 2006 of 8.06 pence per ordinary share, giving dividend Europe 16.2% 9.7% cover of 3.76 times 2006: 2.98 times.
International 33.8% 25.1% North America 25.4% 30.3% Group 26.7% 22.1% 34 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Acquisition of GE Energy Rentals The 80.7 million of post-tax profit in the year On 4 December 2006 the Group acquired the entire represents a return of 27.5% on shareholders equity share capital of GE Energy Rentals Inc and the entire 2006: 23.5%, pre-exceptional items.
share capital of GE Energy do Brasil Ltda as well as substantially all the other trade and assets of GE-ER Treasury excluding those relating to gas turbines.
The The Groups operations expose it to a variety of maximum consideration payable was 112.0 million financial risks that include liquidity, the effects of and the fair value of net assets acquired was 65.3 changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest million resulting in estimated goodwill of 46.7 million.
The Group has a centralised The initial purchase consideration for this acquisition treasury operation whose primary role is to ensure that including transaction fees was 97.1 million with adequate liquidity is available to meet the Groups a further payment of up to 14.9 million dependent funding requirements as they arise, and that financial on the delivery by GE of additional fleet assets during risk arising from the Groups underlying operations 2007.
Due to the close proximity of this acquisition is effectively identied and managed.
to the December 2006 year end the fair value adjustments made in the 2006 Accounts were The treasury operations are conducted in accordance provisional.
These fair value adjustments were with policies and procedures approved by the Board nalised in the 2007 Accounts and the final purchase and are reviewed annually.
Financial instruments are price adjustment was agreed with GE, resulting in only executed for hedging purposes, and transactions a final purchase consideration of 96.7 million, fair that are speculative in nature are expressly forbidden.
value of net assets acquired of 59.1 million and Monthly reports are provided to senior management goodwill of 37.6 million at date of acquisition.
and treasury operations are subject to periodic internal and external review.
Shareholders equity Shareholders equity increased by 67.1 million to Liquidity, funding and capital management 293.3 million, represented by the net assets of the The Groups objective with respect to managing Group of 495.9 million before net debt of 202.6 capital is to maintain a balance sheet structure that is million.
The movements in shareholders equity are both efficient in terms of providing long-term returns analysed in the table below: to shareholders and safeguards the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
As appropriate the Movements in shareholders equity Group can choose to adjust its capital structure by million million varying the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, returns of capital to shareholders, issuing new shares As at 1 January 2007 226.2 or the level of capital expenditure.
profit for the financial year 80.7 1 The Group maintains sufficient facilities to meet its Dividend 19.2 normal funding requirements over the medium term.
Retained earnings 61.5 These facilities are primarily in the form of committed New share capital subscribed 1.9 bank facilities totalling 358.0 million at 31 December Purchase of own shares held 2007, arranged on a bilateral basis with a number of under trust 4.2 international banks.
The financial covenants attached Credit in respect of employee share awards 4.6 to these facilities are that operating profit should be Actuarial losses on retirement benets 0.1 no less than 3 times interest, and net debt should be Currency translation difference 5.6 no more than 3 times EBITDA.
The Group does not Movement in hedging reserve 6.4 consider that these covenants are restrictive to its 2 Other 4.2 operations.
Net debt amounted to 202.6 million at 31 December 2007 and at that date un-drawn As at 31 December 2007 293.3 1 committed facilities were 145.8 million.
Reects the final dividend for 2006 of 4.19 pence per share 2006: 3.77 pence and the interim dividend for 2007 of 3.04 pence per share 2006: 2.53 pence that were paid during the year.
2 Other includes tax on items taken directly to reserves.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35 Directors Report continued Interest rate risk Management of trade receivables The Groups policy is to minimise the exposure to The management of trade receivables is the interest rates by ensuring an appropriate balance of responsibility of the operating units, although they xed and oating rates.
The Groups primary funding report monthly to Group on debtor days, debtor ageing is at oating rates through its bank facilities.
In order and significant outstanding debts.
At an operating unit to manage the associated interest rate risk, the Group level a credit rating is normally established for each uses interest rate swaps to vary the mix of xed and customer based on ratings from external agencies.
At 31 December 2007 150.9 million Where no ratings are available, cash in advance of the net debt of 202.6 million was at xed rates of payment terms are often established for new customers.
interest resulting in a xed to oating rate net debt Credit limits are reviewed on a regular basis.
Some of ratio of 75:25. the contracts undertaken in our International Power Projects business are substantial, and are in jurisdictions Foreign exchange risk where payment practices can be unpredictable.
The The Group is subject to currency exposure on Group monitors the risk prole and debtor position the translation of its net investments in overseas of all such contracts regularly, and deploys a variety subsidiaries into sterling.
In order to reduce the of techniques to mitigate the risks of delayed or noncurrency risk arising, the Group uses direct borrowings payment: these include securing advance payments, in the same currency as those investments.
Group bank guarantees and various types of insurance.
On borrowings are currently drawn down in the principal large contracts, all such arrangements are approved currencies used by the Group, namely US Dollar, at Group level.
Contracts are reviewed on a case by Euro and Sterling.
case basis to determine the customer and country risk.
The Group manages its currency ows to minimise Insurance foreign exchange risk arising on transactions The Group operates a policy of buying cover where denominated in foreign currencies and uses forward possible for material risks from the global insurance contracts where appropriate in order to hedge net market, while self-insuring risks which would not currency ows.
have a material impact on the Group as a whole.
The Group monitors its insurance arrangements in Credit risk such a way to ensure the quality and extent of cover.
Cash deposits and other financial instruments give rise to credit risk on amounts due from counterparties.
Shareholder information The Group manages this risk by limiting the aggregate Our website can be accessed at www.
amounts and their duration depending on external This contains a large amount of information about our credit ratings of the relevant counterparty.
In the case business, including a range of charts and data, which of financial assets exposed to credit risk, the carrying can be down loaded for easy analysis.
The website also amount in the balance sheet, net of any applicable carries copies of recent investor presentations, as well provision for loss, represents the amount exposed as Stock Exchange announcements.
36 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 to annual re-election and, being eligible, offers himself Other Matters for re-election.
In proposing their re-election, the Share Capital Chairman confirms that the Nomination Committee Details of the changes in issued share capital during has considered the formal performance evaluation the year are shown in Note 23 to the accounts.
in respect of those Directors seeking re-election, the contribution and commitment of the Directors On 31 December 2007 the Company had in issue that are required to offer themselves for election or 270,923,649 ordinary shares of 20p each.
At the re-election, and has confirmed to the Board that their 2007 Annual General Meeting of the Company, performance continued to be effective and that they shareholders passed a resolution permitting the continue to demonstrate commitment to their roles Directors to undertake market purchases of up to and, therefore, the Company should support their 26,950,000 ordinary shares.
This authorisation will election or re-election.
expire on the earlier of the 2008 Annual General Meeting of the Company, and 25 October 2008.
All of the Directors have service agreements or letters of appointment and the details of their terms are set Going Concern out in the Remuneration Report on page 60.
No other The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, contract with the Company, or any subsidiary consider that the Group and the Company have undertaking of the Company, in which any Director adequate resources at their disposal to continue their was materially interested subsisted during or at the operations for the foreseeable future, and that it is end of the financial year.
therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts on a going concern basis.
A statement of the Directors interests in the share capital of the Company as at the end of the financial Change of Control year is given on pages 64 to 66.
The Company has in place a number of agreements with advisers, financial institutions and customers Disclosure of information to the Companys Auditor which contain certain termination rights which would The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval have effect on a change of control.
The Directors of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they believe these agreements to be commercially sensitive are each aware, there is no relevant audit information and do not intend disclosing specic details of these.
of which the Companys Auditor is unaware: and each In addition, all of the Companys share schemes Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have contain provisions which in the event of a change taken as a Director to make himself aware of any of control, would result in outstanding options and relevant audit information and to establish that the awards becoming exercisable, subject to the rules Companys Auditor is aware of that information.
Indemnity of Ofcers Directors Under Article 145 of the Companys Articles of The Directors of the Company and their biographical Association, the Company may indemnify any details are set out on pages 14 and 15.
Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, and the Mr D C M Hamill and Mr R J MacLeod were Articles grant an indemnity to the Directors against appointed to the Board on 1 May 2007 and any liability for the costs of legal proceedings where 10 September 2007 respectively, and are obliged to seek judgement is given in their favour.
election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Under the authority conferred by Article 145, the The Board has also resolved that all of its members Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with must submit themselves for re-election at regular each of its Directors.
The indemnities do not apply intervals of at least every three years: Mr N H to any claim which arises out of fraud, default, Northridge, Mr F A B Shepherd and Mr P G negligence or breach of duciary duty or trust by Rogerson retire by rotation at the forthcoming the indemnified person.
Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Mr A C Salvesen is subject Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Directors Report continued In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain Annual General Meeting for any Director or other officer, insurance against The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate on Wednesday 23 April 2008 at the Hilton Hotel, insurance cover against legal action brought against 1 William Street, Glasgow and the notice of this its Directors and ofcers and the directors and ofcers meeting is set out on pages 118 to 124. of its subsidiaries.
Annual General Meeting Special Business Donations Amendments to the Performance Share Plan During the financial year the Group contributed and the Co-investment Plan 118,924 2006: 109,855 in terms of cash, employees Resolutions 11 and 12 at the forthcoming Annual time and other services to a range of charitable, General Meeting will if passed adopt by resolution of community and disaster relief organisations.
Of this the Company amendments the Aggreko Performance total 58,981 2006: 53,412 was donated to Share Plan 2004 and the Aggreko Co-investment Plan registered UK charities.
2004 that are described in Part A of the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting on pages No political donations were made during the financial 125 to 127. year 2006: Nil.
Power to allot securities Employees Resolution 13 proposes, as an ordinary resolution, to The Group continues to operate team briengs authorise the Directors to exercise the powers of the throughout its business to keep employees informed of Company to allot relevant securities.
This resolution developments and plans, both in their own operations is limited to shares with a nominal value of and in the Group as a whole.
Employees have access 15,696,600, which is approximately 30% of the to the Aggreko Resource Centre, an intranet based current issued share capital and replaces the authority system, which provides them with a wide range of granted by Shareholders on 30 April 2003, which will information on the activities of the Group around the expire on 29 April 2008.
The authority under this world.
The annual and interim results are publicised resolution would expire on the earlier of 22 April extensively throughout the business and are made 2013 and the date of the Annual General Meeting available to all employees.
The Groups policies for recruitment, training, career Disapplication of statutory pre-emption rights development and promotion of employees are based Resolution 14 proposes, as a special resolution, on the suitability of the individual and give those who to disapply the statutory pre-emption rights of are disabled equal treatment with the able bodied.
Shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash Where appropriate, employees disabled after joining up to a limit of a total of shares with a nominal value the Group are given suitable training for alternative of 2,712,600, being approximately 5% of the current employment with the Group or elsewhere.
The Directors confirm that they do not intend to allot new shares on a non pre-emptive Supplier Payment Policy basis with a value of more that 7.5% of the current It is the Groups policy to settle the terms and value of issued share capital over a three-year period.
conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made The resolution also disapplies these rights to the extent aware of these terms and, in practice, provided the necessary to facilitate rights issues.
The authority supplier meets its contractual obligations, to abide by under this resolution would expire on the date of the them.
In overall terms, the Group had approximately Annual General Meeting in 2009 or on 22 July 2009, 77 days credit outstanding as at the balance sheet date.
This resolution is on the same basis as approved last year and the Directors intend to seek renewal of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
38 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Purchase of own shares A summary of the material changes brought about Resolution 15 sets out the Directors recommendation by the proposed adoption of the New Articles is set that Shareholders renew the authority of the Company out in Part B of the Appendix to the Notice of to purchase its own ordinary shares as permitted under Annual General Meeting on pages 127 to 129 of Article 7 of its Articles of Association.
Other changes, which are of a minor, Resolution 15 will be proposed as a special resolution technical or clarifying nature have not been noted seeking authority to make such purchases in the in the Appendix.
The Directors will only use such authority when they consider it to be in the best interests of Further amendments to the New Articles may Shareholders generally and an improvement in earnings be required in the coming years as a result of the per share would result.
The Board is seeking the power implementation of the 2006 Act.
The 2006 Act to hold shares in treasury: accordingly, any ordinary represents a major reform of UK companies legislation shares purchased under this authority will either be and is being brought into force in stages, with full cancelled and the number of ordinary shares in issue implementation scheduled by October 2009.
At this reduced or held in treasury.
years Annual General Meeting the Company proposes to adopt provisions which reect changes in the law Resolution 15 species the maximum number of brought about by the 2006 Act in respect of, among ordinary shares which may be purchased representing other things, electronic communications, notice periods approximately 10% of the Companys existing issued for meetings, proxy voting and directors conicts of ordinary share capital and the minimum and interest.
Over the course of the next year the Company maximum prices at which they may be bought, intends to conduct a further review of the New Articles reecting the requirements of the Companies Act 1985 in order to identify any additional amendments that and of the Financial Services Authority, as set out in might be necessary following the full implementation the Listing Rules.
The Directors intend to seek renewal of the 2006 Act by October 2009.
It is the Boards of this power at subsequent Annual General Meetings.
intention that any further amendments will be put to shareholders at the 2009 AGM.
Changes to Articles Resolutions 16 and 17 propose as special resolutions A copy of the new Articles of Association will be on the adoption of new Articles of Association of the display at the Registered ofce of the company and Company and subsequent amendments to these at the ofces of Dickson Minto WS, 22-25 Finsbury Articles in respect of directors conicts of interest.
Square, London EC2A 1DX during normal business hours on any week day up to and including the date Company law has undergone substantial change since of the Annual General Meeting, and at that meeting.
January 2007 when the staged implementation of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act commenced.
The Articles of Association of the Company in their current form contain certain provisions that no longer fully reect both legislation and best practice and accordingly the Board considers it prudent to replace the Companys existing Articles of Association with new Articles that take account of those developments the New Articles.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Directors Report continued Treasury shares Auditors Companies are permitted to acquire their own A resolution re-appointing  shares and to hold these shares in treasury for re-sale.
LLP as the Companys auditors will be proposed at Resolutions 14 and 15 would provide the Directors the Annual General Meeting.
with the authority they need to use treasury shares to give the Company more exibility in managing Material Share Interests its share capital.
The Directors have no immediate As at 18 February 2008 the Company had received intention of using such authority and would do so notications of the following share holdings only when they consider it to be in the best interests representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached of Shareholders generally.
The Company does not at to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: present hold any Treasury shares.
% of total Name of Shareholder Number of Shares voting rights The Directors intend that any buy back of shares into Barclays plc 16,182,099 5.97 treasury and re-sale of shares from treasury will operate Mr A E H Salvesen 14,336,921 5.29 within the following limits: Legal & General Investment Management Limited 13,479,994 4.97 no more than 10% of the Companys issued shares Standard Life Investments will be held in treasury at any time: and Limited 13,296,104 4.90 Mr A C Salvesen 10,106,075 3.73 treasury shares will not be sold at a discount of more JPMorgan Chase Bank 8,128,765 3.00 than 10% to the middle market price of shares at including immediate family and trustee interests the time of sale.
including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests Mr A C Salvesen is a Director of the Company and his holdings are also disclosed on page 66.
Annual General Meeting Recommendation Your Directors believe that all of the resolutions to be The Directors are not aware of any other material proposed at the Annual General Meeting are in the interests amounting to 3% or more in the share best interests of the Company and its Shareholders capital of the Company.
as a whole and unanimously recommend that Shareholders vote in favour of them.
By order of the Board Hew Campbell Secretary 6 March 2008 40 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
