Directors report The Directors present the audited consolidated financial statements for easyJet plc the Company for the year ended 30 September 2007.
Country of incorporation The Company is incorporated in the United Kingdom and registered in England and Wales.
Principal activity The principal activity of the Company and its subsidiary companies the Group or easyJet is the provision of a low-cost, airline service with care and convenience on short-haul and medium-haul point-to-point routes principally within Europe.
Results for the year Retained profit for the year ended 30 September 2007 was 152.3 million 2006: 94.1 million.
The Directors do not recommend the payment of a dividend 2006: nil.
Key performance indicators The Companys key performance indicators are considered in the Financial review on pages 13 to 21.
Share capital Details of the movements in authorised and issued share capital during the year are provided in note 18 to the financial statements.
Health and safety Safety is the number one priority for the business.
easyJet aims to provide a safe and efficient work environment for all its people.
Beyond those engaged in office based work, the large majority of people are aircrew.
They have been one of the mainstays of easyJets success, giving a great deal of effort to their role.
easyJet is continuing to invest substantial effort and money into rostering practices and systems.
easyJet is committed to the development of an industry leading Fatigue Risk Management System for its pilots, as an integral part of the airlines safety management processes.
The aim of the programme is to detect any sources of fatigue risk within the airline operation and act upon them.
Customer service easyJet seeks to provide its customers with a safe, low cost, good value and reliable service.
easyJet operates an entirely ticketless sales and check-in service.
This service is, easyJet believes, less burdensome for passengers.
In addition, the service reduces the costs associated with ticket processing, including personnel costs, and simplifies administration and control.
People and culture easyJets employees have defined a statement of the organisations values, the orange culture.
The Directors believe that the Groups framework of orange values helps to motivate and align employees to the Groups objectives.
The management of the Group is entrusted to an executive team with extensive commercial, operational and financial experience.
In keeping with the orange culture the Directors encourage employees to contribute to the management of the business and allow employees to have access to a significant amount of information stored on the Groups electronic document system.
The Group is an equal opportunity employer, which actively encourages the training and development of all its employees on an ongoing basis.
It is the Groups policy to give full and fair consideration to applications for employment from disabled individuals, having regard to their particular aptitudes and abilities, and to provide such individuals with equal training, development, and opportunities for promotion.
Employees who become disabled during their working life will be retained in employment wherever possible and will be given help with any necessary rehabilitation and retraining.
easyJet is committed to generating awareness among its employees of the Groups performance, development and progress, and to providing employees with information on matters of concern to them.
It achieves this through regular communication meetings, employee newsletters and management briefings.
Also, communication meetings are used by employee representatives to air the views of employees.
Employees are encouraged to become involved in the Companys financial performance through participation in various share option schemes.
Further details can be found in the Corporate and Social Responsibility Report.
easyJet plc 40 Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors and Directors interests Non-Executive: Sir Colin Chandler Dawn Airey David Bennett Professor Rigas Doganis Diederik Karsten Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Sir David Michels John Browett appointed 27 September 2007 Executive Andrew Harrison Jeff Carr Executive Directors are deemed to be interested in the shares held by the easyJet UK Employee Share Ownership Trust, the easyJet Overseas Employee Share Ownership Trust and the Share Incentive Plan Trust the Trusts.
At 30 September 2007, ordinary shares held in the Trusts were as follows: Share Incentive Plan Trust unallocated as employees are not entitled to these shares until performance conditions attached to them are met 1,076,503 Total unallocated 1,076,503 Long term incentive plan allocated 74,333 Total held by UK Trust allocated 10,039 Total held by Overseas Trust allocated 28,177 Total allocated 112,549 Total 1,189,052 Details of share options and share gifts granted to the Directors of the Company are disclosed in the report on Directors remuneration.
Overseas branches Details of the Companys subsidiaries are given in the notes to the Company Balance Sheet.
One of the Companys wholly owned subsidiaries, easyJet Airline Company Limited, operates a Spanish branch which performs self-handling operations.
Policy and practice on payment of creditors We aim to have partnership agreements with our suppliers, which stress the importance of strong suppliers aligned to the success of easyJet as a business.
Many of our supply agreements are unique and tailored to the needs of our business, to make sure that our suppliers are rewarded appropriately for delivering services which meet pre-agreed performance targets and align with easyJets own internal performance goals.
The Groups practice is to: agree the terms of payment at the start of business with the supplier: ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment: and pay in accordance with its contractual and other legal obligations.
At 30 September 2007, the number of creditor days outstanding for the Group was nine days 2006: nine days, and the Company, nil days 2006: nil days.
easyJet plc 41 Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors report continued Political and charitable contributions During the year, the Group made charitable contributions totalling 50,000 2006: 52,000.
The Group also performs onboard collections on behalf of charitable organisations and during 2007 raised 514,893 in this way for the benefit of the Anthony Nolan Trust.
In addition, the Group provides free flights to selected charities.
There is minimal incremental cost to the Group associated with these gifts.
There were no contributions made for political purposes.
Post balance sheet events On 25 October 2007, easyJet announced that it had agreed to acquire GB Airways Limited for cash consideration of 103.5 million.
Completion is subject to clearance from the regulatory authorities and is expected to occur no later than 31 January 2008.
Substantial interests As at 14 November 2007, the Company had been notified of the following disclosable interests of 3% or more in its ordinary shares: Number of shares Percentage easyGroup Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Stelios Haji-Ioannou 66,076,451 15.76 Polys Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Polys Haji-Ioannou 47,954,575 11.44 Clelia Holdings Limited holding vehicle for Clelia Haji-Ioannou 47,954,575 11.44 Standard Life Investments 35,101,865 8.37 Black Rock Inc. 26,613,125 6.35 Going concern The Directors are satisfied, after due consideration, that the Group has sufficient financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
On this basis, they continue to adopt the going concern principle in preparing the financial statements.
Auditors Each Director has taken steps that they ought to have taken in their duty as a Director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant information of which the Companys auditors is unaware.
A resolution to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the Company will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
By order of the Board Giles Pemberton Company Secretary Hangar 89 London Luton Airport Luton Bedfordshire LU2 9PF 19 November 2007 easyJet plc 42 Annual report and accounts 2007
