Executive management team From left to right Andrew Barker, Mike Campbell, Jeff Carr, Saad Hammad, Andrew Harrison, Tim Newing, Toby Nicol, Cor Vrieswijk.
easyJet plc 38 Annual report and accounts 2007 Andrew Barker Andrew Harrison Planning Director Chief Executive Officer Andrew 42 joined easyJet in 2005 as Head of Investor Relations See Directors profiles and was appointed Planning Director in February 2006.
Andrew is Tim Newing responsible for guiding easyJets network and fleet planning, as well IT Director as developing environmental and aero-political policies and interfacing Tim 48 joined easyJet in August 2006.
He has a wide range of with the relevant regulatory bodies.
Prior to joining easyJet, Andrew experience across the technology spectrum and has played a major was a Managing Director at UBS Investment Bank, where he role in the development of the National Lottery over a ten year worked for 16 years.
At UBS he was head of the global transport period, first as Technical Manager for IT supplier GTECH UK before research team for ten years during which time he was consistently joining Camelot as Head of Projects and Networks in December rated by Institutional Investor Magazine as the number one analyst 2000 and becoming IT Director in March 2002.
During this time, in the sector in both European and Global surveys.
He then went Tim has successfully developed and delivered a series of massive on to head the UBS European Equity Strategy Team.
Andrew is a programs that saw a period of major technological innovation, UK national.
significantly enhancing the systems architecture and key business processes within Europes biggest lottery company, and, at the same Mike Campbell People Director time ensuring high reliability and availability from the production Mike 50 joined easyJet in October 2005 as People Director.
His achievements saw him recognised as the 2005 IT Before joining easyJet Mike worked at Wedgwood in a broad Director of the Year in the Jaeger-LeCoultre Telegraph Business role as Director of People and Brands and Managing Director for Awards.
Prior to that Mike worked for Toby Nicol 14 years at Fujitsu in a variety of development and personnel roles Communications Director across Europe, Asia, Africa and the Middle East, ending up as Chief Toby 37 joined easyJet in December 1999.
He was appointed as Personnel Officer.
His early career was in education and research.
Communications Director in September 2005 after six years in a Mike has a BSC in Mathematics and Masters in Fluid Dynamics.
range of communications and lobbying roles within the Company Mike is a UK national.
and has been part of the Airline Management Board since mid 2004.
Toby also chairs the Steering Group of Flying Matters, the aviation Jeff Carr Group Finance Director industrys environmental lobby group.
Previously Toby was employed See Directors profiles in senior positions for a leading communications consultancy undertaking work across a range of diverse clients from IBM to Saad Hammad bmi British Midland.
Chief Commercial Officer Saad 45 joined easyJet in November 2005, bringing considerable Cor Vrieswijk commercial experience in international consumer-focused businesses.
Operations Director Prior to joining easyJet Saad was Managing Director Europe with Cor 49 joined easyJet in January 2007 from Transavia.
com which the third party logistics provider Tibbett & Britten, where he is a Dutch-based airline where he was Chief Operations Officer for managed the outsourced supply chain operations across Europe nine years together with 25 years experience in the airline industry.
of prominent manufacturers and retailers including P&G, Unilever, His responsibilities at Transavia.
com included flight operations, cabin PepsiCo, Tesco, Wal-Mart, Carrefour and Metro.
Prior to that Saad operations, engineering and maintenance and ground handling, helped to modernise Minit, the multi-service retailer, where he together with relevant experience in marketing, human resources was commercially responsible for 3,710 stores worldwide before and IT.
Cors first degree was in engineering followed up by a becoming CEO of Autocascade, a pan-European web-based yield Masters Degree in organisational sciences.
Earlier in his career, Saad held roles in consumer retailing and brand management at Vision Express, Thorn EMI and Procter & Gamble.
Saad holds an undergraduate degree from Oxford and an MBA from INSEAD.
Saad is a Non-Executive Director at Optos plc, a leading medical technology company for the design, development, manufacturing and marketing of retinal imaging devices.
easyJet plc 39 Annual report and accounts 2007
