Directors profiles Andrew Harrison Chief Executive Officer Andrew 50 became Chief Executive Officer on 1 December 2005.
He was previously the Chief Executive of RAC plc prior to its acquisition by Aviva plc in 2005.
Andrew joined Lex Service plc in 1996 as Chief Executive and led its transformation from a vehicle distribution company into RAC plc, a stronglybranded, consumer-facing services company with 6.5 million members.
RAC plc delivered strong growth Dawn Airey David Bennett Jeff Carr in a variety of consumer services, which included BSM, financial and legal services, as well as good expansion in business services, winning large contracts.
The successful integration of Lex and RAC resulted in a strong rise in profits and a tripling of the share price during Andrews tenure as Chief Executive.
Since 2000, Andrew has been a Non-Executive Director at Emap, where he chairs the Audit Committee.
Prior to Lex Service, Andrew was an Executive Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc.
Sir Colin Chandler Professor Rigas Doganis Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Jeff Carr Group Finance Director Jeff 46 was appointed as Group Finance Director in March 2005.
Prior to joining easyJet, Jeff was Director of Finance, Performance and Planning for Associated British Foods plc.
He has previously held senior financial positions with Unilever, Grand Metropolitan and Reckitt Benckiser.
In addition to experience with major consumer orientated companies, Jeff has wide international experience in both mainland Europe and in the USA.
Dawn Airey Andrew Harrison Diederik Karsten Sir David Michels Independent Non-Executive Director Dawn 47 joined easyJet in April 2004.
She has been Sir Colin Chandler Managing Director of Global Content at ITV plc since Non-Executive Chairman 1 October 2007, prior to which she was Managing Colin 68 joined easyJet in April 2002 and was Director of Channels and Services at Sky.
Prior to appointed Chairman in November 2002.
Until joining Sky in January 2003, Dawn was Chief Executive November 2004, he was Non-Executive Deputy of Channel Five 20002002 : Director of Programmes, Chairman of Smiths Group plc, having been a Channel Five 19962000 : Controller of Arts and Non-Executive Director of TI Group since 1992.
Entertainment at Channel 4 19941996 and Colin has been variously Managing Director, Chief Controller of Network Childrens and Daytime Executive and then Chairman of Vickers plc.
Earlier in Programmes at ITV 19931994.
Dawn has worked his career he was seconded from British Aerospace to in television for over 22 years and began her career the role of Head of Defence Export Services, Ministry at Central TV as a management trainee.
He was Chairman of Racal Electronics plc.
President of the Royal Television Society, and a Trustee He is Chairman of Automotive Technik Limited and of the Media Trust.
Dawn is a member of the Board during the year he became a Non-Executive Director of the International Emmy Awards, a governor of the of Clarity Commerce Solutions plc.
He is also the Banff Television Festival and an Honorary Committee Pro-Chancellor of Cranfield University.
He was Member of the Monte Carlo Television Festival, and knighted in June 1988 for services to export.
a Director of The British Library.
easyJet plc 36 Annual report and accounts 2007 David Bennett Diederik Karsten Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director David 45 was appointed to the Board on 1 October Diederik 51 joined easyJet in May 2001 and is 2005.
He recently became CEO of the FTSE 100 bank currently Chief Executive Officer of UPC in Alliance & Leicester plc having previously served as its The Netherlands, a leading cable TV company.
Prior to joining Alliance & From February 2000 to November 2001 he was Chief Leicester in 1999, David held a number of senior Executive Officer of KPN Mobile N. V. Previously he management positions at Cheltenham & Gloucester was Director of the business unit Mobile Telephony Building Society and Lloyds TSB.
He was also an and Director of The Mobile Net, both parts of KPN Executive Director of the National Bank of New Telecom.
Prior to joining KPN in 1996, Diederik held Zealand Limited and is a member of the Association various management and marketing positions at Pepsi of Corporate Treasurers.
Co, both in the UK and Europe, including Vice President of Sales and Marketing at Snacks Ventures Europe and Professor Rigas Doganis Sales and Marketing Director Pepsi Cola, Germany.
Independent Non-Executive Director Before that, Diederik held various marketing positions Rigas 68 was appointed to the Board on 1 December at Proctor & Gamble.
Rigas is an aviation consultant and strategy adviser to airlines, airports, banks and governments Sir David Michels around the world.
He is Chairman of the European Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Aviation Club in Brussels and a Non-Executive Director David 60 was appointed to the Board on 6 March of GMR Hyderabad International Airport, India.
He is currently Non-Executive Director of British former Chairman CEO of Olympic Airways and was Land Company, Marks and Spencer plc, RAB Capital formerly a Non-Executive Director of South African and Strategic Hotels and Resorts.
Rigas is also a visiting Professor at Cranfield number of senior management and plc board positions University and the author of books on aviation in the leisure industry.
He spent 15 years with Grand economics and management.
Metropolitan mainly in sales and marketing, which culminated in a Board position as Worldwide Marketing Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou Director.
In 1989, he became Deputy Chairman of Non-Executive Director Hilton UK and Executive Vice President, Hilton Stelios 40 founded easyJet in 1995.
He joined Stakis in 1991 as Chief Non-Executive Chairman until 26 November 2002 Executive and became Group Chief Executive of and was reappointed to the Board on 16 May 2005. the Hilton Group formerly Ladbroke Group in June A graduate of the London School of Economics and 2000, a position he held until 2006.
He is the current City University Business School, Stelios founded President of the British Hospitality Association Stelmar Tankers, a shipping company which listed on and was knighted in June 2006 for services to the the New York Stock Exchange in 2001 and was sold hospitality industry.
Since 1999 he has set up a number of other easy branded businesses, which John Browett are managed and capitalised separately from easyJet Independent Non-Executive Director and an up-to-date list of them can be found on John 43 joined easyJet in September 2007.
Stelios is currently mostly acting currently Operations Development Director of through his private investment vehicle, the easyGroup, Tesco PLC.
A graduate of Cambridge University and which owns the easy brand and licenses it to the Wharton Business School, John has held a number various easy branded ventures including easyJet.
of Executive Director positions at Tesco since joining He was knighted in November 2006 for services the business as Group Strategy Director in 1998. to entrepreneurship.
com from 2000 to 2004 where he was responsible for formulating and delivering its strategy from launch to profitability.
Prior to joining Tesco, he was at the Boston Consulting Group between 1993 and 1998.
John will join DSG international plc as CEO in early December 2007. easyJet plc 37 Annual report and accounts 2007
