K Hamill BA FCA, Non-Executive Director of the Chamber of Shipping and served on the Helmut Mamsch, 62, joined as Chairman Keith Hamill, 54, joined as a Non-Executive Board of the Securities and Futures Authority.
Designate in September 2006 and took over Director in July 1999.
He is Chairman of Tullett His other Non-Executive Directorships include as Chairman in October 2006.
He is a NonPrebon plc, Alterian plc and Travelodge Limited AEA Technology plc, Samworth Brothers Executive Director of both GKN plc, and SAPPI and Deputy Chairman of Collins Stewart plc.
Holdings Ltd and Witan Pacic Investment Ltd South Africa.
He is also a Supervisory He was previously Chairman of Go Fly, was Trust plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Board member of K S AG.
He was formerly Finance Director of WH Smith, Trust House Committee a d e Deputy Chairman of LogicaCMG plc, a NonForte and United Distillers, and was a partner 7.
T G Barker MA, Non-Executive Director Executive Director of RMC Group plc and a in Pricewaterhouse Coopers.
He is Deputy Timothy Barker, 67, joined as a Non-Executive Management Board member of VEBA AG Chancellor of Nottingham University.
Chairman of the Nomination a d e retirement in 2000, he was a Vice-Chairman of Committee a 5.
N J Temple, Senior Non-Executive Director Dresdner Kleinwort Benson and from 1993 of 2.
I Mason MBA, Group Chief Executive Nick Temple, 59, joined as a Non-Executive Kleinwort Benson Group plc.
In the mid-1980s Ian Mason, 45, joined the Group in February Director in September 1996.
He is a Nonhe was Director General of the City Panel on 1995 as Director of Business Development.
Executive Director of Datatec Inc, Datacash Takeovers and Mergers.
He is a Non-Executive He was appointed to the Board of Directors in Group plc and 4imprint plc and is Chairman of Director of Drax Group plc.
Chairman of the July 2000 as Chief Operating officer and was Fox IT Ltd, Tax Computer Systems Ltd, Retail Audit Committee a d e appointed Group Chief Executive in July 2001. Business Solutions Ltd and Capula Limited.
I Haslegrave, LLB ACIS, General Counsel Previously he worked for The Boston He was Chairman of Blick plc, Chairman and and Company Secretary Consulting Group.
Chairman of the Group CEO of IBM UK Ltd and Vice-President of Sales Ian Haslegrave, 38, joined the Company in Executive Committee b c and Marketing in IBM Europe, Middle East September 2006 from Viacom Outdoor Limited and Africa.
S Boddie MA ACA, Group Finance Director where he was International Legal Director.
Simon Boddie, 47, joined as Group Finance 6.
L Atkinson MA D. Phil, Previously he worked at United Biscuits Director in September 2005 from Diageo plc.
Non-Executive Director Limited and Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer.
He joined Diageo in 1992 where he held a Dr Leslie Atkinson, 63, joined as a b variety of senior finance positions, latterly Non-Executive Director in July 2000, having as Finance Director of Key Markets.
spent most of his career with BP where he a member of the Nomination Committee b member of the Treasury Committee Chairman of the Treasury Committee b c became Chairman of BP Asia Pacic.
He has c member of the Group Executive Committee also been a member of the UK Governments d member of the Remuneration Committee Central Policy Review Staff, Vice President e member of the Audit Committee 14 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
