Report of the Directors The Directors present their report on the affairs of the Group together with the audited Board committees accounts for the year ended 31 March 2007.
The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of certain Directors, and in the case of the Treasury Committee, certain senior managers, to which specic Principal activity and Business Review responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of reference have The principal activity of the Group is the distribution of electronic, electrical and been agreed.
These terms of reference are available for inspection on the Companys industrial and commercial supplies and services, through its 27 operating companies website.
Membership of the various Committees, including the Chairman of each and its distributors.
significant events during the year are detailed in the Chairmans Committee, is shown on pages 14 and 16.
The Board formally receives minutes statement, the Group Chief Executives review, and the Business Review shown on of meetings of all its committees and can request presentations or reports on pages 8 to 13.
The Business Review is incorporated in this report by reference.
THE GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE consists of the Executive Directors and certain Results and dividends senior managers with Operating Company and Process responsibilities.
The Results for the year are set out in the income statement on page 24.
An analysis of Committee meets at least monthly and manages the day-to-day activities of the revenue, profit and net assets by activity is shown in note 2 on pages 29 and 30.
The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the Group Executive The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.6p per ordinary share, to be paid, if Committee: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration approved, on 27 July 2007 which, together with the interim dividend of 5.8p per share by the Board: the monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and paid in January, amounts to a total dividend of 18.4p for the year 2006: 18.4p.
forecasts: and the development of risk management and control procedures.
Corporate Governance THE AUDIT COMMITTEE consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and meets at least In respect of the year ended 31 March 2007, the Company has been subject to the three times a year and more frequently if required.
The Committee reviews the major provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in July 2003 risks facing the business, assists the Board in its duties regarding financial accounts and revised in June 2006 the Combined Code.
Section 1 of the Combined Code and continually reviews the operation of internal financial controls with the internal establishes 17 main principles and 26 supporting principles of good governance operational audit team and, where applicable, external auditors.
It also reviews the in four areas: Directors: Remuneration of Directors: Accountability and Audit: and scope and results of the audit with the external auditors and the results of the work of Relations with Shareholders.
The following three sections explain how these the internal operational audit team.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing principles were applied.
A detailed report on Directors Remuneration can be found the arrangements whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible on pages 19 to 22. improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
Further details of the role of the Committee are set out on pages 16 to 17.
Directors and Directors Independence THE TREASURY COMMITTEE consists of the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance The Board comprises the Chairman, who is part-time, two Executive Directors and Director, the Group Treasurer, the Group Controller, the Company Secretary and the four independent Non-Executive Directors, one of whom will retire at the AGM in 2007.
Group Tax Manager and sets detailed treasury policy for the Group within guidelines The Board is collectively responsible for the performance of the Company.
The Board established by the Board.
has carefully considered the guidance criteria on independence of Non-Executive Directors under the Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board, all the continuing THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and meets Non-Executive Directors bring independence of judgement and character to the Board as required but not less than twice per year and is responsible for all aspects of the and to the committees on which they sit, and are independent of management and remuneration of Executive Directors and senior managers.
Details of the remuneration free from any business or other relationships which could interfere with the exercise policy and of the remuneration of each Director are set out in the Remuneration Report.
The Board considered that the Chairman also met the THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE consists of the Chairman and all the Non-Executive independence criteria on his appointment on 9 October 2006.
The Committee meets as required and recommends to the Board candidates Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set out on page 14, for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The together with details of their membership of Board Committees.
Brief details of the Committee periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge and experience are Chairman, the Group Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director are set out required on the Board and if appropriate, recommends a candidate prole which is on page 16. then used to brief Recruitment Consultants appointed by the Committee to undertake the selection process.
Initial meetings are held with prospective candidates and Directors interests in the shares of the Company are shown on pages 16 and 22. a shortlist of individuals is selected to meet with the Chairman, other Nomination The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
It is responsible Committee members and the Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee then for the overall Group strategy and the approval and review of major investment meets and decides which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the Board.
The Board discusses and agrees strategic plans, reviews forecasts and This process was used for the appointment of Mr Mamsch as Chairman.
evaluates Group and subsidiary performance.
Other day-to-day operational decisions are delegated by the Board to the Group Executive Committee.
Board Evaluation During the year the Chairman has held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors, Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the without the Executives present.
In addition, the Board has carried out a formal Group by attending external seminars and briengs, through participation at meetings evaluation of its own performance.
A detailed questionnaire was issued to Board and through visits to operating units, both in the UK and overseas, as well as by members for the purpose of assessing overall Board performance.
The responses receiving presentations from senior management.
Directors are given access to to the questionnaire were collated independently by the Company Secretary, who independent professional advice at the Groups expense, if they deem it necessary in discussed them in depth with the Chairman.
The Chairman subsequently prepared order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
This is in addition to the access that a report on the results of the questionnaire for Board consideration.
The Board every Director has to the Company Secretary.
The Company has continued to secure discussed the report and agreed necessary follow up actions.
appropriate insurance cover for its Directors.
Retirement by rotation and new appointment Mr Temple wishes to retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will not be seeking re-election.
On 9 October 2006, Mr Lawson retired as Chairman and was replaced by Mr Mamsch.
Mr Mamsch therefore stands for formal election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Dr Atkinson and Mr Mason will retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Dr Atkinson does not have a service contract.
Mr Mason has a one year rolling contract.
Following formal performance evaluation, the Chairman confirms that the performance of Dr Atkinson as Non-Executive Director continues to be effective and that he demonstrates commitment to the role.
On the expiry of Dr Atkinsons second, three year term as a Non-Executive Director his performance was subject to a particularly rigorous review by the Board.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 15 Report of the Directors continued Board Attendance Relations with Shareholders Board and Committee Meetings Executive Directors and senior executives have frequent discussions with institutional The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include during the year and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings: meetings following the announcement of the annual and interim results.
The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Chairman meet with major shareholders Scheduled Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-Executive Directors Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
The Group Finance Director Number of meetings held reports to the Board on meetings with shareholders.
during the year 9454 Shareholders have been given the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and other 1 Chairman R A Lawson 5 Board Directors at last years Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director 2 Chairman H Mamsch 6 is available to attend meetings with major shareholders at their request.
Executive Directors The Chairman also held meetings with a representative group of shareholders in I Mason 9 November 2006 shortly after the interim results to obtain their views on strategy and S Boddie 9 performance, the results of which were communicated to and discussed by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors The Company seeks to ensure that all Directors, including the Chairmen of the 3 K Abbott 2222 relevant Board Committees and Senior Independent Director, are available to answer 5 L Atkinson 8254 questions at the Annual General Meeting.
6 T G Barker 9424 The Company also has a website www.
com which contains K Hamill 7333 up-to-date information on Group activities.
4 F D Lennertz 332 N J Temple 9454 Accountability and Audit In its financial reporting to shareholders and other interested parties, by means of 1 Mr Lawson ceased to be Chairman on 9 October 2006.
2 Mr Mamsch was appointed to the Board on 1 September 2006. annual and interim results and periodic statements, the Board aims to present a 3 Mr Abbott ceased to be a Director on 13 July 2006. balanced and easily understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
4 Dr Lennertz ceased to be a Director on 14 July 2006.
5 Dr Atkinson was appointed to the Audit Committee on 14 July 2006.
Internal Control 6 Mr Barker was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 14 July 2006.
The Group has an established and on-going process of risk management and internal Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director control which has continued throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board is responsible for the The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by different individuals.
effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive has and implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and the risks been clearly established: their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for organising the In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal control, the Directors have reviewed the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Audit Committee receives regular Chairman has no involvement in the day to day business of the Company.
The reports on the performance of the system of internal control, and on its effectiveness Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of the Non-Executive Directors, in managing the material risks and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
The and ensures Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
He is also Board then formally receives the minutes of each Audit Committee meeting.
responsible for effective communication between the Board and shareholders.
The Audit Committee dedicates one meeting a year to the review of the risk The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on a day to day basis and management and internal control system with the minutes of the review being is accountable to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the Group, formally reported to the Board.
Together with the provision of regular updates to the and the determination of the strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
Board on material risk issues, these allow the Board to make the assessment on the Mr Temple as the Senior Independent Director is responsible for chairing the meeting systems of internal control for the purposes of making its public statement.
of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Chairmans performance During the period under review, no significant changes to the material risks to which and to provide a communication channel for shareholders if required.
Mr Barker will the Group is exposed were identied, and no control failings or weaknesses were replace Mr Temple as Senior Independent Director on Mr Temples retirement following identied that resulted in unforeseen material losses.
The internal control system can the Annual General Meeting.
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Directors Interests in Shares Internal Financial Controls The beneficial interests of the Directors in the shares of the Company are set out in Internal financial controls represent the systems employed by the Directors to enable the table below.
The Directors have no non-beneficial interests.
them to discharge their responsibilities for financial matters.
Those responsibilities 31 March 2007 31 March 2006 are noted on page 18.
The main financial control elements are described below.
or date ceased or date on which to be a Director became a Director Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and its Committees, with a K Abbott 10,000 10,000 delegation of operating responsibility through the Group Executive Committee to L Atkinson 2,260 2,260 management in all locations.
Operating company controls are detailed in Group T G Barker 15,000 11,000 Finance and Group Treasury manuals that specify the controls necessary in identied S Boddie 25,000 Nil areas of financial risk.
Smaller Group companies are supported by Group, regional and K Hamill 5,183 5,183 process specialists in key areas.
c R A Lawson 403,374 403,374 b Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, monthly and F D Lennertz 8,034 8,034 annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management accounts are prepared by all operating d H Mamsch 10,000 Nil companies and Group-wide processes.
These contain forecasts of the current financial I Mason 62,349 37, 349 year which are updated four times per year and are compared against the previous N J Temple 10,040 10,040 forecast, the budget and prior year actuals.
Variances are reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and by the Board.
Specic reporting systems cover treasury a Mr Abbott ceased to be a Director on 13 July 2006. b Dr Lennertz ceased to be a Director on 14 July 2006. operations, major investment projects and legal and insurance activities, which are c Mr Lawson ceased to be a Director on 9 October 2006. reviewed by the Board and its Committees on a regular basis.
d Mr Mamsch became a Director on 1 September 2006.
The Group has a team of internal operational auditors which has an annually agreed As at 31 March 2007 the Electrocomponents Employee Trust the fleet held 308,417 audit programme approved by the Audit Committee.
The team reports regularly to the shares.
As Executive Directors are potential beneciaries of the fleet they are treated Audit Committee on the results of audits performed and reviews self-certication for company law purposes as being interested in the shares held in the fleet.
internal control questionnaires completed by operating management.
Directors interests in Incentive Plans and Share Options are disclosed on page 22.
The Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Up to 30 April 2007 there have been no changes in the Directors interests or rights to system of internal control and internal financial control during the period covered by subscribe for shares.
16 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Audit Independence Financial Instruments The Audit Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity of the For information on the Companys use of financial instruments, see note 21 on pages Companys auditors KPMG Audit Plc KPMG in their reporting to shareholders.
41 to 43 to the annual report and accounts.
The Audit Committee met four times during the year ended 31 March 2007 and the Compliance with the Combined Code Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG was present at three of these meetings During the year ended 31 March 2007, the Directors consider that the Company to ensure full and open communication.
In addition to the members of the Committee, complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, except that it is normal for the following to receive the Committee papers and attend meetings: the current Senior Independent Director has not attended meetings with major 1. the Chairman of the Company shareholders having not been requested to do so and there was no evaluation of the Chairman.
The Chairman was appointed on 9 October 2006 and therefore the 2. the Group Chief Executive of the Company Directors determined that he would be evaluated later during 2007.
3. the Group Finance Director and Group Controller Payment to Suppliers 4. the Head of Internal Audit The Group agrees terms and conditions for its business transactions with suppliers.
5. the Company Secretary Payment is then made according to these terms, subject to the supplier fullling its obligations.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Supplier payment days for the Their attendance is at the invitation of the Committee Chairman only and does not continuing operations of the Group outstanding at 31 March 2007 represent 43 days restrict the Audit Committees independent decision making.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and this is reported to senior members Employment Policies of KPMG.
This forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
The Audit The Group values highly the commitment of its employees and has maintained its Committee also has discussions with the external auditors, without management practice of communicating business developments to them wherever practicable.
being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any significant area where Regular staff appraisals and consultations take place with individuals and the management judgement has been applied.
The Group remains supportive of the employment and advancement of disabled persons and complies with the Core International Labour The scope of the years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit Organisation Conventions and prohibits the employment of underage or forced labour.
fees are reviewed by the Audit Committee after discussions between the Operating Companies and the local KPMG ofces and a review by Group management and are Capital Gains Tax then recommended to the Board for approval.
Professional rules require rotation of For Capital Gains Tax purposes the valuation of the Companys 10p ordinary shares at the Group Audit Engagement Director.
This took place in July 2004 when the current 31 March 1982 was 40p.
Director was appointed, replacing the previous Director who had held the post for five years.
Substantial Shareholders The annual appointment of our auditors by the shareholders at the Annual General As at 20 May 2007 the following interests in shares had been notied to the Company: Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, but beyond this, controls have been in place for Number Percentage of Shares held some years to ensure that additional work performed by the auditors is appropriate and subject to proper review.
Silchester International Investors Limited 69,085,874 15.87% Franklin Templeton Investments 38,647,085 8.88% With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG the Company has Prudential plc group of companies 29,668,573 6.81% developed a policy to ensure that the provision of such services does not impair UBS AG 29,079,714 6.68% the external auditors independence or objectivity.
Sprucegrove Investment Management Ltd 28,268,337 6.49% The policy is as follows: Oppenheimer Funds Inc. and Baring Asset Management Ltd 18,325,922 4.21% When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake non-audit work, Millgate Capital Inc. 15,900,000 3.65% the Group Finance Director should at all times give consideration to the provisions Legal & General Group plc 14,966,617 3.43% of the Smith Report with regard to the preservation of independence.
Barclays plc 13,937,895 3.20% The external auditors must certify to the Company that they are acting independently.
Share capital Full details of share options and shares issued under the terms of the Companys In providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not as summarised share schemes can be found in note 7 to the accounts on pages 32 and 33. in the Smith Report : audit their own work: Political and Charitable Contributions The Group made no political contributions during the year.
Charitable contributions make management decisions for the Company: within the UK amounted to 10,283 2006: 15,408 and outside the UK amounted create a mutuality of interest: or to 14,449 2006: 11,077. nd themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors Before commissioning such work, the Audit Committee or the Group Finance The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm Director as appropriate must ensure that the external auditors are satisfied that that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the there is no issue as regards independence.
Companys auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any relevant audit The Group Finance Director has authority to commission the external auditors to information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
undertake non-audit work where there is a specic project with a cost that is not expected to exceed 50,000.
This work has to be reported to the Audit Committee Annual General Meeting at its next meeting.
If the cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement of The Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which will be held at 12:00 noon on the Audit Committee is required before the work is commissioned.
In either case, Friday 13 July 2007 at the Companys premises, The International Management other potential providers are adequately considered.
Centre, 8050 Oxford Business Park North, Oxford, OX4 2HW, is set out on page 54.
The Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the external auditors or other In addition to conducting the ordinary business, the following special business providers of accountancy services anywhere in the Group in excess of 10,000. will be considered: Going Concern ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATION: The Companies Act 2006 has introduced new provisions After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has which came into effect on 20 January 2007 dealing with company communications adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For to shareholders and facilitating communications in electronic form and by means of this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 17 Report of the Directors continued These shareholder electronic communications provisions are intended to make it STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY easier for UK companies to communicate with their shareholders.
In particular, they The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Accounts in enable the Company, subject to certain conditions, to treat its shareholders as having accordance with applicable law and regulations.
deemed to agree to communication by means of a website.
In order to effect these Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Company accounts provisions, in addition to the passing of this resolution, the Company must also for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group accounts write to shareholders to request them individually to agree that the Company can in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected communicate with them by way of its website.
In the event that a shareholder does to prepare the parent Company accounts in accordance with UK Accounting Standards not respond with an objection to this request within 28 days from the date of request, and applicable law UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
the shareholder will be deemed to have agreed to receive notices, documents or information from the Company by means of a website.
The Company plans to send The Group accounts are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present such a request to its shareholders prior to the publication of its 2008 Annual Report.
fairly the financial position and the performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such accounts that references in the relevant part of Any shareholder may indicate a wish to continue to receive printed documents at any that Act to accounts giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving time and any agreement to receive documents or information electronically or by a fair presentation.
means of a website can be revoked at any time.
Every shareholder who has agreed to receive communications by website will be notied when a document is available The parent Company accounts are required by law to give a true and fair view of the on the Companys website.
state of affairs of the parent Company and of the profit or loss of the parent Company for that period.
RENEWAL OF DIRECTORS AUTHORITY FOR THE PURCHASE BY THE COMPANY OF ITS OWN SHARES: At the 2006 AGM, shareholders gave the Company renewed authority to make In preparing each of the Group and parent Company accounts, the Directors are market purchases of up to approximately 10% at that time of the Companys issued required to: ordinary share capital.
As at the date of this report, the Company has made no such select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: purchases under this authority.
Nevertheless, the Directors believe it advisable to seek renewal of this authority at each AGM.
make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: This resolution is proposed as a special resolution and will authorise market for the Group accounts, state whether they have been prepared in accordance purchases of up to 43,532,000 ordinary shares being approximately 10% of the with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: issued share capital as at 21 May 2007.
The Directors will only exercise this authority for the parent Company accounts, state whether applicable UK Accounting when satisfied it is in the best interests of shareholders and that any purchase Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed will have a beneficial impact on earnings per share, having first considered other and explained in the parent Company accounts: and investment opportunities open to the Company.
As at 21 May 2007, a maximum of 23,246,237 shares would be required to satisfy all outstanding options to subscribe prepare the accounts on a going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to for equity shares and conditional awards of shares.
This represents 5.34% of the presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
If this resolution is passed and the full authority to buy back The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with shares were used, then shares required for such purposes would represent 5.93% reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and of the issued share capital.
enable them to ensure that its accounts comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They Listed companies are now permitted, subject to certain restrictions, to hold their own have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to shares which they purchase in Treasury for resale or transfer at a later date, rather safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other than being obliged to cancel them.
If the Company were to purchase any of its own irregularities.
shares pursuant to the authority referred to above, it would consider holding them Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing as treasury stock provided that the number does not at any time exceed 10% of the a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Companys issued share capital.
This would provide the Company with additional Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
exibility in the management of its capital base.
As at 21 May 2007, the Company held no ordinary shares in Treasury.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK By order of the Board governing the preparation and dissemination of accounts may differ from legislation Mr Haslegrave in other jurisdictions.
Group Counsel & Company Secretary 30 May 2007 The report and accounts contain certain statements, statistics and projections that are or may be forward-looking.
The accuracy and completeness of all such statements including, without limitation, statements regarding the future financial positions, strategy, projected costs, plans and objectives for the managements of future operations of Electrocomponents plc and its subsidiaries is not warranted or guaranteed.
These statements typically contain words such as intends, expects, anticipates, estimates and words of similar import.
By their nature, forward-looking statements involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events and depend on circumstances that will occur in the future.
Although Electrocomponents plc believes that the expectations reected in such statements are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to be correct.
There are a number of factors, which may be beyond the control of Electrocomponents plc, which could cause actual results and developments to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forwardlooking statements.
Other than as required by applicable law or the applicable rules of any exchange on which our securities may be listed, Electrocomponents plc has no intentions or obligations to update forward-looking statements contained herein.
18 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
