Our Key Markets Where we operate... Asia Pacic Continental Europe 9 operating companies in 4 sub-regions across 10 countries 6 warehouses Content in 3 local languages 60,000 locally stocked and up to 100,000 extended range products on offer e-Commerce 29% of total sales guarantees timely supply of products.
RS delivers total quality assurance RS helps keep the energy RS carries products that meet Bayers highto Bayer in China market going end requirements and offers internationally Bayer, a research-based global enterprise The Big Four Group of the largest Utility recognised brands delivered with total quality with core competencies in the elds of companies in Germany RWE, E. on, EnBW assurance.
The superior RS service standard health care, nutrition and high-tech and Vattenfall power thousands of homes ensures Bayers business runs smoothly.
materials, hosts one of its largest supply and businesses every hour of every day.
centres for the Asia Pacic region in China.
The Groups initial requirements from For such a large chemical enterprise as RS were for hand tools and electronic Bayer, a small delay in the delivery of installations and this has expanded to goods can result in significant delays include many more products.
Product 17% in the development of products.
RSs availability and assured delivery are at the bonded warehouse in Waigaoqiao, Pudong, Revenue growth forefront of their requirements and RSs exible pricing on volume orders means the same RS service, but at even better prices.
Japan RS Components helps drive Toyota Technical Development With RS Components, they could rationalise Toyota Technical Development Corporation TTDCs primary requirements are for electrical their numerous suppliers to a select number TTDC is a member company of the Toyota and electronic components including of preferred suppliers.
The Group saves Group develops and supports Toyotas Resistors, DC DC converters, PCB connectors time and money and with superior customer technologies for safety and lowering and Capacitors.
Toyota relies on RS as a key service, this is what makes RS a supplier environmental impact.
The company supplier because of its wide range of branded of choice.
develops Hybrid Engines, Electronic EEM components and guaranteed delivery Control systems and Fuel Cells for which support TTDCs technology mass production.
2 warehouses RS helps e2v Technologies UK to innovate 15 trade counters and 6 call and collects e2v Technologies is a leading designer, developer and manufacturer of specialised 150,000 products stocked components and subsystems for Electronic locally and 85,000 extended tubes and Sensors and Semiconductors.
range products on offer These products enable some of the worlds e-Commerce 32% of total sales leading OEMs to deliver innovative systems for medical, science, aerospace, defence, industrial and commercial applications.
4 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Group Share of Turnover by Region 9% 32% 18% 41% Asia Pacic Continental Europe North America UK North America 10 operating companies serving 55 local branches 13 countries Single warehouse co-located with head 7 warehouses ofce in Texas 12 locally priced catalogues and websites Annual catalogue with strong supplier input Up to 160,000 products available locally 135,000 products available through the and 230,000 extended range products catalogue and 300,000 online e-Commerce 32% of total sales e-Commerce 10% of total sales Allied Electronics helps Schilling Robotics deliver technology excellence Schilling Robotics designs and delivers the worlds highest-performing building blocks for subsea equipment operating in the worlds harshest environments.
The companys engineering specialties focus on high-speed digital electronics, robotics and precision machining.
When Schillings previous supplier was unable to meet scheduled demand for a required product, Allied stepped in.
Allieds local representative negotiated with the manufacturer to switch the supply of the product whilst maintaining the price.
The time 10% 22% Allied was able to save Schilling was invaluable.
Revenue growth Revenue growth Latest technologies, new product introductions and fast access to the products and services are just some of the reasons why Schilling Robotics use Allied time and time again.
e2v depend on RS for the supply of a Purchasing Manager enables companies to wide range of products from electronics set spend controls, workows and gain transparency of expenditure with RS.
The components such as connectors to health and safety equipment.
system noties users immediately if a product 2% is not available and searches for alternatives, With cost control being a crucial factor, Revenue growth which prevents costly delays and frustrating e2v required a cost effective purchasing waits for essential products.
system which gave them total visibility of Signicantly RS has helped e2v to save their companys spend.
RS immediately considerable time, empower employees with fullled the criteria with Purchasing Manager, RSs online purchasing solution.
spend controls and reduce administration time and control costs with Purchasing Manager.
Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
