Our responsibilities Directors report Business review Our responsibilities Ultimate responsibility for our corporate social responsibility How we lies with the Board which sets the Groups strategy and standards as they relate to social, environmental conduct our and ethical issues.
Responsibility for these matters is then devolved to the executive business management who review such issues as part of formal risk assessment procedures.
In this way the Board can ensure that potential risks are identified and that contingency strategies responsibly are in place.
We continue to consider how to take a more strategic approach to corporate social responsibility CSR and we are looking to bring greater focus and co-ordination to our activities and to make our CSR commitment more effective.
As we address these issues, we will report progress on our website, www.
Ethics Emap expects that all of its business is conducted in compliance with high ethical standards of business practice.
We apply these standards to all dealings with employees, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders.
The Groups Statement of Ethical Business Practices has been approved by the Board.
This policy has been developed to ensure that the Groups business is conducted in adherence with high ethical and legal principles and sets standards of professionalism and integrity for all employees and operations worldwide.
The policy also contains provisions for whistle blowing whereby employees may report, in confidence, suspected wrongdoings.
The Group is committed to providing equality of opportunity to all existing and prospective employees without unlawful or unfair discrimination.
Full support is given to the employment and advancement of disabled people and this is reinforced through the Groups Statement of Ethical Business Practices.
Our Statement of Ethical Business Practices is available at www.
com ethics Employees We rely on the imagination and creativity of our people to invent and develop our brands and drive our business forward.
These brands are critical to a media business whose purpose is to provide content that entertains and informs consumer and business communities and attracts advertisers.
Talent is critical to our business and our challenge is to attract, develop and retain creative people.
This year has seen a continued focus on identifying and acquiring the skills, capabilities and knowledge that will be required as we move towards a greater emphasis on digital and interactive products and services.
The following examples highlight some of the work that is going on across the Group.
42 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our responsibilities Creativity and collaboration The inaugural Emap Communications Leadership Academy, We are a business that has always relied heavily on creative people a 16 month leadership development programme first launched in having good ideas and being supported to make them happen.
September 2005, is now nearing completion.
We have collected Increasingly, these new business ideas are digital in nature, and data on the positive impact of the programme to the business, require us to bring together people with different skills and including the initiation of new business streams as a result of experience, often in different areas of the business.
For example, improved strategic thinking, more attention being paid to our the progress in our mobile activities this year including the customers and consumers, and improved collaboration across successful acquisition of Yospace in February 2007, was enabled the business on real time challenges and opportunities.
by bringing together existing and new talent, working together to extend our successful brands in new ways.
Outside the consumer Our annual expenditure on training was 313 per employee, space, we continue to develop our skills in the delivery of B2B compared with an average of 250 for organisations of our size events and information products.
source: Chartered Institute of Personnel, Training & Development survey, 2007.
The comparative figures for 2006 were 370 and Developing capability 339, respectively.
Emap is committed to enabling our people to maximise their potential and during 2007 we have continued to offer varied routes Developing careers for development across the business, including access to training, During 2007, we have continued to focus on ensuring that we are mentoring and secondments, as well as experiential development putting our brightest talent onto our fastest growing platforms and and opportunities for career progression.
Digital capability Bringing together our consumer media activities under the Developing digital businesses is a key strategic priority for Emap, management of Paul Keenan has helped facilitate talent moves which means that developing digital capability across the Group is across consumer-facing platforms.
One area in which we are using a range of approaches to businesses such as WGSN and Cannes Lions, together with new develop digital capability is with our advertising sales teams, where launches such as Summer Fair and World Retail Congress, and we are rolling out skills training to equip them with the learning and the digital Big Brands online project, are providing opportunities to confidence to understand online advertising models, to understand develop high potential talent.
Elsewhere, the operational efficiency the changing needs of advertisers and to deliver innovative review within our Radio group has provided opportunities for career multiplatform solutions.
To date, we have taken a tailored layered progression.
Our international businesses also offer real approach to increasing digital learning throughout the business.
opportunities for progression and this year there were several international transfers to and from MEED in the Middle East.
We are also using our own digital experts, and their specialist external contacts to inspire and educate our people, through digital Our internal opportunities process, whereby the majority of internal forums, conferences, learning lunches and information sessions, vacancies are advertised on our intranet, Planetemap, continues as well as giving our people the opportunity to be involved in digital to offer our people a route to developing their careers upwards and projects and initiatives.
We have recently commenced a formal recruitment search to find Engaging our people a Chief Technology Officer whose responsibility will be to oversee We have an established set of values that we encourage our our digital businesses and strategy across the Group.
Within our people to embrace.
In conjunction with our refreshed strategic consumer division we have created roles for three digital directors priorities we have also restated our values in a more simplified in our radio, lifestyle and specialist businesses and in B2B we have form.
In particular, our values emphasise the role that our people also created similar roles.
have in shaping the business and its future.
Leadership capability An example of how we engage our people in decision making is the Emaps leaders of the future will need to lead businesses that way in which the B2B division has established working groups in operate across media platforms, encompassing a range of different the process to co-locate a number of businesses in one Central business models and capabilities.
In 2006, we launched the Emap London property.
To facilitate this move and to engage employees, Circle programme, our first cross-divisional leadership development we are involving several groups to help shape our thinking around initiative, aimed at developing our high potential leaders to meet the layout, functionality and look and feel of the new premises.
Next year, we are extending this cross-divisional development approach to the rest of our leadership and management development portfolio, to ensure that our leaders of tomorrow are well equipped to lead in a convergent world.
43 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our responsibilities Directors report Business review Our responsibilities continued Emap businesses have traditionally surveyed their employees at Environment regular intervals through the Talkback process, which then informs Our Statement of Ethical Business Practices details our commitment action planning.
This year, we are taking a different approach to to the environment.
At all points in our supply chain, from forests understanding what motivates our people and how engaged they to the consumer, we try to ensure Emap has the lightest possible are feeling, applying the same research approaches we use when impact on the environment.
This research is helping us to identify particular tribes of employees who have different needs and The FTSE4Good Index, of which we are a member, classifies Emap preferences, and areas where we could do things differently to as a printing and newspaper company with a medium impact on the engage them better.
In common with other such businesses we can impact the environment in terms of the way we source our raw materials, Another way in which employees are engaged is by encouraging the way we dispose of waste and the amount of water and energy them to own shares through employee share plans.
We aim to minimise these effects through various employees are offered shares after their first year with Emap.
Some programmes which we have adopted and explain below.
85% of employees currently have a direct shareholding in Emap.
Paper and printing Due to the operational efficiency initiatives carried out across the With over 100 magazines in production, we consume approximately Group this year, staff turnover in the UK was 36%, compared with 147,000 metric tonnes of paper a year.
Throughout the cycle, from 28% last year.
sourcing timber to disposing of unsold magazines, we aim to make our supply chain as sustainable as possible and only use suppliers UK staff by gender % with high environmental standards.
2006 in brackets Female 57% 56% To ensure that supplies are secure and competitively priced, we Male 43% 44% buy our paper from four major suppliers with whom we have built strong relationships.
We also keep our own stockpiles.
Our paper is made in about 30 mills across northern Europe and one in the US, all of which manufacture to internationally recognised standards either European Eco-Management and Audit Scheme EMAS or ISO 14001 or both.
This year, 65% of our paper came from forest certification schemes, up from 63% last year.
We aim to eventually Senior leadership by gender % push the figure as near to 100% as we can.
2006 in brackets Female 36% 33% All our printers observe local environmental requirements and some Male 64% 67% already operate to EMAS or ISO 14001.
We are insisting that they all reach one or other of these standards.
Paper sourced from forest certification schemes % UK staff by age % 2006 in brackets 49% 58% 63% 65% 1 30 39% 40% 2 30-45 48% 47% 2004 2005 2006 2007 3 45 13% 13% 3 1 Unsold magazines are collected from retailers by our wholesalers 2 and are recycled and the cover mounts are destroyed by waste contractors.
Since we work on a sale or return basis, everyone in the chain has a commercial interest in returning unsold copies of magazines.
A new, industry-leading stock management system, recently introduced by Emaps distribution company, Frontline, matches supply more accurately to demand and so reduces the For more details on what our employees think about number of magazines that have to be both printed and returned.
working for Emap and our health and safety record go to www.
com 44 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our responsibilities The Green Office Our Radio group is broadly spread across the UK, covering all the The Green Office Initiative launched in 2005 throughout the Group major conurbations, and our stations have a strong local presence has made good progress.
This encourages staff to recycle items and influence where they operate.
Within Radio we have created a such as paper, cans, toner cartridges, plastic cups, light bulbs, dedicated team to lead our national and local community initiatives mobile phones and computers and to be more economical in using with a focus on children living within the stations transmission areas.
This reflects our overall strategic commitment to local radio markets.
Recent initiatives include Build a Dream, through which Metro In the past year, our UK offices recycled 670 tonnes of paper, Radio in Newcastle raised funds on air to build a respite home for saving the equivalent of 11,300 trees, 4,690,000 gallons of water children in the North East, and Read to Succeed, through which and 2,814,000 kilowatt hours of electricity that would have been Hallam FM in Sheffield helped raise funding to pay for additional used in making new paper.
We also recycled 40,952 kilos of teaching assistants in underprivileged primary schools in the area.
cardboard, 1,870 toner cartridges and 828 computers.
These all represent increases over last year.
Emap Advertising continues to support the Rainbow Trust, a charity that provides respite care for terminally ill children and their families, The CO emissions caused by our company cars in the UK during through creative money raising challenges.
2 2007 was as follows: We also raise funds through our brands such as the Grazia Distance travelled km goodie bag which has raised 237,359 from launch to the end of March 2007 for a variety of good causes.
Employees 3,658,503 6,166,168 Volunteering Distribution 2,688,000 We are a corporate member of the Media Trust, an organisation 3,688,471 set up to act as a broker between charities needing media skills 2007 2006 and media companies that can provide those skills.
Under the Trust we have been involved in the Media Connections scheme, CO emissions tonnes 2 whereby PR and communications staff from charities have Employees 585 benefited from secondments to our businesses to gain insights 987 into the media industry.
Distribution 3,167 Elsewhere in the Group our employees regularly give their time 3,796 to charities and educational establishments in their local areas.
2007 2006 These figures represent the kilometres travelled by an external logistics company Raising awareness engaged on Emaps business.
The close relationship between Emaps brands and their audiences These figures represent the CO equivalent of the annual kilometres travelled.
2 provides scope for raising awareness of important social issues.
Our energy consumption during the year is detailed on Emap has recently become involved with War Child, a charity that www.
com works with children across the world who are affected by war.
Through a recent music event we brought together staff from Community across the Group to raise awareness of the charitys work.
Going As a Company, we support our employees endeavours in forward, we hope to convert this awareness into support across our contributing to their communities both individually and as part of full range of media assets, drawing on Emaps reach and influence larger co-ordinated efforts through the businesses they work for to support this worthwhile cause.
Our employees and businesses contribute to the community in three main ways: raising funds: volunteering: We continue to support the charity V that promotes youth and raising awareness of good causes.
We will be contributing 500,000 worth of media value across our various media platforms to help Raising funds raise awareness of its activities and encourage participation in The Group itself does not support a single charity, rather it facilitates volunteering by the 16 to 24 age group.
giving on the part of employees through a matching scheme and a payroll administered Give As You Earn GAYE scheme.
In 2007 Our brands regularly help raise awareness of issues that are the amount donated by the Company in matching was 41,350 important to their audiences.
Pregnancy & Birth has been running 2006: 14,500.
Up to March 2007, each donating employee an initiative called the Group B Strep Campaign, to improve the received 50 a month to their chosen charity.
From April 2007 the level of information and testing in relation to this serious neonatal Company will give a 1 matching amount per 1 raised or donated infection, and Mother & Baby supports parent-friendly initiatives, up to a maximum of 50 a month.
in particular around car seats and the recently launched Baby Friendly Britain guide.
continues to support The Samaritans through its Rock of Life campaign involving sales of wristbands and dogtags and charity auctions.
45 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Directors report Board of Directors Alun Cathcart 63 Paul Keenan 43 Executive Chairman Chief Executive, Emap Consumer Media Joined the Board in June 2005 and was appointed Chairman in Joined the Board in April 2005.
After five years at Emap July 2006 having been Deputy Chairman since February 2006.
Communications joined Emap Consumer Media in 1997 as Acting On 17 May 2007, appointed interim Executive Chairman.
Chairman Managing Director of Emap Elan and in 1998 moved to Emap Metro of Palletways Group Limited and Avis Europe plc.
Spent 14 years in as Managing Director.
Appointed Chief Executive of Emap Digital in executive positions within the transportation industry before joining April 2000.
In September 2001, appointed Chief Executive of Emap Avis Europe in 1980.
Led the Avis Group from 1983-1999 as Chief Consumer Media.
Currently a Director of the Periodical Publishers Executive and as Chairman from 1998-2002.
as Deputy Chairman and Interim Chief Executive in 2002-2004 he was again appointed Chairman of the Avis Group in May 2004.
Derek Carter 57 Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Chief Executive, Emap Communications Joined the Board in September 2006.
After 12 years at Emap Executive Directors became Managing Director of Emap Maclaren in 1989 and in 1997 Ian Griffiths 40 was appointed Chief Executive of Emap Communications.
Chairman Group Finance Director of the PPA 2001-2002 and a Director of the PPA since 1997.
Joined Emap in 1994 and after several years at Emap Communications became Group Head of Finance before being appointed Director of Financial Control in 2000.
Appointed Group Finance Director in October 2005 having been Acting Group Finance Director since April 2005.
Before joining Emap, worked at Ernst & Young in the Audit and Corporate Finance departments.
Clockwise from top left: Alun Cathcart Ian Griffiths Paul Keenan Derek Carter 46 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our governance Non-Executive Directors Jonathan Howell 44 Rita Clifton 49 Joined the Board in March 2007.
Currently Director of Finance of Joined the Board in June 2005.
Began her career in advertising, London Stock Exchange Group plc and Non-Executive Chairman of becoming Vice Chairman and Executive Planning Director at Saatchi FTSE International Limited.
In 1997 joined Interbrand Ltd as Chief Executive, becoming Chairman in 2002.
Currently a Non-Executive Director of David Rough 56 DSG International plc and Non-Executive Chairman of Populus Joined the Board in February 2002.
Previously a Director of Limited, pollster to The Times.
Currently a Non-Executive Director of Land Securities Group plc and Xstrata plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Pierre Danon 50 Committee and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Joined the Board in April 2004.
Chairman of eircom Limited since August 2006.
Senior Adviser at JP Morgan plc.
Previously Chief Key to Committees Operating Officer of Cap Gemini in Paris and prior to that, Chief Member of the Audit Committee Executive Officer of the retail division of BT Group plc.
Worked for Member of the Remuneration Committee Xerox for 19 years and became Senior Vice President of Xerox Member of the Nomination Committee Corporation before becoming President of Xerox Europe.
Member of the Treasury Committee Andrew Harrison 50 Joined the Board in March 2002.
Chief Executive Officer of easyJet plc since December 2005.
Previously Chief Executive of RAC plc and, prior to that, a Director of Courtaulds Textiles plc, having worked for the Courtaulds Group since 1986.
Chairman of the Audit Committee and Treasury Committee.
Clockwise from top left: Rita Clifton Pierre Danon Andrew Harrison Jonathan Howell David Rough 47 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
