Our strategy Directors report Business review Our strategy What is our strategy?
Our strategy is to build Emap into a fast-growing, content rich business, using our customer insight and brands to inform, entertain Delivering and connect communities.
In order to deliver this strategy we are reshaping the Group by our strategy migrating resources onto faster growth platforms and developing new business models based on content, community and commerce.
Faster growth platforms include digital media, business-to-business B2B information products and events, and faster growing geographies.
During 2007 we have been working to reshape the Group through investment in existing brands and businesses, innovative launches of new products and brands, acquisitions and continued portfolio management.
We have also embarked on a number of initiatives across the Group in order to right-size the cost base given the challenges to revenue growth we are experiencing.
Brands Advertisers Content Customers Communities Platforms How we delivered our strategy in 2007 The 2007 financial year has been a period of transition for the Group and we have made important strides towards delivering our strategy, but the markets we operate in, particularly consumer media, have been very challenging.
In our 2006 Annual Report we outlined our key priorities for the 2007 financial year and we have been broadly successful in delivering against these priorities, despite the difficult trading conditions.
06 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our strategy 1 Continue launching We have significantly increased our NPD on digital initiatives, We have continued to invest in launches during the period, committing spending 3m on the development of our new motor cycling and a record 25m to new product development NPD.
The majority golf consumer websites, mentioned above.
We are also investing in of this investment has been allocated to consumer magazines, developing and enhancing the online presence of our top 10 B2B in particular First, launched in May 2006, ZOO Australia, launched weekly magazine brands through our Big Brands online initiative.
in February 2006, and Grazia, launched in February 2005.
In terms of acquisitions, while in total we have spent less than Based on their performance to date, both Grazia and ZOO in 2006, we have invested a total of 43m in 2007, all directed Australia are performing significantly ahead of our launch criteria, at faster growth platforms.
In B2B we bought AME Info, an online which demand break-even by year three and cash payback by year news information service serving the fast-growing Middle Eastern five.
First has got off to a slower start than anticipated but we region, and Trades Exhibitions Limited TEL, which runs the UKs remain committed to this title as we believe it serves an attractive leading professional beauty event.
In our consumer business customer demographic.
we made our first acquisition in the digital space, acquiring the mobile user-generated content platform provider, Yospace In addition, in March 2007 we launched new websites under Technologies Ltd Yospace.
the Todays Golfer and Motor Cycle News brands, which feature increased functionality and opportunities for community interaction These acquisitions are subject to our acquisition criteria of being as well as additional sources of revenue generation through earnings enhancing in year one and delivering returns in excess e-commerce.
This is our first major investment in developing our of our cost of capital by year three.
For Yospace, given it is an own digital capability and, now we have the technological platform early stage company, we are applying our launch criteria to established and proven, we plan to roll out further websites under measure its performance.
Acquisition spend m In B2B, we have invested in the launch of Dubai Lynx, a spin-off 2007 43 of our successful Cannes Lions International Advertising Festival, 2006 480 and the World Retail Congress, a global retail summit, both in 2005 66 March 2007.
We are also launching the Summer Fair, a trade 2004 153 exhibition aimed at the higher end of the home and giftware market 2003 38 in June, which complements Spring Fair held in February and Autumn Fair held in September, and will be one of the biggest The priority of targeting resources towards faster growing platforms exhibition launches in terms of space in the last 15 years.
has also involved exiting from businesses that do not meet our strategic priorities or that we forecast will not deliver our target In Radio, we continued to support the launch of Kerrang!
This was behind our decision to sell Emap in the West Midlands and will invest behind CityTalk, the new talk France, which, although having contributed significantly to Emap format FM licence we recently won in Liverpool.
We have also in the past, was not forecast to deliver the returns we require and invested in programming and sales and marketing for Magic 105.4 the investment needed to drive future growth would have delivered to support its position in the competitive London market.
better returns elsewhere in the business.
During the period we also exited Bliss, Sneak and the US edition of FHM as they did not NPD spend m Excluding Emap France meet our strategic priorities.
2007 25 3 Accelerate B2B information and events 2006 16 We have invested substantially behind the growth of our B2B 2005 19 information products and events during the year.
In events, we 2004 16 launched World Retail Congress, Summer Fair and Dubai Lynx 2003 20 and we acquired TEL.
In information products, we acquired AME Info, which complements our MEED brand which is one of the most respected sources of business information in the Middle East.
2 Target resources towards faster growing platforms WGSN, which we acquired in October 2005, has benefited from Our NPD and acquisition investments this year have been targeted investment behind the sales and marketing functions as well as the at the platforms that we have identified as fast growth, being: digital introduction of a new Close to Season analysis to enhance the media: B2B information products and events: and faster growing offering and drive sales.
Our other successful information brands, geographies.
In total, we have committed 52m towards faster DeHavilland, Glenigan and CAP, have also all benefited from growth platforms in 2007. enhancements to their offerings.
07 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our strategy Directors report Business review Our strategy continued Revenue from B2B events grew by 14% over last year and revenue Were we successful?
from our information products grew by 20% on a pro forma basis We have made good progress against the strategic priorities we assuming WGSN and DeHavilland were owned for the whole of the outlined last year and we believe the actions we have taken to comparative periods.
transform the Group will position us for growth in the future.
However, the tough trading conditions in many of our markets have 4 Increase collaboration between different platforms affected our progress in the year.
Our Continuing Group delivered We have built on some of our strong consumer brands to develop revenue growth of 4% in 2007 and flat organic revenue, that is their multiplatform potential and have had success with FHM, which underlying revenue excluding our biennial events plus launches.
now reaches 1.9m 16 to 34 year old men on a monthly basis While we are not wholly satisfied with this overall result, good through the magazine, website, TV and mobile platforms, and the performances have been achieved by our womens weekly titles and multiplatform Kerrang!
In B2B, examples of collaboration B2B information products and events.
Radio has seen a mixed across platforms include our Big Brands online initiative and the performance, with good results from our Republic of Ireland and development of our exhibitions online presence.
Also in B2B, the Scottish stations but tougher conditions in national advertising for unique combination of our strong industry relationships through our our Big City network.
Other areas of weakness remain our mens retail brands and our established conference skills resulted in the and automotive titles.
B2B recruitment advertising continues to be successful launch of the World Retail Congress.
weak but has declined in significance and is now a much smaller part of the overall Group.
Increasingly, advertisers are looking to connect with consumers over several media platforms and to utilise a portfolio of media How were rewiring Emap for growth 2 brands.
The establishment of Emap, our full service marketing For the 2008 financial year we are refreshing our strategic communications arm, in 2006 addresses this need through the priorities.
You can read about how we are rewiring Emap for growth development of engaging and creative campaigns which can run on pages 9 to 21. across a number of our media platforms and brands.
We will measure our financial performance by looking at growth in One of the main drivers for our operational efficiency reviews across normalised revenue, operating profit, pre-tax profit, earnings per share the Group has been to improve collaboration between our brand and operating profit into cash conversion rate and dividend per share experts and platform experts so as to facilitate the extension of see page 4.
We will measure our operational performance by looking brands over the various media distribution channels, be they print, at our launch and acquisition criteria, growth in digital revenue, online, mobile, TV or radio.
revenue from our growth brands and operating margin.
We said our key priorities for 2007 were: 1.
Increase collaboration launching towards faster information between different growing platforms and events platforms We identified a number of key performance indicators for the Group.
Our ability to maintain or 2.
The ability to continue to grow market share achieve our target of 95% Delivering organic revenue profit into cash The markets in which we operate, growth, which we define as underlying particularly consumer, have been Our cash conversion has remained revenue excluding our biennial events above our target of 95%, being 108% difficult during the 2007 financial year.
plus launches, has been difficult this However, we have been broadly able in 2007 compared with 108% in 2006 year.
In 2007 organic revenue was flat due to continuing focus on working to maintain our share in consumer compared with growth of 3% in 2006. magazines and commercial radio.
08 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 MEDIA IS CHANGING IT NEVER STOPS THE TECHNOLOGY THE PACE THE PLAYERS NEW BRANDS NEW PLATFORMS NEW DIRECTIONS THIS IS WHY EMAP IS REWIRING FOR GROWTH Going digital together Investing for growth and value Unleashing growth brands Building e-business capability 11 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 KPI: Growth in digital revenue Directors report Business review We will create digital propositions for our customers and build digital capability into our teams.
We plan to grow revenue from our digital activities to 200m by 2010.
com National Radio initiative We are taking our top 10 B2B magazines Launched in May 2007, heatworld.
com This initiative will see us relaunching our online to enable them to respond effectively aims to become the online source for national radio business, leveraging the to changing customer behaviour and to celebrity gossip in the UK.
It aims to strength of our consumer brands and maximise revenue potential.
From mid-2007 extend heats market position, brand and opening up the opportunity for developing these magazine brands, which together revenue potential.
have a paid-for weekly circulation of around 250,000 and a weekly reach of over half a heat magazine, with a circulation of over With overall radio listening in the UK fairly million business customers, will benefit 500,000 every week, is a leading source stable, there has been a 46% increase from a new scalable web platform enabling of celebrity news.
The main focus of in listening to commercial radio over them to enhance their customer-facing heatworld.
com will be to provide a unique digital platforms.
We want to stay close online presence.
daily fix of heat for its loyal magazine to our customers to provide them with readers, while giving new customers entertainment and information whenever, Each site will be tailored to the market the a place to access breaking celebrity wherever and however they want it.
brand serves and will provide users with news.
heat is a unique brand that offers fully interactive daily news, comment and advertisers a trusted environment and With established strong brands such as in-depth analysis and data.
By linking with its magazine, radio, mobile and now heat, Kerrang!, Mojo and Q we have the content and advertising the sites will be online presence, we will be able to opportunity to develop truly multiplatform able to target advertising by context and deliver exciting multiplatform campaigns brands that will provide advertisers with by demographics to deliver enhanced value for our advertisers.
innovative ways of reaching ever more to both advertisers and customers.
We plan to invest The launch of heat online forms an in programming to ensure the stations The sites will also make use of Talent important part of Emaps overall strategy reflect the brand values consumers expect Scout which points users to the most of investing in digital growth platforms.
and to develop opportunities for interaction relevant jobs advertised on the site.
com is an important addition and commerce.
As part of this initiative, to the heat digital repertoire.
we are participating in the D2 multiplex The new sites will enable Emaps major bid with a station branded Closer, that will B2B magazine brands to drive revenue be the first station specifically targeted growth from online advertising, sponsorship, at women, building on the strong Closer recruitment and subscriptions.
Risks Actions Competition from existing Accelerating our brands across platforms digital businesses Customers demonstrate less Ensuring our strong brands reach brand loyalty customers across platforms Lack of digital capability Maintaining a culture that nurtures innovation and collaboration 13 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 KPI: Launch acquisition criteria Directors report Business review We will prioritise investment by alignment to strategy, return on investment, growth potential, size of the opportunity and ease of execution.
We will take rapid action to deal with low growth or low return businesses.
We plan to invest around 25m in NPD and 150m-200m in acquisitions each year.
Launch criteria: Break-even by year three, cash payback by year five.
Acquisition criteria: Earnings enhancing in year one, return on investment greater than cost of capital by year three.
Grazia WGSN AME info Grazia was launched in February 2005 Emap acquired WGSN in October 2005 AME Info, acquired for $27m in July 2006, with the ambition of combining the glossy for 140m.
WGSN is a leading online is the leading online business news and lifestyle content of traditional womens subscription-based information service information portal serving the Middle East monthlies with the fast-moving appeal of targeted at the global fashion industry.
market with content in both English a weekly frequency.
After an investment Our aim was to double subscriptions to and Arabic.
With 853,166 unique users of 16m, the magazine is now the most 3,000 within five years and we are well source: ABC Electronic, 11 vertical talked about title in the UK, winning 20 ahead of plan with subscriber levels at newswires, a significant companies major awards, delivering revenue growth nearly 2,200 currently.
The acquisition is database and rapidly growing audio and of 59% in 2007 and reaching break-even well ahead of all our acquisition criteria.
video streams, AME Info seeks to serve within 19 months, well ahead of our the Middle East business community with launch criteria.
We have continued to invest behind the information they need, when they WGSN to drive growth, with investment need it and in the most suitable format.
For the future, we are aiming to further in the sales and marketing functions as AME Infos success is built on a strong deepen the brands relationship with its well as expanding its offering with a new brand proposition, backed up by a powerful highly valuable audience of moneyed Close to Season analysis.
For advertisers, women in their 30s through regular WGSN was up 34% in 2007 on a pro AME Info offers multimedia marketing product innovation and by extending the forma basis and we intend to continue to solutions that enable clients to clearly brand across relevant media platforms.
invest in this business to drive its growth.
Critical to Grazias success has been Emaps outstanding track record of AME Infos brand reach, technology launches which has enabled us to attract platform and strong market position, the all-important talent necessary to combined with the MEED brand, succeed in a competitive market.
represents an outstanding platform from which to drive Emaps expansion in the fast-growing Middle Eastern geography.
Risks Actions Availability of acquisition targets Having deep knowledge of the markets we operate in Ability to compete for acquisitions Ensuring we have sufficient financial against financially backed purchasers resources available for acquisitions Retaining and attracting creative Maintaining a culture that nurtures people with good launch ideas innovation and collaboration 15 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 KPI: Revenue from growth brands Directors report Business review We will identify growth opportunities across brands and platforms and accelerate them.
We will focus our investments, ensuring that growth opportunities receive appropriate resources.
We plan to drive revenue from our growth brands.
Cannes Lions Dubai Lynx World Retail Congress The Kerrang!
brand was born in 1981 Emap acquired Cannes Lions, the worlds In March 2007, Emap launched the World out of a one-off heavy metal music premier advertising festival, in August 2004, Retail Congress, which took place in supplement.
Since then it has grown into since when the business has grown revenue Barcelona, attracting over 1,000 of the most a multiplatform media brand connecting by over 30%.
2006 was another successful senior names in the global retail industry a community of 16 to 34 year olds who year for the festival, with attendances up from more than 50 countries.
The congress, believe Life is best lived Loud.
Cannes and associated World Retail Awards, was Lions ability to showcase the worlds conceived by experts from within our B2B Under the Kerrang!
brand we now have leading creative talent and host the most retail vertical who identified the market need.
the leading weekly music magazine with important debates on the future of the Combined with our expertise in conferences, a circulation of over 75,000, a website media sector led by leading figures make we pulled together a team from across the with some 140,000 unique users, radio it a must attend event.
business and backed them to make this stations that reach over 1.3m people, and concept a reality.
The congress and awards over 2.5m digital TV viewers.
We launched Building on the strength of the Cannes have received extensive acclaim from a new radio station, Kerrang!
105.2, in Lions brand and our event skills, the all those who attended and it is now firmly the West Midlands in 2004 and we have launch of Dubai Lynx in Dubai Media City established as a major event in the global also held music events, released CDs generated more than 1,700 entries and retail calendar.
and published books under this name.
Dubai Lynx On each platform we have achieved a provides an exciting platform from which We plan to build on this impressive start to high level of audience loyalty which helps to serve the rapidly growing Middle East take the brand forward.
to attract advertisers who increasingly media market.
want to reach consumers over a variety of platforms and touch points.
The ability of the Cannes Lions brand to serve its customers and to power satellite With revenue up 10%, our achievement events shows that we are well positioned with this brand demonstrates the power to drive future growth.
of brands in a digital world.
Risks Actions Competition from other brands Investing to support and maintain in the market strength of our brands Lack of sufficient investment Ensuring we have sufficient financial resources Ability to develop new brands Maintaining a culture that nurtures innovation and collaboration 17 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 KPI: Growth in digital revenue Directors report Business review We will identify strong brands and build new digital businesses around them.
We will develop these e-businesses through acquisition, partnering and new product development.
Parkers Todays Golfer and Yospace Parkers, which we acquired in 1997, Yospace, acquired in February 2007, Motor Cycle News provides UK car buyers with valuations, is a technology and new media business, The recent launch of todaysgolfer.
com reviews and cars for sale.
The online comprising the UKs market leading mobile and motorcyclenews.
com in March 2007 version of Parkers, parkers.
co. uk, video based user-generated community highlights our ambition of creating digital launched in 1999, has been consistently platform.
Responsible for the See me TV content, community and commerce ranked in Hitwises top 10 most visited service and the user-generated community businesses around our market leading automotive websites.
Parkers partnership Look at me TV brand, Yospace brings specialist magazine brands.
The with Emaps B2B information product, to Emap the market leading position in propositions link navigation with the CAP, enables the site to provide a full mobile user-generated content, digital transaction: for example, todaysgolfer.
com range of car information, which is easily technology capabilities and a talented is underpinned with 1,200 golf course accessed by consumers.
reviews linked to booking tee-times generated over 1m unique users and online.
com dynamically 62% growth in revenue in 2007.
We are in the process of rolling out links news, reviews and community Yospaces services across UK and discussion with over 500 motorbikes for For the future, Parkers is looking to partner international mobile operators.
Early results are promising with over with key brands from our consumer consumer offering will also be expanded 300,000 unique users and 5m page activities to provide its growing motoring to include branded channels where we impressions combined.
content, including a lifestyle car choosing can offer a rich consumer experience.
tool, to drive its growth in both audience Today, motorcyclenews.
leading motorbike site in the UK and todaysgolfer.
com is climbing fast towards leadership using this scalable technology platform.
We plan to roll out other sites under our specialist consumer titles.
Risks Actions Revenue from sources that we Broadening sources of revenue dont currently participate in Competition from new media Developing digital and new media skills companies through training, acquisitions and partnering Competition from established Building on strong brand recognition e-businesses 19 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Directors report Business review Our people are fundamental to our success.
In order to be able to deliver our strategic priorities we need to retain and recruit innovative and creative people who share our vision and values.
We will also need to change the work we do and the way we work.
Our ability to adapt to these changing times can be measured by our operating margin.
Values Awards We have refreshed and simplified our values so that they clearly encourage Campaign Media Awards 2006 Womens magazines weekly behaviours that will drive our strategic Radio Sales Team of the Year Grazia priorities.
Our incentives and rewards are Emap Radio The Fiona MacPherson New Editor linked to these values and the delivery of Print Sales Team of the Year Award our strategy.
Development of capability Cross Media Sales Teams of the Year Innovation of the Year Award 2 We are taking a more joined-up approach Emap closerdiets.
com to identifying and filling capability needs Media Week Awards 2006 Business & professional magazines throughout the Group.
We have in place, Media Brand of the Year Gold weekly and are developing, initiatives that will Grazia The Architects Journal support existing staff so they have the Media Brand of the Year Silver The Sony Radio Academy competencies to deliver our strategic Magic 105.4 Awards 2007 ambitions.
As we partner with or acquire Station of the Year Gold Periodical Publishers Association companies with new skills, we will audience of 1m plus PPA Awards 2007 integrate and assimilate new talent to Radio City International Business and benefit the Group as a whole.
Professional Magazine of the Year Live Event Coverage Award Gold MEED Magic 1152 Recruiting Writer of the Year Promo Award Silver We recognise that in order to deliver our consumer magazines Kerrang!
strategy we need new and different Arena capabilities and we are actively recruiting Breakfast Show Award Bronze to reinforce the skill sets, in particular Designer of the Year Key 103 around digital, that we have in the Group.
consumer magazines Entertainment Award Bronze Car Clyde 1 Recognition Editor of the Year Live Event Coverage Award Bronze Our peoples successes and achievements business and professional magazines Kiss 100 are regularly recognised by external Local Government Chronicle Station Imaging Award Bronze industry bodies and associations.
Here Periodicals Training Council Radio Aire are a few of the awards our talented PTC New Journalist of the people and their brands have received.
News Journalist of the Year Award Year Awards 2006 Bronze New Consumer General Weekly Key 103 and Magic 1152 Journalist of the Year Press Gazette Magazine Journalism more Awards 2006 PPA Production Awards 2006 News Reporter of the Year Magazine Production Team of the Year Health Service Journal Emap Business Services Association British Society of Magazine Editors Media Awards 2006 Awards 2006 Specialist Sectoral Journal Entertainment magazines Health Service Journal heat 21 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007 Our strategy Directors report Business review Principal risks and uncertainties A major part of our strategy relies on our We have explained our strategy ability to invest for growth and value and how we will measure our Our strategy to drive growth is in part reliant on our ability to performance.
We now explain the identify and successfully compete for acquisitions both privately principal risks and challenges we and in the open market.
It is also dependent on the continued development of new, commercially viable products.
may face in delivering our strategy.
We have in place robust internal processes for the identification, We apply a basket of measures when assessing launches and monitoring and managing of our business risks and further details acquisition opportunities.
The most important of which, in relation of the internal processes involved are set out in the section called to acquisitions, is a return in excess of our cost of capital by year System of internal control in Our governance on page 53. three.
Our proven track record of identifying and acquiring attractive assets, our strong pipeline of launch ideas and our We remain exposed to trends in traditional flexible capital structure and availability of financial resources media markets support our belief that we will continue to be able to grow the business through investments.
Although through our strategy we are aiming to diversify away from traditional advertising and circulation revenues, the majority Our strategy will increase our exposure to of our revenue still comes from these sources.
faster growth platforms, including faster Any changes in the levels or allocation of advertising spending growth geographies could have a marked effect on our performance.
We are also The majority of the Groups operations are based in the UK and as exposed to the risk that consumer spending patterns increasingly such our revenues and costs are linked to the UK economic cycle.
move away from traditional media.
As we increase the proportion of our revenue that comes from outside the UK we will increase our exposure to the economic cycles However, the strength of our brands underpins our ability to of other geographies.
continue to retain customers and attract advertisers which helps mitigate these risks.
Changes in regulation may impact our business We need the right people with the right skills Our Radio activities are subject to regulation by the Office of to deliver our strategy Communications and any changes in regulations, interpretation Key to achieving our strategic priorities are our people and our of existing regulations or failure to obtain the required regulatory culture.
We need to attract and retain key employees, recognising approvals or licences could affect our business.
In the UK, the that we also need new skills to deliver our digital and e-commerce structure of the distribution system for consumer magazines is ambitions.
We need to ensure our culture facilitates collaboration currently under review by regulatory authorities and any changes and quick decision making.
Without these, we risk not being able to the current system may have an effect on our UK consumer to respond quickly enough to the changing environment.
We work hard to maintain a culture that encourages behaviours We work to maintain good relations with the regulatory bodies, consistent with the delivery of our strategy.
We talk about this in participate in consultations with industry groups and are proactive detail in the Employees section in Our responsibilities on page 42. in responding to changes in regulations.
We are planning to increase our revenue from digital sources, including e-commerce We are developing business models that are outside our traditional skill set and are in areas which are subject to rapidly changing competitive environments.
Successful execution of our strategy will result in revenue coming from sources that we dont currently participate in.
We will look to acquire or partner to obtain the necessary expertise and will apply challenging investment criteria to any investments in the area of e-commerce.
23 Emap plc Annual Report & Accounts 2007
