Operating and financial review continued Our markets Market drivers Around the world, consumer lifestyles are driving demand for food and beverages outside the home.
Consumers have increased disposable income and lifestyles are changing, becoming more time compressed and increasingly global.
Changing consumer demands are driving changes in the industry with more choices, better quality and faster service.
These markets are expected to accelerate from the historic rate of 4%5% to over 6% per annum in the future.
1 22 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 1 Time pressured consumers eat out We have the ability to design and build rather than cooking for themselves 2 Dave McCulloch, high-performance equipment, integrated Chief Executive Officer, in the workstations or complete systems, and Enodis Technology Center, Tampa we have one of the most extensive offerings in the industry... 2 Changing consumer lifestyles are leading to changing trends: Clockless living lifestyle and career options are changing traditional eating patterns driving expansion to 24-hour operation to meet consumers needs with the knock-on effect on equipment usage levels and life cycles: Health, safety and sensory appeal health is becoming increasingly important, particularly with respect to issues such as trans-fats.
Consumer food safety concerns are requiring operators to update their equipment to meet stringent safety levels.
In addition to these health and safety drivers, food and beverages must continue to appeal to our senses including sight, taste, smell and general ambience: Green is hot consumers feel a greater need to have a Supporting consumer demand, the number of foodservice outlets symbiotic relationship with the environment and increasingly continues to grow around the world, led by the expansion of multi-unit expect the corporations that they support with their purchases operators in their domestic and global markets.
Simultaneously, the to demonstrate stronger social responsibility: and very definition of a foodservice operation is changing as consumer Convenience time pressured consumers rely on eating out trends place new demands on traditional operators.
The boundaries as an alternative to cooking.
Increasingly they are looking for between sectors are disappearing with converging menu offerings faster service and the ability to take-away which require leading to fierce competition amongst global players.
Increasingly, convenient and easy to find locations.
operators are extending their operations into non-traditional spaces and locations, creating alternative concepts, downsized locations, To address these changing trends and to assist operators to grab-and-go kiosks, mobile merchandising and more.
meet these demands, Enodis and its leading brands are The change in restaurant competition is driving demand for new developing individual products, integrated workstations and menus and new types of equipment.
Accelerated cooking technology, high-performance kitchens.
Accelerated Cooking Technology and TM compact refrigeration at the point of use, rethermalisation units and Enerlogic are industry leading initiatives.
merchandising equipment are now among frequent purchases, along with more traditional primary cooking equipment, fryers, refrigeration, ice and warewashing equipment.
As a result of these increasing demands, the equipment replacement cycle is reducing as operators focus on same-store sales growth using equipment for longer periods, in many cases 24 hours a day.
In addition, technology advances are making installed equipment obsolete.
The replacement market now accounts for approximately 50%60% of the food equipment market with new store openings approximately 15%20% and store remodels 25%30%: this is a move from the traditional model of a few years ago when the market was evenly split in thirds.
A further industry factor is that the growth in multi-unit operators, principally, the global chains, is outpacing the rate of the general market as they drive to capture incremental sales.
This results in the market becoming increasingly global and has the effect Estimated outlook global food and beverages p Forecasted CAGR of consolidating the foodservice equipment industry as these US$bn 20072012 6.3% operators typically favour fewer suppliers who are capable of providing global service.
Enodis is continuing to capitalise on the dynamic changes taking place in the marketplace due to these key drivers.
We have the ability to design and build high-performance equipment, integrated workstations or complete systems, and we have one of the most extensive offerings in the industry to meet this demand with our Accelerated CookingTechnology and Enerlogic products.
Furthermore, we have the infrastructure to support our customers globally with kitchen optimisation, culinary support and after 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 sales service.
Source: Planet Retail 30 October 2007 Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 23 1,120 1,143 1,139 1,137 1,198 1,230 1,209 1,243 1,374 1,517 1,630 1,739 1,896 2,021 2,150 2,284 2,426 2,578 Operating and financial review continued Our markets continued Market growth According to the US National Restaurant Association NRA, the majority of multi-unit owners, franchisees and other operators are planning capital expenditure in the next six months.
These expectations coincide with the trends towards replacement and upgraded equipment for existing rather than new stores.
1 24 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 1 The change in restaurant types is driving demand for new menus Global Foodservice Equipment Estimated global food equipment sales US$27.6bn 2007 forecast The global foodservice equipment market is estimated to be approximately $27.6bn.
Of this, we compete in the foodservice p Foodservice US$17.5bn sector globally, in the retail sector only in North America and we do p Food retail US$6.8bn not participate in vending.
North America remains our largest market.
p Vending US$3.3bn NorthAmerica Technomic and other forecasts for calendar 2008 are for market growth in North America of between 5% and 6% in foodservice equipment.
Technomic expect that growth in multi-unit operators will continue to be strong with many major limited service chains planning significant remodels and equipment upgrades.
In addition, reducing costs will continue as a reason for replacement, for Source: Botany Hill Management Inc. example, improved operating or energy costs driving equipment demand.
According to the National Restaurant Association, more Estimated global foodservice equipment sales than half of operators report purchasing energy-efficient equipment US$17.5bn 2007 forecast over the past two years.
p North America US$8.5bn Europe p Europe US$4.3bn p Asia-Pacific US$4.3bn The UK and Continental European market for foodservice equipment p Other US$0.7bn is expected to increase by 2%4% in 2008, broadly in line with the food and beverage markets.
Strong demand for innovative types of catering equipment, including those that offer energy-saving and other  features, is expected to boost sales in this region.
Asia Source: Botany Hill Management Inc. Asia is a region of high potential for Western-style food equipment.
Chinas restaurant market is expected to maintain double digit Reason for equipment purchase growth up to the end of the decade.
Quick service restaurants are 2007 estimate outpacing this rate as both local and foreign chains expand.
p Replacing existing unit 50%60% Food Retail Equipment p Store remodelling 25%30% p New store 15%20% NorthAmerica After several years of slow growth in grocery store sales, there has been another year of good growth, forecast to be 4.5%5.0% for calendar 2007 with investment in both new and remodelled stores outpacing store closures.
Technomic is forecasting growth in 2008 of approximately 4.0%4.5% despite retailers facing tough price inflation.
Prices for commodities such as dairy, corn and energy are soaring with the result that food-at-home inflation for the first time Source: Botany Hill Management Inc. is exceeding inflation for the cost of eating out.
Upmarket retailers continue to enjoy success as consumers look for more choices in ethnic, organic and fresh foods.
In addition, with higher levels of food inflation, super-centres and retail clubs have continued to out-pace the market as the venue of choice for price focused consumers.
Beyond these trends, the movement of populations, most notably toward the southern states of the US, has created opportunities for new store growth.
The distinction between foodservice and retail is blurring as more retailers enter the foodservice market to offer customers a complete experience.
In summary, the market remains extremely competitive with established supermarkets facing strong competition at the top end from upmarket retailers and at the other from discount stores who both appear to be taking share.
Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 25
