Operating and financial review continued Performance 1 We are delighted with an 18% increase in adjusted diluted EPS.
In FY07, adjusted profit before tax was 69.1m FY06: 64.1m an Financial overview increase of 5.0m 8%, reflecting the improved adjusted operating profit performance partially offset by an increase in net financing Group revenue in FY07 was 804.4m FY06: 768.3m an increase costs of 1.9m 28% to 8.7m as borrowings increased reflecting of 36.1m 5% over the prior comparative period.
On top of the impacts of our share buy-back and acquisition programmes.
the 80.5m increase in like-for-like Food Equipment revenue we In FY07, profit before tax was 63.3m FY06: 62.2m with benefited from a contribution of 7.4m resulting from the Groups exceptional costs, principally in respect of property charges, acquisition of the Fabristeel group in Singapore and China and by increasing to 5.3m compared to 1.8m in FY06.
Exceptional 2.5m from removing the like-for-like effect of acquisitions made in items are discussed further below.
These benefits were reduced by the adverse impact of 50.0m arising from the translation effect of foreign exchange rate Profit after tax was 41.1m FY06: 39.3m reflecting the tax benefits movements, and a reduction in property revenue of 4.3m to 1.9m of internal Group restructuring undertaken in the second half of FY06.
The Groups tax charge reflects an overall rate of 32.1% of profit before tax, exceptional items and amortisation of acquisition In FY07, Group operating profit before exceptional items and intangible assets, compared to 35.7% in FY06.
Tax is discussed amortisation of acquisition intangible assets adjusted operating further below.
This was principally due to an increase of 13.7m 18% in like-for-like Adjusted diluted earnings per share, calculated by adjusting for the Food Equipment operating profit and a contribution of 0.3m from effects of exceptional items and amortisation of acquisition intangible Fabristeel offset by the adverse impact of 5.5m arising from the assets, was 11.7p FY06: 9.9p reflecting the improved profit after tax translation effect of foreign exchange rate movements 5.9m and the benefits of the share buy-back programme as the average adverse impact in Food Equipment reduced by a 0.4m benefit from diluted number of shares has reduced to 399.1m from 412.2m.
On a statutory basis, Food Equipment operating Basic earnings per share was 10.5p FY06: 9.7p.
margins improved by 0.5 percentage points to 11.1% from 10.6% in FY06.
Corporate costs, before exceptional items, increased by 1.2m to 10.2m FY06: 9.0m reflecting the impact of the non-repeat of a VAT refund in H106 of 0.3m and the adverse impact of nickel hedges which did not meet IAS39s definition of an effective hedging instrument, partially offset by other savings.
38 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review , , Images:  .
Currentyear 1 Dave Wrench, CFO at the Global Operations Center, Tampa, Florida   2 Jackson warewashing equipment installation at The Clock Tower Resort : , and Conference Center, Rockford, Illinois   , amortisation  , acquisitionsby acquiredbusinesses.
We achieved these results while also investing 36m in the Review of operations business, in both capex and acquisitions, and returning some 98m to shareholders in the form of increased dividends and a buy-back of Overview 41m shares.
The Groups Food Equipment operations comprise our Global The momentum in the business is underscored by our track Foodservice Equipment businesses approximately 80% of revenue record over the last three years which shows top line growth which provide primary cooking, ovens, storage, preparation and of approximately 208m 36% and operating profit growth of holding, ice and beverage equipment to restaurants and other approximately 30m 51%.
customers worldwide and our Food Retail Equipment operations approximately 20% of revenue which provide walk-in cold storage Our strategy of Innovation inTechnology, Brands and Service is and refrigeration display cases to supermarkets and convenience resonating well with our customers, particularly multi-unit operators stores C-stores in North America.
who are outpacing market growth.
Enodis was named Partner of the Year by McDonalds, Outstanding Partner of theYear by Brinker FY07 was another exciting year, during which we continued our International, a strategic partner byYum!
China and we were momentum on top line growth and further improved operating recognised by FCSI for our commitment to industry education in margins.
Food Equipment revenue grew 11% 11% in H1 and energy conservation.
We introduced over 100 new products and 12% in H2 and operating profit increased 18% 21% in H1 and several of our brands received NRA Kitchen Innovation and 17% in H2.
As expected, in H207, we faced significant materials Foodservice Equipment and Supplies Magazine Best in Class Awards.
cost inflation with the costs of commodities, particularly steel, aluminium and copper at, or near, record levels.
We implemented price increases throughout the year and these in combination with the benefits of our continued focus on Lean manufacturing, product redesign and purchasing initiatives, particularly materials substitution and sourcing from low cost countries, enabled us to offset these additional costs.
Margins improved to 11.2% from 10.5% in FY06.
2 Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 39 Operating and financial review continued Performance continued Global Foodservice Equipment The highlights of the year included: We continued to improve our performance in FY07 achieving revenue The introduction of over 100 new products including the full growth of 10% 10% in both H1 and H2 on top of the 11% growth Scotsman Prodigy ice machine line, the new Pearl Ice line of achieved in FY06.
Operating profit increased 18% 24% in H1 and ice machines from Ice-O-Matic, the Lincoln Fastbake ovens, 15% in H2.
Second half growth was achieved against a particularly the Avenger warewashing line from Jackson and a new Dean strong comparator half and, as expected, we faced significant high efficiency fryer: additional materials cost inflation.
We offset these additional costs Cleveland has seen excellent revenue growth as sales of through the combination of price increases and our continued focus Convotherm combi-ovens, manufactured in North America by on Lean processes, which are discussed further below.
These, along Cleveland, have doubled.
Orders for the combi-ovens have with the benefits of volume leverage and higher margin new exceeded our expectations and at NAFEM we introduced the products, resulted in operating margins improving by 0.9 percentage new award-winning mini-combi to the US market.
This offers points to 12.1% compared to 11.2% in FY06.
many of the same features as the larger units and meets the Revenue Operating profit needs of operators who have to balance the power and FY07 FY06 Change FY07 FY06 Change reliability of a combi-oven with a small footprint: m m % m m % Our refrigeration business has seen significant revenue growth North America 455.9 408.7 12% 66.2 55.8 19% following successes with a number of chain customers: Europe Asia 185.2 175.4 6% 11.1 9.5 17% 641.1 584.1 10% 77.3 65.3 18% Merrychef is also gaining penetration with several major Operating margin 12.1% 11.2% chains, most recently Subway: and We completed a roll-out of holding cabinets to support a NorthAmerica breakfast programme for a major chain.
Revenue growth was 12% 12% in H1 and 11% in H2 and operating profit improved 19% 29% in H1 and 12% in H2.
Execution of our strategy resulted in As expected, we faced significant additional materials cost inflation revenue growth at double the estimated market rate.
In particular we which we offset through the benefits of: saw excellent performances at our oven, refrigeration and fryer businesses.
the implementation of sales price increases throughout the year: We also took advantage of a number of market factors including: the continued focus on Lean manufacturing: and a vibrant market, with the foodservice equipment market growth Group-wide purchasing initiatives including sourcing from lowestimated to be between 5% and 6%: cost countries, and continued partnership with our key suppliers to achieve materials substitution.
continued demand for high performance equipment and systems, in particular for our Accelerated Cooking Technology and These effects and the introduction of several higher margin new Enerlogic approved equipment: and products and upgrading of existing products and significant volume leverage led to our strong margin improvement.
replacement being spurred on by increased equipment usage due to extended hours of operation and the availability of We continued to invest in flexible manufacturing systems and technologically superior equipment.
robotics at a number of factories to improve quality, efficiency and capacity in our fabrication areas.
The ongoing implementation of a More customers visit our Technology Center each year to seek ways common ERP system across the Group is also paying dividends in of taking advantage of innovative technology solutions, culinary Lean manufacturing.
expertise and kitchen optimisation to enhance their business, supported by our expanding sales and service network worldwide.
In summary, over 100 new products and increased market share contributed to revenue growth and this, along with price increases, the ongoing commitment to Lean manufacturing and purchasing savings which offset significant materials cost inflation combined to improve margins.
40 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 1 Convotherm mini-combi oven installed at Killis butchers shop in Weilheim, Bavaria.
Europe andAsia Highlights of the year included: Revenue growth was 6% 4% in H1 and 7% in H2 on top of 14% Convotherm had strong growth of over 30% due to the achieved last year.
Operating profit was up 17% down 11% in H1 successful 3 combi-oven range and the new mini-combi: and up 28% in H2 and margins improved to 6.0% from 5.4% in Merrychef had further success winning new business, FY06.
Stronger underlying performance improvement across the particularly with Shell in Norway, and is well-positioned with Group, both in top line growth up over 10% and operating tests continuing at several major chains.
Merrychef and margins up over 50%, was diluted by a weaker performance at Subway have announced recently that the Merrychef 402S Scotsman Beverage Systems SBS as roll-outs last year did not has been approved for use in Subways 28,000 worldwide repeat and planned additional infrastructure investments in Asia.
restaurants: In particular, we saw very good performances at our technologyOur European Ice Group continued its success achieving led oven businesses, Merrychef and Convotherm, and our ice solid gains in sales and profitability following new businesses, which continued to benefit from new product product introductions: introductions.
Scotsman Beverage Systems has introduced a number of In Europe, our businesses had some success in passing on the new products, which should benefit future periods, including significant materials cost increases although this was more difficult the Glykool system and the Ice Bell, our innovative display for than in North America.
Excluding SBS, margins improved through bottled and canned beverages: volume leverage, price increases and cost reduction efforts.
Margins in Europe are diluted by mix, with approximately 30% Our European distribution companies showed strong growth, of revenue relating to our distribution companies which historically benefiting from the success of recent product introductions.
have lower margins than our manufacturing businesses.
Enodis UK, in particular, has had success with a number of sports stadia and Marks & Spencer, and Frau, in Spain, has continued to make progress distributing the Convotherm product line: and We continued to strengthen our infrastructure in emerging markets including Asia, Middle East and Eastern Europe.
1 Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 41 Operating and financial review continued Performance continued 1 42 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 1 Kysor Panel Systems new factory in Fort Worth, Texas 2 Kysor Warren production testing line, Columbus, Georgia Food Retail Equipment 2 We enjoyed another year of robust growth with revenue up 18% 14% in H1 and 21% in H2.
The Retail group has achieved cumulative growth of approximately 42% over the last three years in a tough competitive environment by focusing on outstanding customer service.
Operating profit improved 18% down 3% in H1 and up 31% in H2.
However, operating profit was up approximately 29% when the current year impact of 0.3m relating to the relocation of Kysor Panel Systems KPS to a new state of the art factory in January and the non-repeat of a favourable one-off contract provision release of 0.7m last year are excluded.
As a result, operating margins were flat at 7.4% but excluding these impacts would have improved from 6.9% to 7.6%.
Highlights of the year included: Revenue Operating profit The successful factory relocation for KPS which, whilst FY07 FY06 Change FY07 FY06 Change m m % m m % adversely impacting margins in the short term, will provide much needed capacity and will remove the capacity Food Retail 154.0 130.5 18% 11.4 9.7 18% constraints that impacted both revenue and profit in FY06: Operating margin 7.4% 7.4% Significant revenue growth and improved performance at We continued to benefit from our focus on customer service and Kysor Warren as a result of our continued focus on customer a stronger food retail equipment market.
The recent market growth service and improved business processes.
Our investment of has spurred investment in new and remodelled stores and our strong 2.3m in sophisticated fabrication equipment has begun to growth came despite the cut-backs in new store openings by one pay back: and major customer and the impact of adverse weather conditions earlier in the year that caused delays to construction build programmes.
Strong end of year order backlogs for both Kysor Warren and KPS.
Kysor Warren is proud to be supporting Tescos entry into the US through their Fresh & Easy market concept with refrigerated display case merchandisers and refrigeration systems.
With our significant order book, the new production facility and stateof-the-art fabrication equipment, we are well-positioned for FY08.
Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 43
