Operating and financial review continued Strategy and long-term goals Enodis is... Strategy Last year we announced a refined strategy and established six Technology long-term goals to drive shareholder value.
Our strategy is Innovation in Technology, Brands and Service that enables our customers to increase their revenue and profit.
Innovation in Brands During FY07 this strategy gained momentum and recognition by customers and the industry in the form of several awards.
As a result we have increased our backlog of shortmediumand longService term projects.
McDonalds Recognition by McDonalds through the 2006 Partnership of the Year award.
This award, presented recently at the McDonalds Worldwide Supplier Summit meeting in Oakbrook, IL, is awarded to a supplier which demonstrates significant McDonalds business impact, alignment and commitment to their Plan to Win.
This includes new products, innovative process improvements, industry-changing technology improvements, production equipment and methods, and other criteria.
Jo Heitzman, Enodis Account Executive for McDonalds with McDonalds John Hall middle and Bernard Moraux left, VP and Senior Director Worldwide Equipment, respectively.
Brands Enodis was named a strategic partner by Yum!
Brands consists of KFC, A & W All American Food, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell, Long John Silvers and Wing Street.
Catherine Lam managing director of Fabristeel, third from the right with senior management ofYum!
Brinker International At their annual Vendor Awards banquet in September 2007, Brinker International awarded Enodis Outstanding Partner of the Year in the equipment category.
Brinkers trading brands are On the Border Mexican Grill, Chilis Grill and Bar and Romanos Macaroni Grill.
Dave McCulloch, with the award, and Doug Brooks, CEO Brinker, to his left, plus senior members of the Enodis and Brinker management teams.
26 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Strategy in action Brinker International Five Guys Famous Burgers and Fries Brinker International, a major international casual dining chain with Carl Napiwocki, Director of Purchasing, Five Guys Famous Burgers concepts such as Chilis and OnThe Border, is constantly exploring and Fries stated that one of the reasons they chose Scotsmans ways to align operations with consumer needs.
The company has Prodigy ice machine was due to its Auto-Alert external indicator partnered with Enodis for more than two years, sharing a lights.
When our workers see a red light, it gives them a distinct collaborative research and strategic-planning relationship that explores and immediate heads up that there is a potential issue with the ways to update and transform kitchen processes.
They are able to quickly make a maintenance call and we are able to fix an issue before it becomes a real problem.
Designing high performance kitchens of tomorrow often involves In the end, it helps us avoid the biggest issue of all, running out re-engineering space and workstations to reduce the number of of ice.
The inside of the ice machine is simple to maintain and steps needed to prepare and cook products.
It may also mean service, another feature that is of importance to Five Guys.
Carl also reducing environmental impact through energy efficiency or by likes the medium cube shape, it fills up the cup faster and keeps creating a smaller operational footprint.
Efficiency, no matter what the line for the self-service beverage station moving.
From start its form, is a hot topic with patrons.
Not only is it good for the to finish Five Guys has been pleased with Scotsman, from delivery to environment, efficiency in the kitchen translates to shorter wait installation to service.
I dont have to worry about the Scotsman times for customers and potentially higher volume and profits Prodigy ice machine, it makes my job easier.
The family owned Five Guys restaurant group has provided award We are thrilled with the results of new high performance winning burgers and fries for over 20 years.
There are now over 200 kitchens implemented at several OnThe Border Mexican Grill restaurants in 17 states and over 1,200 units in development across & Cantina restaurants, including the McKinney, Texas location, the US.
This two decade pursuit of perfection has resulted in critical said Doug Brooks, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer acclaim from the media.
The Washingtonian Magazine, Philadelphia of Brinker International.
Magazine, the Charlotte Creative Loafing, Richmond Magazine, By working closely with Enodis and their leading brands, Electric City, and many others voted Five Guys #1 burger in their we were able to significantly reduce the footprint required respective towns.
In addition ZAGAT Survey said there are no for kitchen equipment while at the same time, decreasing better burgers and has included Five Guys in their annual ratings labour and energy costs and serving hot, fresh food to our for the past eight years.
  MexicanGrill&Cantinarestaurant, inMcKinney, Texas Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 27 Operating and financial review continued Strategy and long-term goals continued Technology is key, with the NRA citing that a growing number of further recognition by the NRA through four Kitchen Innovation US restaurants are making capital investments in new technology to Awards, more than any other group of companies.
In 2007 we won improve their productivity and profitability.
These efforts appear to be awards for the Convotherm Mini-Combi Oven, the Versa Drawer paying off, as more than 50% of restaurateurs responding to a NRA by Delfield, the Lincoln Fastbake conveyor oven and the Prodigy survey said they are more productive today than they were two Cube Ice Machine by Scotsman.
These awards demonstrate our years ago.
According to the NRAs 2007 Industry Forecast, the quick ongoing commitment to innovation: and service segment has applied innovative technological solutions to its Cleveland, Delfield, Frymaster and Lincoln, were voted Best-inoperations for a long time and now full service restaurants are also class in certain categories by Foodservice Equipment and Supplies more fully embracing and diligently employing technology.
technologies not only result in more efficient management but also, more importantly, superior customer service, which leads to changes More new products are scheduled for introduction during FY08 and in restaurant selection by customers.
we presented many more at the North American Food Equipment Manufacturers NAFEM and HOST Milan trade shows in mid We are seeing the benefits of our strategy of technological innovation October 2007. from the many key customers who visit our Technology Center in Florida.
We are continuing to focus on global chains that are Service before, during, and after the sale is critical.
outpacing the market and who typically favour fewer suppliers, and We piloted the Reliable Install and Start-up by Enodis RISE are focusing our pipeline of innovation projects to reflect this.
programme with a major casual dining chain in the US and our new We are taking an holistic approach to technology by developing call-centre organises our STAR Standards Training Authorised solutions that optimise people, equipment and food as an integrated Responsive service network to install and service replacement process.
To assist this, we are reaching out to source technologies equipment.
STAR service continues to improve after sales service.
from other industries and applying them to foodservice to achieve This is a North America-wide programme that provides best-in-class breakthrough technologies.
Additionally, we continue to develop service and is validated annually with performance audits designed technology around speed, to enhance our Accelerated Cooking to drive continuous improvements within our service network.
Technology line, and energy, by expanding our extensive product line We believe that these services will lead to an increase in our share of Enerlogic compliant products.
In both areas we already have in the large replacement market.
amongst the largest product offerings in the industry.
We are also providing service support by expanding our network Our Brands are the pillars of our business and we are investing of test kitchens.
These provide culinary support with professional heavily to achieve or maintain leadership in each category.
We do this chefs to assist our customers in their menu development, kitchen by investing consistently in upgrading our products and developing efficiency and employee training.
In addition, we have added new ones to maintain and enhance our segment-leading brands.
high-performance kitchen design capability and see this as a major In FY07 we introduced a record number of over 100 new products or area of opportunity in the future.
product line extensions, continuing to enhance the cumulative effect The acquisition of Fabristeel, headquartered in Singapore, of new state of the art products.
Again these brought recognition from has expanded our service capabilities in Asia Pacific with the the industry: addition of over 60 service engineers.
28 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Image: 1 Cooking demonstration at the NAFEM show, Atlanta, Georgia 1 Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 29 Operating and financial review continued Strategy and long-term goals continued 1 We are convinced that business success comes from having the right people in the right positions with the right attitudes and skill sets.
People we continue to develop a sustainable winning team which is customer focused and results oriented.
We are convinced that business success comes from having the right people in the right positions with the right attitudes and skill sets.
We applied this thinking to increase our leadership strength and depth, drive geographic expansion, better support our customers and enhance our margins.
Leadership strength and depth We strengthened our leadership team this year through a balanced programme of nine external recruitments and seven internal 3 promotions.
For example: Phil Dei Dolori, formerly of Middleby and ITW and a highly respected executive in our industry, was recruited to lead our ice and beverage businesses worldwide: Chris Tyson joined Enodis as Treasurer and has already helped us restructure our financing on more favourable terms: We have recruited Presidents for Jackson, NewTon and Merrychef USA, all businesses with significant upside opportunities: and Internally, we have promoted a number of individuals to President and Vice-president positions including Charlie Kingdon and Rick Zuehlke at Lincoln.
Geographic expansion 4 On 8 January 2007, the Group acquired the Fabristeel group of companies Fabristeel, based in Singapore and China, more than doubling our employee base to approximately 500 in this important region.
At the same time, we are continuing our infrastructure development throughout Europe, the Middle East and Latin America.
This involves not only recruiting new employees, but also forging partnerships with third-party distributors, contract manufacturers and service organisations.
30 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 4 Chris Tyson Treasurer at the 1 Bob Eimers Executive VP, London corporate office Human Resources 5 Charlie Kingdon left President, 2 Rick Caron right Chief Lincoln with Rick Zuehlke right, Technology Officer, at the ETC VP Sales and Alan Isenogle, CFO 3 Phil Dei Dolori Group President Global Ice and Beverage Systems discussing ice technology with Bill Smith, product development engineer at the ETC Customer support We regularly sponsor cross-functional learning experiences.
For example, our senior operating company managers from As demand increases for our custom-engineered solutions, our manufacturing, engineering and purchasing recently met to staffing has evolved accordingly.
For example, we see the value of understand more fully how the activities and goals of each function engineers who can design new products, and also work consultatively can best be aligned for optimal business results.
We have also invested to increase the size and the talent levels of our engineering staffs at our businesses.
Our performance management process helps ensure that every employees goals reflect the objectives of their departments, We are recruiting culinary experts and kitchen systems designers to business units and Enodis as a whole.
To help facilitate this process partner more effectively with the operations and menu development we have instituted a management skills training programme focused personnel of our customers before the sale as they seek competitive upon goal-setting and feedback techniques.
This will ensure that all advantage and profits in their markets.
Finally, we have reconfigured our employees are obtaining the most from this important process.
some of our parts and service organisations to better support our customers during and after the sale.
Finally, and perhaps most importantly, we feel that our group culture of integrity, respect, collaboration and results focus has facilitated our Attitudes and skill sets evolution into a more talented and successful team.
We recognise that great individual talent alone does not guarantee success in the marketplace.
To be winners, we have to work together as a team and drive cross-functional effectiveness.
Rick Caron, our Chief Technology Officer, has implemented a Playbook for new product development.
This process requires the involvement of most functional areas, including marketing, service, manufacturing, finance, purchasing and, of course, engineering.
5 2 Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 31 Operating and financial review continued Strategy and long-term goals continued 1 32 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 1 Automatic fabrication equipment at Kysor Warren, Columbus, Georgia 2.
Lean Systems and Processes we continue to be committed A number of our companies have invested in modern fabrication to functional excellence throughout all aspects of our business, and welding equipment and they are reaping benefits in terms of achieving best-in-class practices across the Group.
speed, cost, quality and efficiency.
For example, the installation of automated fabrication equipment at Kysor Warren enabled that FY07 built on the momentum of previous years in terms of company to grow revenues significantly while at the same time improvement in Lean manufacturing.
Increasingly our companies improving performance metrics around quality, cost and lead times.
are adopting Lean practices and getting the positive performance results that go with them.
Overall, the savings attributable to Lean Formal recognition systems have quickly spread across our operating disciplines across Enodis in FY07 were approximately 16m.
companies, creating shared excitement and urgency for tangible These savings result from a broad range of actions including improvement.
Pioneered several years ago by Scotsman and purchasing, materials substitution, improved manufacturing Ice-O-Matic, these reward recognition programmes are based upon equipment and other Lean manufacturing methodologies.
Group achievement around such performance metrics as safety, quality, productivity and on-time delivery.
Manufacturing, supply chain and engineering executives are increasingly working together around new product development, Formal training in Lean-related methods is ongoing in most of our quality improvement and cost reduction.
Much of this training is funded through government learning conferences have been held to support this kind of grants and or conducted in partnership with local educational collaboration.
For example, in FY07 we integrated our supply chain institutions.
Cross-training is occurring with increasing regularity for processes with the new product development process.
This initiative our hourly paid employees.
Recent labour agreements are giving us culminated with the launch of the Playbook, the formal process more flexibility regarding the deployment of our workforce and our mentioned briefly on page 31 to manage New Product Development ability to implement rapid change.
The Playbook integrates the best processes Our manufacturing staffing is increasingly based upon Lean throughout the operating companies into a single process that proficiency and to this end, we are actively recruiting leaders and facilitates multi-functional team work, sharing, learning and operators with experience in Lean best practices to accelerate our management oversight.
We are finding that Lean changes can be implemented The process embedded in these Playbooks facilitates more strategic more rapidly when participants already have an existing experience selection of new products and improved protection of intellectual base with modern production methods to draw upon.
property as well as faster speed to market.
During the year we completed ERP installations at four operations As part of this Lean process, we have enhanced our low-cost country and upgrades at a further two taking us to approximately 75% outsourcing strategy including a supply chain team in China for complete.
During FY08 a further two installations are planned to be managing and auditing outsourcing activity.
Low-cost country completed and another three underway.
sourcing is considered for all new product development at some level and can include components, major assemblies, complete units and services.
As a result of these efforts approximately one third of the Groups critical components are sourced or manufactured in low-cost countries through local strategic suppliers or direct sources.
Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 33 Operating and financial review continued Strategy and long-term goals continued Margin improvement is one of our primary business strategies.
The momentum in the business is underscored by our track record Lean manufacturing helps us towards achieving this goal.
However, over the last three years which shows top line growth of cost savings are just part of the picture: our customers appreciate approximately 208m 36% and operating profit growth of the quality and delivery improvements that go with Lean production.
This takes us a long way towards increasing market share and key 3.
Top line growth a focus on Innovation inTechnology, Brands account retention.
and Service, achieving strong global growth with a target of Financial drivers organic revenue growth of greater than GDP 2% through the cycle enhanced by ongoing synergistic acquisitions.
Current year performance against our long-term financial goals applicable in FY07 was: Our strategy is clearly working since, over the last three years, we have grown annually at approximately double the rate of the market Goal 2007 2006 2005 in North America.
Top line organic i ii We will continue to enhance our existing top line growth strategy sales growth GDP 2% 11% 12% 9% through acquisitions that focus on technology or product gaps or Like-for-like Food that offer a new route to market.
During the year, and more fully Equipment operating profit described on page 37, we completed the acquisition of Fabristeel margin pre-corporate costs 12% 11.2% 10.5% 10.0% iii that enhances our existing platform in the Asia Pacific region.
Cash conversion days 35 25 34 29 iv Covenant leverage ratio 2x 1.2x 0.5x 1.1x i Like-for-like Food Equipment revenue.
ii FY07 average US GDP 2% was approx 4.2%.
iii The Groups internal measure of working capital to cash conversion.
iv The ratio of EBITDA to net debt.
1 34 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 1 Merrychef 402S oven 2 Enodis demonstration kitchen in Shanghai 2 Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 35 Operating and financial review continued Strategy and long-term goals continued Asia Pacific we will follow our global chain customers into 1 China and other parts of Asia and offer them a full service and distribution network to improve support.
We will leverage our local manufacturing capabilities in China and source locally.
Our focus on Asia Pacific 5% of revenue, and China in particular, continued to pay off with growth of 10% on top of 12% the prior year.
Our investment in Fabristeel will drive future sales in this region.
We continue to see strong growth in the economies of the region and growth in the Western chains operating in the region is outpacing this.
Our top line organic sales growth was 11% as our successful strategy capitalised on the dynamic changes in the market.
in addition, new technology, a record number of new products and increasing support for multi-unit chains globally all contributed.
Through our focus on multi-unit operators, we have benefited 4.
Margin improvement for FY09 we have established from end user consolidation of suppliers.
Global chains have been a like-for-like goal of 12% pre-corporate costs and long-term outperforming the market and these chains typically favour fewer 14% which represents estimated best-in-class industry suppliers capable of providing global service.
Our recent penetration margins applied to the businesses in our Group.
of Subway, which now has over 28,000 units worldwide, is a good example of this momentum.
In FY09 at a divisional level we are targeting like-for-like margins for Foodservice North America to be at 15%, with both Foodservice Specifically our strategy by region is as follows: Europe Asia and Food Retail being 8%.
North America technology led, focusing R&D on core next Our like-for-like margins improved to 11.2% in the year reflecting a generation products brands and accelerated cooking systems.
combination of volume leverage, new products, price increases, We will align our marketing and product specification efforts on Lean and supply chain savings net of cost inflation.
This is the specific requirements of our customers while leveraging discussed in the Review of Operations.
By division, we achieved our distribution network and STAR service offerings.
Our core like-for-like margins of 14.5% FY06: 13.7% in FSNA, 6.0% FY06: market, the Americas 72% of revenue, showed strong 5.4% in Europe Asia and 7.4% FY06: 7.4% in Retail.
sequential like-for-like revenue growth over the last three years of 8%, 11% and 14% with both Retail and Foodservice 5.
Cash generation rapid conversion of profit to cash contributing.
This underscores the strength of our brands in achieving a cash conversion day target of 35, optimisation North America: of tax rates and efficient use of the balance sheet to fund re-investment with a target leverage ratio of around two Europe we will continue to focus investment on Accelerated times net debt to EBITDA.
Cooking Technology products delivered by Merrychef and Convotherm and will continue investment in our Beverage and In respect of cash generation, we achieved free cash inflow of Ice businesses.
We have Enodis master distribution companies 40.2m FY06: 49.0m and 25 cash conversion days compared to in major markets to support global and local chains, dealers and 34 at the end of FY06 and a target of 35 days.
Our leverage ratio service agencies.
We have established sales and support offices was 1.2x net debt to EBITDA compared to 0.5x at the end of FY06 in the Middle East and increased our presence in Eastern and a target of 2x.
Our revenue in the EMEA region 23% of revenue 6.
Use of balance sheet we are committed to efficient use of grew sequentially over the last three years by 15%, 11% and our balance sheet through a balance of capex, acquisitions, 5%.
We saw strong growth in all our largest markets except dividends and share buy-backs to optimise shareholder value.
Spain and the UK, which was impacted adversely by Scotsman Beverage Systems.
Our emerging markets of the Middle East We have seen significant progress on this front.
up 27% and Russia and Eastern Europe up 23%, all delivered By using our balance sheet, during FY07 we invested 36m in strong growth, albeit on small bases, reflecting our increased our business incurring net capital expenditure of 20.4m FY06: investment in these regions.
This included, for the first time, 18.1m and acquiring Fabristeel for 15.7m.
In FY08 we expect the Group having a full presence at the Dubai trade show to incur capex of approximately 25m.
in February: and During the year, in respect of cash paid, we returned approximately 95m to our shareholders including 13.8m in dividends and 81.0m on share buy-backs.
In FY08, we will target 2.5x dividend cover and focus on acquisition opportunities and, if appropriate, will use share buy-backs as a balancing tool to our 2x leverage goal.
36 | Enodis plc | Operating and financial review Images: 1 Catherine Lam Managing Director of Fabristeel and her management team 2 Enodis products at the Dubai trade show Acquisitions Management of key risks a Fabristeel The Board has identified the following potential risks and On 8 January 2007, the Group acquired the Fabristeel group of uncertainties that could have a material impact on the Groups companies Fabristeel, based in Singapore and China.
Fabristeel performance, and has put in place internal processes and controls manufactures hot and cold foodservice equipment, including designed to mitigate each risk.
These risks are consistent with those customised solutions, for the hotel, quick service and institutional identified in FY06.
See pages 56 and 57 for reference to the Groups markets at ISO 9001-certified plants in Singapore and Guangdong, statement of internal control.
With an extensive service and distribution network in more than 10 countries, and sales offices in Shanghai, Beijing and Risk Internal processes Malaysia, it is well-placed to win new business and to support and controls major key accounts.
Adverse change to macro Detailed planning process and The total cost was 15.7m represented by 15.1m paid on economic condition of appropriate contingency plans completion, 0.3m paid as a result of levels of working capital and major markets Regular monitoring of market cash in the business, and acquisition expenses of 0.3m.
and company trends This acquisition is a key step in our strategy of building our presence Diversification of geographic footprint in the fast growing Asia Pacific market.
Leveraging the Fabristeel platform, together with our existing infrastructure and service Competitive pressures Lean manufacturing and networks, will allow faster deployment of our global brands into this purchasing initiatives region.
At the same time, Fabristeel enhances our capability to Multi-source purchasing support our existing and new customers, particularly international Major product recall Embedded new product chains.
Performance to date is in line with our expectations and the development protocol Playbook acquisition is expected to be earnings enhancing in FY08.
Quality control procedures b TRUpour Strategy not aligned Appropriate planning processes On 18 October 2007, our beverage business, Scotsman Beverage with capabilities Strengthening of talent pool Systems SBS acquired TRUpour Limited, an innovative beverage dispense business.
The initial consideration was 3.5m payable in Robust review and development Succession process for all employees cash, with up to a further 2.7m payable in cash over three years depending on performance.
This positions SBS to improve its mix of Specific HR plans reviewed at Board level higher end products and provide enhanced customer solutions.
Clear financial targets Acquisitions and disposals We continue to appraise a number of additional acquisition Rigorous due diligence opportunities to supplement organic growth.
processes Board approvals Litigation loss of Consolidated Vigorous defence coordinated Industries cases by Board Committee Flexibility obtained within banking facilities Tax rate increases Implemented appropriate tax structures 2 Operating and financial review | Enodis plc | 37
