Business Review Plastic Technologies Plastic Technologies produces, sources and distributes protection and finishing products, self-adhesive tear tape and security products as well as proprietary and customised plastic extrusions Plastic Technologies had a good year with operating profit Kidlington, UK manufacturing facility to further improve risk before intangible amortisation and restructuring costs up management at this important site.
The operating margin again Skiffy, the European specialist small nylon parts producer, improved to 15.7% 2006: 14.9% reflecting the stronger has delivered another strong year of growth.
The new Skiffy performance of the higher margin businesses.
distribution operation in Poland was opened successfully in March.
Revenue growth has again been assisted by the During 2007 significant revenue investments were made to further increased levels of marketing, including the new establish new distribution locations and to support businesses catalogue which was launched successfully during April in still in their infancy.
At constant exchange rates, revenue eight languages.
Internet ordering via the multi-language increased by 5.4% and operating profit before intangible website continues to grow and now represents 27.6% of amortisation and restructuring costs increased by 10.3%.
Protection and Finishing Products Alliance, the US-based plastic parts supplier, traded well in The Protection and Finishing Products division continued to spite of more challenging conditions in the US domestic pursue its strategy of geographic and range expansion market.
Development of the product offering continued with combined with consistent investment in business to business the addition of significant new ranges during the year.
The marketing programmes, integrated IT systems and supply new Alliance Express location in Chicago has performed chain efficiencies.
Filtronas largest profit generating division consistently well since its opening in February.
Trading at the continued to perform well throughout the year, benefiting from Alliance facility in So Paulo, Brazil was strong throughout the the diversity of its customer base, where no individual year with the benefits of local manufacture reducing costs customer represents more than 3% of the revenue, and the and materially improving its competitive position in the competitive advantages presented by the breadth of its Brazilian market.
Sales growth in Brazil has now driven the product offering and the quality of its service.
The division implementation of a second production shift and an additional holds over 900 million parts representing 26,000 products in warehouse location is also being utilised.
Unit production multiple stocking locations for same day despatch.
costs at the Erie, Pennsylvania facility continued to fall as a result of the sustained investment in new tooling and Moss, the pan-European plastic parts supplier, had an machinery.
excellent year and benefited from a further strengthening of the mix of proprietary and custom products in favour of the The acquisition of Duraco, based in Chicago, Illinois, was more profitable proprietary lines.
Sales development across completed in May for a consideration of $61m.
The integration the expanded Continental European network was particularly of the business has progressed well, and an experienced encouraging within both recently opened and more senior executive from within the Protection and Finishing established locations.
The new distribution unit in Hungary Products division was appointed to the position of President.
was opened successfully in April and the Chinese business, The divisions commercial philosophies and the Filtrona co-located within the Fibertec facility in Ningbo, opened in Values are now being implemented in the business.
The distribution units in Brno, Czech Republic and responses to new marketing programmes, utilising the in Newcastle, UK were relocated to larger units to divisions sophisticated marketing techniques, have been accommodate business growth.
A new sophisticated encouraging and plans are in place for the establishment fireproof mould store became fully operational at the of a Duraco Express operation to address the small order segment of the market.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Protection and Finishing Products Markets and Trends Fragmented, ill-defined global market 1 billion Key sectors include oil and gas, point of purchase, hydraulics, pneumatics, metal fabrication, machinery, white goods, furniture and automotive Market growth in line with GDP Looking Forward Expanding geographically in response to customer demands and emerging market opportunities Enhancing current distribution capability Securing market share gains based on breadth and excellence of product and service offering Increasing operational efficiencies and reducing costs Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Business Review Plastic Technologies MSI, the oil country tubular goods thread protector business, have already been achieved for application on tobacco experienced a moderation of growth compared to the strong products, tax stamps and fine wines.
A restructuring growth rate achieved in 2006.
This resulted from fide-stocking programme within the European tear tape operations was in the second quarter of 2007 by the steel pipeyards who actioned in the first quarter and significant cost, productivity form the majority of MSIs customer base.
A number of and quality benefits have resulted.
important current and new supply contracts were secured during the year with North American customers.
The The Payne security business performed well with the benefit business continued to invest in driving productivity through from a full year of volumes of the new UK passport.
Within both machinery and a new generation of high output tooling.
the personal identification activity, the first year of the CORGI In addition, the upgrade of the production capability at the card renewal process went smoothly with excellent service Vera Cruz, Mexico facility continued.
Investment was made in customer card fulfilment and smartcard chip encoding capability to Looking forward to 2008, new distribution operations are assist in strengthening market position.
The new security planned for the Moss, Alliance and Duraco businesses and label line was successfully commissioned at the Banbury, construction will commence on a new manufacturing facility UK facility and the first orders from this line have been fulfilled.
for the MSI business in Houston.
Alongside the continued expansion of the manufacturing and distribution footprint, The FractureCode business continued to prepare for future further additions to the product range and sustained marketing growth with the support of revenue investment.
The existing investment are expected to secure the ongoing development FractureCode licensee has installed FractureCode in three of the Protection and Finishing Products division.
countries, and opportunities are being actively discussed with potential licensees across a number of different Coated and Security Products enduser markets.
The Coated and Security Products division continued to pursue its strategy of developing new security technologies During 2008, it is anticipated that the Coated and Security and applications for international markets whilst sustaining Products division will continue to benefit from the growth its world leadership position in self-adhesive tear tape.
in the market for solutions to combat the global contraband and counterfeit problem.
As the Company looks to maximise The division delivered an improved performance in both the potential of the opportunities within that market, revenue and operating profit, despite increased revenue commercialisation of the proprietary Payne authentication investment in the FractureCode business which remained system and the security labels offering will continue and further loss-making.
investment will be made in the development of new laminates for secure documents.
The Payne tear tape business achieved good growth in volumes, revenue and operating profits.
Volume growth in Plastic Profile and Sheet fast moving consumer goods markets outside of the tobacco After an excellent 2006, the Plastic Profile and Sheet division industry was achieved in all regions around the world and encountered tough trading conditions throughout the year, the continued development of innovative packaging and particularly in the US.
Revenue and operating profit promotional solutions remains key to ongoing success performance was down in 2007 in the US, although excellent within those markets.
Development of the proprietary growth was achieved at Enitor in The Netherlands.
Payne authentication system was completed and sales Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Coated and Security Products Markets and Trends Fast moving consumer goods tobacco, food and confectionery Packaging and board producers Security printers and systems integrators Public institutions Security related applications growing faster than GDP Emerging track and trace market Looking Forward Innovating solutions utilising tear tape expertise Securing opportunities presented by increased demand for personal identity authentication Developing as preferred supplier in emerging track and trace market Exploiting proprietary product authentication solutions to combat counterfeiting Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Business Review Plastic Technologies Good revenue growth was achieved in the key product In response to the more difficult market conditions, cost sectors of aerospace, point of purchase POP, medical and reduction measures have been taken to streamline the traffic control.
In November the division was confirmed as the organisation and to optimise production efficiency.
The supplier of a family of parts for the Boeing 787 Dreamliner Northborough, Massachusetts facility was closed at the end aircraft, reflecting a longstanding customers continued of the year and production transferred to the neighbouring commitment to the engineering and design expertise of the Athol facility, where a new cleanroom has been constructed business and its high standards of quality and service.
In to focus on the opportunities within the medical market.
Monterrey, Mexico the 100,000 square feet extension to the facility was completed, including a new cleanroom for Enitor in The Netherlands had an excellent year due to strong medical products.
sales growth and an improvement in operating efficiency resulting from a strengthening of the management team.
Volumes in the commercial lighting and fence products sectors were flat and volumes of custom products, which Trading conditions for the Plastic Profile and Sheet division typically provide significant value adding opportunities for the are expected to remain challenging in 2008.
The operational business, were down in the US.
The general weakness in the focus will be on ensuring that the business delivers the cost US extrusion sector has also generated pricing pressures, efficiencies from the realignment of the North American particularly with consistently rising raw material prices manufacturing capability.
From a sales perspective, the key throughout the second half of the year.
growth markets of aerospace, POP, medical and traffic control remain a priority.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Plastic Profile and Sheet Markets and Trends Attractive opportunities in engineered profiles and components for aerospace POP components for retail merchandise medical tubing Safety and control devices for traffic management growth in line with GDP Mature markets in lighting and fence Looking Forward F ocusing on key priority markets Ex panding in lower cost countries D riving efficiencies with continuous improvement Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
