Corporate Governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Directors present their Report and audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Principal activities and business review The principal activities of Filtrona are the light manufacture and supply of speciality plastic and fibre products.
The principal activity of the Company is a holding company.
The information which fulfils the requirements of the Business Review and which should be treated as forming part of this Report is included on pages 4 to 29.
Cautionary forward-looking statement This Report may contain forward-looking statements based on current expectations of, and assumptions and forecasts made by, Company management.
Various known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors could lead to substantial differences between the actual future results, financial situation, development or performance of the Company and the estimates and historical results given herein.
Undue reliance should not be placed on forward-looking statements which speak only as of the date of this Report.
The Company accepts no obligation to publicly revise or update these forward-looking statements or adjust them to future events or developments, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except to the extent legally required.
Results and dividends The accompanying financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007 which were approved by the Board of Directors on 28 February 2008 are set out on pages 56 to 101.
The Company has paid the following dividends in respect of the year ended 31 December 2007: Per share Total p m Interim paid 26 October 2007 2.52 5.40 The Directors recommend that a final dividend of 5.08p 2006: 4.60p per share be paid, making a total dividend distribution for the year of 7.60p 2006: 6.90p.
The final dividend of 5.08p will, subject to shareholder approval, be paid on 2 May 2008 to shareholders on the register at 11 April 2008.
Directors and their interests During the year ended 31 December 2007 the Board of Directors comprised: Jeff Harris Non-executive Chairman Mark Harper Chief Executive Steve Dryden Finance Director Paul Drechsler Senior Independent Non-executive Director Adrian Auer Non-executive Director Lars Emilson Non-executive Director appointed 1 May 2007 Warren Knowlton Non-executive Director resigned 30 April 2007 In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mark Harper and Paul Drechsler are retiring by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Lars Emilson was appointed as a Director subsequent to the Companys AGM held in 2007 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will stand for election at the AGM.
Steve Crummett is to be appointed to the Board of Directors with effect from 19 March 2008 and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, will stand for election at the AGM.
Steve Dryden will resign from the Board of Directors on 19 March 2008.
Please refer to the note on the Contents page.
34 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Directors interests in the issued ordinary share capital of the Company are detailed in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 38 to 48.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company is shown in note 19 to the financial statements.
Substantial shareholders At the close of business on 27 February 2008, the Company was advised of the following voting rights attaching to Filtrona shares in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
% of total voting rights Invesco Limited 16.95 Pennant Capital Management LLC 5.29 Prudential plc 5.27 Allianz SE 5.13 Resolution Investment Services 5.00 Ameriprise Financial Inc 4.94 BAE Systems 3.12 Property values In the opinion of the Directors there was no significant difference between the market and book values of the property held by the Group, as shown in the consolidated balance sheet at 31 December 2007.
Charitable and political contributions The Company made no political contributions during the year 2006: nil.
Donations to UK charities amounted to 0.1m 2006: 0.1m, of which nil were made by the Company 2006: nil, with all contributions being made by its subsidiary companies.
Directors indemnities As at the date of this Report, indemnities are in force under which the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors and the Company Secretary, in addition to other senior executives who are directors of subsidiaries of the Company, to the extent permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as a Director or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Creditor payment policy The Company policy for payment to suppliers is to pay to terms agreed with suppliers from time to time, subject to the suppliers performance being in accordance with agreed terms and conditions.
Since the Company has no trade creditors, the disclosure of creditor days does not apply.
Annual General Meeting The AGM of the Company will be held at the Holiday Inn Hotel, 500 Saxon Gate West, Milton Keynes, Buckinghamshire MK9 2HQ on Thursday 24 April 2008 at 12 noon.
In addition to the ordinary business of the AGM, resolutions in respect of the following matters of special business are included in the Notice of Annual General Meeting: Authority to allot unissued shares The Directors will, under Resolution 9 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, seek power until the next AGM to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal amount of one third of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at 31 December 2007, equivalent to 68,554,064 shares.
The proposal conforms with the guidelines issued by the institutional investment protection bodies to ensure that existing shareholders interests are safeguarded.
The Directors have no present intention of exercising their authority to allot unissued shares, except those relating to share options.
35 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Corporate Governance Directors Report for the year ended 31 December 2007 Allotment of shares for cash The Directors will, under Resolution 10 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, seek power until the next AGM to allot shares for cash, otherwise than in accordance with the statutory pre-emption rights, either in connection with a pre-emptive offering, or otherwise, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 5% of the issued share capital at 31 December 2007, equivalent to 10,966,340 shares.
Purchase of own shares The Directors consider it expedient to seek shareholders approval to enable the Company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, under Resolution 11 in the Notice of Annual General Meeting, authority will be sought to enable the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued share capital at 27 February 2008 for the period of one year following the date of passing the resolution.
In accordance with the requirements of The Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the maximum price for shares purchased in the market shall not exceed an amount equal to 105% of the average middle market quotation taken from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for the five business days before the purchase is made.
The minimum price per share shall be not less than 25p, being the nominal value of the shares.
The Directors will only utilise this authority if satisfied that to do so will result in an increase in earnings per share and that it is in the best long-term interests of the shareholders.
During the financial year ending 31 December 2007, and pursuant to the authority granted at the AGM held on 30 April 2007, the Company purchased 13,664,604 ordinary shares of 25p, equating to 6.23% of the Companys issued share capital.
The shares were purchased for a total consideration of 30.6m at an average price of 222.38 pence per share.
The Companies Acquisition of Own Shares Treasury Shares Regulations 2003 the Regulations allow companies to hold shares acquired by way of market purchase in treasury, rather than having to cancel them.
The Directors may use the authority to purchase shares and hold them in treasury and subsequently sell or transfer them out of treasury as permitted in accordance with the Regulations rather than cancel them, subject to institutional guidelines applicable at the time.
The shares purchased by the Company during the year were held in treasury.
No shares held in treasury were cancelled or transferred out of treasury during the year.
No dividends have been paid on shares whilst held in treasury and no voting rights attach to the treasury shares.
Adoption of new articles of association The Directors are seeking approval from the shareholders to approve a number of amendments to the articles of association primarily to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Revised performance conditions for future incentive awards The Directors are seeking approval from the shareholders to enable the Company to revise the performance conditions for the vesting of future performance awards.
In the case of the initial performance awards made under the revised policy it is proposed that two distinct performance conditions are applied.
The vesting of one half of each such performance award the TSR Award will be dependent on the Companys total shareholder return TSR performance over a fixed three year period relative to that of a comparator group.
Under the revised policy no part of the TSR Award would vest unless the Companys TSR performance at least ranked at the median within the comparator group: thereafter a sliding vesting schedule would apply.
The vesting of the other half of each such performance award the EPS Award will be dependent on the Companys earnings per share performance over three consecutive financial years of the Company starting with the financial year in which the grant of the award falls.
Under the revised policy no part of the EPS Award would vest unless the Companys earnings per share performance over the performance period exceeds inflation by an average of at least 3% per annum: thereafter a sliding vesting schedule would apply.
Auditor KPMG Audit Plc have indicated that they are willing to continue in office.
A resolution to re-appoint them, and to authorise the Board to set their remuneration, will be proposed at the AGM Resolution 8 in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
36 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Recommendation The Directors believe that the resolutions in the Notice of Annual General Meeting are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommend that shareholders vote in favour of each resolution.
Derivatives Information related to derivatives is included in the Accounting Policies on page 61 and in note 15.
Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and parent company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and have elected to prepare its individual company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and applicable law.
The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and performance of the Group.
The Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
The parent company financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the parent company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent company financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU: for the parent company financial statements, state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent company financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, a Report of the Remuneration Committee and a Corporate Governance Report in compliance with applicable law and regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors statement as to disclosure of information to the auditor The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving this Directors Report, having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the auditor, confirm that: to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is no information relevant to the preparation of their report of which the auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
By order of the Board Jon Green Company Secretary and General Counsel 28 February 2008 37 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
