Business Review Fibre Technologies Fibre Technologies focuses on the production and supply of special filters for cigarettes and bonded fibre products such as reservoirs and wicks for writing instruments and printers, household products and medical devices Fibre Technologies delivered a strong improvement in In the Americas, the previously announced restructuring operating performance in the year, with operating profit before programme was completed without disruption and to budget.
intangible amortisation and restructuring costs up 12.5% to The Monterrey facility continued to improve operationally and 31.6m 2006: 28.1m reflecting a sharp improvement in was consistently profitable through the year.
operating margin to 13.8% 2006: 11.0% despite lower revenue.
Revenue was down 10.3% to 228.4m 2006: Good growth was achieved at each of the Asian locations 254.7m.
At constant exchange rates, operating profit before with improvements in both volume and financial performance.
intangible amortisation and restructuring costs increased by A representative office was established in Beijing, China 18.8%, although revenue was down by 5.6%.
and a senior manager has been deployed to improve the Companys presence in the worlds largest cigarette market.
Cigarette Filters Cigarette Filters delivered a strong performance resulting The Filtrona Technology Centre continued to seek from significant operational improvements at all locations, opportunities to secure enhanced value for research and a turnaround in performance in Mexico, the benefits of plant development services and a key joint development project rationalisation in the US, and selected price adjustments.
with a major customer was progressed during the year.
This performance was particularly encouraging given the reduced volumes from the business losses announced at Market conditions are expected to remain challenging in 2008 the end of 2006.
Total filter volumes reduced by 9.5% or and beyond for the Cigarette Filters division.
Cigarette market 6.3 billion filters in 2007. volume reductions in the mature markets of Western Europe, the US and Japan are generating an increased focus on cost The operational performance improvement has been driven management by the tobacco industry.
This is expected to by the focus on six sigma and continuous improvement increase the risk of further losses of conventional dual filter programmes combined with an increase in training at the volumes with multi-national customers who may perceive newly established Filters Learning Centre which is located at in-house production as a lower unit cost option for higher the Filtrona Technology Centre in Jarrow, UK.
The benefits of volume specifications.
In addition, the industry is moving its these activities have manifested themselves in process waste focus away from selective filtration of smoke for potentially and conversion cost improvements.
reduced exposure consumer offerings and towards non-lit products.
In Europe, the new lower cost manufacturing facility on the outskirts of Budapest, Hungary commenced production However, Filtrona anticipates that the impact of these factors on schedule and shipped its first filters to customers in will be partially mitigated by pursuing opportunities within October.
market sub-segments as filters are increasingly seen as key product differentiators, particularly for lower tar and premium products such as slim cigarettes.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Cigarette Filters Markets and Trends Global tobacco industry mature Declining markets in Western Europe, US and Japan G rowth in emerging markets in Asia and Eastern Europe Increasing importance of filters as product differentiator Looking Forward Expanding into new emerging segments and markets Adding value with innovation and technical leadership Optimising global footprint to deliver cost competitiveness and supply flexibility Partnering with customers in joint development opportunities Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
com Business Review Fibre Technologies Filtrona will continue to focus on conversion cost The inkjet printer reservoir business secured with a major new improvement and product innovation to defend market US entrant into the inkjet printer market has progressed position and exploit growth opportunities.
The development ahead of expectations and pre-launch volumes for a further of capacity and capability in the new lower cost Hungarian new project with an existing customer are now in production.
facility and further strengthening of Filtronas market position A new wicking material for saliva based medical testing was in Asia, particularly with state-owned and independent launched to the market and a number of potential customers cigarette producers, remain key priorities.
have designed drug abuse test protocols for US Food and Drug Administration approval containing this material, which Given the prevailing conditions, a reduction in overall volume in is particularly effective in cannabis testing.
2008 is anticipated and there is a risk of further future volume declines.
The Company will seek to mitigate the impact of any The Ningbo, China factory expansion was completed in the adverse volume movements through increased commercial third quarter on schedule and on budget and the facility was activity with state-owned and independent customers, consistently profitable during the year.
The Ningbo facility selective pricing action, commercialisation of new products achieved ISO 14001 accreditation and all three Fibertec sites and planned operational improvements, including further achieved the OHSAS 18001 occupational health and safety restructuring, to drive down unit costs.
accreditation in line with the Groups objective.
Bonded Fibre Components As Fibertec seeks to further enhance the quality and The Fibertec Bonded Fibre Components division delivered capability of its global footprint, work on the extensive strong results with all locations performing well, and a number renovation programme for the Reinbek, Germany facility of important multi-year supply agreements were concluded commenced and, once completed, will bring operational during the year.
Strong organic growth has seen further benefits to the facility and its health and safety infrastructure.
market share gains continuing to be made in the traditional areas of the business, particularly in writing instrument Looking forward into 2008, it is anticipated that the Bonded reservoirs, with increased marketing activities designed to Fibre Components division will benefit from increasing increase the awareness of Fibertecs market leading revenues in the inkjet printer reservoir market and the capabilities.
With the continued strengthening of the global commercialisation of the new saliva wick technology.
A sales presence, Asia and Eastern Europe provide a focus for continuation in the increase of volume through the Ningbo the expansion of the business into emerging markets.
facility should also serve to drive performance.
The commissioning of new machinery within the division should The continued development of new products and their support the business growth expected from the increased associated intellectual property is driving growth in new sales and marketing activity.
A total of seven patent applications were filed during the year as continuous innovation and the expansion of capillary science expertise remain key to the ongoing success of the Fibertec business.
0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Bonded Fibre Components Markets and Trends Writing instrument growth in line with GDP Move to point of care and home medical diagnostics Demand for convenience in cleaning products Increased demand for higher quality and more sophisticated solutions Strong growth in the Asian market Looking Forward Innovating in growth markets Exploiting opportunities in emerging markets and technologies Increasing market penetration with global sales and marketing presence Focusing on quality with global manufacturing excellence Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
