Business Review Plastic Technologies Plastic Technologies produces, sources and distributes protection and finishing products, self-adhesive tear tape and security products as well as proprietary and customised plastic extrusions Plastic Technologies had a good year with operating profit Kidlington, UK manufacturing facility to further improve risk before intangible amortisation and restructuring costs up management at this important site.
The operating margin again Skiffy, the European specialist small nylon parts producer, improved to 15.7% 2006: 14.9% reflecting the stronger has delivered another strong year of growth.
The new Skiffy performance of the higher margin businesses.
distribution operation in Poland was opened successfully in March.
Revenue growth has again been assisted by the During 2007 significant revenue investments were made to further increased levels of marketing, including the new establish new distribution locations and to support businesses catalogue which was launched successfully during April in still in their infancy.
At constant exchange rates, revenue eight languages.
Internet ordering via the multi-language increased by 5.4% and operating profit before intangible website continues to grow and now represents 27.6% of amortisation and restructuring costs increased by 10.3%.
Protection and Finishing Products Alliance, the US-based plastic parts supplier, traded well in The Protection and Finishing Products division continued to spite of more challenging conditions in the US domestic pursue its strategy of geographic and range expansion market.
Development of the product offering continued with combined with consistent investment in business to business the addition of significant new ranges during the year.
The marketing programmes, integrated IT systems and supply new Alliance Express location in Chicago has performed chain efficiencies.
Filtronas largest profit generating division consistently well since its opening in February.
Trading at the continued to perform well throughout the year, benefiting from Alliance facility in So Paulo, Brazil was strong throughout the the diversity of its customer base, where no individual year with the benefits of local manufacture reducing costs customer represents more than 3% of the revenue, and the and materially improving its competitive position in the competitive advantages presented by the breadth of its Brazilian market.
Sales growth in Brazil has now driven the product offering and the quality of its service.
The division implementation of a second production shift and an additional holds over 900 million parts representing 26,000 products in warehouse location is also being utilised.
Unit production multiple stocking locations for same day despatch.
costs at the Erie, Pennsylvania facility continued to fall as a result of the sustained investment in new tooling and Moss, the pan-European plastic parts supplier, had an machinery.
excellent year and benefited from a further strengthening of the mix of proprietary and custom products in favour of the The acquisition of Duraco, based in Chicago, Illinois, was more profitable proprietary lines.
Sales development across completed in May for a consideration of $61m.
The integration the expanded Continental European network was particularly of the business has progressed well, and an experienced encouraging within both recently opened and more senior executive from within the Protection and Finishing established locations.
The new distribution unit in Hungary Products division was appointed to the position of President.
was opened successfully in April and the Chinese business, The divisions commercial philosophies and the Filtrona co-located within the Fibertec facility in Ningbo, opened in Values are now being implemented in the business.
The distribution units in Brno, Czech Republic and responses to new marketing programmes, utilising the in Newcastle, UK were relocated to larger units to divisions sophisticated marketing techniques, have been accommodate business growth.
A new sophisticated encouraging and plans are in place for the establishment fireproof mould store became fully operational at the of a Duraco Express operation to address the small order segment of the market.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007
