Corporate Governance Global Executive Left to right: Alan Tidy, Rob Purcell, Jon Green, Mark Harper, PT Sreekumar, Steve Crummett, Russ Rogers, Neil Shillingford, Steve Dryden and Tony Edwards Alan Tidy Jon Green Director of Group Human Resources Company Secretary and General Counsel Alan Tidy joined Filtrona as Director of Group Human Jon Green, a solicitor, joined Filtrona in March 2005 to assist Resources upon the demerger from Bunzl in 2005.
He was in the demerger process.
He was appointed Company previously Group HR Director at Wagon plc and prior to that Secretary in July 2005.
Prior to Filtrona he worked as an inheld divisional HR roles within Caradon plc and Rio Tinto plc.
house lawyer for several large international businesses, Alan is the Chairman of Filtronas UK Pension Trustee Boards including Unilever and, most recently, Hays plc.
Jon is a and of the Group Health, Safety and Environment Council.
member of Filtronas UK Pension Trustee Boards.
He is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Personnel and Development.
P T Sreekumar Managing Director Cigarette Filters Rob Purcell P T Sreekumar joined Filtrona from Godfrey Philips, an Managing Director Protection and Finishing Products Indian tobacco company, in 1995.
Sreekumar was initially Rob Purcell joined the Moss business in 1996 from Low responsible for the Indian joint venture within Filtrona.
In 2002 and Bonar where he had been Managing Director of their he was appointed as Regional Director for Asia Pacific technical textiles business.
Rob became responsible for responsible for the business in Asia and the Middle East the entire Protection and Finishing Products division in 2003. before moving into his current role early in 2005.
Rob has been a Trustee of the Filtrona Senior Pension Scheme for a number of years.
The biographical details of Mark Harper and Steve Dryden are shown on page 33.
0 Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Steve Crummett Neil Shillingford Director of Corporate Development President Plastic Profile and Sheet Steve Crummett joined Filtrona in May 2007 as Director Neil Shillingford, President of Filtrona Extrusion, joined the of Corporate Development.
Prior to that, he was Group Company in operations from Gillette and now has 20 years Director of Mergers and Acquisitions at Exel plc.
Steve of service within Filtrona.
Neil has performed a number of is a Chartered Accountant having started his career with general management roles over those 20 years and was Arthur Andersen.
He has held various senior finance roles, appointed to his current position in 2005. including at McKechnie, and has worked in the private equity industry.
Tony Edwards Managing Director Coated and Security Products Tony Edwards was previously Finance Director of the Payne Steve will join the Board of Directors as Finance Director business when it was bought from Norcros plc in 1996.
Tony with effect from 19 March 2008. is a Chartered Accountant having qualified with Price Russ Rogers Waterhouse in 1988.
Prior to joining Payne in 1993 he worked President Bonded Fibre Components for Rio Tinto Zinc plc.
Tony then became Finance Director of Russ Rogers, President of Filtrona Fibertec, joined the the Filtrona business area within Bunzl and was appointed to Company with the acquisition of the American Filtrona his current role in 2002.
Corporation in September 1997 and performed increasingly important roles in engineering, logistics, purchasing and manufacturing before being appointed President in.
Please refer to the note on the Contents page.
Filtrona plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 www.
