74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 6 Directors Report The directors submit their annual report and group accounts 2.
Strategy for the year ended September 30 2007.
The group's strategy is: to grow profits by driving top-line growth from both new Certain statements made in this document are forwardand existing products: looking statements.
Such statements are based on current to build robust subscription and repeat revenues thus expectations and are subject to a number of risks and reducing the dependence on advertising: uncertainties that could cause actual events or results to differ to improve operating margins through revenue growth materially from any expected future events or results referred to in these forward-looking statements.
Unless otherwise and tight cost control: required by applicable law, regulation or accounting standard, to leverage technology to launch specialised new we do not undertake any obligation to update or revise any electronic information serves: and forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new to make focused acquisitions that supplement the information, future development or otherwise.
Nothing in this group's existing businesses, that strengthen the document shall be regarded as a profit forecast.
companys market position in key areas and that have the capacity for organic growth using the existing knowledge The directors' report has been prepared for the group as a whole base of the group.
and therefore gives greater emphasis to those matters which are significant to Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC and its In 2004, to supplement this strategy, the board set the group subsidiary undertakings when viewed as a whole.
It has been a profit target of 50 million by 2008 against a base of prepared solely to provide additional information to shareholders 21 million in 2003.
In March 2007, the target was as a body to assess the company's strategy and the potential for increased to 57 million to reflect the effect of the Metal that strategy to succeed and the directors' report should not be Bulletin acquisition.
The profit achieved for the year was relied upon by any other party for any other purpose.
65.7 million, beating the increased target a year earlier than expected.
The board believes this significant achievement 1.
Principal activities reflects the success of the Capital Appreciation Plan CAP Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC is listed on the London incentive scheme indriving growth.
Stock Exchange and is a member of the FTSE 250 share index.
It is a leading international business-to-business media group 3. Business review focused primarily on the international finance, metals and 3.1 Group results and dividends commodities sectors.
It publishes more than 70 magazines, The group profit for the year attributable to shareholders newsletters and journals, including Euromoney, Institutional amounted to 31.8 million 2006: 37.4 million.
The directors Investor and Metal Bulletin.
It also runs an extensive portfolio recommend a final dividend of 13.0 pence per ordinary of conferences, seminars and training courses and is a leading share 2006: 11.6 pence, payable on February 6 2008 provider of electronic information and data covering the to shareholders on the register on November 23 2007.
This, international finance, metals and commodities, and emerging together with the interim dividend of 6.0 pence per ordinary markets.
Its main offices are located in London, New York, share 2006: 5.4 pence which was declared on May 16 2007 Montreal and Hong Kong and nearly half its revenues and and paid on June 25 2007, brings the total dividend for the profits are derived from the United States.
Details of the year to 19.0 pence per ordinary share 2006: 17.0 pence.
group's legal entities can be found in note 13.
Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortization, share option expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments and foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation swaps as set out in the income statement and note 7.
06 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 7 3.2 Key performance indicators The group monitors its performance against its strategy using the following key performance indicators.
Gross profit and revenue are both as per note 4 in the financial statements.
2 Adjusted operating margin operating profit before acquired intangible amortisation, share option expense, exceptional items and associates and joint ventures as a percentage of revenue.
Operating profit and revenue are both as per the group income statement in the financial statements.
3 Organic growth in profits proportion of total operating profit growth that relates to organic growth, rather than acquisitions.
Operating profit is from continuing operations so excludes closed businesses and is adjusted for significant timing in events and publications.
4 Headcount number of permanent people employed at the end of the period including people employed in associates and joint ventures.
5 Net debt to EBITDA the amount of the group's net debt to Earnings Before Interest and Tax operating profit, Depreciation, Amortisation and also before exceptional items.
6 City PBT Profit before tax excluding acquired intangible amortization, share option expense, exceptional items, net movements in acquisition option commitments values, imputed interest on acquisition option commitments and foreign exchange loss interest charge on tax equalisation swaps as set out in the group income statement and note 7.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 07 m 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 8 Directors Report continued 3.3 KPIs explained growth achieved in the year, offset by the reduction of heads The key performance indicators are all within the group's from the sale of Raven Fox and Engel Publishing.
Metal expectations and support its successful strategy.
These are Bulletin had 466 people employed on acquisition: this had discussed in detail in the Chairman's Statement on pages 2 been reduced by 196 to 270 at September 30 2007. to 5, and below.
This should be read in conjunction with the additional information on the development of the business of 3.4.
4 Debt and working capital management the group which is also set out below.
Net debt at September 30 2007 was 204.6 million 2006: 73.4 million which included cash of 26.7 million 3.4 Development of the business of the group 2006: 27.5 million.
At the end of September the group's 3.4.
1 Financial results net debt to EBITDA ratio was 2.85:1 2006: 1.68:1 well within A detailed review of the group's results is given in the the group's banking covenant and resulting in variable interest Chairman's Statement on pages 2 to 5. being incurred at the lower end of the interest rate covenant bands.
A discussion on debt is contained within the 3.4.
2 Finance costs Chairman's Statement on page 5.
The group has a dedicated IAS 39 'Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement' 300 million three-year multi-currency facility with a subsidiary requires an imputed interest charge to be recognised on of Daily Mail and General Trust.
Interest is payable on this the group's future acquisition payments under option facility at a variable rate of between 0.4% and 1.6% above agreements.
This additional finance cost increased the group's LIBOR.
At September 30 2006, the group had not drawn interest cost by 1.6 million 2006: 0.9 million.
IAS 39 also down on this facility but remained a borrower under its requires any movements in the estimated value of acquisition existing five-year committed facility.
During October 2006 the option commitments to be recognised in interest and in 2007 group, funded by the new multi-currency facility, repaid all a related interest income of 3.9 million was recognised.
There monies owing on its existing committed facility and drew is no related cash effect of these amounts.
down further amounts to fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin In addition, the group's interest cost includes 1.8 million in and to settle related acquired debt.
At September 2007 there relation to a foreign exchange loss on a tax equalisation were 86.4 million 2006: 200.4 million of committed scheme which is offset by an equal and opposite income in the undrawn amounts directly available to the group.
5 Balance sheet Excluding these amounts, the group's net finance cost The net assets of the group were 55.8 million compared to increased from 3.6 million to 13.4 million, largely as a result net liabilities in 2006 of 26.8 million.
The main movements in of the group's increase in net debt from the acquisition of the balance sheet items were in: intangible assets, reflecting Metal Bulletin.
The group continues to benefit from its the recognition of 348.7 million of goodwill and other treasury policy of fixing the interest rate on a portion of its intangible assets following the acquisitions of Metal Bulletin long-term borrowings see treasury section below.
318.1 million and Total Derivatives 10.7 million, the final 10% instalment payment for Information Management 3.4.
3 Headcount Network and the increased equity holdings in Asia Business The number of people employed is monitored monthly, on a Forum, CEIC, Internet Securities, Inc and Telcap Limited: business-by-business basis to ensure that there are sufficient property, plant and equipment, increased by 6.3 million people employed to meet the forthcoming demands of each to 20.9 million, as a result of the freehold purchase of one business and to make sure that the businesses continue to of the group's London premises plus the acquired assets deliver sufficient profits to support the people they employ.
At from Metal Bulletin: investments fell by 25.6 million to the end of September the group employed 2,160 people 0.3 million due to the initial 9% tranche of Metal Bulletin 2006: 1,690 people, an increase of 470, as a result of plc shares being reclassified and consolidated across the acquired heads from Metal Bulletin and Total Derivatives and, existing assets of the group: trade and other payables, fell additional employees trained to support the strong revenue 08 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 9 52.7 million to 42.8 million as a result of the repayment of derivatives markets.
The price was 7.3 million including short term loans with DMGT utilising the new multi-currency acquisition costs and a working capital adjustment, resulting facility: deferred income increased 28.1 million to 73.4 in goodwill and intangible assets of 3.8 million and 6.9 million reflecting the first time inclusion of Metal Bulletin million respectively.
In addition, the management team will deferred income and the underlying growth in the group's stay with the business and have options to sell their remaining subscription revenue: acquisition option commitments shares to Euromoney at prices linked to profits for the financial increased by 9.0 million to 33.3 million due to new years 2007, 2008 and 2009.
The transaction is subject to commitments from the acquisition of Asia Business Forum, a maximum consideration of 24.9% of Euromoney's market Telcap, and Total Derivatives, revised assessments of capitalisation at the date of completion.
commitments for existing businesses offset by the exercise of the existing CEIC option: committed borrowings increased Total Derivatives was co-founded in 2000 by Ronan O'Neill, by 148.0 million to 213.6 million reflecting the refinancing who previously spent eight years as a fixed income derivatives of group debt see 3.4.
4 : deferred tax liabilities: net trader at UBS and BNP Paribas.
The first internet-based deferred tax has moved from an overall asset of 19.8 million business in this sector, Total Derivatives, has grown rapidly to to an overall liability of 20.1 million, a result of additional become the prime source of information in the global fixed deferred tax on the intangible assets of Metal Bulletin, Total income derivatives markets.
As well as providing marketDerivatives and other acquisitions: loan notes of 11.8 million leading coverage of the bond, swap and options markets, used to help fund the purchase of Metal Bulletin: and the Total Derivatives provides must-have, market-moving recognition of an other reserve of 65.0 million reflecting the information on exotic products such as inflation derivatives premium on the new share capital issued in relation to the and rate-linked structured notes.
partial share alternative for the acquisition of Metal Bulletin.
6 Acquisitions and disposals The group continues to increase its holdings in its associates Acquisitions remain a fundamental part of the group's growth and subsidiaries and this year has paid the following: strategy and have been key to the group reaching its 57 million profit target a year early.
In particular the board In January 2007, the group exercised its option to purchase believes that acquisitions are valuable for taking the group the second tranche of Asia Business Forum, a leading into new sectors, for bringing new technologies into the conference organiser and training business for the Asia region, group and for increasing the group's overall growth through increasing its equity holding from 47.5% to 90% for a identifying rapidly developing niche businesses.
Acquisitions In February 2007, the group purchased a further 1.2% of the On October 6 2006, the group acquired 100% of the issued equity share capital of Internet Securities, Inc for a cash share capital of Metal Bulletin plc for cash consideration of consideration of $2.6 million 1.3 million bringing the 239.6 million.
Metal Bulletin plc was the parent company of group's holding to 93.4%.
a group of companies operating as a leading global information provider of must-have market-sensitive data in Also in February 2007, the group purchased a further 15% of niche, business-to-business markets.
Its revenues are derived the equity share capital of Telcap Limited, the global wholesale from a range of publications, electronic products and services, telecoms publisher and conference organiser, for a cash conferences and research.
Full details of the acquisition can be consideration of 1.7 million, bringing the group's holding to found in note 14.
55%, at which point the business became a subsidiary.
In October 2006, the group signed an agreement to acquire In April 2007, the group purchased the final 26% of the equity 67% of Total Derivatives Limited, a leading provider of realtime news and analysis about the global fixed income share capital of CEIC Holdings Limited, one of the leading Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 09 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 10 Directors Report continued providers of time-series macro-economic data covering Asia, nominal sum deferred for one year.
No profit or loss was made for a cash consideration of $11.7 million 5.8 million paid in on disposal.
September 2007, bringing the group's total holding to 100%.
On August 31 2007, the group sold Med Ad Inc, a leading provider of marketing and clinical research information to Payments of deferred consideration managers and executives in the pharmaceutical industry, for In March 2007, in accordance with the purchase agreement, 6.3 million on completion with a further payment anticipated the group paid the final deferred consideration instalment of to be 0.5 million to be received for the net current assets of $12.3 million 6.2 million for Information Management the company on agreement of the completion accounts.
An Network, its 80% owned financial conference organiser exceptional profit on sale, after related costs, was 5.0 million.
7 Marketing and circulation Disposals In 2007 revenues from direct marketing, including Metal The group continually reviews its businesses and during the Bulletin, increased by 31%.
Revenue growth was achieved year disposed of the following non-core operations: across all products, in particular paid delegates and electronic subscriptions.
Return on marketing spend improved by 18%.
On March 12 2007, the group sold Raven Fox, a duty-free Additionally, investment in 2006 to improve the group's and luxury goods publishing and events business for a cash customer information database led to increased marketing consideration of 1.8 million.
Raven Fox's liabilities on disposal response rates in 2007.
On-line marketing techniques were 0.2m resulting in a profit on sale, after related sale continue to improve and the group has invested in a digital costs, of 1.8 million.
marketing training programme for all staff in 2007.
On-line revenues have grown on average by 29%, primarily driven by On March 30 2007, Atalink Limited, a specialist and direct effective use of search marketing and e-mail campaigns.
response publishing company, previously part of the Metal Bulletin group, was sold for 1.8 million.
A further payment, expected to be 0.7 million, will be received for the net 3.4.
8 Systems and information technology current assets of the company on agreement of the The company continues to invest in its IT infrastructure.
An additional final payment of This year a new state-of-the-art storage system is being 0.5 million is payable on March 30 2008.
No profit or loss implemented in London to give staff high performance access was made on disposal.
to the companys data and secure, remote connectivity to our office-based systems from anywhere in the world.
On April 12 2007, the group sold Energy Information Centre Limited, previously part of the Metal Bulletin group and a The Metal Bulletin IT systems were successfully integrated leading company in the provision of wholesale and retail during the year with headcount consolidated within the market intelligence, outsourced procurement and energy risk existing technology team structure.
The rollout of the management strategy.
The group received 4.7 million on companys existing high-speed network and wireless completion with a further payment, expected to be technologies continues as the group expands its London office 0.3 million, to be received for the net current assets of the space to accommodate growth.
company on agreement of the completion accounts.
No profit or loss was made on disposal.
The external network was extended to strengthen the link between the company's main offices in Europe, North On May 15 2007, the group sold certain assets of the Metal America and Asia.
A full review of telecom services was Bulletin subsidiary, Systematics International Limited, a undertaken during the year and a new VoIP network with database business principally in the farm machinery and increased internet bandwidth will be rolled out in early 2008 construction sector, for 0.1 million on completion plus a to provide a scaleable and feature-rich telephony network.
10 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 11 In 2007 disaster recovery and business continuity plans for The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of all businesses were updated.
The company has an active transactions in foreign currencies entered into by group programme for testing the disaster recovery plans for all companies and by the translation of the results of foreign business units.
subsidiaries into sterling for reporting purposes.
The group does not hedge the translation of the results of foreign The company's websites are located at a dedicated, highsubsidiaries, but does endeavour to match foreign currency availability hosting centre.
Many sites were re-launched during borrowings to investments in order to provide a natural hedge 2007 with fresh designs and updated technologies.
Throughout for the translation of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
2007 the company continued to invest in its e-commerce infrastructure to help support its growing online revenues.
Approximately 60% of the groups revenues are in US dollars.
Subsidiaries normally do not hedge transactions in foreign 3.4.
9 Tax and treasury currencies into the functional currency of their own Committee operations.
However, at a group level a series of US dollar The group's tax and treasury committee normally meets twice forward contracts is put in place up to 48 months forward a year and is responsible for recommending policy to the partially to hedge its dollar revenues into sterling.
The committee members are the chairman, managing director and finance director of the company, and the finance Details of the financial instruments used are set out in note 18 director and the deputy finance director of Daily Mail and to the accounts.
The chairman of the audit committee is also invited to attend the tax and treasury meetings.
The groups Tax treasury policies are directed to giving greater certainty of The group's effective tax rate increased to 20% compared to future costs and revenues and ensuring that the group has a 10% credit in 2006.
The 2007 rate is lower than the adequate liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for expected rate of 32% at interim due to the recognition of a funding acquisitions.
further deferred tax asset of 3.2 million in respect of US state and city tax losses and other short term timing differences as Treasury the group's US businesses continue to generate significant The treasury department does not act as a profit centre, taxable profits, and a 2.6 million tax credit on foreign nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and exchange losses arising on a one-off intra group transaction in it operates within policies and procedures approved by the year that eliminates on consolidation.
If the effect of these the board.
items is stripped out, the underlying tax rate is 34% which is higher than at interim due to a different mix of regional Interest rate swaps and caps are used to manage the groups profits.
The 2006 tax rate was exceptionally low due to the exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its floating rate 13.6 million recognition in respect of tax deductible US borrowings.
The maturity profile of these derivatives is goodwill.
If the effect of this one-off tax credit is stripped out, matched with the expected future debt profile of the group.
the underlying rate for 2006 was 28%.
The groups policy is to fix the interest rates on approximately 80% of its term debt looking forward over five years.
At The total net deferred tax balance held has moved from overall September 30 2007, the group had 82% of its net debt fixed asset of 19.8 million to an overall liability of 20.1 million as by the use of interest rate hedges, management having put in a result of additional deferred tax on the intangible assets place additional interest rate swaps to cover the additional debt from the purchase of Metal Bulletin plc.
As long-term of Metal Bulletin.
Even though the intangibles concerned are not deductible for tax purposes, a temporary difference rates are usually higher than short-term rates this hedging strategy has the effect of increasing the interest charge, but it arises under IAS 12 and is not covered by any of the initial does provide protection against increases in market rates.
As noted above this balance also Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 11 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 12 Directors Report continued includes tax deductible US goodwill and US federal tax losses The group regularly tests its DR plans.
It has robust systems in place with key locations including the UK & US benefiting as well as UK short-term timing differences and the future deductions available for the CAP scheme.
from dual locations of back ups, dual loading of live back ups for key systems and third-party 24-hour support.
There is an unrecognised US deferred tax asset of 5.4 million 2006: 6.0 million.
This relates to Metal Bulletin US federal Libel tax losses 2.4 million, and the IAS 39 liability in respect of The group generates a significant amount of its revenue from the groups obligations under the put option held by IMNs publishing and hence has an inherent libel risk.
libel claim is likely to affect the group's reputation in the market place where the libel claim arose and or where the 4.
Risk management publication was published.
As a consequence the group could The company has continued to develop its processes for risk suffer a loss of advertising and other add-on revenue streams.
Management of significant risk is regularly on the agenda of the board and other senior management meetings.
To mitigate this risk the group runs mandatory annual libel courses for all journalists and editors.
Key staff are aware of Specific risk areas that potentially could have a material impact the significant nature of the risks and strong internal controls on the group's long-term performance include: are in place for reporting to senior management if a potential issue arises.
The group also has libel insurance cover.
Downturn in economy or market sector The group generates significant income from certain key Incorrect circulation claims geographical regions and market sectors for both its The group publishes over 70 titles and publications and sells publishing and events businesses.
Should there be a downturn advertising based partly on circulation figures.
An incorrect or collapse in one of these areas income is likely to be claim for circulation could adversely affect the group's adversely affected and for events businesses some reputation in the applicable market place with a potential abandonment costs may also be incurred.
knock-on effect for other titles within the group.
This could lead to the permanent loss of advertisers and other revenue streams.
However, the group has a strong product mix and operates in multiple geographical locations which reduces dependency on To mitigate this risk the group runs rolling annual internal any one sector or region.
Management has shown a proven audits and regularly monitors internal controls designed to ability to switch its focus to new or unaffected markets cover circulation.
Detailed guidance is provided to all relevant e. g. following the SARS outbreak in Asia and terrorist attacks employees and their understanding of the rules is regularly in New York.
There are a large number of mutually exclusive titles and it is unlikely that an incorrect circulation claim, London, Montreal or New York wide disaster should it arise, would affect the circulation of other titles The group has its main offices located in London, Montreal, within the wider group.
Similar controls are applied to claims New York and Hong Kong.
An area wide disaster is likely to for electronic publishing activities.
have serious consequences with office space potentially becoming unusable for several months and a lack of suitable Poor choice of acquisition alternative accommodation: loss of key clients and staff in an Part of the group's strategy is to be acquisitive.
Management affected area and difficult communications with both review a number of potential acquisitions each year with only customers and staff.
As a consequence of the above, the a small proportion of these going through to due diligence group could suffer a loss of revenue.
stage and possible subsequent purchase.
The group could suffer an impairment loss if an acquired business does not To mitigate this risk the group has detailed disaster recovery DR plans for all businesses.
All employees can work remotely.
generate the expected returns or fails to operate or grow in its 12 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 13 markets and products areas.
The risks of the acquired entity subscription, conference and training revenue being paid in as projected may be misunderstood.
The directors have no reason to believe that the debt significant amount of management time could be diverted is not serviceable.
Market price risk To mitigate this risk senior experienced management perform The group's primary market risks are interest rate fluctuations detailed in-house due diligence.
Acquisition agreements are and exchange rate movements.
Derivatives are used to hedge usually structured so as to retain key employees in the acquired or reduce the risks of interest rate and exchange rate company and there is a close monitoring of performance at movements and are not entered into unless such risks exist.
board level of the entity concerned post acquisition.
Derivatives used by the group for hedging a particular risk are not specialised and are generally available from numerous sources.
The fair values of interest rate swaps, currency Technological change options and forward exchange contracts set out in note 18 The internet is becoming an ever increasing important revenue represent the replacement costs calculated using the market stream for the group and with this comes risk.
The internet, rates of interest and exchange at September 30 2007.
The through the proliferation of free content and content group has no other material market price risks.
aggregators, has the potential to erode hard copy advertising and subscription revenues.
Interest rate risk The group's borrowings are in both pounds sterling and The group is already embracing these challenges, and, overall, US dollars with the related interest tied to US and UK LIBOR.
views the internet as an opportunity rather than a threat.
This results in the group's interest charge being at risk to Many of its businesses already produce soft copies of fluctuations in interest rates.
It is the group's policy to hedge publication to supplement the hard copies.
While the internet approximately 80% of its interest exposure, converting its is an important tool for generating additional revenue the floating rate debt into fixed debt by means of interest rate group's product mix provides protection for any potential swaps.
As long-term rates are usually higher than short-term unforeseen problems.
For example, the group's share of profit rates so this hedging strategy has the effect of increasing the from event businesses is growing, with face-to-face meetings interest charge, but it does provide protection against of increasing importance.
Details of the group's interest rate swaps are given in note 18.
Liquidity risk The group has significant bank and intercompany borrowings Foreign currency risk and is an approved borrower under a Daily Mail and General The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the form of Trust plc 300 million revolving multi-currency facility.
This transactions in foreign currencies entered into by group facility requires the group to meet certain covenants based on companies and by the translation of the results of foreign net debt and profits adjusted for certain non-cash items.
Failure to do so would result in the group being in breach of the facility potentially resulting in the facility being withdrawn.
The group does not hedge the translation of the results of Management regularly monitors the covenants and prepares foreign subsidiaries.
Consequently, fluctuations in the value detailed debt forecasts to ensure that sufficient headroom is of sterling versus other currencies could materially affect available and that the covenants are not close or potentially the translation of these results in the consolidated close to breach.
The group's strategy is to use excess operating financial statements.
The group endeavours to match foreign cash to pay down its debt.
The group has a cash conversion currency borrowings to investments in order to provide rate the percentage by which cash generated by operations a natural hedge for the translation of the net assets of covers operating profit of over 100%, due to much of its overseas subsidiaries.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 13 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 14 Directors Report continued Approximately 60% of the group's revenues are in US dollars.
based on managements assessment of the risk of nonAt a group level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put payment taking into account the ageing profile, experience in place up to 48 months forward partially to hedge its dollar and circumstance.
The timing and value of these forward contracts are based on managements estimate of its future The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the US dollar revenues over a 48-month period and is regularly carrying amount of each financial asset, including derivative reviewed and revised with any changes in estimates resulting financial instruments, recorded in the balance sheet.
in either additional forward contracts being taken out or existing contracts' maturity dates being moved forward or 5.
The group also has a significant operation in Canada Indian eye clinic whose revenues are mainly in US dollars.
At a group level a Euromoney Institutional Investor encourages its people to be number of small forward contracts is put in place on the same active in charities.
It channels its charity budget exclusively to basis as above to hedge US dollar revenues into Canadian good causes that its employees support, matching or better dollars to cover the operation's Canadian cost base.
In the money raised by its people.
addition, each subsidiary is encouraged to invoice sales in its local functional currency where possible.
Details of the group's This year, an excellent one for profits, it did the same, but it also forward contracts are given in note 18. set out to do something extra, something much more ambitious.
It searched for a special one-off charity project before choosing a single cause that was particularly suitable for Credit risk a publishing company that earns much of its revenues in The group seeks to limit interest rate and foreign currency risks emerging markets.
The criteria it selected were that the project described above by the use of financial instruments and as a must make a maximum beneficial change to peoples lives, that result has a credit risk from the potential non-performance by it would concentrate on children, that it would be permanent the counterparties to these financial instruments, which are or self-sustaining, that it would fire the imagination of the unsecured.
The amount of this credit risk is normally restricted companys 2,100 employees around the world, and that it to the amounts of any hedge gain and not the principal would be entirely funded through the companys efforts.
The group also has a credit exposure to counterparties for the full principal amount of cash and cash equivalents.
Credit risks are controlled by monitoring the When the search finished, Euromoney Institutional Investor amounts outstanding, with and the credit quality of, these had found its project, to create a childrens eye clinic in Orissa, counterparties.
For the group's cash and cash equivalents the poorest state in India.
It would take three years to come these are principally licensed commercial banks and fully on stream, by which time it would save the sight of investment banks with strong long-term credit ratings, and for between 10,000 and 20,000 children annually.
Avoidable derivative financial instruments Daily Mail and General Trust blindness is very common in poor regions of India and Africa.
plc who have treasury policies in place which do not allow Much of it can be cured by a simple cataract operation that concentrations of risk with individual counterparties and do costs around 12. not allow significant treasury exposures with counterparties which are rated lower than AAA.
The clinic would be attached to the existing Kalinga Eye Hospital.
Surgeons and nurses would be recruited and trained The group also has credit risk with respect to trade and to perform delicate eye surgery on children under the other receivables, prepayments and accrued income.
The guidance of ORBIS, the international blindness charity, which concentration of credit risk from trade receivables is limited is Euromoneys partner in the project.
The mission of ORBIS is due to the large and broad customer base.
Trade receivable to restore sight to poor people in developing countries.
The exposures are managed locally in the business units where clinic will sustain itself by charging better off parents, so that they arise.
Allowance is made for bad and doubtful debts no child will be turned away.
Hospital teams will tour local 14 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 15 Santash before and after surgery.
villages, testing childrens eyesight and encouraging parents to Management continue to develop links with universities and bring them to the clinic for surgery if needed.
attend recruitment fairs during the year, including the annual fairs at the School of Oriental and African Studies and the annual Guardian Summer Recruitment Fair.
This enables it The cost of the project is 188,000.
ORBIS suggested the to increase the number of graduate trainees employed.
The funds be raised over three years.
Euromoney Institutional group is also developing its international links by participating Investor set out to raise the money in a year.
At the end of in various overseas programmes, including a Chinese calendar 2006 it asked its people, the company itself, and its government sponsored graduate internship programme which customers to combine in one big effort.
The Board decided will run in the UK during 2008. that, in addition to the usual charity budget, the company would donate a further 50,000 to Kalinga.
The directors individually gave an additional 50,000.
Future developments in the business everywhere rose to the challenge, jumping from aeroplanes, An indication of the trading outlook for the group is given in raising funds at the companys conferences and awards the Chairman's Statement on page 5.
In 2008 the directors will dinners, organising quiz evenings, running marathons and build on the successful first-year integration and restructuring holding cake sales.
The of Metal Bulletin and drive the enlarged group to deliver the company then appealed to its customers, who responded with further significant revenue and other synergies expected.
a generosity that took the total raised through 200,000 by Earlier this year the board approved a project to purchase the the beginning of September 2007, ahead of target and a freehold of and refurbish one of its existing London buildings.
The additional funds will enable more The refurbishment is expected to be complete next year and eye operations.
will allow the physical integration of the UK-based Metal Bulletin businesses into the existing property portfolio and Progress is swift.
The doctors and nurses have begun training.
share office space in the same locality as the rest of the UK The new hospital is being built.
The companys initial donation group.
The New York-based Metal Bulletin businesses have has already enabled the surgeons to save the sight of 2,000 already moved into the group's existing New York office space.
people and treat thousands of others.
The people in the area are becoming aware that the sight of their children can be The board will continue to review the portfolio of businesses, saved.
Other areas of Orissa will be encouraged to follow the disposing, closing or restructuring any under-performing example of Kalinga.
businesses to allow the group to have the necessary resources and skills to remain acquisitive.
The group will continue The involvement of Euromoney Institutional Investor and its to invest in technology and new businesses, particularly people will continue.
As the hospital comes on stream, field electronic information products.
teams of the companys employees who have contributed most by their efforts will visit the Kalinga clinic to see the work which they have made possible.
Directors and their interests The companys Articles of Association give power to the board to appoint directors from time to time.
In addition to the Other projects statutory rights of shareholders to remove a director by In addition to the project above, the group remains a keen ordinary resolution, the board may also remove a director supporter of local and international charities and regularly where 75% of the board give written notice to such director.
provides sponsorships and funds to support these.
The Articles of Association themselves may be amended by a special resolution of the shareholders.
The group continues to participate and develop its involvement in the community.
For instance, it provides paid graduate trainee programmes and internships with the The directors who served during the year are listed on pages 18 potential for long-term career opportunities within the group.
The directors' interests are given on pages 34 and 35.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 15 74574 PRE 1 11 12 07 21:31 Page 16 Directors Report continued JL Wilkinson was appointed a director on March 21 2007 and, Banque Internationale Luxembourg SA has issued according to the Articles of Association, a director appointed international depositary receipts in bearer form in respect of a during the year must retire at the first available AGM and, being total of 956,800 shares 0.9% registered in its name.
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Following best practice under corporate governance and in accordance with the Details of the directors' entitlement to compensation for loss companys Articles of Association, all directors submit themselves of office following a takeover are given in the Directors' for re-election at least every three years.
Accordingly, PM Fallon, Remuneration Report.
SM Brady, G Mueller, The Viscount Rothermere and JC Gonzalez will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, 9.
EU Takeovers Directive being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Also, as Pursuant to s992 of the Companies Act 2006, which required by best practice under corporate governance, all nonimplements the EU Takeovers Directive, the company is executive directors who have served for more than three required to disclose certain additional information.
Such three-year terms must submit themselves for re-election on an disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual annual basis.
Accordingly, JC Botts, CJF Sinclair, and JP Williams Report, include the following: will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
There are a number of agreements that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the company following In addition, as required by the Articles of Association, a takeover bid, such as commercial contracts, bank loan Sir Patrick Sergeant, being over the age of 70, will retire at the agreements, property lease arrangements, directors' service forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will agreements and employees' share plans.
None of these are offer himself for re-election.
Details of the interests of the deemed to be significant in terms of their potential impact on directors in the ordinary shares of the company and of options the business of the group as a whole.
held by the directors to subscribe for ordinary shares in the company are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 to 35.
Authority to purchase and allot own shares The companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its own 8.
Capital structure and significant shareholdings shares expires at the conclusion of the companys next Annual Details of the company's share capital are given in note 22.
A resolution to renew this authority for a The company's share capital is divided into ordinary shares of further period will be put to shareholders at this meeting.
Each share entitles its holder to one vote at shareholders' meetings and the right to receive one share of At the Extraordinary General Meeting of the company the company's dividends.
on September 20 2006, the shareholders authorised the directors to allot shares up to an aggregate nominal At November 13 2007, being the latest practical date before amount of 85,850 expiring at the conclusion of the Annual approval of the accounts, notification had been received of General Meeting to be held in 2008.
A resolution to renew the following interests of 3% or more in the companys this authority for a further period will be put to shareholders ordinary share capital: at this meeting.
Number % Daily Mail and General Holdings Limited 62,999,885 61.2 11.
Political and charitable contributions BlackRock Merrill Lynch During the year the group raised charitable contributions of Investment Manager 4,919,662 4.78 390,000 2006: 205,000, including 287,000 for the Indian Eye Hospital in Kalinga section 5 above.
There were Old Mutual Asset no political contributions in either year.
Auditors It is the groups policy to give full and fair consideration to A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as the applications for employment from people who are disabled: to company's auditor is expected to be proposed at the continue, wherever possible, the employment of, and to forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
arrange appropriate training for, employees who become disabled: and to provide opportunities for the career 17.
Disclosure of information to auditors development, training and promotion of disabled employees.
In the case of each of the persons who is a director of the company at November 14 2007: 13.
Employee involvement and training so far as each of the directors is aware, there is no The group believes it is important to provide skills and relevant audit information as defined in the Companies management training for its employees around the world.
It Act 1985 of which the company's auditors are unaware: continues to develop these programmes and tries to ensure and that as many employees as possible benefit from internal and each of the directors has taken all the steps that he she external training.
The group is continually developing and ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself expanding the training programmes provided.
aware of any relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the company's auditors are aware of The group recognizes the importance of good communication the information.
in relationships with its staff.
This is pursued in a number of ways, including training and regular meetings between This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in management and staff, which seek to achieve common accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies awareness on the part of all employees of the financial and Act 1985. economic circumstances affecting the groups performance.
Many employees participate directly in the success of the business through involvement in the groups profit sharing By order of the board schemes, the Capital Appreciation Plan and in the savings related share option scheme.
Supplier payment policy Each Euromoney Institutional Investor business agrees payment terms with its suppliers on an individual basis and it Colin Jones is group policy to make payments in accordance with these Company Secretary terms.
The group had 76 days of purchases in creditors at November 14 2007 September 30 2007 2006: 62 days.
Annual General Meeting The companys Annual General Meeting will be held on January 30 2008.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 17
