Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Progress in 2007 Clear strategic progress We have made excellent progress Our strategic priority at Experian is to continue to deliver during the year against our strategic, sustainable growth in order to create lasting shareholder value.
To facilitate this, we focus on our primary growth operational and financial objectives.
drivers, and good progress was made against these over The demerger from GUS was a the past year: significant milestone in the Deeper client relationships - we won a number of new development of Experian, allowing mandates from existing clients.
For example, we investors to benefit directly from the renewed and expanded contracts with seven of the top ten US banks.
future growth of the company and our employees to become Geographic expansion - we have continued to expand in markets outside the US and the UK, with significant shareholders.
The 800m raised from new client wins in many countries, including Spain, both new and existing shareholders France, Japan, China and South Africa.
provides us with financial flexibility Product innovation - we continue to focus on product innovation, introducing over 20 new products during and will help to underpin our growth.
the year, including Precise ID, a new fraud detection platform: MicroMarketer G3, the latest generation of Delivery against financial objectives Experians global market segmentation system: and Over the past year, we have delivered against our key Simmons online market research.
We have driven growth in both sales and profits, with organic sales growth of 8% and a Vertical expansion - we have strengthened our position further improvement in EBIT margins in our continuing in new and expanding market sectors, including business, excluding FARES.
All three regions delivered telecommunications, government, retail and media.
good organic sales growth, reflecting the strength of our For example, Experian is now a provider of credit portfolio.
Our cash flow was strong and we converted and decisioning services to all top five wireless 97% of EBIT into operating cash flow, ahead of telecommunications companies in the UK.
Acquisitions made in the four years to March 2006 together delivered double-digit post-tax returns in the year to March 2007.
The more recent acquisitions are trading to plan.
$82m We spent $82 million on acquisitions during the year 22 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Continued investment in business Evolution of leadership to drive 17c We continue to invest organically in the business to drive future success Experians full-year dividend growth.
During the year, this included development in Experian has considerable opportunities for was 17 cents per share emerging markets, specifically Asia Pacific, and new future growth, in particular as demand product initiatives.
Future organic investment will include increases for our services from multinational further emerging markets development, the establishment companies and within emerging markets.
In order of a near-shore facility in Chile, and investment in the to give sharper focus to all our regions of operation, we Canadian bureau.
In the year to March 2008, much of have created a number of new senior leadership roles.
In this investment will be weighted towards the first half.
addition to our two major regions in the Americas and UK and Ireland, we now have dedicated senior managers for Capital expenditure in the year was $275m 2006 EMEA, Asia Pacific and India respectively although for $212m.
Of this, $20m relates to an accelerated reporting purposes these regions will continue to be technology spend on data centre consolidation in the US, combined.
Our new leaders in EMEA and Asia Pacific are which will enhance efficiency and productivity.
We expect tasked with driving our presence in these important areas.
capital expenditure in the current year to be broadly in line with last year.
Following 24 years of strong leadership contribution, John Saunders, Experians Chief Executive Officer of Global We also take advantage of opportunities to accelerate Operations, has announced his retirement after a growth and improve productivity through selective, transitional handover period.
Johns achievements within targeted acquisitions.
In the year under review, we made Experian have been considerable, having created a clienta number of small acquisitions which complement our driven organisation focused on innovation, and we thank existing portfolio.
Acquisition spend in the year was John for his enormous contribution.
$82m, excluding deferred consideration paid, and included: Second dividend of 11.5 cents, to give full-year dividend of 17 cents Two new credit bureaux, in Canada and Estonia, The Board of Experian has announced a dividend of 11.5 expanding our geographic footprint.
cents per share to give a full year dividend of 17 cents per An additional US credit bureau affiliate.
Based on continuing pro forma Benchmark EPS this represents cover of just over three times.
Three new Marketing Solutions businesses.
A minority stake in Sinotrust, a business information and market research company in China.
Since the year-end, we have agreed to acquire Hitwise, a leading online marketing intelligence company, for $240m.
This acquisition, which forms part of our strategy to reposition Marketing Solutions, will bring a rapidly growing, successful business to Experian, and new unique data.
Other acquisitions since the year end include Informarketing, a direct marketing services provider in Brazil: Emailing Solution, a leading French permissionbased email marketing company: and Tallyman, a collections management software business.
We expect a low single-digit contribution to sales growth from acquisitions in the year to March 2008.
