Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Credit Services Credit Services helps organisations to evaluate the risks and rewards associated with providing credit to consumers and businesses.
We enable clients to take better informed lending decisions and to make it easier and quicker for their own customers to obtain finance.
Our credit databases hold information about the credit status of more than 300 million consumers and about 30 million businesses around the world.
The information is collected from publicly available sources and from lending organisations.
It is used by our clients to confirm the identity of applicants and to help them decide whether to provide credit and on what terms.
It also assists them in determining what measures to take when a customer fails to fulfil the terms of a credit agreement or other obligation.
The collection and use of credit information, particularly about individuals, is strictly controlled by law.
We go to great lengths to ensure that we comply fully with the regulations that apply within each of the countries in which Experian operates.
We also play a leading role in helping consumers to understand how credit information is used and how to avoid the perils of fraud and over-indebtedness.
Our long experience of managing very large credit databases has resulted in us becoming the host for other types of information too.
In the US and UK, for example, we maintain information on over 600 million motor vehicles, enabling consumers, traders and lenders to establish the true history of used vehicles.
We also support the UK insurance industry with a database of previous insurance claims, allowing companies to confirm instantly the claims history of new applicants.
In France, we help organisations wanting to outsource activities such as the processing of cheque and debit card transactions.
04 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Case study It takes Experian, on average, less than two seconds to 3 is the UKs leading mobile media confirm an applicants identity and to provide 3 with a company, and the group has over 10 decision, based on their lending criteria.
In 2003, 3 launched the first 3G network in the UK, to support the new generation of mobile phones.
Four years on, the company is the market leader in 3G, providing customers with access to an unrivalled range of voice, video, Internet and information services through a single mobile device.
3s services are sold through a network of almost 9,000 retail outlets, including their own high street shops, Internet and many independent retailers.
To support its rapid growth, 3 needs the confidence of knowing that it is taking on new customers who will fulfil their credit commitments.
In the competitive mobile phone market, customers expect instant credit decisions, with immediate access to the mobile network and to leave the shop with With over 500,000 applications for credit each year we a highly valuable 3G mobile phone.
have to be confident in our ability to make the right decisions, quickly, explains Mike Elliott, Head of Credit Experian provides 3 with a range of services to support Risk.
Experian has become an important partner to us, its need for rapid decision-making at the point of sale.
helping us to grow our business and bring new and Central to this is Experians credit database, which better services to the mobile media market.
combines publicly available information, such as the electoral register, with detailed historical information from lending organisations about how consumers have fulfilled their past and current obligations.
New customers are checked against this database to confirm their identity and, with the help of Experians Delphi scoring system, to predict the likelihood of them becoming a good account if the application is accepted.
As with all instant credit industries, fraud is an everpresent danger and understanding the applicants ability to pay is vital information for 3.
Using Experians fraud prevention tool, Detect, 3 is able to highlight potential frauds at the same time that the application is processed.
Detect uses an extensive database of previous credit applications to identify discrepancies in new applications, providing 3 with the information to be able to further validate higher risk applications.
500,000 3 receives over 500,000 | 05 applications for credit each year
