Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Board of directors Executive directors John Peace 58 Don Robert 48 Paul Brooks 53 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer John Peace began his career in 1970 at the Don Robert graduated from Oregon State Paul Brooks graduated from Cambridge former GUS plc, where he held several University with a degree in Business University with an economics degree and senior IT management positions before coAdministration.
He began his career with went on to qualify as a Chartered founding CCN in 1980.
This was the U. S. Bancorp, a multi-state bank holding Accountant with KPMG.
He then joined ICI company formed by GUS to market company, where he held positions of where he worked for the Plastics Division in information services to retailers and other increasing responsibility over 15 years.
From Brussels and Corporate Reporting Group in lending organisations.
In 1991, he was there he joined Credco, Inc. the largest London.
After five years with GKNs appointed Chief Executive of CCN, which specialist credit reporting company in the Industrial Services Division, mostly spent as was by then one of Europes largest US, as President.
In 1995, Credco was Divisional CFO in the USA, Paul Brooks information services companies.
During the acquired by First American Corporation and joined Inchcape, latterly as Inchcape mid-nineties, CCN was combined with a over the next six years Don Robert held Marketing Services Finance Director, based in number of other US and European positions as Executive Vice President of Singapore.
He joined Experian in April 1999 businesses to form a global information Mortgage Origination Services and President as Finance Director of Experian International services organisation called Experian, with of First Americans Consumer Information and was appointed Global Chief Financial John Peace as its Chief Executive worldwide.
In 2001, Don Robert Officer in October 2001.
John Peace joined the Board of the former joined Experian from First American, GUS plc in 1997, becoming Group Chief becoming Chief Executive Officer of Experian Executive in January 2000.
In June 2002, North America in December 2002.
In he was appointed Chairman of Burberry February 2005, he took responsibility for Group plc, in advance of its partial flotation Experian globally as Chief Executive Officer by GUS in July 2002.
John Peace is also of Experian Group.
Don Robert joined the Chairman of the Board of Governors of Board of the former GUS plc in April 2005.
Nottingham Trent University, Deputy His other business appointments include Chairman of Standard Chartered with effect Director of First Advantage Corporation, from 1 August 2007 and a Fellow of the member of the Chapman University Board of Royal Society of Arts.
Counsellors and past Chairman of the Consumer Data Industry Association.
Non-executive directors Fabiola Arredondo 40 Laurence Danon 51 Roger Davis 50 Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Fabiola Arredondo is the Managing Partner Laurence Danon was the President and CEO Roger Davis spent some eight years at of Siempre Holdings, a private investment of Printemps SA, the French department Barclays, latterly as the CEO of the 45,000 firm based in the US.
Prior to this she held store chain, until January 2007.
She led the strong UK Banking operation and as a senior operating positions at Yahoo!, the buyout of Printemps from PPR, Europes member of the Board of Barclays Plc.
Prior to BBC, and Bertelsmann A. G. She is currently largest non-food retailer, in 2006.
Prior to that he spent some ten years in investment a Non-Executive Director of Bankinter, S. A. Printemps, Laurence held various senior roles banking in London and in various positions the World Wildlife Fund, and Sesame at Total Fina Elf.
She began her career in Asia for Flemings and later BZW.
Roger is Workshop, and was formerly a Nonworking for the French Government.
She is a Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Executive Director of BOC Group plc and Non-Executive Director of Diageo Plc and Intelsat Corporation.
Fabiola has a BA Plastic Omnium SA.
degree from Stanford University, and an MBA from the Harvard Business School.
38 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Non-executive directors Company Secretary Charles Brown FCIS Auditors  LLP Registered office 22 Grenville Street St Helier Jersey JE4 8PX Registered No.
93905 Sean FitzPatrick 58 Alan Jebson 57 Registrars Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Lloyds TSB Jersey Services Limited PO Box 63 Sean FitzPatrick is currently non-executive Alan Jebson retired in May 2006 as Group 11-12 Esplanade Chairman of Anglo Irish Bank Corporation Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings St Helier plc, having retired as CEO of that Plc, a position that included responsibility for Jersey organisation in January 2005.
He is also the IT and Global Resourcing.
During a long JE4 8PH Non-Executive Chairman of Smurfit Kappa career with HSBC, Alan held various PLC, a past President of the Irish Bankers positions in IT, including the position of Audit Committee Federation and a Non-Executive Director of Group CIO.
His roles included responsibility Alan Jebson Chairman Aer Lingus Group plc and Greencore Group for the Groups international systems, Fabiola Arredondo plc.
including the consolidation of HSBC and Laurence Danon Midland systems following the acquisition of Roger Davis Midland Bank in 1993.
He is a Non-Executive Sean FitzPatrick Director of Vodafone Group Plc and of Sir Alan Rudge McDonald Dettweiler in Canada.
Alan is a David Tyler Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and is Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Roger Davis Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Laurence Danon Sean FitzPatrick Sir Alan Rudge David Tyler Nomination Committee John Peace Chairman Fabiola Arredondo Laurence Danon Roger Davis Sean FitzPatrick Don Robert Sir Alan Rudge 69 David Tyler 54 Sir Alan Rudge Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director David Tyler Sir Alan Rudge was Deputy Chief Executive David Tyler graduated in 1974 from of BT until November 1997 and Chairman of Cambridge University, where he read WS Atkins until March 2001.
Following 11 years with Unilever, Board of the former GUS plc in 1997 and he joined County NatWest where he held a until March 2005 was President of CELTEL number of senior financial control roles.
He International BV and a Non-Executive then worked for Christies International from Director on the Board of SESA AG.
He is 1989 to 1996 as Finance Director and as currently Chairman of the ERA Foundation President of Christies America.
David Tyler Ltd and Pro Chancellor of Surrey University.
was Group Finance Director of the former Sir Alan is the Senior Independent Director GUS plc from February 1997 until its of Experian.
He has a PhD in Electrical demerger in October 2006.
He is now a Engineering and is a Fellow of the Royal Non-Executive Director of Burberry Group plc Society and the Royal Academy of and Reckitt Benckiser plc.
He is a Fellow of Engineering.
He is a past President of the the Chartered Institute of Management Institution of Electrical Engineers and past Accountants and a Member of the Chairman of the Engineering and Physical Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Experian Annual Report 2007 | 39 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Directors report The directors present their report and the audited financial Sir Alan Rudge was appointed on 6 September 2006. statements for the year ended 31 March 2007.
Fabiola Arredondo, Laurence Danon, Roger Davis and Alan Jebson joined the Board on 1 January 2007.
Sean Demerger FitzPatrick was appointed to the Board with effect from 1 April 2007.
On 10 October 2006, GUS plc now called Experian In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Finance plc separated its Experian business from its Home all the directors retire at this years Annual General Retail Group business by way of demerger.
As part of the Meeting, being the first annual general meeting after their demerger, Experian Group Limited became the ultimate appointment.
Each of them, being eligible, offer holding company of GUS plc and related subsidiaries and themselves for election.
The Board proposes to carry out shares in GUS plc ceased to be listed on the London Stock the first formal evaluation of its performance, its Exchange on 6 October 2006.
Experian Group Limited committees and its members during the year ending 31 was incorporated and registered on 30 June 2006 under March 2008.
In the meantime the Board is satisfied that the Companies Jersey Law 1991 as a public company the performance, contribution and commitment of the limited by shares.
Shares in Experian Group Limited were directors is such that they merit election.
Any director who admitted to the UK Listing Authoritys Official List and is so elected will retire at least every three years and trading on the London Stock Exchanges market for listed unless he or she has agreed to retire, he or she shall be securities commenced on 11 October 2006. eligible for re-election.
Principal activities and business review During the year, the Company maintained liability insurance and third party indemnification provisions for its Experian is a global leader in providing information directors and officers.
solutions to business clients and consumers.
It helps organisations to find new customers and develop and Acquisitions manage existing relationships by providing data, decision making solutions and processing services.
It also helps The Group made a number of acquisitions in the year consumers to understand, manage and protect their under review, details of which are included in note 30 to personal information and make more informed purchase the financial statements on page 110. decisions.
A review of the results for the year and an On 19 April 2007 the Company announced its intention, indication of future developments appear on pages 16 to subject to regulatory approval, to acquir e Hitwise, a 37.
Research and development investment has been a leading internet marketing intelligence company for high priority for Experian in driving growth, particularly in $240m.
The Company announced the acquisitions of relation to product development.
Research expenditure Emailing Solution, a leading French permission-based totalled $5m during the year to 31 March 2007 and the email marketing company, and the Tallyman collections amount charged to the Group income statement in the management software business from Talgentra, a year was $5m.
software solutions company, on 3 May 2007 and 11 May 2007 respectively.
Profit and dividends Substantial shareholdings The Group income statement on page 60 shows a profit for the financial year to 31 March 2007 of $463m.
The As at 22 May 2007, the Company had been notified of directors have announced the payment of a second the following interests in its issued ordinary share capital interim dividend of 11.5 US cents per ordinary share to be or voting rights: paid on 27 July 2007 to shareholders on the register on 29 June 2007.
An interim dividend of 5.5 US cents per Percentage of ordinary share was paid on 2 February 2007 giving a total Direct Number of issued share dividend for the year of 17.0 US cents per ordinary share.
Date of indirect ordinary shares capital voting Notification Shareholder interest i voting rights i rights i Directors The names and biographical details of the directors are 5 February 2007 Legal and General Direct 51,238,042 5.01% shown on pages 38 and 39.
Particulars of directors Group plc remuneration, service contracts and their interests in the Ordinary shares of the Company are shown in the report i Until 20 January 2007, substantial shareholders were required to notify their interests in on directors remuneration on pages 47 to 58.
There were accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, thereafter, following no changes in the directors interests in the Companys implementation of the EU Transparency Directive effected by the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, also their voting rights in accordance with Ordinary shares between the end of the financial year those rules.
Save for the above, no person has notified any interest of Geoffrey Moore and Stephen Ranalow, the directors on 3 per cent or more or any non-material interest equal to incorporation of the Company on 30 June 2006, resigned on 6 July 2006.
John Peace, Paul Brooks, Don Robert and or more than 10 per cent of the issued ordinary share David Tyler were appointed directors on 6 July 2006 and capital or in the voting rights of the Company.
40 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Share capital affecting the Groups performance is also disseminated through management channels, conferences, meetings, Details of changes to the Companys ordinary share capital publications and internet sites.
in the period to 31 March 2007 are set out in note J to Employees are actively encouraged to become the Companys financial statements on page 127. shareholders in Experian through the provision of Save As You Earn and other All Employee share plan arrangements Own shares which are intended to align the interests of employees The existing authority for the Company to purchase its with those of shareholders.
own shares, which expires at the end of this years Annual General Meeting, was given at an Extraordinary General Creditor payment Meeting held on 13 September 2006 and permitted the For all trade creditors, it is Group policy to:- Company to purchase, in the market, up to 149,900,000 of its own shares.
Details of the new authority being Agree and confirm the terms of payment at the requested are contained in the accompanying circular to commencement of business with that supplier: shareholders.
There is no concept of treasury shares under Pay in accordance with any contract agreed with the Jersey company law and therefore the Company would supplier or as required by law: and cancel any shares it buys back under this authority.
Review continually the payment procedures and liaise The Company did not utilise this authority to make any with suppliers as a means of eliminating difficulties and purchases of its own shares during the period under maintaining a good working relationship.
Trade creditors of the Group at 31 March 2007 were 36 Details of the shares in the Company held under the GUS days based on the ratio of Group trade creditors at the ESOP Trust, the Experian Group Limited Employee Share end of the year to the amounts invoiced during the year Trust and the Experian UK Approved All-Employee Plan by trade creditors.
The Company has no trade creditors.
Trust are set out in note K to the Companys financial Annual General Meeting statements on page 128.
The first Annual General Meeting of the Company will be Donations held at the Four Seasons Hotel, Simmonscourt Road, During the period the Group donated $0.7m to charitable Dublin 4, Ireland at 9.30 am on Wednesday, 18 July 2007. causes.
Funds from the GUS Trust dispersed through Shareholders who are unable to attend in person may Experian during the year totalled $0.5m.
watch a web broadcast of the event on the Groups website: www.
com and may In addition to cash contributions, the Groups employees submit questions beforehand via email to are encouraged to give their time and skills for the benefit agmquestions@experiangroup.
com or on the prepaid card of a variety of charitable causes.
The questions will be addressed at During the year the Group made no EU political the meeting, via the website or individually as appropriate.
The notice of meeting is included in a separate circular to shareholders which accompanies this annual report.
It is Employment of people with disabilities also available on the Groups website: People with disabilities, whether registered or not, have www.
equal opportunities when applying for vacancies, with due Auditors regard to their aptitudes and abilities.
In addition to complying with legislative requirements, procedures are in The auditors,  LLP, were place to ensure that disabled employees are fairly treated appointed by the Board on 6 July 2006 and have and that their training and career development needs are indicated their willingness to continue in office.
For those employees becoming A resolution that they be re-appointed will be proposed disabled during the course of their employment, the at the Annual General Meeting.
Group is supportive, whether through retraining or redeployment, so as to provide an opportunity for them By Order of the Board Corporate Headquarters: to remain with the Group.
Charles Brown Newenham House Company Secretary Northern Cross Employee involvement 22 May 2007 Malahide Road The Group is intent on motivating and keeping staff Dublin 17 informed on matters that concern them in the context of their employment and involve them through local Registered Office: consultative procedures.
Where there are recognition 22 Grenville Street agreements with trade unions, the consultation process is St Helier established through national and local trade union Jersey JE4 8PX representatives and through joint consultation committees.
Information on matters of concern to employees and about the financial and economic factors Experian Annual Report 2007 | 41
