Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Experian Americas % 29 Sales in Decision Operational review Decision Analytics Analytics in Experian Includes credit analytics, decision support Americas were Experian Americas delivered a strong software and fraud solutions up 29% performance, more than offsetting Decision Analytics performed particularly well over the challenges in some markets.
There year, with sales up 29%, reflecting increased market penetration of both decision support software and fraud was excellent EBIT margin prevention tools.
The relationship with Bank of America progression, with all principal has continued to develop, as Experian becomes a activities improving year-over-year.
provider of enterprise-wide solutions, supporting Bank of America across its credit and deposit products.
Credit Services Fraud prevention delivered very strong double-digit Includes consumer credit and business information growth, as demand for Experians identity verification bureaux in the US and Canada, commercial lending solutions has increased, driven by the launch of Precise software and automotive services ID, its new fraud detection product.
There was increased adoption amongst financial services companies and a Sales in Credit Services were up 5% in total during the major client win in the Internet payment space.
year, up 3% on an organic basis.
Against tough comparatives in 2006 H1 2005 6 18%, H2 9%, Marketing Solutions consumer credit services performed well, improving as Includes data and data management consumer data, the year progressed.
During the year, the business list processing and data integrity including QAS, demonstrated its resilience as clients shifted spend database management and analytics, digital services towards account management and collections.
Latterly CheetahMail, research services Simmons and Vente, there has been improvement in customer acquisition and business strategies activity.
Business information delivered a good performance, reflecting expanded relationships with Sales in Marketing Solutions were flat year-on-year and several top ten banks and robust double-digit growth in marginally down 2% on an organic basis.
Automotive did well on Solutions continues to show divergent trends, with the back of increased traction of its AutoCheck vehicle declines in the traditional activities consumer data, list history report and Autocount products.
AutoCheck, for processing and database management, offsetting very example, secured a significant renewal from eBay strong double-digit sales growth across Digital Services, Motors.
There was strong double-digit growth from Research Services and QAS.
Traditional activities, which Baker Hills commercial lending software as it leveraged in the year still accounted for over 50% of Marketing Experians business information relationships.
Solutions sales, have been impacted by the secular shift in marketing spend to new digital channels.
VantageScore, the new credit score jointly developed by Progress in the newer marketing areas is highly the three US credit bureaux, has performed well in its first encouraging.
For example, CheetahMail delivered record year of deployment and to date has secured over 1,300 email volumes during the year 20 billion permissionclients in test.
The integration of the Canadian consumer based messages, Simmons delivered strong growth in database, acquired in September 2006, is proceeding well syndicated research sales following new client wins and and is on track for launch later this year.
While small, this QAS early foothold in the US has expanded rapidly.
will enhance the service offered to Experians US clients, many of whom are active in Canada.
24 | Experian Annual Report 2007 % 9 Interactive Financial review Includes Consumer Direct online credit reports, scores Sales from continuing activities were $1,990m, up 15% and monitoring services and lead generation businesses: compared to the same period last year, with organic LowerMyBills mortgages, PriceGrabber comparison growth of 8%.
Acquisitions, predominantly in the shopping and ClassesUSA online education Interactive segment, contributed 7% to sales growth.
Sales in Interactive grew by 37% during the year, EBIT from direct businesses was $508m 2006: $404m, an contributing 38% of total Americas sales from continuing increase of 26% in the year, giving an EBIT margin of activities.
Organic growth was 20%, with the balance of 25.5% 2006: 23.3%.
Margins improved across all 17% from acquisitions mainly PriceGrabber.
business segments, reflecting growing scale in Decision Consumer Direct delivered excellent growth throughout Analytics and the newer areas of Marketing Solutions, the period, with strong demand from consumers for continuing operating efficiencies and the positive impact credit monitoring services, which led to higher of last years affiliate credit bureau acquisitions.
Meanwhile, increased focus on enhancing the customer experience resulted in EBIT from FARES, the 20%-owned real estate information significantly reduced churn rates.
PriceGrabber delivered associate, reduced in the period to $61m, compared to very strong growth year-on-year, including a seasonal $69m last year.
This was primarily due to the decline in US boost in December, at which point unique visitors hit mortgage originations.
The improved profit performance in record numbers.
In the education vertical, growth at the second half of the year is attributable to a less difficult ClassesUSA accelerated over the year, as it benefited from mortgage origination market and continued cost action shared expertise in online advertising with our other lead by FARES.
12 months to 31 March  Sales at LowerMyBills were impacted in the final quarter $m $m % growth by the downturn in US sub-prime lending, as lenders % either exited the market or considerably tightened lending Sales criteria Q3 sales unchanged, Q4 down 8%.
LowerMyBills - Credit Services 804 766 5 3 traditionally derives some 80% of sales from the sale of - Decision Analytics 82 63 29 29 mortgage leads to sub-prime lenders.
However, there was - Marketing Solutions 353 355 - 2 double-digit growth in EBIT in the year as a whole, as - Interactive 751 547 37 20 LowerMyBills optimised marketing spend to generate Total continuing activities 1,990 1,731 15 8 more profitable leads.
In this challenging environment, 1 Discontinuing activities 4 73 na LowerMyBills continues to focus on marketing spend Total Americas 1,994 1,804 10 efficiency and is driving sales through sales of higher EBIT quality leads and diversification into both non sub-prime - Direct business 508 404 26 and non mortgage-related products.
- FARES 61 69 11 Total continuing activities 569 473 20 1 Discontinuing activities 7 6 na Total Americas 562 479 18 2 EBIT margin 25.5% 23.3% 1 Discontinuing activities include MetaReward 2 EBIT margin is for continuing direct business only and excludes FARES Experian Annual Report 2007 | 25
