Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Corporate responsibilities 6 Strategy and definition We have appointed a Head of We have chosen six Experian is a fast growing business and financial success Global CR, reporting to Charles essential responsibilities is a key measure of that growth.
However we dont exist Brown, to direct and co-ordinate to provide the in a vacuum.
By measuring ourselves against other efforts across the Group.
Experian is framework and direction societal impacts and targeting ourselves to improve we structured into regional businesses, each for our CR programme can ensure we have a sustainable business and that we of which has appointed a CR management maintain and improve societies understanding and champion.
These champions will meet regularly respect for what we do.
chaired by the Company Secretary and led by the Head of Global CR, to give strategic input and direction.
They Since our listing as an independent company on 11 will consider risks and opportunities and ways in which October 2006, we have undertaken a review of our we can embed social considerations into our everyday wider responsibilities, consulting relevant people within decision-making processes.
There is also a small network the business and drawing on external evaluations from of CR co-ordinators who are the principal contacts for analysts and commentators.
As a result we have chosen the Head of Global CR to share information about six essential responsibilities to provide the framework and relevant risks and opportunities, develop initiatives and direction for our work: report performance.
We believe we have a responsibility to: Experian is currently listed in the FTSE4Good Index.
We have produced a comprehensive CR Report online 1 Use and protect data properly, respecting all the accessible via the Company website and at relevant laws, helping evolve industry guidelines and www.
The following sections new legislation and ensuring a culture of setting and present a summary from that document.
complying with the highest standards of integrity.
2 Create social and economic benefit through our Performance during 2007 products services and capabilities, balancing Data managementusing and protecting data properly: commercial benefit with consumers rights and needs.
Experian has established a lead position as the trusted steward of sensitive consumer data.
We have an 3 Inform and empower consumers and ensure that those obligation to protect and secure data from wrongful who interact directly with our company receive fair and access or misuse.
We have dedicated Compliance and honest treatment.
Information Security teams who have overall responsibility for ensuring a culture of awareness and 4 Be a good employer to all, establishing a set of compliance within the business.
In the past year, these expected behaviours and values, ensuring that teams have improved physical security measures and our everyone working for us is treated fairly, given the management of digital identity and access to our maximum opportunity to fulfil their potential and that systems, as well as gaining ISO international certification.
all our workplaces are safe and healthy.
More widely, we have undertaken a general programme 5 Minimise as far as possible the environmental impacts of employee education including defining a new global associated with our business and enable employee policy and have taken the lead in industry-wide initiatives participation, with a particular concentration on the regarding the safe transfer of data.
reduction of energy use and its effect on global warming.
Products and services social benefits of our services: 6 Play an active part in social and economic regeneration Experian plays an important role in maintaining a healthy in our communities, be they local, national or global.
economy, and many of our core products have strong social benefits.
For example we are a leading player in Discharging these six responsibilities effectively helps reducing fraud, in helping lenders and individuals avoid reduce risk and presents us with opportunities.
In over-indebtedness, reducing junk mail and ensuring those essence, we think that taking proper account of social in need are targeted to receive state aid.
Activities in the issues makes us a better business in the long term.
We past year have included: are committed to dialogue, transparency and the need for good quality benchmarks and indicators of our nonDevelopment of our predictive tools to ensure lenders financial performance.
can pick up the very early signs of over-indebtedness.
Establishing a Victims of Fraud service to support those Management and accountability whose identities have been transgressed.
This year we appointed a Group Company Secretary, Charles Brown, and gave him overall responsibility for Launching tools to directly help consumers better Corporate Responsibility CR, ensuring that it features understand how their behaviour affects their regularly on the Board agenda.
The Boards first action credit rating.
has been to approve an outline strategy in early 2007, based on the six responsibilities above.
36 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Consumers informing and empowering consumers: During the last year, Experian had over 25 million direct contacts with consumers.
Over half of these interactions were providing consumers with access to their data on file, allowing them to test, challenge or amend it where appropriate.
This type of access is a key part of data protection legislation in many countries, and we aim to ensure that we comply fully and wholeheartedly.
Community - social and economic regeneration: We have However, we aim to go much further in our work with a strong history of community involvement on both sides consumers.
We take very seriously the need to educate of the Atlantic.
In the last year Experian invested $1.44m people more widely, particularly about the credit granting into community programmes and charitable causes and, process and how to make it work for them.
We play a with the addition of funds from the GUS Trust and the leadership role in national organisations with a remit for funds raised by employees, this rose to $2.169m, with a promoting financial education, especially with the young.
breakdown as shown in the chart below.
These funds Training the trainers is a special focus.
In the US we have enabled a huge range of opportunities for Experians led a national campaign to ensure personal finance skills people to make a real contribution to the life of their are taught in schools and this year gave considerable input local communities and often allowed the organisations to a specific programme of financial education in Texas we worked with to leverage considerably more funding high schools.
The Experian businesses that market directly to consumers Experians community investment have extended the frequency and reach of customer satisfaction surveys and have monitored and improved their Cash donations from Experian $729,000 online accessibility.
Value of employee time volunteered $157,000 Value of gifts in kind $332,000 Employment practice - being a good employer: Experian Community management costs $222,000 employs more than 13,000 people in 36 countries around Total from Experian $1,440,000 the world.
Recruiting, motivating and retaining the best colleagues is an essential part of our competitive edge.
To Employee fundraising $212,000 ensure a fair and professional workplace we have a range GUS Trust Donations $517,000 of employment policies covering issues such as equal opportunities, business ethics, bullying and harassment Total value including funding and whistle-blowing.
This year we initiated a brand given by others $2,169,000 development programme, which includes the development of a consistent system of values and behaviours for This year saw us launch a new US-UK collaborative employees.
We invest heavily in training and development, project, involving seven schools from the US and UK.
this year delivering more online and computer based Students in each school created a set of Christmas card training than in any previous point in our history.
designs to be used by Experian, at the same time raising funds for charity Save the Children.
A spin off from the Environmental impact - minimising our carbon footprint project is an electronic pen pal scheme between the and waste: Our most significant environmental impact is schools, which we have facilitated via a secure the use of energy in our buildings, and the emissions of online environment.
While the amount of energy we use relative to our size may be low, we believe that all We also define our community more widely.
As a companies have a responsibility to play their part in responsible member of the business and finance meeting the challenge of climate change.
We have community, we have sponsored the UK National Debtline measured our carbon footprint as approximately 64,000 and the Citizens Advice service and the Money Advice tonnes in 2007 the final, verified figure can be found in service in Scotland.
In the US we support Call for Action our online report: www.
Our and the National Consumers League of Identity emissions from buildings have fallen this year as our Theft Hotline.
Nottingham sites, which house more than 2,000 people, arranged to purchase all their electricity needs from renewable sources and our four major sites in the US replaced inefficient heat pumps and chillers, installed energy saving light bulbs, reduced night time temperature controls and controlled lighting with motion detectors and timers.
