Corporate objectives and strategy Data To fulfill Experians vision and to At the core of Experian are comprehensive databases of capitalise on the growth opportunities credit and marketing information on both consumers and businesses.
The broad portfolio of data maintained by described above, we are focusing on Experian makes us a partner of choice for many clients as the following initiatives: we offer more information than any single competitor.
Driving organic growth through: We invest heavily each year in maintaining complete, - Deeper client relationships accurate and up-to-date information, while adding new - Geographic expansion data sources, where possible, which will further help - Product innovation clients.
Experian has a leadership position as the trusted - Vertical expansion steward of much sensitive information and we have an We aim to deliver mid to high single-digit organic sales obligation to protect this - both to clients who are the growth each year.
source of much of this data and to consumers who are Accelerating growth through complementary the subjects of the data.
As a result, we operate very acquisitions, which bring us new data, technology, rigorous security and control policies.
products or clients, or enable us to grow in new vertical and geographic markets.
Our goal is to have about half Technology of our sales growth each year from acquisitions, subject Experians information technology systems are to targets meeting our strict strategic and financial fundamental to our success.
They are used for the criteria.
All acquisitions must deliver a minimum 10% storage, processing, access and delivery of the data that post-tax return over time.
forms the foundation of our business: and for the development and delivery of the value-added solutions Delivering operating leverage to maintain or improve provided to clients.
We focus on cost control throughout our operations, with the savings then reinvested in new Much of the technology used by Experian and provided products and new markets.
We look to drive both to clients is developed, maintained and supported by inrevenue and cost synergies across the Group.
house teams across our various locations.
We operate continual maintenance and management of our The key performance indicators on pages 20 and 21 show information technology systems, including the need to a historical perspective on how Experian has performed integrate existing and acquired businesses.
against these initiatives, while the operational review on pages 22 to 29 discusses how Experian has done in 2007.
Key resources Key to delivering these corporate objectives is our ability to continue to invest in our three key resources people, data and technology.
People We employ more than 13,000 people with offices in 36 countries.
We pride ourselves on attracting, developing and retaining talented, ambitious people who deliver a quality service for our clients and grow our business.
Experian invests heavily in ensuring our employees have the right environment and skills to do their best work.
We also endeavour to create the right opportunities for them to apply and develop these skills.
The management of talent is one of our top priorities.
Succession planning is used to ensure that appropriate leadership resources are in place to achieve our objectives: the plans are regularly reviewed by the Group Board.
Two- 13,000 way communication is also central to our business.
We employ more Employees have a regular opportunity to give their views than 13,000 people through the annual employee survey, which is reviewed by senior leaders and local teams and acted on accordingly.
