Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Decision Analytics Decision Analytics provides the analytical skills and specialist software products that enable organisations to increase the speed and quality of their decision-making.
Using Experians products, clients are able to assess very quickly the potential risks and rewards associated with particular actions.
They can determine, for example, the suitability of a customer for additional loan products or the probability of an individual responding to a particular credit offer.
They can also assess the likelihood of a customer account falling into arrears if a credit limit is increased.
Experians credit scorecards use well-proven statistical techniques to predict the behaviour of consumers based upon their historical performance and the characteristics declared on their application forms.
This helps to ensure that decisions are taken fairly and impartially.
Used in conjunction with our specialist software, clients can test and fine-tune different lending strategies.
Changes in strategy can then be implemented quickly, with the confidence that they will be reflected in dealings with all customers throughout the organisation.
Experian also supports clients in the constant fight against fraud.
Consumers today expect to be able to make instant purchases with their credit and debit cards, even remotely over the Internet or by telephone.
They also want fast decisions when applying for credit facilities, personal loans or other services.
We help by instantly verifying a customers identity and alerting our clients to discrepancies in the information provided.
06 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Case study HSBC is one of the worlds largest banking and financial services organisations, with over 125 million customers in 82 countries and territories.
Everyday, HSBC makes millions of decisions in the management of its customers accounts and applications.
It may be to authorise a payment to facilitate an Internet or in-store purchase, to consider an application for a new or increased credit limit, to determine the most appropriate product to offer, or to decide whether a customer can access money from a cash machine.
The ability to take those decisions quickly and accurately is critical to the success of HSBCs different delivery channels and operations around the world.
Just as important is that each decision is taken in a timely, consistent and fair manner, wherever they are made and whatever the circumstances.
Faced with increasingly complex requirements and Chris Hawkes, Head of Group Retail Credit & Risk, HSBC customer demands, HSBC chose Experians Strategy Management software to assist in the delivery of missionExperian and HSBC have a longstanding relationship critical solutions.
Strategy Management is a sophisticated spanning 21 years and six continents.
business tool, already used by over 600 organisations worldwide, which enables organisations to automate or Like HSBC, Experian operates globally, but with a strong simplify large volumes of decisions.
It does this by local focus on the markets in which it operates in order assessing relevant information and customer requests to provide local solutions, says Chris Hawkes.
In against a wide array of regulatory, business and Experian we have a trusted global partner with the commercial requirements and objectives.
experience and technology to support our business going forward.
Experians Strategy Management solution will become an integral part of our global business, explains Chris Hawkes, Head of Group Retail Credit & Risk at HSBC.
It is enabling us to achieve consistency in decision-making across HSBCs diverse operations, whilst improving the speed and quality of our decisions.
For our customers, it means that we can provide quicker decisions, offer a wider range of products and provide options that are more relevant to their particular needs and circumstances.
In short, it is an essential component to delivering high quality customer service.
Once we have rolled it out fully across our business, Strategy Management will be helping us make the 600 billions of decisions we need to make each year.
Experians Strategy Management software is already being used by over 600 organisations worldwide | 07
