Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Marketing Solutions Marketing Solutions helps organisations to find new customers and to take advantage of opportunities for expanding existing relationships.
We enable our clients to communicate with prospective customers in the most effective way and with the most appropriate offer.
It might be by email, post, telephone, direct response television or even text messaging.
Experian owns and manages very large databases of information about the location, lifestyle and attitudes of consumers.
These databases include publicly available information, as well as the results of large-scale consumer surveys.
The information provides clients with considerable insight into the purchasing preferences of consumers.
In total, Experian holds consumer marketing information on about 130 million households globally.
O Ou ur r c cr re ed diit t d da at ta ab ba as se es s h ho olld d iin nf fo or rm ma at tiio on n Experian assists clients in planning and executing a ab bo ou ut t t th he e c cr re ed diit t campaigns across all forms of media channel, from s st ta at tu us s o of f m mo or re e t th ha an n emailing to newspaper and television advertising.
3 30 00 0 m miilllliio on n By combining our information resources with our c co on ns su um me er rs s a an nd d a ab bo ou ut t skills in data analysis, we can help clients predict who 3 30 0 m miilllliio on n b bu us siin ne es ss se es s is most likely to respond to a given offer and the a ar ro ou un nd d t th he e w wo or rlld d.. best channel through which to communicate.
As well as managing our own databases, we build and maintain marketing databases for clients.
These combine the clients own customer records with Experian data to provide a comprehensive profile of each customer.
They enable organisations to communicate with their customers in a very personal and relevant way, as well as helping them identify individuals with similar characteristics who have the potential to become new customers.
Experian also keeps clients abreast of changes in the wider marketplace through our research and forecasting services.
We help them to measure the potential market opportunity for particular products and services, and to identify profitable locations for new branches or new sales initiatives.
08 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Case study 15 Experian has supported Crate and Barrel for more than 15 years Crate and Barrel is recognised across the United States as a leading multichannel retailer of housewares and furniture.
The company was founded in 1962 as a family business and today has more than 150 stores and over 7,000 associates nationwide.
During this time, it has also become a major catalogue and Internet retailer.
Direct marketing has been a key ingredient in Crate and Barrels success and, for more than 15 years, the company has looked to Experian to help drive its catalogue and retail campaigns.
Underpinning these campaigns is the confidence that Crate and Barrels customer database is operating effectively and that it is successfully reaching the right customers.
Experian provides a range of list processing services to ensure that the companys mailing lists are accurate and up-to-date, as well as being compliant with postal regulations and properly formatted for quick and easy processing through the mail.
Prospecting for new customers is a key priority.
Crate and Barrel needs access to potential customers with similar The partnership with Experian has been a long and behaviours and lifestyles as its own, as well as a good successful one, said Gordon Segal, Founder and CEO understanding of these customers so that it can market of Crate and Barrel.
Experian has helped Crate and to them in the most effective way.
By participating in Barrel maintain a strong relationship with lifelong Experians Z-24 cooperative database, Crate and Barrel customers, while ensuring that we continue to grow our has access to information about millions of avid customer base.
catalogue shoppers, enabling the company to continue growing its customer base.
Its prospecting efforts have also been supported by expert analysis from Experian of the responses to campaigns.
This helps Crate and Barrel to identify those consumers that will be most responsive to its direct marketing and to determine the most appropriate messages and offers.
The following clients benefit With the adoption of new online sales channels, Crate from our and Barrel has also needed an email service delivery expertise in solution that can help drive the same success in the Credit Services: digital world that it has experienced with direct mail.
The company has therefore adopted Experians CheetahMail services to deliver all of its email marketing offers.
