Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Key performance indicators Make complementary acquisitions As explained in more detail on page 19, Experians objectives are to drive organic growth, accelerate this growth through complementary acquisitions and maintain or improve margins.
The following indicators are the key ones that the Board and management team monitor to assess our success in achieving our objectives.
In the year to 31 March 2007, Experian increased its sales from continuing activities by 14% at constant exchange rates.
Acquisitions accounted for 6% of the sales growth, largely reflecting the contribution from PriceGrabber and ClarityBlue.
Drive organic growth Maintain or improve margins In the year to 31 March 2007, Experian increased its EBIT Organic growth increased by 8% in the year to 31 March by 11% at constant exchange rates to $825m.
EBIT 2007, with strong sales growth across all three regions, margin increased by 80 basis points to 21.8%, a further reflecting the benefits of Experians portfolio of activities year of progress.
% We achieved 8% organic sales growth in the year 8 20 | Experian Annual Report 2007 14 Experian acquired two consumer credit bureaux during the year, bringing the total to 14 Maximise EBIT conversion to cash Expand geographic reach Experian aims to convert at least 85% of its EBIT into operating cash flow each year, even after significant investment in growth opportunities.
In the year to 31 March 2007, Experian converted 97% of EBIT to operating cash flow.
Increase sales per employee Experian currently serves both local and multinational clients in over 60 countries around the world.
To aid this, Experian acquired two consumer credit bureaux during the year in Canada and Estonia bringing the total to 14: and opened additional offices in Belgium, India and Chile, among others, to improve the level of service offered to clients.
We are also fully aware of our wider responsibilities to our stakeholders and society as a whole - the way we achieve growth is as important as the growth itself.
To check how our activities impact society, we have evolved a set of measures specific and relevant to our business.
These include monitoring our HR practices, our data management integrity, our direct interactions with Our people are one of our key resources and sales per consumers, the expected carbon footprint of our Group FTE is a key measure of our productivity.
In the year to and a review of our involvement in the communities in 31 March 2007, sales per FTE increased by 12%.
In addition, we carefully examine our product portfolio and its direct and indirect benefit to society.
An overview of this years achievements is on page 36 to 37 and all measures are reported in full in our online corporate responsibility report at www.
com % 12 Sales per FTE full-time equivalent employee increased by 12% Experian Annual Report 2007 | 21
