Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Experian UK and Ireland Operational review Decision Analytics Includes credit analytics, decision support software and Experian UK and Ireland delivered a fraud solutions good performance during the year, Sales in Decision Analytics showed good growth, even though market conditions were increasing by 8% during the year.
Product innovation has been a driver of this success, as illustrated by good challenging.
This further demonstrates performances in origination and in customer the resilience of the portfolio and management solutions, with new software licensing wins underscores its countercyclical qualities.
For example, Experian further extended its relationship with HSBC, signing a global contract to deliver Basel II models through its Credit Services Strategy Management decision support software.
Includes consumer credit and business information bureaux and automotive and insurance services Demand for fraud prevention solutions continues to rise, as financial institutions further focus on reducing fraudSales in Credit Services increased by 3% over the year.
Experians Hunter solution has seen The consumer credit environment in the UK remained considerable success and has secured several significant challenging, reflecting concerns over levels of consumer new client wins, including RBS Group, which selected indebtedness and rising interest rates.
Experian benefited Hunter for use across multiple brands and product lines.
as clients shifted spend from customer acquisition towards cross-selling to existing customers, and to Marketing Solutions portfolio and risk management.
There was also good Includes data and data management consumer data, growth in Experians business information activities, data integrity QAS and Eiger Systems, database driven by product innovation and market share gains.
management including ClarityBlue and analytics, digital Elsewhere, diversification into sectors outside financial services CheetahMail and business strategies including services continues to be highly successful, with further Mosaic consumer segmentation, economic forecasting expansion in both the telecommunications and public and FootFall services sectors.
Total sales in Marketing Solutions were up 31%, with organic growth of 1%.
The latter was held back by the weak environment for financial services in the UK, and tough comparables for QAS, attributable to large public sector contract wins last year.
CheetahMail delivered an excellent performance, benefiting from volume growth of email campaigns and new client wins.
The contribution to growth from acquisitions of 30% was primarily attributable to ClarityBlue and Eiger Systems, both of which performed well during the year.
ClarityBlue secured a significant client win to provide relationship marketing services globally to a major home 26 | Experian Annual Report 2007 % 17 Sales from continuing activities in the UK and Ireland were up 17% gaming and entertainment provider, and Eiger Systems Financial review has been successfully integrated, following its acquisition Total sales from continuing activities were in June 2006.
$843m, up 17% at constant exchange rates compared to the same period last year.
Organic growth We have previously announced our intention to integrate was 7%.
The contribution to sales growth from UK marketing data, processing and database acquisitions during the year was 10%.
management activities into a single business unit, Experian Integrated Marketing.
This will provide a single EBIT from continuing activities was $221m, an increase point of sale for Experians services, an improved of 16% at constant exchange rates over last year, prior customer proposition and significant cost savings.
to the restructuring charge of $8m.
The EBIT margin, Restructuring costs, which will be charged against EBIT, before the restructuring charge, was 26.2% 2006: are expected to be about $12m, of which about $8m 26.4%, with the slight decline reflecting the first time was incurred in the year, with the balance in the year to inclusion of ClarityBlue, which has margins below the March 2008.
We expect full payback of the average for Experian UK and Ireland.
Improved operating reorganisation costs in the year to March 2009. leverage and ongoing cost containment otherwise drove margin enhancement in the other principal activities.
Interactive Comprises CreditExpert online credit reports, scores and monitoring services sold direct to consumers 3 12 months to 31 March 2007 2006 Growth Organic Interactive grew sales by 176% over the year.
This 3 $m $m % growth excellent performance reflects the strength of demand % for CreditExpert, which benefited from growth in Sales membership and higher volumes of credit reports - Credit Services 266 245 33 delivered, driven by television and radio advertising and - Decision Analytics 215 185 9 8 the strength of marketing partnerships, for example with - Marketing Solutions 329 236 31 1 AOL, Yahoo and MSN.
- Interactive 33 11 176 176 Total continuing activities 843 677 17 7 1 Discontinuing activities 64 81 na Total UK and Ireland 907 758 13 EBIT UK and Ireland 221 179 16 Restructuring charge 8 - na EBIT continuing activities 212 179 12 1 Discontinuing activities 24 36 na Total UK and Ireland 236 215 4 2 EBIT margin 26.2% 26.4% 1 Discontinuing activities include UK account processing 2 EBIT margin for continuing activities only, before restructuring charge 3 Growth at constant FX rates Experian Annual Report 2007 | 27 Introduction | Business review | Governance | Financial statements Experian EMEA Asia Pacific Operational review Credit Services Includes consumer credit bureaux in ten countries, Experian EMEA Asia Pacific delivered business information bureaux in four countries and another good performance, reflecting transaction processing, mainly in France very high growth rates in Central, Credit Services sales grew by 5% at constant exchange rates over the year, with organic growth of 4%.
Southern and Eastern Europe, South Sales in transaction processing strengthened during the Africa and Asia Pacific balanced by year as the business benefited from the first time slower growth in more mature contribution from a number of contract wins, particularly markets such as Western Europe.
These include multi-year, multi-million euro contracts with EDF, French Ministry of Labour, GIE Sesam Vitale and the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
In addition, Experian has extended its customer base in cheque processing and now acts for all top six French banks.
Transaction processing, which is a relatively mature activity, accounts for nearly two-thirds of Credit Services sales in EMEA Asia Pacific.
There were excellent performances from the consumer credit bureaux, particularly in Central, Southern and Eastern Europe and South Africa, driven by growth in demand for credit and value-added products.
The acquisition earlier in the year of a business and consumer credit bureau in Estonia has further extended Experians geographic reach in the Nordic region, enhancing the service offering to clients operating across the region.
28 | Experian Annual Report 2007 Decision Analytics Marketing Solutions Includes credit analytics, decision support software Includes business strategies, data integrity QAS and and fraud solutions sold in over 60 countries around other marketing services around the world the world Sales increased by 23% in the period, with organic Sales from Decision Analytics showed excellent progress, growth of 9%.
There was a 14% contribution from with growth of 21%, 18% on an organic basis.
acquisitions, principally in Business Strategies FootFall.
Growth reflects high value contract wins by QAS in Experian Decision Analytics is recognised by major clients Australia and New Zealand, and good progress by around the world for its global products and local Business Strategies.
In addition to delivering good growth in core markets across Continental Europe, there Financial review was significant progress during the year in emerging Total sales were $591m, up 8% at constant exchange markets such as Russia, Turkey and Eastern Europe.
rates compared to the same period last year.
Organic Experian also secured its first major client win in India, growth was 7%.
ICICI Bank, for behavioural scoring.
In Japan, there was a significant contract win with GE Finance and other EBIT was $74m, up 11% at constant exchange rates domestic clients, and in China Experian secured a from a year ago, giving an EBIT margin of 12.5% contract to deliver software solutions and consulting to 2006: 12.3%.
Margin improvement principally ICBC bank, one of Chinas leading banks.
reflected operating leverage in Decision Analytics from Demand for fraud prevention solutions continues to the growth in sales, and efficiency improvements in the accelerate with, for example, material new multi-year, French bank back office activity, partially offset by multi-million euro client wins in Spain.
1 12 months to 31 March 2007 2006 Growth Organic 1 $m $m % growth % Sales - Credit Services 450 410 5 4 - Decision Analytics 95 76 21 18 - Marketing Solutions 46 36 23 9 Total EMEA Asia Pacific 591 522 8 7 EBIT EMEA Asia Pacific 74 64 11 EBIT margin 12.5% 12.3% 1 Growth at constant FX rates Experian central activities Following the demerger, central activities costs are expected to be about $52m in a full financial year.
In the year to 31 March 2007, the reported costs of central activities were $47m 2006: $31m.
$591m Total EMEA Asia Pacific sales were $591 million, up 8% at constant exchange rates Experian Annual Report 2007 | 29
