70409 Pre 1 30 5 07 20:51 Page 18 18 Annual report and accounts 2007 Technology Review TOWARDS THE END OF THIS FINANCIAL YEAR EXPRO HAS DEPLOYED THE DEEPWATER, HIGH PRESSURE LANDING STRING FOR USE IN CHEVRONS FLAGSHIP TAHITI SUBSEA DEVELOPMENT IN THE GULF OF MEXICO.
During the year, the Groups technology development and Expro has continued to develop landing string technology for management has been guided by the technology strategy and subsea well intervention and completion for the deepwater market overseen by the Technology Council.
This committee of senior that began last year.
This year has seen the deployment of further managers, chaired by non-executive director Terry Lazenby, deepwater,  EH controlled landing strings meets three to four times a year to review the progress of for the service business in the Gulf of Mexico.
In addition, toward technology development and to assess the effectiveness of the the end of this financial year Expro deployed the Groups technology strategy.
The technology strategy remained deepwater, high pressure landing string for use in Chevrons consistent with that set out last year.
The Groups efforts and flagship Tahiti subsea development in the Gulf of Mexico.
The build resources were primarily focused on well intervention in subsea and delivery of the Tahiti high pressure, electro-hydraulic, ultra-deep and high-value land wells.
During the year, Expro spent record tools for Chevron in the Gulf of Mexico was a significant milestone.
amounts on product development across a broad spectrum of its Tahiti has pushed technological barriers within the industry and we service portfolio, from fibre-optic connectors through to the continue to strive to assist our international customers develop AX-S rigless subsea well intervention system.
The Group now increasingly difficult deepwater reserves.
Development of the has in excess of 120 engineers employed in the development of complex, deepwater EH landing string for Chevrons Agbami advanced products in Aberdeen, Cumbria and Dorset in the UK, project in Nigeria was also completed for mobilisation in first quarter and in Oxnard Ca, Houston, Burleston both Tx and Broussard of the 2007 08 financial year.
The EH control system developed for La in the US.
the Agbami project is the culmination of three years of development expenditure on hardware and software by the Group.
During 2006 The acquisition of PWS, led to the integration of the technology a number of discoveries have been made in very and ultra-deep portfolios of the two companies.
A significant effort is planned water in a number of geographical locations.
The Group believes during next year to ensure that Expro maximises the technology that the rapid development of the deepwater subsea well market impact from its participation in the welltesting market.
and Expros products to service this market, will lead to a significant The year has seen the continued expansion of the subsea drilling technological advantage when subsea wells are completed in water and completion business, with semi-submersible and drill-ship depths to 8,000ft and beyond.
type utilisation and day rates remaining very high.
The year has Excellent progress has been made with AX-S rigless subsea seen a steady increase in the number of subsea wells being well intervention technology.
Expros commitment to Phase II of the drilled and completed in deeper water more than 2,000ft as well joint industry project JIP is nearing completion with testing of a as the first subsea high pressure wells completed in the Gulf number of sub-components during the last quarter of the current of Mexico.
Last year Expro targeted its strategic technology financial year.
Testing elements of the technically complex tool development at the deep water, high pressure subsea well storage changer system will occur in early 2007 along with testing of market, and so having made appropriate investments in the the tool connector system.
To augment the internal development current year the Group was ideally placed to commercially and engineering effort Expro has contracted best-in-class exploit these markets.
The Group has remained focused on the engineering suppliers for the control systems and wireline tools subsea completion market, and especially on the potential needed to complete the AX-S system, with these being project wells to be drilled in ultra-deep water.
Expros current capability managed by Expro personnel.
All concept design engineering work allows it to participate in the well completions down to about is now complete, with an expectation that the first field trials of the 8,500ft water depth.
It is expected that wells in water depths system will occur late in 2008 09. greater than this will be drilled and completed before This year has seen the development and deployment of a number 2010, and Expro expects to continue its technical leadership of cased hole services technologies that were in development in the field of subsea safety tool landing strings into the ultra-deep over the previous year.
These technologies include the Water water era.
70409 Pre 1 31 5 07 15:30 Page 19 Annual report and accounts 200719 During 2006 a number of discoveries have been made in very and ultra-deep water in a number of geographical locations.
The Group believes that the rapid development of the deepwater subsea well market and Expros products to service this market, will lead to a significant technological advantage when subsea wells are completed in water depths to 8,000ft and beyond.
Tahiti Landing String Investigation Tool WIT which integrates Expros downhole video The development portfolio during 2007 08 will continue to place a technology with production logging sensors.
This tool enables high importance on this facet of technology management.
operators to get a direct measure of low fraction fluid content within Expro continue to support its intellectual property IP portfolio the continuous phase and is now in commercial use in North in line with its Intellectual Property Rights IPR and technology America prior to world-wide deployment during 2007 08.
The Group uses a range of IP protection methods, and last financial year Expro developed with GeoDynamics of the US a has applied for a number of new patents during the year.
low debris well perforating gun system that will improve the efficiency The record investment on development during the year of the operators completion and perforation performance.
Expro demonstrates Expros continuing commitment to technology as a through the acquisition of PWS has also continued to develop means of improving our competitive advantage in the upstream oil a novel well testing system called Smartest that will allow operators and gas service business.
The technology is developed in line with to measure reservoir performance and recover reservoir samples with the highly focused technology strategy that uses Expros close minimal environmental impact associated with this operation.
The ties with its customer base to develop these product strategies.
first commercial uses of this technology will occur during 2007 08.
The Group is continuing to refine the delivery of the technology to Continual improvement of the Groups products remains a key goal the customer by moving technology development and in the technology development strategy as the primary means of management into the regional structure and closer to the extracting the highest value from the developed technology.
This is a strategy that will continue in 2007 08 as more has been of particular importance during the last year as the PWS of the products developed in the previous years undergo the equipment and services have been integrated into Expros portfolio.
transition to commercial products within Expros business.
