70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 23 Annual report and accounts 200723 Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the Expro International Group PLC group of companies the Group, together with the financial statements and auditors report, for the year ended 31 March 2007 the Report.
Principal activities The Group provides a range of specialised products and services to the upstream oil and gas industry, focused on measuring, improving, controlling and processing flow from high-value oil and gas wells and thereby reducing client capital and operating expenditure.
The subsidiary and associated undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the year are listed in note 38 of the Notes to the Company Accounts.
Business review The Company is required by the Companies Act 1985 to include in this Report a fair review of the businesses of the Group during the financial year ended 31 March 2007 and of the position of the Group at the end of the year, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
The Chairmans and Chief Executives statement in this Report, together with the information contained in the Operations, Financial and Technology Reviews, constitute the review of the Groups business.
They also contain details of expected future developments in the business of the Group, an indication of its research and development activities and of the key performance indicators used by management.
Key financial indicators are shown in the Financial Highlights 2007 on page 1 of this Report.
Key performance indicators in respect of environmental and employee related matters appear in the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR section on page 17 of this Report.
Reference should be made to the separate CSR Report produced by the Company for more detail on these matters.
The financial risk management objectives and policies of the Company in relation to the use of financial instruments, and the exposure of the Company and its subsidiary undertakings to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash flow risk, are shown in the Financial Review on pages 14 to 16 and in notes 19, 22 and 24 of the Notes to the Consolidated Accounts.
The operating review has not been prepared in accordance with the non-mandatory Reporting Statement 1, as issued by the Accounting Standards Board in January 2006.
Details of significant events since the balance sheet date are contained in note 34 of the Notes to the Consolidated Accounts.
Dividends The directors recommend a final dividend of 8.0p per ordinary share to be paid on 31 July 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at close of business on 29 June 2007 which, together with the interim dividend of 3.8p paid on 26 January 2007, makes a total of 11.8p for the year 2006: 10.9p.
Share capital Details of the 5 for 14 rights issue and placing of 9,155,961 of the Companys ordinary shares during the year, in connection with the acquisition of Power Well Services, are set out in note 27 of the Notes to the Consolidated Accounts.
Directors Details of the directors who held office at the year end are shown in the Board of Directors section on pages 20 and 21.
Mr C P Ainger resigned as a director and as Corporate Development Director on 6 July 2006 and Mr M J Martindale resigned as a director and as Chief Operating Officer on 29 December 2006.
Mr T J C Eggar will not stand for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM and will retire on 5 July 2007.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Mr M J Speakman will retire by rotation at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer himself for re-election.
The directors appointed Mr G J Prise as a director during the year and Mr R F Bennett as a non-executive director subsequent to the year end, and, in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, they will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for election.
On behalf of the Board, the Chairman confirms that on the basis of the results of the annual evaluation of the Board and of the performance of individual directors, the performance and commitment of Mr Speakman and Mr Prise throughout their periods of office was highly satisfactory.
The Board is of the opinion 70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 24 24 Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors Report continued that Mr Bennett brings to the Company a wealth of experience of sophisticated financial structures and processes.
The Board strongly supports the re-appointment of Mr Speakman, Mr Prise and Mr Bennett and recommends shareholders to vote in favour of their re-appointment at the AGM.
Details of the directors interests in the shares of the Company at the year end are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 33 to 41.
The Company has made qualifying third party indemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors.
These were made during the year and remain in force at the date of this Report.
The indemnity in respect of Mr R F Bennett was made on 30 May 2007.
The Company has effected insurance to cover its directors and officers, including non-executive directors, against any loss incurred by an insured person due to any wrongful act.
This cover extends to directors of the Groups subsidiary companies, subject to certain terms and conditions, and provides for reimbursement to the Company in situations where it suffers loss due to a wrongful act by an insured person.
The total limit of indemnity is 15 million in aggregate each policy year.
The policy does not provide cover if a director acts fraudulently or dishonestly.
Supplier payment policy At 31 March 2007, the Company and the Group had average credit terms of 60 days in respect of its suppliers 2006: 60 days.
Charitable and political donations The Group does not have a central programme of charitable donations but supports requests from staff and also makes direct donations to charities, principally to those serving the communities in which the Group operates.
During the year, the Group made charitable donations of 53,146 2006: 27,674.
No political donations were made during the year 2006: nil.
Substantial shareholdings At 15 May 2007, the Company had been notified under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the following interests of 3.00% and over in the voting rights attached to the issued share capital: % Standard Life Investments Ltd 11.00 BlackRock, Inc 10.20 Aegon UK 6.51 Legal & General Group Plc 3.74 Fidelity International Ltd 3.58 Stena Investment Luxembourg Sarl 3.00 Disabled employees Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the requirements of the position and the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of individuals becoming disabled while employed by the Group, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, either by the provision of reasonable adjustments to their role or provision of an alternative position and, where appropriate, the provision of training.
There may, however, be circumstances in which it will not be reasonably practicable for the Group to accommodate such adjustments or to provide an alternative position.
Employment policies The Groups employment policies are regularly reviewed and updated to ensure that they remain effective.
The policies are designed to promote a working environment which supports the recruitment and retention of effective employees, improves productivity and fosters relationships free of discrimination.
Providing all employees with access to training remains a priority and ongoing investment in training is managed within local business areas.
Employee consultation and communication The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and has continued to keep them informed of matters affecting them and on factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings, the Company newsletter and access to the Groups financial statements.
Employee representatives, where nominated through employee forums, are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their current and future interests.
70409 pre 2 30 5 07 20:53 Page 25 Annual report and accounts 200725 Sharesave scheme The employee Sharesave scheme has been running successfully since its inception in 1995 and is now offered on an annual basis, subject to Board review.
It is open to eligible employees and consists of a payroll based savings scheme linked to an option to purchase shares at the end of a three year period, using the savings plus a tax free bonus.
Shares are purchased at a price equal to the market price of the Companys shares on the date of grant, less a discount of 20%.
Employees in the UK, Australia, Canada, Norway and The Netherlands are invited to participate and there continues to be positive interest in the scheme among employees, both in the UK and abroad.
In the USA, in 2005, following approval by shareholders, a section 423 payroll savings option plan was introduced with the aim of reflecting the features of the UK based Sharesave scheme as far as possible and this will continue to be offered to employees, subject to Board review.
Bonus Employees are, generally, included in bonus arrangements which are specific to their role and responsibilities.
Annual General Meeting The AGM will be held at 11.00am on 5 July 2007 at Davidson House, Forbury Square, Reading, Berkshire RG1 3EU.
The Notice of AGM, together with a Form of Proxy, accompanies the Report and Accounts and contains an explanation of the business to be transacted at the meeting.
Auditors Pursuant to section 234ZA of the Companies Act 1985, each of the directors as at the date of this Report, states as follows: a he was not aware of any information relevant to the audit of the Groups accounts which was not provided to the auditors: and b he has taken all steps that he ought to have taken in order to make himself aware of such relevant audit information and to establish that the auditors were aware of that information.
Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors and a resolution to reappoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
By order of the Board L J W McAlister Secretary Davidson House Forbury Square Reading Berkshire RG1 3EU 30 May 2007 Expro International Group PLC Registered in England & Wales with number 2688814 Registered Office as above
