Board of Directors From left to right: Martin Gilbert, Moir Lockhead, Dean Finch, David Leeder, Sidney Barrie Martin Gilbert LLD MA LLB CA David Leeder BSc FILT 4,5 Chairman: Director of International Development and Marketing 3 Chairman of the Nomination Committee Appointed to the Board in May 2004.
He joined the Group A Chartered Accountant, he is one of the founders and in 2001 as Managing Director UK Bus and assumed his Chief Executive of Aberdeen Asset Management PLC.
present role as Director of International Development and He was appointed to the Board of FirstGroup plc in 1995.
He has held various senior posts in the He is Chairman of Chaucer Holdings PLC and a director transport industry including Chief Executive of Travel West of a number of investment trusts.
He is a Non-Executive Midlands and subsequently Group Marketing Director of Director of Primary Health Properties PLC.
He is Vice Chair of the Commission for Integrated Transport.
A Fellow of the Moir Lockhead OBE Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport, he is also Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive: a past President of the Confederation of Passenger 3,4, 5 Chairman of the Safety Committee Transport.
Chief Executive and Deputy Chairman since the Groups formation in 1995.
Originally a mechanical engineer he Sidney Barrie LLB joined Grampian Transport in 1985 as General Manager Commercial Director: 4,5 and went on to lead the successful employee buy-out of Company Secretary GRT Bus Group PLC.
In 1996 he was awarded the OBE Appointed to the Board in August 2005 as Commercial for services to the bus industry and he is a past President Director and subsequently Company Secretary.
He of the Confederation of Passenger Transport.
Age 62. joined the Group from Paull & Williamsons, solicitors in Aberdeen, where he was a senior partner and Head Dean Finch BSc MBA ACA of Corporate acting for a number of listed and private 4,5 Finance Director companies.
He had a long association with the Group in Appointed to the Board as Commercial Director in an advisory capacity going back to the original employee February 2004 and subsequently appointed Finance buy-out of GRT Bus Group PLC.
In his current role he has Director later that year.
He is also responsible for all of the responsibility for a range of commercial activities across Groups rail activities including refranchising.
Age 56. the Company in 1999 as Commercial Director of the Rail Division and was subsequently appointed Managing Director of the Rail Division in August 2001.
He qualified as a Chartered Accountant with KPMG where he worked for 12 years specialising in Corporate Transaction Support Services including working for the Office of Passenger Rail Franchising on the privatisation of train operating companies.
22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007 From left to right: David Dunn, James Forbes, John Sievwright, David Begg, Audrey Baxter, Martyn Williams David Dunn CA David Begg DSc BA 1,2, 3 Senior Independent Non-Executive Director: Non-Executive Director 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Audit Committee Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director in August 2005.
He is Chairman of Tube Lines Limited and December 1999.
He is a Chartered Accountant and is Northern Way Transport Compact.
He is an adviser to Non-Executive Chairman of Brammer plc.
He is also Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Executive a Non-Executive Director of Croda International plc.
and is publisher of Transport Times.
Chairman of the Commission for Integrated Transport and a Non-Executive Director of the Strategic Rail Authority.
James Forbes CBE MSc BSc CEng MIEE Age 50.
Non-Executive Director: 1,2, 3 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Audrey Baxter DBA LLD DipAcc BA 1,2, 3 Appointed to the Board in April 2000, he is the former Non-Executive Director Chief Executive of Scottish and Southern Energy plc.
Appointed to the Board as Non-Executive Director in His career began with the South of Scotland Electricity August 2006.
She is Chief Executive of Baxters Food Board and he has since held various senior posts in the Group.
She has held a number of non-executive positions electricity industry.
Age 60. and was formerly a member of the Scottish Business Forum and the Scottish Economic Council.
John Sievwright MA CA 1,2, 3 Non-Executive Director Martyn Williams Appointed to the Board in May 2002, he is a Senior Vice Non-Executive Employee Director President and Chief Operating Officer of Global Markets Appointed to the Board as Employee Director in January and Investment Banking for Merrill Lynch & Co. A 2003, he is currently serving a second term as Employee Chartered Accountant, he has held various senior Director.
He is employed as a customer services management positions in banking in London, New York, supervisor in Swansea and has worked for the Group Dublin and Japan.
He is a member of the North American for 29 years.
Board of the Michael Smurfit Business School, Dublin.
1 Member of the Audit Committee 2 Member of the Remuneration Committee 3 Member of the Nomination Committee 4 Member of the Safety Committee 5 Member of the Executive Committee 23 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2007
