Operating and financial review: Outlook The Group enters the new financial year in a strong Market developments are more difficult to predict in position to capitalise on solid demand in the energy the Hardware group.
US housing starts are a key factor: sector.
However, as in previous years, reported further falls of c 9% are expected in 2007 with the impact performance will be impacted by currency translation of on sales volumes forecast to be partially offset by secured overseas activities and the rising interest rate environment.
Underlying demand for decorative hardware products is expected to be relatively stable.
Further top line and margin growth is expected in Lifting At the operating profit level the recovery of zinc cost Products and Services.
Customer demand is expected increases through pricing, and cost savings, through the to continue to grow but at rates below those of the past reorganisation of Hickory and productivity at Truth, two years, whilst capital investments and lean should benefit group performance.
improvements should benefit margin performance.
As growth in this sector slows, the pressure on working Net finance charges are expected to increase by capital should reduce.
c 4.5 million as a result of rising underlying interest rates and the arrangement fees and higher ongoing costs of the Very strong order books in the Energy Technology group replacement revolving credit facility.
Head office costs and provide excellent visibility of likely performance in the special items should remain at levels similar to last year.
Sales growth should improve compared to last year with margin performance above that seen Overall, the Group is well positioned to improve in the second half of 2006 7.
The recovery in trading performance in all groups in the coming year.
At the same of Switchgear is expected to continue, contributing to time, the Group will continue to look to actively manage enhanced performance.
the business portfolio in line with its strategy.
In FKI Logistex, the strong North American market for Warehouse and Distribution and Manufacturing Systems is expected to continue its recent positive momentum.
The global Post and Parcel market is set to remain active with increasing demand in the Far East for express parcel services.
The Airport sector is expected to continue to provide good volume opportunities but the Group will continue to be selective regarding projects tendered.
Turnover is expected to show modest growth with margin performance regaining momentum as a result of cost savings and improved overall project performance.
14 FKI plc Operating and financial review
