Corporate social responsibility report: Introduction FKI defines corporate social responsibility CSR as The importance of CSR is recognised at the highest the effective management of the impact its businesses level.
Responsibility for the Groups CSR policies, have on its employees, partners, customers, shareholders, implementation and monitoring rests with the Chief the environment and both the local and international Executive and is coordinated by the Director of Group community.
As such, FKI firmly believes that good Human Resources.
This responsibility is delegated to CSR practice is not only desirable but makes good the President or Managing Director of each Business.
CSR objectives are ultimately met by the collective efforts of all Company employees worldwide.
The Group strives to maintain its status as a responsible corporate citizen through continuous improvement in all Each year, as part of the annual reporting process, the areas of CSR.
FKIs commitment to CSR is demonstrated Group reviews the performance of each of its businesses through its listing on the FTSE4Good Sustainability Index in what FKI considers to be the three key areas of CSR: for the fourth year running.
It also maintains less formal Social and Ethical Policy and Practice relationships with other CSR linked bodies including Business in the Community BITC, SAM Indexes Health and Safety Policy and Practice GmbH compilers of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index, The Environment EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service and the Carbon Trust.
Information compiled from questionnaires sent to each business unit allows FKI to monitor performance, FKIs continuing progress in CSR demonstrates it achievement of set targets and individual business unit is a Group that: contributions to CSR.
Has a clear strategy and defined performance targets This annual report includes a summary of the Groups Continually seeks out better methods of operation performance with a more comprehensive version of the annual CSR review available on FKIs website or from Strives to improve service to customers by developing the Company Secretary.
innovative products, systems and solutions Displays the highest standards of trust and integrity Strives towards sustainability Individual businesses include CSR issues as part of their routine risk management which forms part of the Groups established, structured approach to risk management.
A full version of the annual CSR review is available on FKIs website: 21 FKI plc Corporate social responsibility report www.
