Directors report The directors submit their report and the audited financial Political and charitable donations statements of FKI plc for the year ended 31 March 2007.
During the year ended 31 March 2007 the Group contributed 0.1 million 2006: 0.1 million in the Principal activities UK for charitable purposes.
There were no political The principal activities and the development of the Group donations during the year 2006: nil.
are given in the Chairmans statement on pages 2 and 3 and the Operating and financial review on pages 4 to 20.
Research and development Product development and innovation is a continuing Financial instruments process.
The Groups businesses commit resources to The Groups financial risk management objectives and research and development to assist them in securing policies are discussed in the Operating and financial review their competitive positions in their chosen markets.
The exposure of the Group to foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and liquidity risk are set Employment policies out in note 28 to the financial statements.
Companies within the Group have developed a wide range of voluntary practices and procedures for employee Dividends involvement appropriate to their own circumstances and The directors recommend a final dividend on ordinary needs.
The Group encourages this approach to providing shares in respect of the year ended 31 March 2007 of 3.0p information and consultation and believes that this per share, payable on 5 October 2007 to shareholders on promotes a better understanding of the issues facing the the register on 7 September 2007, which with the interim individual business in which the employee works.
It is the dividend paid on 23 February 2007 absorbs a total of policy of the Group to give full and fair consideration to 26.4 million.
applications made by disabled persons for job vacancies and promotions, where particular job requirements are Directors within their ability and, where possible, arrangements are The names of the directors as at the date of this report made for the continuing employment of employees who are listed on pages 32 and 33, together with brief have become disabled.
Mr R Edey retired from the Board on 1 August 2006.
Further details of employment and health and safety policies are included in the Corporate social responsibility At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and in report on pages 21 to 31. accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Environmental policy Mr C Matthews and Mr N Bamford retire by rotation and being eligible offer themselves for re-election.
The Group is committed to adopting a responsible No contract or arrangement has been entered into at approach to environmental matters.
The Groups overall any time during the year in which any director had a policy forms the basis of detailed guidelines that are material interest which was significant in relation to appropriate to the individual businesses.
Management seeks to minimise any adverse impact on the environment of all aspects of the Groups operations Directors interests by means of environmentally sound disciplines, which The interests of the directors including their family take practical steps to control effectively or eliminate any interests all of which are beneficial, in the share capital, known pollution risks.
Specifically, capital expenditure is share options and the Long-Term Incentive Plan of directed towards the replacement of hazardous materials the company appear in the Remuneration report on with environmentally friendly alternatives and methods pages 40 to 50. of minimising the costs of disposal of toxic waste, the recycling of wood, the reuse of cardboard and paper products, and the reduction of energy consumption.
Further details of the Groups environmental policies are included in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 27 to 31.
37 FKI plc Payments to suppliers Annual General Meeting Operating businesses are responsible for agreeing the terms The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be and conditions of their transactions with suppliers.
held at 12 noon on 24 July 2007 in The Riverside Room of Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
A notice of meeting Payment is made on those terms subject to the terms and appears in the enclosed circular and for those members conditions being met by the supplier.
FKI plc, as a holding wishing to attend a location map has been included within company, did not have any amounts owing to trade the circular.
The Special Business to be considered at the meeting Share capital relates to the following matters: The movement in the share capital during the year is Description Resolution number detailed in note 34 to the financial statements.
General authority to allot equity securities 8 Significant shareholdings Limited authority to allot equity securities As at 12 June 2007, the following major interests of 3% or for cash excluding pre-emption rights 9 more in the ordinary shares in issue had been notified to Authority to purchase shares 10 the Company by: Number Holding Directors statement as to disclosure of information of shares% to auditors HSBC Investment Management 57,550,582 9.78 The directors who were members of the Board at the time of approving the directors report are listed on Barclays plc 40,994,024 6.97 pages 32 and 33.
Each of these directors confirms that: Franklin Resources Inc 35,687,573 6.07 to the best of each directors knowledge and belief there New Star Asset is no information relevant to the preparation of their Management Ltd 35,420,371 6.02 report of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and Nordea Bank SA 29,437,044 5.00 each director has taken all the steps a director might Newton Investment reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of Management Ltd 27,155,255 4.62 relevant audit information and to establish that the Witmer Asset Management LLC 24,465,544 4.16 Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Legal & General Group PLC 24,179,942 4.11 Directors indemnities Man Financial Limited 19,299,939 3.28 During the financial year the directors have enjoyed the benefit of indemnity insurance.
Corporate governance In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association A review of the Companys application of the principles directors are granted an indemnity from the Company and provisions of The Combined Code appears on in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
The indemnity extends to legal costs incurred in proceedings in which judgement is given in their favour.
Auditors A resolution to reappoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
38 FKI plc Directors report Directors responsibilities The directors are also responsible for maintaining proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable The directors are responsible for preparing the accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company Annual Report and Group and parent Company and of the Group, and enable them to ensure that the financial statements in accordance with applicable financial statements comply with the Companies Act law and regulations.
1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company parent Company financial statements for each financial and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs Under applicable law and regulation the directors are as adopted by the European Union EU and have also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance in accordance with UK Accounting Standards.
Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Group financial statements are required by law and The directors are responsible for the maintenance and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial integrity of the corporate and financial information position and performance of the Group: the Companies included on the Companys website.
Legislation in Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements the UK governing the preparation and dissemination that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial of financial statements may differ from legislation in statements giving a true and fair view are references to other jurisdictions.
The requirements to provide an enhanced Directors The parent Company financial statements are required Report under Section 243ZZB of the Companies Act by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs have been addressed in this Report and the preceding of the parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company Going concern financial statements, the directors are required to: After making appropriate enquiries, the directors are select suitable accounting policies and then apply confident that the Company has adequate resources to them consistently: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the directors adopt the going make judgements and estimates that are reasonable concern basis in the preparation of the Groups and prudent: financial statements.
for the Group financial statements state whether they By order of the Board have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and Antonio Ventrella Secretary for the parent Company financial statements state 15 June 2007 whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the parent Company financial statements.
