Operating and financial review: FKI Logistex Domestic post and parcel volumes Billions Source: Data extracted from the Universal Postal Union 0 1 2345 6 Year ended Year ended 31 March 31 March 2007 2006 2001 m m Turnover 372.6 403.5 Operating profit before special items 14.2 14.6 2002 Net operating assets excluding allocated goodwill 55.2 43.0 2003 The turnover in FKI Logistex was 372.6 million 2006: 403.5 million, the reduction comprises a 13.9 million trading decrease and a 17.0 million adverse exchange 2004 translation impact.
Operating profit before special items at 14.2 million 2006: 14.6 million was slightly below the previous year but was negatively impacted by 0.8 million of exchange translation.
2005 The improved business processes, including tendering, risk and project management, being embedded within the business, together with the recruitment of specialist competencies required to support the organisation, have been reflected in improved project delivery on the majority of contracts.
However, operating performance continued to be adversely impacted by a number of long-running legacy airport and parcel projects, which were contracted more than three years ago prior to recent improvements.
The majority of these projects were substantially completed in the year with a total negative impact on operating profit of c 5 million.
Overall, constant currency operating margins improved slightly from 3.6% to 3.85%.
Order intake remained robust at 366.8 million 2006: 394.9 million, down 8% on the comparable period last year at constant exchange rates.
The order book at 31 March stood at 210.8 million 2006: 230.0 million of which 86% is tradable in the coming year.
10 FKI plc Operating and financial review During the period a comprehensive rationalisation of the groups facilities in North America was completed, which reduced occupied space by 30% and should lower overheads by 2 million annually.
The North American operations of FKI Logistex New Airport tendering and order activity in Europe generated c 60% of total turnover and reflected strong was relatively subdued during the year with few contract growth in the Warehouse and Distribution sector where bids as the business focused on smaller extension projects order intake was up 16% against the previous year.
such as those won at Copenhagen and Johannesburg.
Major order wins came from North American retailers Progress on existing contracts is in line with expectations.
including Payless, Shoe Source, The Limited, Zappos Post & Parcel activity in Europe remained active with and Canadian Tire.
a number of notable project wins in Europe, including sortation and distribution centres hubs for the British Manufacturing Systems also had a strong period including Forces Post Office, DHL Dublin and Chronpost France.
its first order from Sysco, a leading distributor of food and related products and services, and further orders Post & Parcel also gained two major project wins in the from Target Stores and Preferred Freezers.
DHL Hong Kong and FedEx Guangzhou express mail hubs.
During the year, the group continued to grow its The groups North American Airport activity was scaled operational presence in China through the expansion back, consistent with the decision to be more selective of its Shanghai office in support of the recent contract following the deterioration in market conditions.
wins and its ongoing China development strategy.
Post & Parcel activity was subdued overall following a very strong prior year but the companys Linear Belt FKI Logistex improved its focus on core products and Sorter was selected by the United States Postal Service technologies as a means of strategic differentiation and as part of a new postal sorting solution, which is planned reorganised product and technology development activities for a progressive nationwide roll-out.
under a new central planning and management structure.
A new standard palletiser range was launched, which will During the period a comprehensive rationalisation of allow the group to service more effectively the global the groups facilities in North America was completed, market demands in solutions requiring lower palletisation which reduced occupied space by 30% and should speeds than those typically seen in North America.
lower overheads by 2 million annually.
Other products in the development cycle include a The FKI Logistex European organisation covers sales to new global case conveyor product line and upgraded the rest of the world and constitutes c 40% of turnover.
Against the backdrop of securing two major projects in the prior year, order intake for the Warehouse and Distribution sector reduced as anticipated, although a notable success was the securing of a contract for an automated archival storage facility for the British Library.
The year also saw the successful completion of the groups first project for Wolseley plc for its new National Distribution Centre in Leamington Spa.
This turnkey project was the first for the group that included the warehouse construction in addition to the materials handling solution.
11 FKI plc Operating and financial review
