Economic growth and value for shareholders Business focus Our strategy Our strategy is simple and straightforward: we seek to grow dependable income from our Ports business which will also include growth in value from long-term customer agreements.
We seek to grow the value of our property development assets through the most efficient use of those assets in line with market demand.
One of our many strengths is to balance our activities between ports and property in relation to our asset base thus maximising shareholder value from both businesses.
In this way, we can offer our shareholders real growth in dividends over the long-term and the prospect of capital growth from the use of our assets.
We seek continuously to exploit our asset base to create further value for shareholders.
Business assets Tilbury Nordic Leith Edinburgh Grangemouth Dundee Rosyth Port Investment Supply Chain Development Waterfront Regeneration Renewable Energy Waste Management and Recycling Work in partnership with customers and stakeholders Annual Report and Accounts 2007 06 07 Ports Property Growth of long-term secure revenue stream Continuing growth in the value of our property development assets Creation of value through long-term customer agreements Over 180 hectares of developable land at Leith and Granton Continuous process of investment and modernisation in plant Mixed use development at Leith to promote vitality and activity and equipment Promotion of Edinburgh Forthside as one of the largest regeneration Broad spread of cargoes handled by the Group projects in Europe Visible pipeline of projects going forward Review of alternative land uses at Dundee 24 hectares and Tilbury 6 hectares Well placed in strategic locations Tilbury 2012 Olympics Grangemouth Scotlands largest container port Investment for statutory functions such as conservancy and pilotage Further potential with asset base for energy generation Project Pipeline Project Land expansion at Tilbury Planning designation within the next 1-2 years followed by investment in storage, distribution and warehousing.
The site has potential for Olympics use.
Warehousing at Grangemouth Investment will develop over a 5-10 year period for Scotlands key industries.
Agriculture at Dundee and Tilbury Installation of additional grain drier in 2007 to be followed by further investment over the next two years.
Expansion potential for bulks business at Tilbury over next two years.
Renewable energy Dundee and Tilbury 60 acre site released at Dundee with current enquiries.
Tilbury energy from waste plant currently going through planning development over next 5 years.
Nordic expansion Geographic expansion of Materials Recycling Facilities MRF over next five years.
Complementary recycling facilities developed over next five years.
