Property The Waterfront The regeneration of Edinburghs waterfront is the largest expansion of our capital city since the New Town was built over two centuries ago.
There is the potential to add significant value to the Scottish economy and create many thousands of new jobs.
Newhaven complete 1 with two significant lettings Boardwalk 2 extended Applecross JV 8 site development Park extension complete 5 Asda site now with 7 planning consent Infill progressed 6 Development and progress Western Harbour inll 1 Dramatic progress has been made at Western Harbour in 2007 with the inll of the site almost complete, and a road network created.
A Gateway Site is being developed and open park areas are on programme.
The site is set to mature and form an important relationship with the Hub in the coming years.
1 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 12 13 RTKL Architects Leith Docks Hub presents a once in a lifetime opportunity to create a mixed use waterfront to anchor Edinburghs next new town.
Lighthouse Park 3 on programme Road network 4 complete 2 3 3 4 The Hub 2 Leith Docks new plans 3 First Ministers visit 4 The masterplanners, in conjunction with our Property We submitted Edinburghs largest ever planning We were pleased to welcome the First Minister 2 Team, have evolved a design comprising 28,000m application to the Council in 2007.
This development of Scotland, Alex Salmond, to the Waterfront on of additional retail and leisure space, over 1,800 will enhance the City allowing the formation of 27th February, 2008.
We look forward to working 2 residential units, nearly 100,000m of ofces and a waterfront community in an urban location with the Scottish Government on a series of projects up to 1,000 hotel bed spaces.
This development will contributing to Edinburghs growth and prosperity, which will help grow the economy of Scotland, form the heart of the waterfront giving access to the welcoming visitors and tourists.
the most significant of which is the waterfront public to enjoy leisure and events through a dynamic regeneration of Edinburgh.
public esplanade with active frontages.
Property The Waterfront continued Rejuvenation of Leith Docks 1 1 Laying foundations 1 Edinburghs waterfront is undergoing an exciting and cycle routes with public spaces and areas for regeneration process which underlines its period of growth and change.
It is at Leith Docks that events and festivals.
And with over 100,000 square commitment to the development of Edinburghs the most significant changes will take place with the metres of new ofce oor space it will be able to waterfront.
recent planning application laying the foundations accommodate everything from small businesses for the next 30 years of development in Scotlands up to major corporate headquarters.
At its heart As the UKs largest regeneration and renewal 1 capital city.
With over 2 2 km of coastline being will be a new public transport interchange, retail, project, the developments at Leith Docks will help opened up for public use, the 144 hectare browneld leisure and commercial district with Ocean Terminal to meet the citys growing demand for housing, site at Leith will be transformed through a mixture already an anchor for the development.
improve the quality of life for the citys residents of residential, community, leisure, retail, business and increase tourism.
At the same time it creates and industrial developments.
But the work of regenerating Edinburghs waterfront a platform for the private and public sector to work began over 10 years ago with the opening of the together and make Scotlands capital city a great Comprising nine distinct villages it will include 15,900 Malmaison Hotel, The Scottish Government Building waterfront city.
new homes a quarter of which will be affordable and the Ocean Terminal Shopping Centre.
To date, homes, 35 hectares of new open spaces, footpaths Forth Ports has invested more than 150m in the Property expertise The Forth Ports property team has considerable Together with a track record of success across sector experience.
The newly assembled team of both public and private sectors, the property specialists provides expertise covering: property team are well placed to build on the work to date development, project management, planning, and further define and develop the long-term finance, retail and marketing.
value in Forth Ports significant property portfolio.
1 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 14 15 Creating a sense of place Public spaces at Leith 2 The Waterfront taking shape 3 Drawing people in 4 The Leith Docks planning application provides for At Granton Harbour the reworked masterplan will Events and festivals help to animate the waterfront ample recreational space that will encourage people now see the 33 hectare site be developed to include and during 2007 we made significant progress in 1 to stay t and healthy.
In particular, 2 2 km of over 3,000 homes including townhouses suitable attracting successful events.
As part of the world coastline will be opened up for public use helping to for families and commercial and leisure space famous Edinburgh Fringe Festival, Fuerzabruta encourage physical activity.
It will also incorporate an incorporating a park, public spaces and restaurants.
located its spectacular black tent at the waterfront extensive network of footpaths and cycle routes and and quickly became the most popular show in 2007. sit at the heart of a new public transport interchange.
At Western Harbour developments are well This was followed in November with the Edinburgh Provision for new parks, public spaces and areas advanced since planning consent was granted Winter Festival staging one of its signature events, for events and festivals will create an exciting in 2002.
The programme of land reclamation has also at the waterfront.
Earlier in the year, the Forth environment for people to live, work and play.
been delivered ahead of schedule and the 40 Ports sponsored Edinburgh Half Marathon attracted At the same time, it will create further opportunities hectare site is already taking shape.
Open space over 5,000 people to participate in a coastal road for Scotland to host major national and international and landscaped parks will sit alongside 3,000 race that started and nished at the Ocean Terminal events that will help to bring life and vitality to the residential units made up of family homes, ats shopping centre.
Our combined events and festivals area.
Recognising the areas heritage, maritime and affordable housing.
Provision for retail and programme in 2007 delivered over 30,000 people to activity will be maintained by the use of the port commercial space is included and the area has the waterfront and created a platform for continued as a capital city port, with further emphasis on already become home to a Next Generation Sports growth and the opportunity to target further signature recreational uses.
complex and the famous Loch Fyne restaurant.
