Ports Scotland Scottish Ports and Marine Divisions play an essential part in handling a significant proportion of Scotlands economy.
Our approach to efficiency and optimising supply chain solutions for customers will support the growth of Scotlands key industries.
Renewable energy production Supply chain opportunities Approval of 60 acre site for wind energy generation at Dundee 1 Dundee 2 In partnership with Dundee City Council, a 60 acre site at Dundee is being marketed for inward investment for Dundee is investing in value-added facilities for the renewable energy sector.
Demand for wind towers and turbines is high and a Scottish manufacturing base the agricultural industry.
The port and Grainfax within a deep water port is needed for this growing industry.
are working closely on a long term partnership with Simpsons of Berwick in drying malting barley for the distilling industry.
Dundee has the potential to become one of Scotlands leading agricultural hubs.
1 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 10 11 Simpsons Our long term partnership at the Port of Dundee has given us the opportunity to serve the needs of Scotlands agricultural community and the distilling industry with a quality service.
Stakeholder involvement Grangemouth 3 Marine Communications seminar 4 Productivity at Grangemouth, Scotlands largest Long term guardians of the Forth, balancing where members of the Forth Ports Marine container terminal, has increased by over 20% as economic growth and development with the Management Team engaged with the audience a result of our investment in new handling methods protection and nurturing of the environment, in discussing all aspects of the Statutory Harbour and through new working patterns.
The port has the our safety and trafc management systems Authority role.
This included how the river is potential to increase container capacity further in evolve to meet changing needs.
We held a Marine managed to provide an efficient and safe service to the years to come and should meet Scotlands Communications Seminar to demonstrate our all river users while fullling our obligations to protect growing container needs for at least the next ten guardianship to stakeholders on 19th March, 2008. the environment.
The invited audience included years.
In support of this, a 100 acre distribution park This will be an annual event.
Over 100 interested politicians, government departments, local is being developed to support key industries in parties and river users were invited to the seminar, authorities, customers and river users.
Scotland such as whisky and chemicals to allow cost-effective distribution from within the port.
