Ports Tilbury As Londons major port, Tilbury continues to perform strongly with growth in a wide variety of cargoes and commodities including containers, Ro-Ro and agriculture.
This growth, coupled with demand for facilities, has reinforced Tilburys leading market position in several key commodities.
London Olympics pre-qualication Logical choice 1 P&O 2 Sir Steve Redgrave support 3 Tilbury is now on the short list for being designated Tilbury has signed a new agreement with P&O Olympic rower, Sir Steve Redgrave, put his weight as the tri-modal logistics hub for supply of material Ferries to develop Ro-Ro capacity in the port for behind a new green transport venture from the to the Olympics.
Tilburys position for distribution by the long term.
This exciting new business is already Port of Tilbury, by ofcially launching a new barge road, rail and sea, coupled with its extensive land supplying materials into Tilbury for barge distribution terminal at the port.
area of over 700 acres, makes it the logical choice to the Olympic site.
1 2 3 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 08 09 Hughes The Green Barge Company is having to adapt very quickly to a very changing business environment mainly created by the 2012 London Olympic Games and the Stratford regeneration project.
From the outset we have shared the same vision as Forth Ports in creating a multi-modal distribution centre given the great resource found at Tilbury and potential for waterborne transport into London.
Clearly our rapid recent expansion would not have been able to happen without the professional measured approach given by the staff at the Port of Tilbury.
Nordic Group acquisition Tilbury Riverfront development progress Developing a new dimension in MRF 4 Partners under consideration 5 The acquisition of the Nordic Group has added a advanced in the UK and will take advantage of Tilbury has submitted a mixed use development new dimension to the Groups business.
Nordic is Tilburys extensive customer base in exporting paper designation for Tilburys riverfront reviving memories an integrated business combining expertise in paper waste round the world.
Nordic has the expertise of passenger use on the Thames.
The scheme will handling, waste management, waste sourcing and to grow nationally in developing complementary incorporate leisure, recreational, housing and distribution.
The new MRF facility which has been recycling facilities and adding value to the Group.
The port will select commissioned at Tilbury is one of the most a development partner in 2008.
MRF at Tilbury Nordic facility at Chatham 4 4 5
