Foseco plc Directors Report The directors present their report and the Group financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Acquisition of the Company by Cookson Group plc The Groups 2007 financial statements were impacted by the offer announced on 11 October 2007 by Cookson Group plc that was completed on 4 April 2008.
The acquisition of the entire issued share capital of the Company was effected by means of a Scheme of Arrangement that was approved by the Companys shareholders at meetings held on 10 March 2008 and was sanctioned by the Court on 1 April 2008.
Cookson announced on 11 January 2008 that it had entered into a conditional agreement to sell Fosecos Carbon Bonded Ceramics CBC business to companies owned by RHI AG in order to expedite anti trust clearances.
No adjustments have been made in the Groups financial statements to reflect the impacts of the sale.
Principal activities and review of the business The Groups principal activities during the year continued to be the development, manufacture and supply of metallurgical chemicals, principally to the higher quality segments of the foundry and steel industries worldwide.
The Groups key financial performance indicators for the year were as follows: 2007 2006 at Change 2006 at Change constant reported m currency rates Turnover Foundry Europe 161.4 143.9 12.2% 143.1 12.8% Foundry Americas 78.5 77.8 0.9% 80.5 2.5 % Foundry Rest of World 109.8 99.2 10.7% 103.7 5.9% Total Foundry 349.7 320.9 9.0% 327.3 6.8% Steel 81.6 80.02.0%81.5 0.1% Total Group 431.3 400.9 7.6% 408.8 5.5% Operating profit Foundry Europe 31.3 24.8 26.2% 24.7 26.7% Foundry Americas 8.8 8.3 6.0% 8.2 7.3% Foundry Rest of World 23.3 22.3 4.5% 23.5 0.9 % Foundry Central costs 8.7 8.7 - 8.7 - Total Foundry 54.7 46.7 17.1% 47.7 14.7% Steel 0.5 3.0 83.3 %3.0 83.3 % Central costs 4.9 4.6 6.5% 4.6 6.5% Total Group 50.3 45.1 11.5% 46.1 9.1% Operating cashflow 31.6 31.4 0.6% 32.4 2.5 % Number of customer 617 598 3.2% facing staff for continuing operations before exceptional items 3 Foseco plc Directors Report continued Foundry In Foundry, turnover growth of 9.0% was well ahead of the underlying markets in all regions.
The key drivers of growth came from Europe and the developing economies of China and India.
North America continued to be difficult but did not worsen.
For a second consecutive year operating margins improved by a full percentage point to 15.6%.
This improvement was driven by the Foseco added-value selling approach, augmented by some success in passing on raw material price increases and improved overhead recovery.
Operating profit was up 8.0m 17.1% at constant rates.
Steel In Steel, most of the business segments performed strongly, but the CBC business was significantly impacted following the announcement of the Cookson bid, mainly due to delays by customers in completion of trials and commitment to orders while the future ownership of the business was uncertain.
Overall, Steel sales were 2.0% higher than last year.
Operating profit at 0.5m was well below last year, reflecting the weak CBC sales and increased overheads as production was ramped up in the CBC plant in Tianjin, China.
Group results The Group profit for the year from continuing operations and before exceptional items and after taxation amounted to 27.9m, an increase of 13% over the previous year.
Exceptional costs of 9.0m were recorded in the year, of which 7.8m related to the Cookson bid, including legal and professional fees incurred in responding to the offer.
Further details are given in note 4 to the accounts on page 34.
Profit for the year after exceptional items was 18.9m.
Of this, 1.1m was attributable to minority interests, leaving 17.8m attributable to members of the Group.
Before exceptional items, net operating cash flows from continuing activities were just below last year at reported rates.
Working capital remains well controlled and the increased outflow reflects the continued growth of the business.
Interest costs rose by 0.4m due to higher interest rates on the unhedged part of the term debt, while the increase in tax paid was due to the higher Group profitability and the timing of payments in Germany.
Dividends In view of the acquisition of the Company by Cookson, the directors recommend that no final ordinary dividend be paid, resulting in a total of 1.73 pence and 2.8m for the year.
Dividends are recognised in the accounts in the year in which they are paid, or in the case of a final dividend when approved by the shareholders, such that the amount recognised in the 2007 accounts, as described in note 12, is made up of the 2006 final dividend and the 2007 interim dividend.
Principal risks and uncertainties Foseco turnover is correlated to castings and steel production, which, in turn, are linked to movements in GDP and particularly in industrial and automotive production.
However, as a niche supplier to these industries, providing real value to the customers process whilst generally a small component of the overall cost of the finished product, Foseco suffers the volume impact of movements in production, but selling prices tend to remain relatively stable.
Foseco has an excellent reputation as a place to work within the industry and consequently an enviable employee retention record.
However, over the next few years, a number of key personnel will reach their retirement age and managing the succession of these individuals represents both a risk and, at the same time, an opportunity to bring in new blood and fresh ideas.
There is a slow, but ongoing, process of migration of certain types of labour-intensive castings away from the USA and Western Europe to the Far East and Central Europe.
Fosecos existing supply chain and marketing infrastructure reflects the current balance, but it is evolving to reflect the changing market circumstances.
In many respects this evolution represents an opportunity as we are already established in countries to which the production is migrating.
However, there is a slight risk that the speed of migration could outpace the ability of the Foseco business to move and leave it with some redundant assets and capabilities.
This situation is closely monitored and is not perceived as an immediate threat.
4 Foseco plc Directors Report continued Foseco has pension schemes in a number of operating units, the most significant of which are in Germany, Japan, the UK and the USA.
There is a risk that increasing life expectancy and falling equity and bond returns will result in a significant rise in the Groups liabilities.
However, the major schemes are regularly reviewed in consultation with the Groups actuaries, Watson Wyatt, to ensure that costs are controlled and that employee benefits are reasonable and competitive.
Actions are taken when required and the Group will continue to manage this potential risk proactively.
Financial risk management Foseco uses a range of technologies to provide a variety of products to its customers.
As such, we do not have significant price risk exposure in respect of any particular commodity and consequently do not hedge raw material prices in the commodity markets.
Credit risk is that one party to a financial instrument will cause financial loss for the other party by failing to discharge an obligation.
Group policies are in place to minimise such losses.
Credit is only granted where customers can demonstrate an appropriate payment history and satisfy creditworthiness procedures.
Individual customers are monitored and subject to specific credit limits.
The Group uses forward foreign currency contracts to reduce exposure to the variability of foreign exchange rates.
For significant trading relationships external and inter-company all flows in excess of 0.2m are hedged where a firm contract is in place.
The Group also uses interest rate swaps for its major borrowings in order to reduce the variable element of interest costs.
Hedge accounting is used when certain criteria are met as explained in the accounting policy note on page 27.
Liquidity risk is the risk that an entity will encounter difficulty in meeting obligations associated with financial liabilities.
Foseco aims to mitigate this risk by setting targets for cash generation for operating units, and manages this risk through the use of revolving credit facilities.
Cashflow risk, such as future interest payments on variable rate debt, is managed where significant by the use of derivatives as set out above.
Research and development The Group is actively involved in research and development and works closely with its customers to develop new products and technologies.
It has a number of development laboratories around the world, and collaborates with research institutes on original research projects.
There are active product development programmes within both the Foundry and Steel business units.
Charitable donations As part of the Groups commitment to the communities in which it operates, contributions totalling 33,000 were made during the year to local charities and community projects.
No donations were made to political parties.
Disabled employees The Group gives full and fair consideration to application for employment from disabled persons where the job can be adequately fulfilled by a disabled person.
Where existing employees become disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide continuing employment under normal terms and conditions and to provide training, career development and promotion to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
Employee involvement The directors attach great importance to the maintenance and development of good labour relations and employee involvement and training.
The Groups results are discussed at meetings held with senior management and the opportunity is taken to inform them of developments in the business.
A database that is accessible to all employees has been set up to provide information relating to the Cookson offer and to allow employees to put forward any questions that they may have.
Employees throughout the Group are encouraged to be aware of the performance of their local operating unit and of the Group as a whole.
Regular consultations are held with employees or their representatives so that their views may be taken into account when making decisions that may impact upon them.
The diverse nature of the Groups activities places the responsibility for such matters with local management in a manner appropriate to the 5 Foseco plc Directors Report continued particular circumstances of each business.
The Group complies with the requirements of the Information and Consultation of Employees Regulations 2004 in the UK.
Employee involvement in the Groups profitability is encouraged through locally based bonus and profit related pay schemes and executive bonus schemes.
Directors The directors at 31 December 2007 were as follows: Mr A R Auer Mr P D Dean Mr D G Hussey Mr E Lindh Mr J R P Pike Mr L A Plutshack appointed 14 March 2007 Dr K Rajagopal Mr F D Rosenkranz The Groups Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the balance of skills and experience of the board members and makes recommendations to the board as required in respect of the appointment or replacement of directors.
Mr Lee Plutshack was appointed to the board following the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
There were no qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by s309B of the Companies Act 1985 in force at any time during the year.
Supplier payment policy and practice There is no specific Group-wide policy in respect of payments to suppliers.
Individual operating companies are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions for their transactions with suppliers.
These terms are adhered to when making payments provided that the suppliers have complied with trading terms and conditions.
The Group-wide average settlement term is forty-four days.
Foseco plc is a holding company and had no trade creditors at the year end.
Significant contracts The Group has no significant contracts that take effect, alter or terminate upon change of control of the Company, other than that relating to term debt raised at the time of the flotation in May 2005.
Following the change of control on completion of the Cookson acquisition, the debt will become repayable on demand and has therefore been treated as a current liability in the financial statements.
The Company entered into an Implementation Agreement with Cookson on 11 October 2007 that terminated with the completion of the acquisition on 4 April 2008.
Share capital As at 31 December 2007 the authorised share capital of the Company was 56m represented by 224,000,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each and 166,465,000 shares were in issue.
Each ordinary share carries one voting right.
Changes to the Companys share capital are detailed in note 18 to the financial statements.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 16 May 2007, shareholders authorised the Company to make market purchases of up to five per cent of its ordinary shares of 25 pence each and also to cancel shares.
Pursuant to this authority, the Company has, during the year, purchased and subsequently cancelled 2,685,000 ordinary shares of 25 pence each representing 1.6% of the issued share capital at a total cost of 5.8m.
The repurchase and cancellation of shares was in line with the Companys objectives of operating an effective balance sheet and delivering shareholder value.
As at 31 December 2007, the Company had authority to purchase up to 5,772,496 ordinary shares, being the balance of authority given at the 2007 Annual General Meeting.
