30 Nick Buckles Grahame Gibson Sren Lundsberg-Nielsen CHIEF EXECUTIVE COO & DIVISIONAL PRESIDENT GROUP GENERAL COUNSEL SECURITY SERVICES Nick has worked in the security industry for Sren began his career as a lawyer in Denmark 23 years, focusing throughout this time on the and since 1984 he has had a wide range of legal Grahame has been involved in the security commercial and strategic aspects of all areas of experience as general counsel for international industry for 25 years, having joined Group 4s UK security services.
groups in Denmark, Belgium and the US before operating company in 1983 as finance director.
joining Group 4 Falck in 2001 as general counsel.
Since that time, Grahame has held a number of After a variety of commercial roles throughout Sren has been involved in a wide range of operational, management and board positions in the group, he was responsible for driving successful mergers and acquisitions during his the UK, Denmark, the Netherlands and Austria.
significant profit improvements in many Securicor career, including the acquisition of Wackenhut and His broad experience of the security industry and businesses throughout the 1990s as a business the merger of Group 4 Falck and Securicor.
Sren management of businesses across a diverse range unit managing director and divisional chief now has overall responsibility for all internal and of cultures has been invaluable to the group executive of the security division.
He was also external legal services for G4S as well as the throughout its development.
Grahame joined the instrumental in the development of Securicors groups insurance programme.
board of Group 4 Securicor in April 2005. security sector focus and in bringing together Group 4 Falck and Securicor to create the new Grahame is a board member of the Ligue Sren is a member of the Danish Bar and Law combined group.
Nick became chief executive of Internationale des Societes fide Surveillance.
Society, a board member of the Danish Blood G4S in July 2005.
Donation Society and author of the book Executive Management Contracts, published Nick is chairman of the Ligue Internationale des in Denmark.
Societes fide Surveillance, the international association of leading security companies.
Trevor Dighton Ken Niven Irene Cowden CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER DIVISIONAL PRESIDENT CASH SERVICES GROUP HR DIRECTOR Trevor has worked in the security industry for Ken has 12 years experience in the security Irene has spent her career in HR management, 22 years.
After several years in both the industry, having joined Securicor in 1996 as specialising in employee relations, organisational accountancy profession and commerce working operations director of the UK cash services development, talent management and in the finance function and general management, business where he was later promoted to compensation issues.
She has been involved in he joined BET in 1986 as finance director of their managing director and was instrumental in the major change projects including the cultural and Security and Communications Division.
development of new product areas, including cash integration aspects of mergers and acquisitions as centre outsourcing and establishing Securicors well as large scale organisational change involving Trevor joined Securicor in 1995 and, following a independent ATM network.
workforce restructuring, working in partnership number of years as finance director of the with major trade unions.
security division, he was appointed to the board Ken was appointed to his current role in July of Securicor plc in June 2002 as group finance 2004 and is responsible for the groups cash Irene has worked in the security industry for director.
He became chief financial officer of G4S services division, which includes all of the major 30 years and has held director level positions at in July 2004. cash services business units, and for sharing cash business unit, divisional and corporate level.
She services best practice throughout the entire was appointed to the Board of Securicor plc in Trevor is a member of the Chartered Institute organisation.
Ken joined the security industry 2002 as Group HR Director.
following a successful career within the logistics Irene is a member of the Chartered Institute of management industry where he held senior roles Personnel and Development MCIPD.
at Express Foods, Excel Logistics and Coca Cola.
Ken is president of ESTA, the European cash services association and is a member of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport.
