BUSINESS REVIEW continued CONSTRUCTION OVERVIEW Our construction activities have been organised for the first time this year as two divisions, building and infrastructure.
Overall we carried out 1.08 billion of work on which profit from operations was 22.1 million, 2.1bn representing a margin of 2.1 per cent.
The Groups TOTAL CONSTRUCTION ORDER BOOK construction order book is 2.1 billion, of which 90 per cent has been secured on a basis other than by pure price competition and 80 per cent is in the public and regulated sector.
generate a number of projects enabling selectivity to Performance be maintained.
Investment in the retail sector and in Our key performance indicators in construction, which we leisure facilities has continued to provide opportunities, then apply to our building and infrastructure divisions, are: with a number of clients seeing the benets of letting construction work to a limited panel of contractors under framework agreements.
profit from operations Our objective is to increase profit from operations year on year.
The measure is Strategy profit on ordinary activities stated before finance costs, Galliford Trys strategy is to deliver building services to exceptional items, amortisation and share of joint key clients from a limited number of centres of excellence ventures interest and tax.
With long established businesses in the South East of England and the Midlands operating Work in hand Our objective is to secure a as Galliford Try Construction and in Scotland operating as balanced visible stream of future profitable workload.
Morrison Construction, the division aims to grow revenue We measure the size of the order book, which is the total and profits by increasing its market share in its existing revenue expected to be generated from orders received.
areas of operation and by increasing its presence in the North of England and in other areas where it is less Operating margin Our objective is to deliver an upperwell established.
quartile operating margin for each of the sectors we work in.
We measure profit from operations divided Performance by revenue, expressed as a percentage.
Revenue including JVs 667 million Revenue including JVs 1,078 million profit from operations 12.3 million profit from operations 22.1 million Operating margin 1.8% Operating margin 2.1% Order book 1 billion Order book 2.1 billion profit from operations of 12.3 million on revenue of 667 BUILDING million, including joint ventures, represented an operating Market margin of 1.8 per cent, underpinned by the generation of The market for building works has been good during substantial cash balances throughout the year.
In the public sector Government investment year the integration of the building activities of Morrison continues to be made in the key sectors of education, Construction, acquired in March 2006, was completed health, prisons and, through registered social landlords, with the business in Scotland performing particularly affordable housing.
Work continues to be let through a combination of single projects and frameworks, well and the contracts previously carried out in England in which Galliford Try is a leader.
absorbed into Galliford Trys existing operations.
The private finance initiative is well established and, with The division is midway through its two major multi-school further work being let under LIFT programmes for primary PFI projects 41 schools for Northamptonshire County care trusts in the health sector, the next stage of schools Council and 11 schools for the Highlands Council in work being let under the Governments Building Schools Scotland.
Both projects are performing well, generating for the Future initiatives and pressures on the prison anticipated profit levels and good cash balances.
Having estate, the current market conditions are expected initially secured two contracts for Marks and Spencer as to continue.
part of their store rebuilding and refurbishment programme, we are in discussions on potential further work.
There are Commercial work for private clients has been strong.
also a number of new opportunities we are pursuing under Commercial ofce buildings for both owner-occupiers our prisons framework, where Government expenditure and the major property companies, particularly in continues to be focused.
London and the South East of England, continue to Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 06 Work at the All England Lawn Tennis Club at Wimbledon and renew facilities, particularly in the water, highways is progressing to plan, with the major rebuild of the centre and rail markets.
Work on ood alleviation is anticipated court stadium completed for the 2007 Championships to continue, although expenditure on the maintenance and the structural work on schedule for the installation of the inland waterways, and by the mobile telephone of the xed perimeter roof to be completed for the 2008 operators on their infrastructure, has reduced.
Investment Championships and the retractable translucent central in renewable energy sources continues to grow, as there is element for 2009. an increasing focus on reducing the countrys dependence on fossil fuels.
We have made good progress in growing our business in the North of England.
Based on the existing strength Strategy of both Galliford Try and Morrison Construction in the area, Galliford Trys strategy is to provide construction services we opened a new ofce in Warrington during the year to national infrastructure markets from centres of sector and recently secured the 41 million National Museum expertise.
We aim to grow in the water, transport, civil of Liverpool, to be built on the quayside in the centre engineering, and related specialist sectors throughout of the city.
Over 90 per cent of the workload of the division is in long term frameworks with the leading public and regulated operators.
The divisions objective is to grow revenue and profits in each of its key sectors, BUILDING ORDER BOOK M supplementing framework projects with additional contracts to provide a balanced workload.
Health 128 Performance Education 181 Revenue including JVs 411 million profit from operations 9.8 million Prisons 150 Operating margin 2.4% Order book 1.1 billion Commercial 305 profit from operations of 9.8 million was achieved Interiors and other 17 on revenue of 410.7 million, including joint ventures, representing a margin of 2.4 per cent.
The division also Affordable housing 107 performed well on cash management with good cash balances held throughout the year.
Having integrated Facilities management 121 the infrastructure operations of Galliford Try with those of Morrison Construction, the division has successfully established itself as a major provider of infrastructure services in its chosen markets by winning significant Looking forward new work during the year.
During the next 12 months our objective is to continue to grow both revenue and margin within the business.
In water, the division works for seven of the largest We aim to substantially complete the Northampton and water utilities in the UK through framework agreements Highland Council PFI contracts and ensure that we have under Asset Management Programme 4 long term secured adequate future work to replace those significant agreements that are currently in mid term, thereby projects.
We are also planning to make a step change in providing visibility to our future workload.
Our our facilities management business by bringing together performance with the water utilities enables us to the current work we do, and developing it as a major be considered for additional work outside the existing part of the service we can offer our clients.
The current frameworks, and during the year we secured a number order book has been maintained at 1 billion, of which of new projects, such as a 50 million water treatment 90 per cent has been secured on a basis other than works in joint venture with Imtec for Anglian Water.
on pure price competition and 68 per cent is in the public sector.
In the highways sector we have over 100 million of road projects currently under construction.
We are working INFRASTRUCTURE on several projects under the early contractor involvement Market scheme of procurement for the Highways Agency The market for Galliford Trys infrastructure services in England and are under consideration for a number has been buoyant during the period.
Expenditure on the of projects in Scotland, including a joint venture for the nations infrastructure has been maintained by the public M74 project in Glasgow.
We recently secured our first and regulated utilities sectors, with programmes to replace Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 07 BUSINESS REVIEW continued rail contract in Scotland, work on station, bridge and structured to meet the changing needs of our framework other infrastructure projects for the railways through clients in order that when existing frameworks expire framework contracts for Network Rail and are one we are in the best position to secure renewals, particularly of British Waterways key framework contractors in the water sector.
Despite carrying out a significant value of work in our In the remediation sector our framework at Olympic Park frameworks, we maintained our overall order book in East London for the Olympic Development Authority at 1.1 billion by securing new frameworks and other is progressing well.
We secured the construction contract additional contracts.
Over 90 per cent has been for Europes largest onshore wind farm at Whitelee secured other than through pure price competition.
in Scotland in our renewable energy business and were appointed as one of the Environment Agencys PPP INVESTMENTS four contractors on a four year framework for its Market 500 million ood defence, waterways and water The Governments programme of public private resources programme.
partnerships and group finance initiatives continues to be one of the main methods used by Government Our specialist services comprise infrastructure work to finance and carry out improvements to public sector for the telecommunications industry, ground engineering, facilities.
The market requires private sector operators the provision of construction plant and vehicles and to provide a structure for designing, building and then construction operations in the South Atlantic.
Our four operating a public sector facility in exchange for payments year project to construct a new research station at Halley made over the useable life of the facility.
The public finance on the South Atlantic ice for the British Antarctic Survey, initiative format has developed into a number of forms, a long-standing client, is now well underway.
including local investment finance trust frameworks LIFTs for the health sector and Building Schools for the Future, the new framework for future schools projects.
With Government remaining committed to continuing INFRASTRUCTURE ORDER BOOK M the improvements seen in education, health and defence accommodation in particular, a pipeline of future work is anticipated.
Water 569 Strategy Highways 217 Galliford Try Investments strategy is to secure a stream of PFI projects to generate a return on the equity investment Remediation 97 made, and to provide the opportunity for negotiated construction work for the Groups other divisions.
Flood alleviation 107 With projects having a long gestation period and requiring initial investment prior to the selection of a preferred Renewable energy 39 bidder for a project, Galliford Try Investments aims to have projects at different stages of the cycle at any one time.
Rail 40 Performance International 21 Revenue including JVs 3.5 million Waterways 20 Loss from operations 1.1 million Directors portfolio valuation 17.9 million Communications 11 The integration of the Morrison PFI team into Galliford Try Ground engineering 2 Investments was completed, and the Company acquired the PFI equity interests in Highland Schools and Defence Housing Estates, Portsmouth, during the year.
Our Looking forward strategy is to build up our PFI portfolio for the future, Our overall objective is to continue to grow our market and despite there being no sales of investments during share in all key sectors.
We aim to ensure the division is the year, as planned, income received from concession Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 08 management contributed to a reduction in the net loss adjacent regions, and taking advantage of acquisition from operations to 1.1 million from 1.6 million in the opportunities to full this strategy where possible.
Concentrating on sites that t the Companys track record in creating individually designed properties, with The directors valuation of the Groups PFI PPP portfolio, an expertise in conversions and browneld development, carried out for the first time during the year, has been the Company does not rely on large multi-developer sites updated to 30 June 2007 and, based on a discounted where it is in direct competition with volume housebuilders.
cash ow basis, the valuation was 17.9 million, which compares to the carrying value of 6.9 million.
Following Performance a review of the overall potential of the business to the Our housebuilding key performance indicators are: Group, we implemented a policy of taking significant equity stakes in projects at the commencement of profit from operations Our objective is to increase the bidding process of up to 100 per cent, in light of profit from operations year on year.
The measure is the the superior returns and control of the process that this profit on ordinary activities stated before finance costs, practice gives compared to minority equity participation.
exceptional items, amortisation and share of joint Decisions on equity sales can then be made at the most ventures interest and tax.
appropriate time to realise best value.
Completions Our objective is to grow completions in Projects in the construction phase in which we have excess of underlying market growth.
The measure is the significant investment include Defence Estates total number of homes that have been legally completed, Portsmouth and Highland Schools.
Preferred bidder including the equivalent number of completions from joint status was awarded and we are working towards ventures represented by our share of ownership.
financial close on the 25 million PFI project for community health facilities at St Andrews in Scotland.
Operating margin Our objective is to deliver an upperWe achieved financial close on the South East Essex quartile operating margin for the sectors in which we LIFT following the year end, which is expected to provide work.
The measure is the profit from operations divided up to 100 million of work over several tranches, and by revenue, expressed as a percentage.
have been shortlisted for Birminghams Building Schools for the Future project, where a preferred bidder is Landbank We aim to improve the size, quality and expected to be selected during 2008. balance of our landbank over time.
We measure the total number of owned and controlled plots.
Looking forward We aim to work towards obtaining preferred bidder status Customer satisfaction We aim to maintain and on the projects for which we are currently shortlisted, improve our customer satisfaction scores.
The measure particularly the Birmingham Schools BSF project.
We also is the percentage of our home buyers who would aim to grow our business in concession management recommend the Company to their best friend, calculated and extend our supply chain relationships.
using responses to research carried out by an independent external research company that contacts every customer after they have purchased one of our homes.
HOUSEBUILDING Market The housebuilding market performed strongly during Revenue including JVs 346 million the first half of the financial year, although the succession Completions 1,526 units of interest rate rises started to have an effect in the profit from operations 48.9 million second half, restoring a level of stability to the market Operating margin 14.1% across all our operating areas in the South West, Landbank 11,200 plots South East and Eastern counties of England.
Demand Customer satisfaction over 90% for well-designed, individual homes remains less competitive than for homes on large sites, particularly profit from operations was up 52 per cent from if in consortia with other housebuilders, with competing 32.1 million to 48.9 million on revenue up 54 per cent similar properties.
from 224 million to 346 million, including joint ventures, representing a margin of 14.1 per cent.
Completions for Strategy the year were up 45 per cent at 1,526 at an average Galliford Trys strategy is to grow revenue and profits by expanding its market share within the areas of its current operations, expanding where opportunities arise into Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 09 BUSINESS REVIEW continued to plan our operations further ahead and to structure our landbank accordingly.
The acquisition of Linden Homes COMPLETIONS LANDBANK PLOTS added 4,800 plots to our landbank, which currently stands at 11,200 units compared to 4,115 at the end of August last year.
We continue to develop opportunities from our long-term strategic land, and our total strategic land currently stands at 1,500 acres.
We have an excellent track record in browneld land development which accounted for 70 per cent of our 2007 completions.
Going forward, over 80 per cent of our landbank is browneld.
Our individual designs and developments, not relying on standard house types or on consortium sites, put us in a good position to continue to develop homes that differentiate themselves from the competition.
We continue to achieve industryleading scores in independent customer research, with over 90 per cent of our purchasers stating that they would recommend us to their best friend.
This helps 05 06 07 05 06 07 minimise our after-sales costs and supports our reputation among home buyers generally in the market.
We received a number of industry awards during the sales price up 3 per cent to 219,000.
In the more year, including several for sustainable development and challenging markets we now face, sales over the summer design, and the Building medium-sized homebuilder period have been encouraging, with our current sales of the year for the third year running, with Midas Homes in hand standing at 323 million.
The acquisition of Linden Homes in March 2007 Looking forward signicantly increased the Groups market presence Our objective is to complete the integration of Linden and critical mass in the South and South East of England, Homes, taking advantage of our increased critical enabling the Group to establish a target of completing mass to secure larger longer term developments and 3,000 homes per annum.
The results include four months establishing our business in central London where there trading from Linden Homes which contributed a profit from are opportunities that match our skill set and resource.
operations of 7.8 million on a revenue of 66.3 million, Across our operations we aim to maintain our strength in ahead of expectations.
The integration is progressing well, our existing levels of customer satisfaction and continue with the synergies anticipated at acquisition already to improve our competitive advantage by using our new exceeding our forecasts.
All the Groups operations in the critical mass to deliver best value in dealing with our South East of England have been rebranded as Linden supply chain and introduce new ideas to control costs.
Homes to maximise the benets of our market presence Dealing with the planning system remains time-consuming in the region.
Chartdale Homes, acquired in the previous and complex and we are strengthening our resources to financial year, exceeded expectations in its first full financial ensure we achieve the number of implementable planning year since acquisition, is growing strongly and has been consents that we require to meet our objectives.
rebranded in line with our plans as Stamford Homes North to provide one consistent brand in the Eastern counties.
AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND REGENERATION Midas Homes, in the South West, maintained excellent Market progress as a leading developer of homes in the region The requirement to provide affordable housing is a key across the mainstream market and, through Gerald Wood government policy and is an integral part of obtaining Homes, to small developments of individual properties planning consents on housing developments.
The in attractive rural locations.
redevelopment of run-down urban areas is also a priority, with Government agencies releasing significant The Group has historically operated off relatively short parcels of land across the UK for renewal programmes.
However, a continuing competitive market These need to incorporate the infrastructure for new for land, and the increasing time it now takes to take communities that include affordable housing, housing for potentially developable land through the planning sale, community buildings, retail and other commercial process, means that it is becoming more important Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 10 853 1,054 1,526 2,605 4,115 11,200
