THE GROUP GALLIFORD TRY PLC The Group provides construction services throughout the UK, is a housebuilder across the South of England, Midlands and Eastern counties and undertakes affordable housing and regeneration activities.
We employ 4,000 people, and are an industry leader in collaborative working through partnering and long term relationships throughout our businesses.
BUILDING INFRASTRUCTURE PPP INVESTMENTS HOUSEBUILDING AFFORDABLE HOUSING AND Galliford Try offers a Galliford Try is a Galliford Try develops Galliford Try develops REGENERATION comprehensive range leading contractor and takes equity individually designed of construction on infrastructure participation in public homes and bespoke Galliford Try is a services across the projects, focusing private partnerships, developments, leading player in the UK with specic on the water, including private specialising in affordable housing and expertise in the areas highways, rail, ood finance initiatives and browneld sites regeneration sector.
of education, health, alleviation, remediation other Government and conversions.
We have long term commercial, leisure, and renewable procurement routes frameworks in place interiors and facilities energy sectors.
such as the NHS LIFT We operate through with many affordable management.
framework for primary five regional brands: housing providers and Our activities span care trusts and the Midas Homes and are working on several We have a well the full range from Building Schools for Gerald Wood Homes regeneration projects balanced workload design through project the Future programme.
in the South West, providing up to 1,000 for both public and implementation Linden Homes across homes each.
private sector clients to aftercare, with We are a leading the South and South carrying out both most of our work provider in the areas East of England, We work closely with single projects and in frameworks and of accommodation Linden London English Partnerships building programmes long established for the Ministry of Developments in and other affordable under long term collaborative Defence, education the capital and housing and agreements.
Stamford Homes regeneration agencies the public and in the Midlands and in conceiving and regulated sectors.
constructing distinctive community and mixed use schemes.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 02
