DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual The authorised share capital of the Company was Report and the audited financial statements for the year increased to 505,000,000 ordinary shares of 5 pence ended 30 June 2007. each by the creation of 145,000,000 shares on 5 March 2007.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or voting rights of the Companys ordinary share capital.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES Amendments to the Companys articles of association Galliford Try is a construction and housebuilding group.
require a special resolution of the shareholders.
Further details of the Groups activities during the year under review and of its prospects are contained in pages Resolutions to be proposed at the 2007 Annual General 3 to 19.
The principal subsidiary companies operating Meeting will renew the limited authority of the directors within the Group are shown on page 81. to allot the unissued share capital of the Company and to issue shares for cash other than to existing shareholders.
BUSINESS REVIEW AND FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS A resolution will also be proposed to renew the directors The directors consider that the requirement to produce authority to make market purchases of its shares within a business review is fullled by the inclusion in this prescribed limits.
No such purchases were made in the Annual Report and Financial Statements of the Chairmans year to 30 June 2007. statement, Business Review, Corporate Governance Report and Directors Remuneration Report.
Information Further explanation of the resolutions is included with on the Groups employment practices, including its the notice of the meeting circulated to shareholders policies on equal opportunities for disabled employees with this report.
and employee involvement is set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 17 to 18.
The financial The Group has entered into certain agreements that risk management policies are detailed in the may alter on a change of control of the Group.
significant agreements are the Groups banking and surety agreements, details of which are included under RESULTS AND DIVIDENDS nancing in the Business Review and under contingent The profit for the year after tax of 43.6 million is shown liabilities in note 35 on page 70. in the consolidated income statement on page 35.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 2.2 pence DIRECTORS AND THEIR INTERESTS per share be paid, which together with the interim The board of directors at the date of this report is shown dividend of 0.8 pence per share results in a total dividend on page 20.
Andy Sturgess and Ken Gillespie stepped for the year of 3.0 pence per share, amounting to down as directors of the Company on the reorganisation 10.4 million.
The final dividend will be payable on of the board on 31 March 2007.
Greg Fitzgerald and 16 November 2007, to shareholders on the register Jonathan Dawson will retire by rotation at the forthcoming on 19 October 2007.
Annual General Meeting and each will offer themselves for re-election.
Directors may be initially appointed by the SHARE CAPITAL AND CONTROL board, but are subject to election by shareholders at the During the year, the Company raised 150.3 million first Annual General Meeting following their appointment before expenses of 3.7 million in order, inter alia, and at least every three years thereafter.
to finance the purchase of Linden Holdings plc by way of a placing and open offer of 100,230,056 new The biographies of all of the Companys directors are ordinary shares at 150 pence per share, representing on page 20.
27 per cent of the Companys called up share capital at the year end.
The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company and details of their service contracts 50,000,000 of the new ordinary shares of 5 pence each are set out in the directors remuneration report on were placed with institutional investors and 50,230,056 pages 28 to 33. new ordinary shares at the offer price of 150 pence per share were offered to qualifying shareholders on the basis The Company takes out directors and ofcers insurance of two open offer shares for every 11 existing ordinary cover in respect of legal actions brought against its shares held.
100,230,056 new ordinary shares, which directors.
The Companys practice is to indemnify its ranked pari passu with existing ordinary shares, were directors in accordance with the Articles of Association admitted to the Ofcial List of the UK Listing Authority and to the maximum extent permitted by law.
Neither the and to trading on the London Stock Exchange on insurance nor indemnities cover fraud or dishonesty.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 22 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDINGS Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the As at 6 September 2007, the following beneficial interests directors have prepared the group financial statements in 3 per cent or more of the Companys ordinary share in accordance with International Financial Reporting capital had been notied to the Company: Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and No.
of shares % the parent company financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report in accordance with applicable The AEGON UK plc law and United Kingdom Accounting Standards United Group of Companies 19,173,012 5.1 Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
J P Morgan Chase & Co 18,888,629 5.0 The group and parent company financial statements Schroders plc and its subsidiaries 18,632,226 4.9 are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit Legal & General Group plc 15,080,220 4.0 or loss of the Company group for that period.
Lloyds TSB Group plc 15,100,346 4.0 In preparing those financial statements, the directors CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL are required to: CONTRIBUTIONS Contributions for charitable purposes during the year  select suitable accounting policies and then apply amounted to 59,000 2006: 53,000.
No political them consistently donations were made.
 make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent CREDITORS PAYMENT POLICY  state that the group financial statements comply with The Groups policy concerning creditors is to agree IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and with payment terms with its suppliers, ensure the relevant regard to the parent company financial statements terms of payment are included in contracts and to abide that applicable UK Accounting Standards have been by those terms when it is satisfied that goods or services followed, subject to any material departures disclosed have been provided in accordance with the contracts.
and explained in the financial statements.
Galliford Try plc as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade creditors as at 30 June 2007 2006: Nil.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The directors are responsible for keeping proper The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Ivory accounting records that disclose with reasonable Suite, The Grove, Chandlers Cross, Rickmansworth, Hertfordshire WD3 4TG on 9 November 2007 accuracy at any time the financial position of the at 12 noon.
Company and the Group and to enable them to ensure that the group financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation AUDITORS and the parent company financial statements and the  LLP have confirmed their willingness to continue in ofce as auditors of the Company Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They are also responsible for and a resolution for their re-appointment and for the safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group audit committee to determine their remuneration will and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
AUDIT INFORMATION The directors are responsible for the maintenance So far as the directors in ofce at the date of the signing and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation of the report are aware, there is no relevant audit in the United Kingdom governing the preparation information of which the auditors are unaware and each such director has taken all steps that he or she ought and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
to have taken as a director in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to establish By order of the board that the auditors are aware of that information.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS Richard Barraclough RESPONSIBILITIES Secretary The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual 6 September 2007 Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the group and the parent company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Galliford Try plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 23
