48 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Board of Directors Roy Brown 61 Sir Kevin Smith, CBE 53 Marcus Bryson 53 Chairman C N Chief Executive E C N Chief Executive Aerospace E Appointment and election Appointment and election Appointment and election Appointed a non-executive Director in Appointed Chief Executive in January Appointed to the Board in June 2007 and 1996 and became Chairman in May 2004.
2003 and last re-elected in 2006. standing for re-election in 2008.
Experience Experience Experience Joined GKN in 1999 as Managing Director, Joined GKN with the acquisition of the Former executive Director of Unilever plc Aerospace.
Prior to GKN he held various Westland Group in 1994 and has and Unilever NV from 1992 to 2001 with positions in BAE Systems over a 20 year extensive experience of the aerospace responsibility for the Groups activities in period, latterly as Group Managing industry.
Having joined Westland in 1984, Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
He is Director New Business.
Former Cohe held a number of finance and a former non-executive Director of Chairman of the Governments commercial roles within the business Brambles plc, Brambles Limited Manufacturing Forum.
Fellow of the Royal prior to its acquisition by GKN.
He was Australia and British United Provident Aeronautical Society and Companion of appointed Chief Executive GKN Association Ltd BUPA.
Chartered the Chartered Management Institute.
Aerospace Services Europe in 2000 Engineer, Fellow of the Institute of and Chief Executive Propulsion Systems External appointments Mechanical Engineers and Fellow of the and Special Products in 2004.
Joined the Non-executive Director of Scottish and Institute of Engineering and Technology.
Executive Committee as Chief Executive Southern Energy plc.
External appointments Non-executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Alliance & Leicester plc, Senior Independent Director of HMV Group plc and nonexecutive Director of the Franchise Board of Lloyds of London.
Member of the CBI International Advisory Board.
E Member of Executive Committee C Member of Chairmans Committee A Member of Audit Committee R Member of Remuneration Committee N Member of Nominations Committee The Company Secretary is secretary to the non-executive Board Committees.
The responsibilities of all Board Committees are described in the corporate governance statement and in Sir Ian Gibson, CBE 61 Sir Christopher Meyer, KCMG 64 Helmut Mamsch 63 the Audit Committee report.
Former Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director C A R N Non-executive Director C A R N In addition to the executive Directors Ceased to be a non-executive Director on Appointment and election Appointment and election and the Company Secretary, the other retirement from the Board on Appointed to the Board in December Appointed to the Board in August 2003 members of the Executive Committee 31 December 2007.
2003 and last re-elected in 2007. and last re-elected in 2007. are as follows: Experience Experience Arthur Connelly 50 Former British Ambassador to the United Has considerable experience in Chief Executive Driveline Driveshafts States and Germany and also served in international business, having worked for Gary Cosby 54 the British Diplomatic Service in Russia, over 20 years in international trade and Group Director Enterprise Support Spain and the European Community, shipping.
He joined VEBA AG now E. ON Walter Rohregger 48 Brussels.
Former Chief Press Secretary to AG in 1989 and was a management Chief Executive OffHighway Prime Minister John Major, and former Board member from 1993 to 2000.
Until non-executive Director of The Sanctuary 2007, he was non-executive Deputy Martyn Vaughan 52 Group plc and GlobeTel Communications Chairman of LogicaCMG plc and a Group Director Enterprise Excellence Corporation.
member of the Supervisory Board of K S Aktiengesellschaft.
External appointments External appointments Chairman of the Press Complaints Commission and non-executive Director Non-executive Chairman of of Arbuthnot Banking Group plc.
Electrocomponents plc and nonexecutive Director of Sappi Ltd South Africa.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 49 Andrew Reynolds Smith 41 William Seeger, Jr. 56 John Sheldrick 58 Chief Executive Powder Metallurgy, Non-executive Director C A R N Finance Director E OffHighway and Industrial Services E Appointment and election Appointment and election Appointment and election Appointed to the Board in December 2004 Appointed to the Board in September and standing for re-election in 2008.
Appointed to the Board in June 2007 and 2007 and standing for re-election in 2008. standing for re-election in 2008.
Experience Experience Experience Joined Johnson Matthey plc as executive Joined GKN in 2003 as Senior Vice Director, Finance in 1990 and has been Joined GKN in 2002 as Managing Director President and Chief Financial Officer of Group Finance Director since 1995.
Prior Operations Europe for the Groups GKN Aerospace.
In June 2007 he became to joining Johnson Matthey he was Group Driveline division.
In 2004 he became a member of the Executive Committee as Treasurer of The BOC Group plc.
He is a Chief Executive of GKN Sinter Metals and President and Chief Executive Propulsion former non-executive Director of API was appointed to the Executive Systems and Special Products.
Fellow of the Association of Committee in 2006.
Prior to GKN, he held Finance Director in September 2007.
Corporate Treasurers and Fellow of the various general management and Prior to GKN, he held a number of senior Chartered Institute of Management functional positions at Ingersoll Rand, finance positions at TRW Inc spanning Accountants.
Siebe plc now Invensys plc and Delphi over 20 years, latterly as Vice President Automotive Systems.
External appointments External appointments Group Finance Director of Johnson Matthey plc.
Chairman of the CBI Manufacturing Council.
com Nigel Stein 52 Sir Peter Williams, CBE 62 Grey Denham 59 Chief Executive Automotive E Senior Independent Director C A R N Company Secretary E Appointment and election Appointment and election Experience Appointed to the Board in August 2001 Appointed to the Board in June 2001 and Joined GKN in 1980 and was head of the and standing for re-election in 2008. became Senior Independent Director in Group Legal function for nine years January 2008.
Standing for re-election in before being appointed Company Experience 2008.
Prior to GKN he was a Joined GKN in 1994 and has held a range Senior Lecturer in law at Nottingham Law Experience of commercial, general management and School and in house counsel to the then finance roles, most recently as Group Joined Oxford Instruments plc in 1982, state owned machine tool companies.
Appointed Chief became its Chief Executive in 1985 and is a barrister and former Chairman of the Executive Automotive in June 2007.
Prior was Chairman from 1991 until his Primary Markets Group of the London to GKN, he gained experience in the retirement in 1999.
Former Master of Stock Exchange.
commercial vehicle and manufacturing St Catherines College Oxford, former External appointments sector and held senior financial positions President of the British Association for with Laird Group plc and Hestair Duple the Advancement of Science and former Non-executive Director of Charter plc, Ltd.
Member of the Institute of Chartered Chairman of the Engineering and non-executive Director and Trustee of Accountants of Scotland.
Fellow of the Royal Young Enterprise UK, and Vice Chairman Society and of the Royal Academy of former Chairman of the CBI in the West External appointments Engineering.
Non-executive Director of Wolseley plc External appointments and Director of The Society of Motor Manufacturers and Traders Ltd. Chancellor of the University of Leicester.
Non-executive Director of WS Atkins plc and non-executive Chairman of NPL Management Ltd. Chairman of the National Physical Laboratory, Member of the Council for the Foundation for Science and Technology, Trustee of Marie Curie Cancer Care and Treasurer of the Royal Society.
