24 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Powder Metallurgy Sales Trading Profit 602m 29m 2006 582m 2006 31m 15% 9% of Total Group Sales of Total Group Trading Profit POWDER METALLURGY GKN Sinter Metals is the worlds largest manufacturer of sintered components.
It uses powdered metals to manufacture precision automotive components for engines, transmissions, and body and chassis applications.
It also produces a range of components for industrial and consumer applications, including power tools, bearings, white goods and garden equipment.
Hoeganaes produces metal powders, largely steel based, used in the manufacture of sintered components.
on a management basis Milestones achieved in 2007 May July N Ne ew w G GK KN N S Si in nt te er r M Me et ta al ls s f fa ac ci il li it ty y i in n C Ch hi in na a C Co on ns st tr ru uc ct ti io on n w wo or rk k b be eg gi in ns s o on n a a n ne ew w f fa ac ci il li it ty y f fu ul ll ly y o op pe er ra at ti io on na al l i in n A Ar rg ge en nt ti in na a Production of the first powdered metal components at GKN Sinter Metals wholly Work began on the construction of a new facility in Chivilcoy, near Buenos Aires, to owned operation in Danyang, near Shanghai, commenced.
The new facility will support support the anticipated high growth in demand for powder metal components in South production for a series of new business wins in the region, including the manufacture America.
The new plant, which will provide over 10,000 square metres of space, will of connecting rods on a new range of engines for Chery, Chinas largest independent help to position GKN Sinter Metals as a major player in the water oil pump and powder car maker.
metal shock absorber business and to become a key employer in the area.
Andrew Reynolds Smith Chief Executive Powder Metallurgy and OffHighway Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 25 Powder Metallurgy comprises: GKN Sinter Metals Hoeganaes 01 01 GKN Sinter Metals plant in Danyang, China, commenced production in May 2007 and will enhance GKNs capability to provide world leading powder metal technology to customers on a global basis.
02 Through lower cost and weight design, improved machinability and increased strength through multi cavity filling, powder metallurgy brings new benefits to the manufacture of connecting rods which are produced by the division for most of the major automotive manufacturers.
03 Producing over six billion parts every year, GKN Sinter Metals 02 03 manufactures a wide range of automotive and industrial components to highly exacting tolerances.
September October G GK KN N b br ri in ng gs s P Po ow wd fide er r M Me et ta al l a ad dv va an nt ta ag ge es s t to o e en ng gi in ne e C Co om mp pl le et ti io on n o of f o op pe er ra at ti io on na al l f fu ue el l e ef ff fi ic ci ie en nc cy y a ap pp pl li ic ca at ti io on ns s r re es st tr ru uc ct tu ur ri in ng g p pr ro og gr ra am mm me e Variable valve timing systems require a high degree of component performance The final stages of the restructuring programme to align the business to high growth, combined with sophisticated geometry demands and GKN is uniquely positioned to emerging economies were completed.
The programme saw 20% of all powder metal deliver to customers a Design for Powder Metal capability for these applications.
production relocated over a two year period to achieve operational scale and focus, New business secured in 2007 will lead to products being supplied in Europe, North with new facilities created in China and India and expansion in South America.
Automotive Powder Metallurgy OffHighway Aerospace Business Review 26 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 There were significant new business wins in the year in all regions totalling approximately 115 million at annualised rates.
Business Review Powder Metallurgy continued Products Markets Powder Metallurgy sales GKNs Powder Metallurgy business has two elements: Approximately 80% of divisional sales are to automotive by product type GKN Sinter Metals which produces sintered components markets which are discussed in detail on page 20.
The and Hoeganaes which produces metal powders.
They are balance of 20% is to a range of other industries, including largely iron based, although growth is also being seen in office equipment, white goods and home and garden.
the use of aluminium and other alloys.
These markets were generally good in 2007 and, whilst the overall economic outlook for 2008 is less certain, the GKN Sinter Metals trend for continued penetration of powder metallurgy into GKN Sinter Metals utilises powdered metals to these sectors is expected to continue.
manufacture precision automotive components for engines, transmissions, and body and chassis Input costs applications as well as a range of components for other The main raw material is scrap steel where prices were industrial and consumer applications.
Other important input costs relate to nickel and copper where a Although market statistics are somewhat imprecise due to substantial element of our anticipated requirement is Sintered products: GKN Sinter the significant number of small producers, GKN estimates hedged, molybdenum and energy.
Overall, these costs Metals 87% that it has in the region of 15% global market share in the Metal powder: Hoeganaes 13% were also higher than last year although there was a sintered product business.
Approximately 80% of sales downward trend in nickel prices in the second half.
are made to automotive customers with around 35%, either directly or indirectly, to the North American Divisional strategy GKN Sinter Metals sales operations of Chrysler, Ford and General Motors.
Growth in the powder metallurgy market is expected to by region of origin continue, driven primarily by substitution for cast or GKN Sinter Metals is significantly larger than any of its forged components and a developing trend for competitors and as such is well placed to drive technology components to be designed for Powder Metal to take leadership in product and process through the leverage of advantage of net shape and performance capabilities.
Component production takes place in Forecasts for the sintered component market anticipate the Americas, Europe, South Africa and Asia Pacific.
This an increase from approximately 3.5 billion in 2007 to global manufacturing footprint continues to develop with around 5 billion in 2012, a compound annual growth rate the establishment of further operations in India and of some 5%.
In addition, technology advances are China, together with expansion in Argentina, to support expected to open up new product applications which new business secured in both local and other markets.
should lead to growth above this level.
Both operations share a similar strategy which aims to capitalise on this Hoeganaes growth.
Hoeganaes produces principally ferrous based metal Europe 49% powder, the raw material for ferrous based sintered Over the past two years GKN Sinter Metals has focused Americas 45% components.
It is the largest producer of metal powder in Rest of the World 6% on maintaining the profitable expansion of its European North America with approximately 50% market share.
It sintering business whilst returning its US operation to has also continued its development outside the US, profitability following a number of years of heavy losses.
particularly in Europe where sales growth in 2007 was It has also sought to establish a global operational some 30% due to increased usage by GKNs own sintering footprint.
Hoeganaes has focused on growing profitability companies in this region.
Approximately 50% of powder in its European business, improving operating produced by Hoeganaes is shipped to external customers, performance in North America and developing its mainly in the US, and accounts for some 13% of the business cost-effectively in the rapidly growing emerging Powder Metallurgy divisions sales.
With good progress now achieved in each of these areas the division has a short term goal to achieve profit margins in the same range as in GKNs Automotive businesses and to increase top line growth in the range of 6% to 8% annually.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 27 The division aims to achieve this through: of favourable copper and nickel commodity contracts which had benefited the second half of 2006.
In GKN product and process technology leadership to increase Sinter Metals, a volume-led improvement in Europe was the available market and overall technical competitive offset by reductions in North America and Asia.
GKN Sinter advantage: Metals North America was impacted in the second half by customer base diversification, particularly in Asia costs associated with the introduction of new Pacific, so reducing the dependency on a number of programmes as well as some operating inefficiencies as a customers in the US: consequence of the final stages of restructuring.
GKN Sinter Metals operations in broadening the manufacturing footprint in a costAsia made a small loss by comparison with a small profit effective way, particularly through the expansion of in 2006, primarily due to new plant start up costs in China.
facilities in the Asia Pacific region: and Return on sales fell to 4.8% from 5.3% last year but is continuing operational improvement through the anticipated to improve towards the target of 8% to 10% in implementation worldwide of best practice and 2008 as operations in North America stabilise post continuous improvement through the GKN Lean restructuring and new programmes are implemented.
Enterprise programme, focused on both manufacturing and business processes.
Return on invested capital in the period was 6.9% 2006 7.4% against the target of 12%, reflecting the impact of 2007 Highlights the North American issues noted above.
Sales in the year were 602 million compared with 582 million in 2006.
The impact of currency on translation was Net restructuring costs and asset impairments in 2007 22 million negative so that underlying growth was 42 totalled 14 million 2006 24 million.
the closure in the year of plants in North America and Germany and the run out of closures announced in earlier Half of the improvement arose in GKN Sinter Metals in years.
This completed the strategic restructuring and no Europe where there was good demand from nonfurther charges are anticipated in 2008. automotive customers and a number of new automotive programmes came on stream towards the end of the year.
Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets in the period There was also strong growth in GKN Sinter Metals in the totalled 38 million 2006 49 million with depreciation emerging markets of South America and Asia, though of 28 million 2006 28 million.
The ratio of 1.4 times from a smaller base.
In North America the growth was 2006 1.8 times is expected to reduce again in 2008 to slower with the benefit from new business more than around 1.2 times.
offsetting the adverse impact of reduced US automotive production.
The geographical mix of GKN Sinter Metals Research and development activities continued to be www.
com business thus continued the trend away from North focused on increasing density and improving surface America towards other regions with 42% of sales being finish which has led to a number of new applications for made in North America in 2007.
Hoeganaes sales gear components in diesel engines and transmissions.
A improved by over 10%, with the increase predominantly number of potential applications are being explored with reflecting higher surcharges to customers.
automotive VMs which will increase the powder metallurgy content of automatic transmissions.
Trading profit in the year was 29 million compared with 31 million in 2006, with currency accounting for 1 There were significant new business wins in the year in million of the reduction.
The balance was more than all regions which totalled approximately 115 million at accounted for by a fall in profits at Hoeganaes North annualised rates and support the targeted sales growth America where raw material costs were significantly of 6% to 8% per annum.
higher than the previous year and there was an absence 01 02 01 Metal powder the raw material of the powder metallurgy process in which GKN is a world leader.
Hoeganaes is a major producer of metal powder created through a process of atomisation by injecting pressurised water streams into molten metal.
02 Operating from 30 locations around the world, GKN Sinter Metals manufactures over 20,000 different products using the latest in powdered metal technology.
