Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 55 The Boards policy is to have systems in place which optimise the Groups The review process ability to manage risk in an effective and appropriate manner.
The Board The Board reviews the Groups systems of internal control and risk has delegated to the Executive Committee responsibility for identifying, management on an ongoing basis by: evaluating and monitoring the risks facing the Group and for deciding setting the strategy of the business at both Group and divisional level how these are to be managed.
In addition to a formal quarterly review of and, within the framework of this, approving an annual budget and risk management by the Executive Committee, members are expected to medium term projections.
Central to this exercise is a review of the risks report to the Committee as necessary the occurrence of any material and opportunities facing each business and the steps being taken to manage these: control issues, serious accidents or events that have had a major commercial impact, or any significant new risks which have been reviewing on a regular basis operational performance and updated identified.
Such matters are reported to the next Board meeting and or forecasts for the current year.
Comparisons are made with budget and Audit Committee meeting as appropriate.
As part of its remit, the the prior year and appropriate action plans put in place to optimise operational and financial performance: Governance and Risk Sub-Committee develops strategy for and provides oversight and direction on all matters relating to risk management.
It retaining primary responsibility for acquisition and divestment policy, reports formally on an annual basis to the Executive Committee and and the approval of major capital expenditure, major contracts and to the Board.
Below Board level there are clearly defined management authorities for the approval of capital expenditure, major Continuing processes under the oversight of the Executive Committee and contracts, acquisitions, investments and divestments, together with an its Governance and Risk Sub-Committee are in place for all parts of the established framework for their appraisal, which includes a risk analysis and post-implementation plan, and where appropriate, a postGroup to assess the major risks to which their operations are exposed acquisition review: and the way in which such risks are monitored, managed and controlled.
The risks covered by these processes include those relating to strategy, receiving regular reports on the Groups treasury activities, having operational performance, finance including risk financing and fraud, approved the operating policies and controls for this function: product engineering, business reputation, human resources, health and performing at least annually a review of the Groups pension fund safety, and the environment.
These processes are summarised in a risk arrangements and insurance and risk management programmes: map which is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
A summary of receiving an annual report, following its review by the Executive those risks which could have a material impact on the future performance Committee, on corporate social responsibility matters, which includes of the Group is given on pages 37 to 39. the environmental, health and safety performance of the Groups operations: and Each year all Group businesses are required formally to review their reviewing an annual management development and succession plan.
business risks and to report on whether there has been any material The Executive Committee also reviews management development issues breakdown in their internal controls.
This formal review is supplemented at least annually.
by an interim review conducted at the half year.
Companies also have to confirm annually whether they have complied with statutory and The Board receives an annual report from the Audit Committee concerning regulatory obligations as well as with the policies which support the GKN the operation of the systems of internal control and risk management.
Risk profiling is undertaken across all subsidiaries to identify report, together with the reviews by the Board during the year of the accidental risks and highlight action required to mitigate such risks.
matters described above, enables the Board to form its own view on the effectiveness of the systems.
As part of GKNs enterprise risk management programme, a risk profiling software tool has been developed and deployed across the Group.
The The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing control tool provides a consistent set of risk definitions, a common approach to processes, and the actions undertaken by the Committee during 2007 to probability and impact, and strengthens the ability to consolidate discharge this responsibility are described in the Audit Committees report on measurement of risk.
The objective of the Groups risk management page 56.
To assist it in this role the Committee liaises closely with the internal processes is to ensure the sustainable development of GKN through the audit department which, using a risk-based audit programme, reviews and conduct of its business in a way which: tests the systems, controls, processes, procedures and practices across the satisfies its customers: Group.
The Head of Internal Audit, who reports directly to the Finance Director, meets regularly with the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the develops environmentally friendly products and processes: Group Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The departments reports are seen provides a safe and healthy workplace: by the relevant members of the Executive Committee.
The resolution of any protects against losses from unforeseen causes: control issues raised by Board members or in reports reviewed by the Audit Committee are discussed in Committee with management.
minimises the cost and consumption of increasingly scarce resources: prevents pollution and waste: The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal maintains proper relationships with our suppliers and contractors: and control and risk management during the period covered by this annual report.
It confirms that the processes described above, which accord with maintains a positive relationship with the communities in which it the guidance on internal control appended to the Code the revised Turnbull does business.
Guidance, have been in place throughout that period and up to the date of The Groups systems and procedures are designed to identify, manage approval of the annual report.
The Board also confirms that no significant and, where practicable, reduce and mitigate the effects of the risk of failings or weaknesses were identified in relation to the review.
failure to achieve business objectives.
They are not designed to eliminate such risk, recognising that any system can only provide reasonable and Compliance with the Code not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
It is the Boards view that, throughout 2007, GKN was in compliance with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
