36 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review Financing and Risk This section describes the treasury, funding and liquidity management activities undertaken by GKN.
It also summarises the financial and non-financial risks which GKN faces in its global operations.
01 01 Group Treasury are responsible 02 for securing short and long term funding at minimum cost and for the management of financial risks of the Group.
02 As part of the Groups risk management process, each business assesses the likelihood and potential impact of a range of events to determine the overall risk level and to identify actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 37 Capital market borrowings of 705 million include Financing unsecured issues of 350 million 6.75% bonds maturing The following section describes the way in which the in 2019 and 325 million 7% bonds maturing in 2012, Group manages and controls its treasury function and together with 30 million debenture stock of Westland ensures it is financed in an appropriate and cost-effective Group plc, maturing in 2008, which is secured on assets of manner.
that company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Treasury management At the year end the Group had committed borrowing All treasury activities are co-ordinated through a central facilities of 1,090 million, of which 734 million was function Group Treasury, the purpose of which is to drawn.
The weighted average maturity profile of the manage the financial risks of the Group as described Groups committed borrowings was 7.9 years.
This leaves below and to secure short and long term funding at the the Group well placed to withstand sudden changes in minimum cost to the Group.
It operates within a liquidity in the financial markets.
framework of clearly defined Board-approved policies and procedures, including permissible funding and hedging The Group also has access to significant lines of instruments, exposure limits and a system of authorities uncommitted funds which are used principally to manage for the approval and execution of transactions.
Wherever practicable, pooling, on a cost centre basis and is not permitted to make use of netting or concentration techniques are employed to financial instruments or other derivatives other than to minimise gross debt.
hedge identified exposures of the Group.
Speculative use of such instruments or derivatives is not permitted.
At the year end the Group had 145 million on deposit in the UK mainly held in money market funds or with banks www.
com Group Treasury prepares reports at least annually to the at maturities of three months or less.
Board, and on a monthly basis to the Finance Director and other senior executives of the Group.
In addition, liquidity, Financial resources and going concern interest rate, currency and other financial risk exposures At 31 December 2007 the Group had net borrowings of are monitored daily and the gross and net indebtedness of 506 million.
In addition, it had available, but undrawn, the Group is reported on a weekly basis to the Chief committed borrowing facilities totalling 356 million.
Executive and the Finance Director.
The Group Treasury function is subject to an annual internal and external Having assessed the future funding requirements of the review of controls.
Group and the Company, the Directors are of the opinion that it is appropriate for the accounts to be prepared on a Funding and liquidity going concern basis.
The Group funds its operations through a mixture of retained earnings and borrowing facilities, including bank Risks and uncertainties and capital markets borrowings and leasing.
The relative Our business is exposed to a number of risks and proportions of equity and borrowings are governed by uncertainties.
These are designed to preserve prudent financial ratios, including interest, As part of the Groups risk management process each dividend and cash flow cover, whilst also minimising the business assesses the likelihood and potential impact of a overall weighted average cost of capital to the Group.
range of events in the light of their current circumstances and processes, to determine the overall risk level and to All the Groups borrowing facilities are arranged by Group identify actions necessary to mitigate their impact.
A Treasury and the funds raised are then lent to operating detailed description of the Groups procedures to manage subsidiaries on commercial arms length terms.
In some risk is given in the corporate governance statement on cases operating subsidiaries have external borrowings, pages 54 and 55. but these are supervised and controlled centrally.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between This section highlights those risks which could have a continuity of funding and flexibility through borrowing at a material impact on our future financial performance and range of maturities from both capital markets and bank cause results to differ materially from expected and sources.
Bank borrowings are principally in the form of historical results.
Additional risks not currently known or five year committed multi-currency bilateral revolving which are regarded as immaterial could also affect future credit facilities that mature in 2010 with a group of performance.
There were no borrowings against these facilities as at 31 December 2007.
Automotive Financing and Risk Business Review 38 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Financial risk With the concentration of customers noted below, the Business Review The Group is exposed to a variety of market related risks, financial failure of any one of them could have a material Financing and Risk continued including the effects of changes in foreign currency impact on results.
The Group closely monitors credit exchange rates and interest rates.
In the normal course of exposures which are reported to divisional management, business, the Group also faces risks that are either nonand overall divisional performance is reviewed regularly financial or non-quantifiable, including country and by the Executive Committee.
At 31 December 2007 the credit risk.
largest individual debtor balance was 1.1% of Group sales.
In addition to the inherent specific financial risks and their The Group uses interest rate swaps, swaptions, forward management referred to above, there are other, more rate agreements, netting techniques and forward general, financial risks that could have a material adverse exchange contracts as required to manage the primary effect on our business, financial condition, or results of market exposures associated with its underlying assets, operations.
Currency risk Pension and retiree medical risk The Group has transactional currency exposures arising We operate both defined benefit DB and defined from sales or purchases by operating subsidiaries in contribution DC pension plans, together with retiree currencies other than the subsidiaries functional medical arrangements.
The majority of the DB plans are in currency.
Under the Groups foreign exchange policy, such the UK, North America and continental Europe.
Retiree transaction exposures are hedged once they are known, medical arrangements are limited to North America and mainly through the use of forward foreign exchange the UK, where there is a closed scheme.
In total, the DB contracts.
The Group has a significant investment in pension and retiree medical schemes were in deficit by overseas operations, particularly in continental Europe 331 million as at 31 December 2007.
Deterioration in and the Americas.
As a result, the sterling value of the asset prices, changes to real long term interest rates or Groups balance sheet can be affected by movements in the strengthening of longevity assumptions could lead to exchange rates.
The Group therefore seeks to mitigate the an increase in the deficit or give rise to an additional effect of these translational currency exposures by funding requirement.
matching the net investment in overseas operations with Taxation risk borrowings denominated in their functional currencies, The Group operates in over 30 countries and as a except where significant adverse interest differentials or consequence is subject to many complex tax laws and other factors would render the cost of such hedging administrative procedures.
The Groups interpretation and activity uneconomic.
This is achieved by borrowing either implementation of these laws and procedures may be directly in either the local domestic or euro-currency subject to detailed scrutiny by tax authorities undertaking markets or indirectly through the use of rolling annual audits and ultimately litigation, which can take several forward foreign exchange contracts.
Borrowings created years to complete.
through the use of such contracts amounted to 762 million at 31 December 2007 and were denominated in US Amounts accrued and provided for income tax liabilities dollars 46%, euro 44% and Japanese yen 10%.
are based upon managements judgement taking into account their interpretation of tax law in each country and Interest rate risk the likelihood of settlement where there is a tax dispute.
The Group operates an interest rate policy designed to However, actual tax liabilities could differ from the optimise interest cost and reduce volatility in reported provisions made by management and the difference earnings.
To achieve this it maintains a target range of would give rise to an adjustment in a subsequent period fixed and floating rate debt for discrete annual periods, which could have a material impact on the Groups profit over a defined time horizon, partly through the fixed rate and loss and or cash position.
character of the underlying debt instrument, and partly through the use of straightforward derivatives forward Market and customer related risk rate agreements, interest rate swaps and swaptions.
Global economic and political risk Interest rates on all debt capital market issues remain at GKN operates in over 30 countries including several in the fixed rates whilst the balance of debt is at floating rates.
emerging markets of Asia Pacific and Latin America and is, At 31 December 2007, 89% of the Groups gross financial therefore, exposed to a wide range of risks including liabilities were at fixed rates of interest, whilst the political, regulatory, environmental and socio-economic weighted average period in respect of which interest has factors.
However, we are also in a position to benefit from been fixed was 7.9 years.
significant growth opportunities and a diversified business base.
Credit risk The Group is exposed to credit-related losses in the event Cyclical nature of the markets in which we operate of non-performance by counterparties to financial Approximately 56% of our 2007 sales were for automotive instruments, which include trade debtors.
vehicle manufacturers and 20% for original equipment on aircraft or aircraft components.
Credit risk relating to financial institutions is mitigated by the Groups policy of selecting only counterparties with a The automotive industry, in common with other capital strong investment graded long term credit rating, goods industries, is affected by macro-economic normally at least AAor equivalent, and assigning conditions and consumer demand and preferences.
The financial limits to individual counterparties.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 39 military aircraft element of our business is affected by would affect our sales and relationships with our political considerations, particularly in the US, whilst customers.
Contingency plans exist to ensure continuity of civil demand is affected by the number of passenger miles supply, though in most cases this would result in flown which, in turn, is a function of economic growth and additional costs which may or may not be recoverable personal spending power and perceived security risk.
Customer concentration and relationships IT systems reliability, security and change Within the automotive and aerospace industries there is a Our IT systems and networks are secured by formalised significant degree of customer concentration.
As a result back-up systems, hardware, virus protection and other the Group receives approximately 48% of its sales measures but any interruption could lead to disruption in revenue from 11 major global customers.
A breakdown of security or damage arising from damage to any of these relationships or a significant any cause could affect our operational performance or worsening of commercial terms with these customers revenue.
could have a material impact on the Groups results.
Management resources At the same time the Group enjoys good relationships Rapid growth in some of the emerging economies in which with customers who have a strong market share and we operate has, in certain cases, given rise to an derives a significant benefit from trading with customers extremely competitive market for and shortages of of this nature.
Considerable resource is devoted to ensure appropriately qualified personnel.
We address this that these good relationships are maintained and through focused recruitment and a combination of developed.
education, training and retention reward systems to attract and retain key staff in those countries together Technological change with the deployment of experienced GKN management on The markets for our products and services are a secondment basis.
characterised by evolutionary change driven by consumer preference for increased safety and more focus on the Technology risk environmental impact of motor vehicles and aircraft.
We Many of the Groups products are technologically ensure that we are responsive to this by focused advanced or use technologically advanced processes in investment in technological development in all their manufacture and continuous improvement takes businesses.
place as new technology is developed.
In order to maintain the competitiveness of our products we make The credit crunch focused investment in research and development so as to The credit crunch, which has impacted the worlds achieve or maintain technological leadership in our key financial markets in the latter months of 2007 and the businesses and retain the competitive advantage which early part of 2008 and has contributed to uncertainties www.
over near term macro-economic conditions, has not introduced new exposures for the Group.
Rather, it has Environmental risk intensified certain of the financial and market risks noted The environmental laws of various countries impose above in response to which we have intensified our obligations on our businesses to operate in an monitoring and controls in those areas.
Failure to do so would result not only in financial consequences but also in damage to Manufacturing and operational risks our reputation and may impact shareholder value as well Manufacturing strategy as our employees and communities in which we operate.
Strategies are developed with the objective of aligning In environmental terms, our manufacturing processes are production with the lowest available cost base.
Failure to not inherently high risk: nevertheless, great care is taken meet customer requirements as these are implemented to prevent any adverse impact arising.
would impact upon both short and longer term customer relationships.
We have considerable experience of Insurance implementing operational change and a wealth of The Group insures against the impact of a range of experience to draw on to minimise this risk.
unpredicted losses associated with business assets such as buildings, plant, machinery and ensuing financial Product quality and liability impact arising from interruption to the business, as well The nature of our products means that we face an as its liabilities whether statutory or not in connection inherent risk of product liability claims if failure results in with employees, products supplied or the public at large.
any claim for injury or consequential loss.
However, our This insurance takes the form of a significant level of customers require high levels of quality assurance and capped self-insured retention at the Group level within manufacturing systems in place to ensure that our quality GKNs own captive insurance company, Ipsley Insurance record is world class in both Automotive and Aerospace.
Ltd Ipsley, which does not insure the risks of any other Appropriate levels of insurance are in place covering entity and a much lower level of self-insurance at the product liability of third parties although the Group does subsidiary level.
Catastrophe insurance is then purchased not generally insure against the cost of product warranty in the commercial market over and above this level of or recall.
Ipsleys current participation in GKNs insurance programme is 10 million per incident Supply chain capped at 20 million in any one year.
Our manufacturing processes may have dependencies on the availability of specific equipment and raw materials.
An inability to supply because of their non-availability Automotive Financing and Risk Business Review
