28 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review OffHighway Sales Trading Profit 419m 29m 2006 353m 2006 25m 10% 9% of Total Group Sales of Total Group Trading Profit OFFHIGHWAY GKN OffHighway designs, manufactures and distributes a wide range of products and systems for the agricultural, construction and mining, and industrial machinery markets.
It is the leading global supplier of off-highway wheels, agricultural power take-off shafts, and high speed shafts for construction and mining equipment.
A service and distribution business supplies GKNs and other manufacturers products to aftermarket wholesalers and distributors.
on a management basis Milestones achieved in 2007 February February Official opening of GKN Wheels Liuzhou, First deliveries of agricultural gearboxes from Shanghai factory Southern China Deliveries of the first agricultural gearboxes from the new Shanghai facility were made The opening was attended by leaders from GKN, the Liuzhou Government and the to European customers.
It is anticipated that this business will expand helping GKN to British Consul General.
The factory is the first British investment in Liuzhou and will consolidate its market leading position.
contribute to the divisions strategy to be a leading wheels supplier in Southern China.
Andrew Reynolds Smith Chief Executive OffHighway and Powder Metallurgy Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 29 01 01 GKN OffHighway is one of the worlds leading producers of wheels for agricultural, construction and mining equipment with manufacturing facilities in the US, Europe and China.
02 The Caterpillar 988H wheel loader uses high performance driveshafts and wheels from GKNs OffHighway division.
03 GKN OffHighway has strengthened its potential in Asia Pacific through the acquisition and integration of a wheels plant in Liuzhou, Southern China.
The photograph shows the workforce and divisional management at the official opening ceremony.
02 03 November December Advances in agricultural machine GKN Wheels Telford receives prestigious technology showcased John Deere Partner Status Award The new Hydromech gearbox together with unique hydraulic axles and tractor GKN Wheels continued to reinforce its position as the leading supplier of wheels to the attachment systems were showcased at the Agritechnica show in Hanover, Germany.
off-highway market with the achievement by the Telford plant of Partner Status with The gearbox, which features a continuously variable speed drive capability, has been John Deere, the worlds largest manufacturer of agricultural machinery.
introduced on a range of European harvesters.
Automotive Powder Metallurgy OffHighway Aerospace Business Review 30 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 The 2006 acquisitions, notably Rockford, were successfully integrated and are performing in line with or ahead of plan.
Business Review OffHighway continued Products Agriculture OffHighway sales GKN OffHighway designs, manufactures and distributes, In Europe 46% of 2007 divisional sales the overall by market on a global basis, a unique portfolio of products for offagricultural machinery market continued its upward trend.
Its wheels business supplies a wide In North America 14% of divisional sales demand was range of precisely tailored off-highway wheel technologies strong, driven predominantly by high crop prices as a for the agricultural, construction and mining industries.
direct result of biofuel demands.
The axles business produces axles and suspensions for agricultural machinery and rubber torsion axles and Both markets are experiencing some of the highest springs for on and off-highway trailers.
The division is also commodity prices for many years and historically this has a leading supplier of agritechnical driveline and been directly linked to increased agricultural equipment sales.
Construction and mining A service and distribution business supplies GKNs and The European construction and mining machinery market other manufacturers products to aftermarket wholesalers 12% of divisional sales remained solid throughout the and distributors, principally within Europe.
Agriculture 63% year and continued its upward trend.
Construction & Mining 23% Major customers include many of the worlds major offIndustrial Machinery 14% In the US 9% of divisional sales, well publicised highway equipment manufacturers such as John Deere, reductions in housing starts reduced demand in some Caterpillar, Case New Holland, CLAAS and AGCO, with a areas mainly local light construction machinery sales but large percentage of sales going to a wide range of OffHighway sales this was more than offset by exports and continued component users.
by region of origin growth in demand for heavy construction equipment.
Markets Our positioning within emerging markets has increased with During 2007, approximately 63% of divisional sales were the acquisition in 2006 of Liuzhou Wheels in China and to the agricultural market, 23% to the construction and market opportunities in 2008 look positive in this region.
mining equipment market and the balance to the industrial machinery market.
The wheels operation Industrial machinery accounts for over 43% of divisional revenue and has This sector 14% of divisional sales includes products for around a 31% market share in North America and 44% in material handling and a range of other industries.
The power take-off PTO shafts and Demand in this segment in 2007 was flat and the outlook gearbox operation accounts for around 33% of sales, with for 2008 is for little or no change.
market shares of 27% and 51% in those regions.
Europe 71% Americas 26% Rest of the World 3% One of the most complex products manufactured by GKN OffHighway is this engine transmission for a Case New Holland combine harvester.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 31 The SIDRA hydraulic axle is marketed globally by GKN OffHighway and offers the capability to integrate fully independent suspension on trailed equipment and machinery.
This is particularly useful in protecting delicate crops from damage as they are transferred from rough arable land after harvesting.
Trading profit of subsidiaries of 29 million was 4 million Input costs above 2006.
Within this, the Wheels business experienced The cost structure in GKN OffHighway is similar to capacity related inefficiencies in Europe and North Automotive with the major costs being steel, energy and America and under recovery of material costs in the period labour.
In general, the business has been successful in due to timing, whilst in Driveline Systems there were mitigating fully the effect of steel price increases during a additional costs from supply chain disruption which period when end markets for both agricultural and www.
com intensified during the second half of the year.
Liuzhou, construction equipment have been generally firm, though the wheels business acquired towards the end of 2006, the timing of price increases from suppliers or to moved out of loss in the year but its low level of customers may have an impact on a particular reporting profitability diluted divisional margins.
businesses benefited from higher sales and performed Divisional strategy well, with a good contribution from Rockford, the 2006 GKN OffHighways strategy is to achieve value creating acquisition which services construction and mining.
growth whilst at the same time reducing its dependence Margins reduced to 7.0% from 7.1% in 2006 and return on the Western European agricultural market through on invested capital was 17.0% compared with 16.4% increasing its global exposure and broadening its end in 2006. markets by: Capital expenditure on tangible fixed assets of 11 million new, technology-led product development in existing 2006 restated 12 million was 1.1 times 2006 1.3 businesses: times depreciation.
supporting original equipment manufacturers as they GKN OffHighway During the year, the division was successful in attracting relocate production to emerging markets in Eastern a high level of orders and enters 2008 with order books enters 2008 with Europe, Asia Pacific and South America: and at record levels.
order books at making selective bolt-on acquisitions which serve The 2006 acquisitions, notably Rockford, were record levels developing markets or provide adjacent product successfully integrated and are performing in line with technologies.
2007 Highlights The division continued its focus on research and Sales of subsidiaries in the year were 416 million development and the newly developed Hydromech compared with 353 million restated in 2006.
There was gearbox was successfully tested with a European a 6 million reduction from currency translation and a customer and has entered into initial production.
benefit of 27 million from 2006 acquisitions.
The underlying increase of 42 million 12% mainly reflected good conditions in most markets.
