40 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review The GKN Way How we sustain and develop our business The GKN Way encompasses a culture of continuous improvement, development of all our people to raise their capability, a focus on technology, the use of common measures and, at its heart, the GKN Values.
01 02 01 Delivering advanced technology 03 and first class engineering capability to our customers is one of GKNs key strategic objectives and an important element of The GKN Way.
02 Our commitment to the Casa dos Sonhos Foundation in Porte Alegre, Brazil is just one example of how GKN and its employees make a positive contribution to local communities.
03 In addition to ensuring its employees have a safe and healthy place in which to work, GKN is committed to creating an environment in which employees are able to realise their full potential.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 41 At the very core of how we operate in GKN is a culture of continuous improvement in all that we do.
Living the Values Safeguarding shareholders interests GKN is a group of over 42,000 people from many different We describe in the corporate governance statement, on locations around the world, with diverse backgrounds and pages 52 to 55, the governance and control procedures differing experience.
The GKN Way brings them all together we have adopted to ensure that strong stewardship of the with a common global approach to the way we sustain and Group contributes to the sustainability of our business.
It encompasses a culture of The Governance and Risk Sub-Committee of the Board continuous improvement, development of all our people to plays a central role in this with responsibility for raise their capability, a focus on technology, the use of developing strategy and for providing oversight and common measures and, at its heart, the GKN Values.
direction on all matters relating to governance, risk management and corporate social responsibility.
As The Values govern our relationships with all our part of our internal control procedures, Group companies stakeholders whether they are shareholders, employees, are required to confirm compliance with the GKN Code customers, suppliers or the communities in which we and policies.
They are underpinned by the GKN Code which, together with a series of underlying policies, provides a A summary of those risks which could have a material framework for the behaviour of all our employees impact on the future performance of the Group is given on whatever their job and wherever they are located.
All Group companies must have a business continuity plan so that, should a risk materialise Conducting our business with integrity which threatens GKN assets, employees, production or A fundamental tenet of the Code is that all business must the environment in which we operate, we are in a position be conducted with respect for human dignity and rights to minimise disruption of our business with the least www.
com and in accordance with all applicable legal requirements.
Each plan must conform Our ethical standards policy requires all employees to to Group guidelines and be prepared following maintain the highest standards of integrity, honesty and consultation with all key internal and external fair dealing.
We support the Universal Declaration of stakeholders.
Human Rights and do not tolerate the use of child labour or forced labour in our own operations and, through our A continuous improvement culture supplier management policy, we require equivalent At the very core of how we operate in GKN is a culture of standards through our supply chain.
We will continue to continuous improvement in all that we do.
In our business reinforce our reputation through high standards of and production processes we are applying on a global conduct in order to underpin shareholder value.
basis the techniques of Lean Enterprise to identify the value stream for each product and process and ensure that it flows without interruption.
The use of common The GKN Code is designed to ensure that our business in all its aspects continues to be run in an ethical, socially responsible and sustainable manner by: Complying with all relevant laws and regulations wherever we operate and conducting our business with integrity and in such a manner as to reinforce our reputation: Maximising shareholder value whilst safeguarding shareholders investment by combining high standards of business performance with high standards of corporate governance and risk management: Providing excellent products and services to our customers and seeking to win new business through fair competition: Dealing honestly and fairly with our suppliers and subcontractors: Treating our employees justly and with respect, recognising their abilities and differences, rewarding them for their achievements and providing them with a healthy and safe working environment: Playing our part in the protection of the environment both in the operation of our facilities and the design of our products: and Contributing positively to the communities in which we operate.
The GKN Way Business Review 42 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Our objective is to create an environment in which highly skilled and motivated people can achieve the exacting standards demanded in our business, Business Review The GKN Way can develop their careers and provide GKN with a continued sustainable competitive advantage.
measures across the Group enables us to benchmark Central to our learning and development activities is the Employees by region performance against defined goals and against world performance development process PDP through which as at 31 December 2007 class standards.
individual objectives are aligned with business objectives, responsibilities are clarified and competencies are GKNs Enterprise Excellence team, newly formed in 2007, assessed.
Individual development plans focus on enabling has responsibility for driving the focus on Lean Enterprise.
employees to realise their full potential in their current To date, we have trained 250 continuous improvement role whilst at the same time preparing them for the next leaders from our global operations to coach and facilitate step in their career plan.
In relation to production staff employees on how to improve their daily working there is a parallel process based upon the identification of processes on the shop floor and in the offices.
During development needs by reference to appropriate skills 2007, over 1,000 leaders from around the world took part matrices.
in a programme on the leadership skills required to UK 4,900 encourage the further application of the principles of Considerable work has been undertaken to enhance our Continental Europe 14,700 Lean.
In 2008 a further training programme is being senior leadership development programmes with the Americas 13,600 Rest of the World 8,900 launched to provide managers with the necessary skills to result that, over the first four months of 2008, the 60 most drive further improvement into the businesses and deliver senior executives within the Group will attend a including subsidiaries and joint ventures more value through improved productivity and cash programme focused around the next stage of the Groups generation.
The principal theme of the programme is how we will grow and sustain the business by creating, Going forward, all sites are required to develop an annual capturing and delivering value.
Employees by business continuous improvement plan which will engage every as at 31 December 2007 employee in driving more value through increased process Our Organisation and Management Development Review efficiency and the elimination of all forms of waste OMDR process was also improved during 2007 with a including unnecessary cost and time.
Each plan will be more extensive analysis of resource and capability to aligned to a sites business objectives and set out its determine the extent to which the organisation is continuous improvement actions.
equipped to deliver its strategic objectives.
The results, including those relating to career progression and Central to the whole philosophy of Lean are GKNs succession coverage, are reviewed annually by the Board people, without whose engagement such progress would and improvement targets are agreed.
Automotive GKN has a strong track record of recruiting high Subsidiaries 19,800 Raising the capability of our people calibre graduate engineers with the aim of developing Joint ventures 3,800 Within GKN we have high expectations of our people.
their skills as international managers of the future.
Powder Metallurgy GKNs leaders are tasked with growing the global Recently we developed separate graduate programmes in Subsidiaries 6,800 businesses in an environment which is highly competitive China and India, key growth markets for GKN.
The OffHighway and typified by complex supply chains and continually Group also continues to operate apprenticeship schemes Subsidiaries 4,000 developing technologies.
This requires us to harness the across the Group and a programme of employee Aerospace talents of all our employees and enable everyone to international assignments.
Subsidiaries 7,700 contribute to their full potential.
Our objective is to create an environment in which highly skilled and motivated Engaging more fully with our employees people can achieve the exacting standards demanded in The extent to which our employees are engaged in the our business, can develop their careers and provide GKN business is an important indicator of our ability to deliver with a sustainable competitive advantage.
Whilst all divisions are required to carry out employee surveys every two years, during GKNs Enterprise Excellence team is focused on raising the 2008 a standard form of employee survey will be launched capability of our people.
Three global centres of across the Group which will focus on measuring levels of excellence have been created covering reward, HR employee engagement.
business processes and organisational capability, and a further one is planned with the specific remit to further Effective two-way communication is at the heart of improve employee engagement.
These centres of employee engagement and within GKN we have a variety excellence provide a heightened focus for the of mechanisms at all levels of the organisation to support identification of areas for improvement and the this, including daily team meetings, presentations, implementation of actions globally to address them.
Consultation mechanisms exist Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 43 worldwide across the Group to provide open Delivering advanced technology communication between management and employees Delivering advanced technology and first class whether or not unionised.
The European Works Council, engineering capability to our customers is a key strategic which covers all European businesses, has operated objective.
During the year we strengthened our since 1995. technology focus through the newly created Enterprise Excellence team which has assumed responsibility for Under our employment policy all Group businesses must developing the Groups technology strategy.
At the start of adopt practices which ensure that employees are treated 2008 a new position of Group Technology Officer was justly and with respect and that their abilities, differences created with responsibility for executing the Group and achievements are recognised, thereby ensuring a technology plan to secure the appropriate technology for positive, inclusive working environment.
Employment GKNs long term development in line with our strategic decisions must be based on qualifications and merit and objectives.
The Group Technology Officer works closely all businesses must ensure a working environment free with the Technology Sub-Committee, which comprises from all forms of discrimination and from any form of senior divisional engineering executives, to identify those conduct which could be considered to be harassing, technologies, beyond the individual divisional technology coercive or disruptive, together with working conditions plans, that are necessary for growth and to focus resource which are safe and healthy.
on developing GKNs position in these areas.
Employee-related policies are designed to encourage Working with our suppliers individuals to report and discuss problems on a Our suppliers play an integral part in the sustainability of confidential basis and provide expeditious and our business and it is essential that they conduct their confidential grievance procedures.
GKN operates business in a manner that supports our commitment to international whistleblowing hotlines which are run by world class performance.
Our supplier management policy external and independent third parties and are available encourages Group companies to develop and maintain value 24 hours a day.
The hotlines ensure that employees can adding relationships with our supply base.
It prohibits make on an anonymous basis if preferred confidential companies from engaging suppliers that offer inadequate disclosures about suspected impropriety and wrongdoing.
health and safety standards for employees, infringe The policy requires that employees are able to make such internationally accepted standards of workers rights, use disclosures without fear of recrimination.
Any matters child or forced labour, adopt unsound environmental reported are investigated and escalated to the Audit practices, have poor standards of social responsibility or Committee as appropriate.
that fail to comply with relevant laws and regulations.
Recognising excellence Providing a safe place to work Our Group Excellence Awards are designed to Ensuring that our employees have a safe and healthy www.
com encourage individuals and teams to excel in all of the key place in which to work will always be a priority for GKN.
In areas which are recognised as essential to the strategic pursuit of our ultimate goal of zero preventable accidents and sustainable development of the business.
Annual we focus on strong, visible and supportive leadership awards are made for customer service, production and accompanied by a commitment from employees to take business process excellence, people excellence and best ownership of their own health and safety and that of their practice sharing, technology innovation, safety, immediate colleagues.
To strengthen our safety culture, environment, and society and community.
The awards during 2007 we deployed an assessment tool containing nurture the principle of continuous improvement in 12 characteristics of safety excellence which is now being everything we do and recognise truly outstanding used across the Group to guide sustainable performance across our business.
We also developed and piloted RADAR Risk Awareness, Detection, Action and Review, a safety tool which operates at work team level so that employees can play a more active role in accident prevention.
This is being launched Group-wide in 2008.
Accident frequency rate AFR Accident severity rate ASR Number of lost time accidents per 1,000 employees Number of days shifts lost due to accidents and occupational ill health per 1,000 employees 10 200 8 160 6 120 4 80 2 40 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 0 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 0 Automotive The GKN Way Business Review 44 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Business Review The GKN Way continued CO emissions per unit of production kg tonne Energy consumption per unit of production kWh tonne 2 6,000 2,400 2,000 5,000 1,600 4,000 1,200 3,000 2,000 800 1,000 400 0 0 Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway Automotive Metals Automotive Metals 2005 2006 2007 Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales 2005 2006 2007 Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales 3 Waste generation per unit of production kg tonne Water consumption per unit of production m tonne 450 12 375 10 300 8 225 6 150 4 75 2 0 0 Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway Automotive Metals Automotive Metals Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales 2005 2006 2007 Aerospace measured against 1,000 sales 2005 2006 2007 see explanatory note on page 45 Our commitment to safeguarding employees health Minimising our impact on the environment extends to work related ill health and we continue to Our commitment to protecting the environment is focused develop our occupational health monitoring capabilities.
both on minimising the impact of our operations and on making a contribution towards a sustainable future Accident frequency rate AFR and accident severity rate through the design of our products.
ASR are key performance indicators for the Group and our performance against these in 2007 is reported on page 11 GKNs environmental management system EMS, and is shown in the charts on page 43.
2007 is the tenth originally introduced in 1994, and to which all Group consecutive year of performance improvement.
Over that businesses must adhere, is broadly based on the period our AFR and ASR performance has improved by 91% international standard ISO 14001.
At its core is a and 82% respectively and our serious injury rate SIR has requirement for continuous improvement driven by improved by 87%.
Each business is required to target regular measurement and evaluation of performance, aggressive annual performance improvements.
Targets are identification and implementation of action plans, and set primarily at plant level where they can best reflect the measurement of results.
particular needs, risks, and priorities of each site.
In 2007, 73% of plants maintained or improved their excellent AFR Reporting on performance performance and 67% met their AFR targets.
For ASR, Our performance against the key health and safety and environmental indicators is measured on a regular basis and performance was maintained or improved by 70% of plants, reports are made quarterly to the Sub-Committee on and 60% met their targets.
Governance and Risk and to the Executive Committee.
A half yearly report is also made to the Board.
Significant health During 2007, five health and safety enforcement actions and safety and environmental incidents are reported to none of which carried a penalty occurred in plants in Executive Committee members within 24 hours and Canada and the UK.
There were no fatalities of employees reviewed at the Committees next meeting.
or contractors on GKN sites.
In early 2008 a new web-based reporting tool was launched Group-wide to facilitate both the collection of data and, Group businesses are required to confirm and certify the more importantly, its analysis and use by management at all accuracy of the data that they report.
A programme of levels to help drive improved performance.
safety review visits by senior executives and the Group A specialists forum, comprising divisional and corporate Safety Adviser also assists with data verification and centre representatives, meets as required to discuss best enables continuous improvement of safety systems and practice as well as specific issues in relation to the performance.
Many GKN businesses now incorporate in management of accidental risk that either its members or their operational procedures features from the Health and the Sub-Committee on Governance and Risk believe Safety Management System OHSAS 18001 and 30 Group require attention.
companies have achieved certification to this standard.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 45 Recycled waste % of total waste 100 80 60 40 20 0 Aerospace Driveline Other Hoeganaes Sinter OffHighway Automotive Metals 2005 2006 2007 We measure the impact of our operations on the As a founder member of the UK Emissions Trading environment against the key performance indicators of Scheme, GKN committed to reducing carbon emissions by energy consumption and associated carbon dioxide CO 10,000 tonnes by 2007 from a 1998 to 2000 average 2 emissions, water usage, waste generation and recycled baseline.
Not only did we meet our obligations under the waste.
Operating sites are required to set targets, Scheme for each of the five years but we achieved a particularly on energy consumption, water use and reduction of over 50,000 tonnes in total.
The incentive waste generation, in line with our commitment to payments were used to support energy saving projects in continuous improvement.
Our performance against these measures in 2007 is A common theme across our businesses is the drive reported on page 11 and is shown in the charts above.
through technology developments to produce lighter Most businesses either improved or maintained their weight products, offering opportunities for manufacturers performance with certain exceptions.
The sharp increase of cars and light vehicles and of aircraft to improve fuel in waste generation at Hoeganaes is accounted for by the economy and thereby reduce CO emissions.
GKN 2 removal of a slag stockpile at its Gallatin plant in the US Drivelines countertrack technology for sideshafts is www.
com classified as waste, the ferrous content of which was estimated to reduce fuel consumption by 1% on a typical separated for on-site recycling with the non-ferrous four wheel drive V6 vehicle, saving 1g km of CO 2 content being recycled for off-site construction purposes.
If applied to every vehicle on which GKN The relatively high water consumption at OffHighway is sideshafts are fitted this would save 0.5 million tonnes of due to the use of water from a borehole at our major CO per annum.
The increasing use of composite and 2 manufacturing site in Lohmar, West Germany.
This is used lightweight complex metallics on airframe structures in a once through cooling process and is discharged offers similar potential benefits.
GKN Aerospaces recently without contamination into surface water.
The designed blended winglet made from composite material performance of Other Automotive includes the first full is estimated to provide up to 6% fuel savings on a high year of production at the cylinder liner operation in China.
utilisation global aircraft such as the B767-300 ER.
Aviation Partners Boeing, our customer for the product, During the year there were six environmental enforcement estimates that by 2010 blended winglets will have saved actions against GKN companies, all of which were in the the worlds airlines over two billion US gallons of fuel US.
The majority of these actions were due to minor which equates to 20 million tons of CO emissions.
2 breaches of permit requirements which did not result in any significant environmental damage.
Fines totalling Contributing to our communities $33,000 have been issued by the relevant authorities 2007 has been a very significant year for GKN with regard although the penalty with regard to one of the actions to our commitment to make a positive contribution to the remains under negotiation.
communities in which we operate.
Our achievements are described on pages 46 and 47.
We are immensely proud We are committed to achieving accreditation to ISO 14001 of our employees who not only rose to the challenge of at all our manufacturing sites worldwide.
Over 100 of our raising an additional $0.5 million in their local sites employing some 85% of our global workforce are communities but far exceeded this target, raising in total now certified to ISO 14001.
A number of recently acquired in cash and time donations an additional $1.7 million.
sites will be working towards accreditation.
We look forward to another successful year in 2008.
GKN Mission Everest has drawn employees closer together and it has set a record for human achievement.
But above all else it has transformed the lives of some of the worlds poorest children.
Automotive The GKN Way Business Review 46 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 The Chevron Quest GKN Mission Everest To support the GKN Mission Everest project, GKN also launched what became known as the Chevron AN INSPIRING YEAR Quest.
This was a unique project that saw a gold OF ADVENTURE GKN Chevron visit plants all round the world to provide further stimulus for employees to engage On 14 May 2007, a team sponsored and supported with their communities on a huge scale.
The by GKN became the first to fly a powered paraglider Chevron set off from the Groups annual European above the Himalayas, higher than Mount Everest Forum in Paris in April and during the next seven itself.
This record breaking flight, piloted by Bear months it visited 47 GKN facilities in 23 countries Grylls, was more than just an incredible travelling a total distance of 148,740 miles the achievement, it was the focal point and inspiration equivalent of six circumnavigations of the world.
for a year of extraordinary endeavour by GKN From China to the US and from India to the UK, employees around the world.
employees rose to the challenge, demonstrating both individual humanity and collective The Challenge commitment to their communities.
GKN Mission Everest challenged GKN employees to do more for their communities by raising an Contributing to our communities additional $500,000 in money and time donations.
The many stories which demonstrate the GKN promised to recognise their local efforts by compassion shown by our employees are too helping children in Africa.
During the year numerous to describe in this report but a few employees far exceeded this target contributing an representative examples are given below.
Others extra $1.7 million to their communities in the are featured on our website Americas, Europe and Asia Pacific.
addition to their usual, long-standing projects to support people in need and the local infrastructure At our Driveline plants in India the entire workforce on which they depend.
donated their earnings for one day to three local projects to educate children of workers at a The African dimension nearby brick kiln, to provide facilities for children Meanwhile, in recognition of our employees with disabilities, and to help women learn new achievements, GKN, working with international skills from which to earn a living.
GKN Driveline charity Global Angels, identified five childrens employees at the Celaya plant in Mexico provided charities in Africa and contributed $500,000 to help and support for a local retirement home, made provide dormitories, school buildings, fresh water donations of toys to a home for handicapped supplies and protection against malaria and other children and distributed clothes and blankets to diseases.
We will provide a further $500,000 to the poor during the Mexican winter.
childrens projects in Africa during 2008.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 47 In Germany, GKN employees from Offenbach saved The team drew its members from the entire a childrens playground from closure and also spectrum of the global GKN team.
Several team completely refurbished it.
In the US, GKN members had won their place by entering a global Aerospace employees engaged in a similar competition and others had decided to pay their www.
com project to upgrade an important public park in a own way to be part of the adventure.
During the city neighbourhood for African Americans.
trek the team were moved by the plight of an Hoeganaes employees played a part in the orphanage for girls in Nepal and succeeded in reconstruction of housing in New Orleans donating funds to complete its refurbishment.
Living the Values Employees at our Wheels plant in Liuzhou, China, GKN Mission Everest has proved to be an have taken to their hearts children at a local special inspirational global success.
It has brought the needs school where they provide practical support, Group closer to the communities around the world and Sinter employees in South Africa have in which it operates, it has drawn employees closer provided financial and practical help to a childrens together and it has set a record for human home called Mollys Place.
But above all else it has transformed Aerospace team established GKNs Rural the lives of some of the worlds poorest children.
It Connection to provide relief to communities has also given eloquent expression to GKNs Values affected by drought, bushfires, floods and other which embody the power of team work and the agricultural issues.
obligation which companies have to contribute to the wider society of which they are a part.
Trekking to base camp Behind all these efforts lay the inspiration of GKNs Inspired by the achievements of GKN Mission adventures in the Himalayas not only the record Everest, the Group is launching a successor project breaking flight but also the GKN Trek.
This saw a in 2008 GKN Hearts of Gold to encourage and team of 20 employees come together to trek up to sustain a continuing high level of engagement by the GKN Mission Everest base camp at a GKN people with their local communities and breathtaking altitude of 4,252 metres.
Drawn from society at large.
all round the world, the trek team played a major role in the flight preparations and embodied the sense of individual and collective endeavour that has characterised all aspects of GKN Mission Everest.
Automotive The GKN Way Business Review
