50 GKN plc Annual Report 2007 Directors Report Business review All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a The principal businesses of the Group are described on pages 18 to 35 of change of control.
Outstanding options and awards normally vest and the business review.
A review of the development of those businesses in become exercisable on a change of control subject to the satisfaction of 2007 and their position at the end of that year, events affecting the Group any performance conditions at that time.
since the end of the year and likely future developments are referred to in As referred to in the Directors remuneration report on page 61, the the Chief Executives statement on pages 5 to 7 and in the business executive Directors service agreements provide for payment of a review: the latter also includes an indication of the research and predetermined amount equivalent to one years salary and benefits on development activities of the Group.
An assessment of the Groups termination by the Company of a Directors service agreement on less exposure to financial risks and a description of how these risks are than due notice within 12 months of a change of control of GKN plc.
managed are also included in the business review, together with a description of other principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
Substantial shareholders The business review and the Chief Executives statement are each In accordance with the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules of the incorporated into this Directors report by reference.
Financial Services Authority, at 27 February 2008 the Company had received notification of the following holdings exceeding the 3% Share capital notification threshold: The authorised share capital of the Company as at 31 December 2007 Nature of No.
of shares % of was 450 million divided into 900 million ordinary shares each with a Shareholder Interest voting rights issued capital nominal value of 50p.
At the end of 2007, 743,699,431 fully paid ordinary Standard Life Investments Ltd Direct 35,663,510 5.06 shares were in issue, including 38,659,142 ordinary shares 5.2% of the Indirect 29,499,095 4.18 issued share capital held in treasury and 2,186,244 ordinary shares Total 65,162,605 9.24 issued during the year in connection with the exercise of options under Mondrian Investment Partners Ltd Direct 43,849,886 6.24 the Companys share option schemes.
Each share other than the treasury shares which have no voting rights carries the right to one vote on a poll AXA SA Direct 6,904,169 0.98 at a general meeting of the Company.
Indirect 28,271,520 4.01 Total 35,175,689 4.99 The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
In addition, Bank of New York Mellon Corp.
Direct 34,973,762 4.96 GKN has a sponsored Level 1 American Depository Receipt ADR Schroders plc Indirect 34,685,344 4.93 programme for which the Bank of New York Mellon acts as Depositary.
The ADRs trade on the US over-the-counter market where each ADR Legal & General Group plc Direct 28,645,996 4.06 represents one GKN ordinary share.
Annual General Meeting At the Annual General Meeting in May 2007, the Company was authorised The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at 2.00 pm on to purchase up to 70,285,404 of its own ordinary shares, representing Thursday 1 May 2008 at the Institution of Engineering and Technology, slightly less than 10% of the issued share capital of the Company Savoy Place, London WC2R 0BL.
The notice of meeting, which includes excluding treasury shares at 31 December 2006.
No shares were the special business to be transacted at the meeting, is included within purchased under this authority during 2007. the AGM circular.
The circular also contains an explanation of all the resolutions to be considered at the AGM.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares are contained in the articles of association, a copy of which can be viewed on Dividend GKNs website or can be obtained by writing to the Company Secretary.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 9.2p per ordinary share in The articles can only be changed by special resolution of the respect of the year ended 31 December 2007 payable on 14 May 2008 to shareholders.
shareholders on the register at the close of business on 25 April 2008.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of the This, together with the interim dividend of 4.3p paid in September 2007, Companys ordinary shares and no requirements for prior approval of any brings the total dividend for the year to 13.5p per share.
Under the Companys articles, the Directors have power to Key dates for the dividend reinvestment plan as it will operate in respect suspend voting rights and the right to receive dividends in respect of of the proposed 2007 final dividend are given on page 122. shares in circumstances where the holder of those shares fails to comply with a notice issued under section 793 of the Companies Act 2006.
Directors The constitution of the Board and of its Committees, together with Change of control biographical notes on the Directors, is shown on pages 48 and 49.
The Companys subsidiary, GKN Holdings plc, entered into separate agreements on 27 July 2005 with the following banks each in respect of a The articles of association provide that a Director may be appointed by an bi-lateral banking facility in an amount of 35 million: Barclays Bank plc, ordinary resolution of shareholders or by the existing Directors, either to BNP Paribas, Calyon, Commerzbank Aktiengesellschaft, Citibank N. A. fill a vacancy or as an additional Director.
Further information on GKNs Deutsche Bank A. G. HSBC Bank plc, ING Bank N. V. The Royal Bank of internal procedures for the appointment of Directors is given in the Scotland and Wachovia Bank National Association.
Each agreement corporate governance statement on page 54 in the section on the provides that, on a change of control of the Company, the bank can give Nominations Committee and on GKNs website.
notice to GKN Holdings plc to repay all outstanding amounts under the relevant facility.
As at 29 February 2008, the Company had not been advised of any changes or additions to these notifiable interests.
Annual Report 2007 GKN plc 51 The Board of Directors, which is responsible for the management of the by the PAC, and the Company does not therefore consider these to be business, may exercise all the powers of the Company subject to the political donations.
Employee contributions are entirely voluntary and no provisions of relevant legislation and the Companys memorandum and pressure is placed on employees to participate.
Under US law, an articles of association.
The powers of the Directors set out in the articles employee-funded PAC must bear the name of the employing company.
include those in relation to the issue and buyback of shares.
Payments to suppliers Sir Ian Gibson retired as a Director of the Company on 31 December 2007.
It is Group policy to abide by the payment terms agreed with suppliers, He had been a non-executive Director of the Company since 2002 and provided that the supplier has performed its obligations under the was appointed Senior Independent Director in January 2006.
Given the nature and diversity of the Groups international Directors would like to record their appreciation of the significant purchasing arrangements and contracts, it is not Group policy to follow contribution Sir Ian has made to the Group during this time.
any specific code or standard in relation to payment practice.
In accordance with the provisions for retirement by rotation in the GKN plc, as a holding company, did not have any amounts owing to trade Companys articles of association, Nigel Stein, John Sheldrick and Sir creditors at 31 December 2007.
Peter Williams retire at the AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
As Directors appointed during the year, Marcus Bryson, Corporate governance Andrew Reynolds Smith and Bill Seeger retire at the forthcoming AGM The Boards statement on corporate governance is given on pages 52 to and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
Richard Parry-Jones, 55 and the Directors remuneration report is set out on pages 57 to 68. appointed with effect from 1 March 2008, also retires at the AGM and offers himself for re-election further details can be found in the AGM Directors responsibility for the accounts circular.
In addition, in order to comply with the provisions of the At the end of each financial year the Directors are required by the Combined Code, Roy Brown, Chairman, being a non-executive Director Companies Act 1985 to prepare accounts which give a true and fair view of who has served on the Board for more than nine years, also retires at the the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group and of the profit or loss AGM and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
of the Group for that year.
In preparing the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007, appropriate accounting policies, supported by Directors interests in GKN shares are shown on pages 64 to 68. reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates, have been used consistently.
The Group accounts have been prepared on the basis of Pursuant to the articles of association, the Company has executed a deed applicable International Financial Reporting Standards effective and poll of indemnity for the benefit of the Directors of the Company and endorsed by the European Union as at 31 December 2007 and the persons who were Directors of the Company in respect of costs of Company accounts have been prepared in accordance with UK applicable defending claims against them and third party liabilities.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the remain in force.
The indemnity provision in the Companys articles of Company and the Group keep proper accounting records which disclose association also extends to provide a limited indemnity in respect of with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company liabilities incurred as a director, secretary or officer of an associated and the Group and which enable them to ensure that the accounts comply company of the Company.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for ensuring that an appropriate system of internal control is in operation to A copy of the deed poll of indemnity and of the Companys articles of provide them with reasonable assurance that the assets of the Company association are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and the Group are properly safeguarded and to ensure that reasonable during normal business hours and will be available for inspection at the steps are taken to prevent or detect fraud and other irregularities.
The circular containing the notice of meeting sets out details of the Auditors amendments to the articles of association which will be proposed at the Resolutions to reappoint  LLP as auditors of the AGM and where the full text of those amendments can be inspected.
Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the AGM.
Donations Contributions to good causes made by Group companies around the Audit information world, other than those in connection with GKN Mission Everest, Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this amounted to some 581,500 in 2007.
This included cash donations to UK Directors report confirms that, so far as he is aware, there is no relevant registered charities of 144,500 for educational purposes and 22,300 audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
In addition, as part of its commitment to GKN Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director Mission Everest, the Company donated $500,000 to charities in Africa.
in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to Further details of this and other community activities are given on pages establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
On behalf of the Board It is the policy of the Group not to make political donations.
During 2007, no donations were made to EU political organisations, no EU political expenditure was incurred and no contributions to political parties outside the EU were made within the meaning of section 364 of the Companies Act 2006.
Grey Denham Secretary The Groups US Aerospace business has a Political Action Committee 27 February 2008 PAC which is funded entirely by employees and their spouses.
No funds are provided to the PAC by GKN and any administrative services provided to the PAC by the US Aerospace business are fully charged to and paid for Directors Report
