We consult our stakeholders in many ways.
From shareholders, patients, governments, non-government organisations, payers and employees we hear many different questions.
For this years Annual Report we have focused on five key questions that lie at the heart of the business.
Summary Our markets are changing and we are evolving rapidly to re ect the new environment.
We Q are well-positioned, relative to our peers.
A Innovative programmes to reduce expenditure and work more closely with customers.
How are you adapting your Positioned to take advantage of opportunities in business model to succeed the growing healthcare economies.
in the current healthcare environment?
Reducing expenditure Cost remains a major issue for our customers because the demand for Diversity and balance healthcare continues to increase, driven by ageing populations and We operate in a fast-changing market from both a regulatory and rising expectations.
We are committed to working with governments payer perspective.
Regulators are becoming increasingly risk conscious to reduce total healthcare costs and to lowering our own expenditure and payers more cost conscious.
It is imperative that pharmaceutical so that we operate more ef ciently and pro tably in a lower priced companies, including GSK, modernise and evolve to re ect these environment enabling us to continue our investment in R&D.
At the same time, we are adopting a more exible and creative As we move forward into this changing environment, we are wellapproach to product pricing.
We are alert to opportunities to share positioned, relative to our peers.
Because we are a broad-based, risk with customers as a means of demonstrating that we have great  and well-balanced Group encompassing belief in our medicines and that we only expect to be rewarded when Pharmaceuticals, vaccines and Consumer Healthcare.
our medicines deliver the anticipated bene ts.
Through the intellectual property system, we have a relatively short patent Our Operational Excellence programmes, which are an important part exclusivity for traditional small molecule chemical pharmaceuticals.
of our strategy, mean we are improving ef ciency year-on-year.
We However, Biological Medicines, vaccines and Consumer Healthcare are also working hard to lower the cost of developing products and products generally have a signi cantly longer product life cycle.
Our have already outsourced some areas of our business to lower-cost presence in all these sectors will continue to grow and enables us to countries.
We will continue to assess and capture other opportunities better balance risk and sustain growth.
Growing the pipeline Seizing global opportunities In recent years, our pipeline has expanded and owed more quickly Globalisation is an increasingly important factor in the business than ever before.
Seven years ago we had relatively few products in our landscape.
In the past, we have derived most of our growth from the late-stage pipeline.
Today we have 157 projects in clinical development, established economies of the USA, Europe and Japan.
Countries such of which 118 are NCEs or new vaccines: this includes 34 key assets in as Brazil, Russia, India and China often known as the BRIC markets late stage development.
They are increasingly able to afford good quality healthcare, opening up signi cant new markets which will be This is a signi cant transformation, driven largely by changes we have important future growth areas for GSK.
made to both our research and development R&D hardware and software.
We have radically changed the R&D infrastructure, breaking Investing in our people down the traditional big bureaucratic pharma model into R&D Centres We will only reach our potential through the support and talent of of Excellence for Drug Discovery CEDDs.
At the same time, we are highly motivated people.
Our ambition is to be the place where great evolving and adapting our culture, helping our talented people to people apply their energy and passion to make a difference in the improve the quality of our science and management.
Their skills and intellect are key components in the successful implementation of our strategy.
During 2007 we continued to invest in We will continue to ensure that we are creating new medicines recruiting and training the best scientists and other professionals.
targeted at unmet medical need, and we will focus on developing these medicines in a way that allows regulators to make a clear assessment about the relative risks and bene ts.
4 I GSK Annual Report 2007 Summary Our Consumer Healthcare business is a key part of GSK.
It is a pro table, logical, Q complement to our Pharmaceutical operation with a powerful portfolio and a healthy pipeline.
Outstanding performance in 2007, with doubledigit sales growth.
A Excellent prospects, particularly in developing Why do you have a Consumer economies.
Opportunity to share expertise and resources across the two businesses.
A healthy performance Consumer Healthcare is an important business to us.
Not only does Steady, long-term growth helps balance the it provide an excellent balance with our Pharmaceuticals operation, it Pharmaceutical business.
is also a thriving business in its own right which is delivering a strong performance for shareholders.
Consumer Healthcare has shown signi cant acceleration in top line Sharing strengths performance, with sales growth up 14% in 2007.
It has a powerful The Consumer Healthcare and Pharmaceuticals businesses are portfolio that includes Lucozade, Sensodyne, Panadol, Horlicks and not stand alone entities, but are complementary and synergistic Aquafresh, a brand which has bene ted from investment and the in a number of important areas.
They are both backed by science launch of new brand extensions.
2007 also saw the successful endorsed strategies and a focus on R&D.
US launch of alli, the first over-the-counter OTC weight loss aid approved by the Food and Drug Administration FDA, which is There is a growing trend worldwide for patients to manage their currently being reviewed by European regulatory authorities.
own healthcare, choosing OTC products, rather than relying on Through our Consumer Healthcare business, and its expertise in a prescription a behaviour in which our Consumer Healthcare sales and marketing, we are well placed to be the partner of choice professionals are richly experienced.
We are able to draw on these for switch products, bringing them from the prescription to the skills and knowledge in our Pharmaceutical business and share OTC market.
We also share expertise and resources in other areas, such as regulatory matters, R&D, marketing, distribution and Top five Consumer Healthcare products by turnover 2007 procurement.
Products Turnover Getting the balance right 2007 m The Pharmaceuticals business operates in a tough climate.
Increased legislation, cautious regulatory regimes and pricing pressures are Lucozade 347 among the key challenges that face any pharmaceutical company.
Aquafresh 308 At the same time, the patent framework for pharmaceutical products Sensodyne 293 tends to result in a relatively short life cycle for even the most Panadol 262 successful treatments.
Horlicks 174 In contrast, our Consumer Healthcare business offers long-term, Capitalising on long-term potential steady cash ow.
A broad portfolio of pharmaceutical and OTC Global healthcare markets are in a state of change.
For example, there products can help mitigate the impact of losses to generics and help is an increasing trend for governments to cut state healthcare costs by smooth the more volatile nature of the pharmaceutical markets.
in uencing a switch from prescription to generic or OTC products.
Looking ahead, healthcare is becoming more consumer-centred.
People expect to be able to access medical knowledge and to in uence their own treatments.
For many, OTC products are their first destination for everyday healthcare.
We expect that the highest rates of growth for all healthcare businesses will be driven by the developing, emerging economies.
OTC is the foundation of healthcare in these countries.
In China, for example, OTC accounts for 36% of drug expenditure, compared to 8% in North America and 10% in Western Europe.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 5 Summary To ensure that we remain an industry leader, we are addressing the issues which face the Q pharmaceutical sector.
Investment to achieve industry leading R&D productivity.
A new 1.5 billion Operational Excellence A programme.
Share prices in the sector A 10% increase in the dividend paid to our shareholders for 2007. havent performed well, The largest share buy-back programme in the what is the outlook for GSK?
Attracting and retaining the best employees.
Sector challenges After many years of sustained value creation for shareholders, the pharmaceutical sector has suffered a fide-rating since the beginning of 2001.
The main factor behind the fide-rating is that R&D productivity, Taking action to create long-term value which is integral to the growth of the pharmaceutical industry, has The Board and management continually review GSKs business strategy declined.
Share price valuations in the past also included more value for and the external environment with a view to achieving growth on a the longer-term potential of R&D pipelines than is currently the case.
At the same time, the level of generic competition has intensi ed.
Our industry has a long-term investment cycle, driven primarily by the GSK has been able to withstand this pressure better than many of our time it takes to develop a new pharmaceutical product at least 10 peers because of the broad nature of our product line, a ow of new years.
The decisions taken over the last seven years that have improved products from our pipeline and the greater protection we experience R&D productivity at GSK, will still take time to have a major impact on in our vaccines and Consumer Healthcare businesses.
However, as investors become more con dent in our strategy and key pipeline products make it to the market, this will begin In fact every year since the merger at the end of 2000 we have delivered increased sales, at CER, despite challenging market conditions.
In to be factored into our share price.
financial terms, over the same period, total returns to shareholders At the same time, we are very focused on taking action to enhance for GSKs peer group were down 29%.
The total return to GSK returns for shareholders by accelerating our ef ciency programmes shareholders over this period was down 15%, above the performance and returning cash to shareholders through dividends and share buyof the peer group.
The Board approved a 10% increase in its dividend for 2007 and in July, GSK announced the largest share buy-back programme 2007 the Avandia factor in the industry.
In 2007 GSKs share price fell by 5% compared to an increase in the FTSE 100 index of 4%.
That was disappointing for our investors, a After the third quarter, we announced a signi cant new 1.5 billion signi cant number of whom are also our employees.
Operational Excellence programme to improve the ef ciency and productivity of our operations.
This is expected to deliver annual savings We started 2007 strongly and achieved several important milestones of up to 700 million by 2010. including the launches of Tykerb and the FDA approval of alli.
In the first quarter, we beat expectations and delivered EPS growth Reducing costs does not mean cutting down on talent.
As the market received this positive news our share price worldwide as a Group where the best people can do their best work outperformed most of our peers.
Then, in May 2007, an article in the and we continue to attract, retain and reward the brightest employees New England Journal of Medicine NEJM suggested that there may from sales teams on the front line to the scientists who are at the be cardiovascular risk associated with Avandia, our second largest forefront of discovering new therapies.
This was followed by intense media coverage and despite our efforts to explain the entirety of the data, which did not con rm this risk, doctors were reluctant to prescribe Avandia for new patients without further FDA guidance.
Sales of Avandia dropped signi cantly and this had a negative impact on our share price.
Following clari cation from the FDA in October 2007, we now have a new approved label and can move ahead with more clarity.
6 I GSK Annual Report 2007 Summary This has been a good year for our R&D team.
A number of important products and potential Q products moved through our pipeline and we achieved several important objectives.
34 key assets in phase III registration.
Three new chemical entities approved, and one A new vaccine.
How is your research 10 new product opportunities led with regulators.
and development pipeline Nine new phase III clinical development performing?
The best year for pharmaceutical R&D since the merger Three late-stage development programmes 2007 saw GSKs best year for R&D since the Group was formed in in-licensed.
We have undoubtedly made great strides in the last seven years but there remains more to achieve and more bene ts which we can look forward to as our investment in the pipeline delivers.
In October 2007 we also received encouraging safety and ef cacy During the year, three new chemical entities and one new vaccine data with our vaccine to protect against malaria, which is currently were approved: Veramyst for allergic rhinitis, Tykerb for breast cancer, in phase II development.
These results have given us the con dence Altabax for skin infections and Cervarix to prevent cervical cancer.
to move into large scale phase III trials which are due to begin in the We have progressed a range of products through the pipeline, second half of 2008. positioning us well for the future.
A total of nine new phase III Adapting to the changing environment programmes started.
These are the large scale trials where we seek We are responding in many ways to the challenges of R&D to ascertain safety and also to prove unequivocally the ef cacy of the productivity that are faced by companies in the pharmaceutical medicines before submitting them for approval.
Our network of CEDDs focus skills and resources on targeted disease areas.
The CEDDs create the spirit of a small R&D-led team Our initiative to in-license potential treatments continued.
We within a very large pharmaceutical organisation and allow us to be brought three new late-stage programmes into GSK and moved a more nimble, and therefore productive, in our approach.
In 2007 we further four into late-stage development, improving our ability to opened two new CEDDs, in Immuno-in ammation and Infectious reload and sustain the pipeline we need.
Diseases, both of which are headed by world-class scientists.
By its nature, R&D carries inherent risk.
We were pleased that 2007 was a year of few disappointments, with the most notable An important element of our strategy is to access a broad diversity of termination being that of odiparcil, to prevent blood clots.
One way we do this is by partnering with academic centres of product line extensions were delayed which we had hoped would worldwide.
In 2007, we opened our new clinical imaging centre at gain final regulatory approval in the USA, including Lamictal XR and Hammersmith Hospital in London, where research is concentrating Requip XL.
on cancer, stroke and neurological diseases.
A second key strand is to make sure that GSK is well-represented wherever the most cutting Promising progress in vaccines edge science is practised.
In 2007, we opened a new fully integrated We have a large and promising vaccines pipeline, with 24 projects in research institute in China.
clinical development, including seven in phase III trials and another GSK has a very active external partnering strategy.
In 2007 we entered five led with regulators.
into nine external product licensing collaborations, together with a Cervarix, our HPV vaccine to prevent cervical cancer, has now been number of other partnerships to develop further and utilise novel approved in over 50 countries across the world.
Further licensing science and technologies in pharmaceutical and biological R&D.
applications have been submitted in 28 countries, including Japan.
In the USA, the FDA issued a Complete Response letter for Cervarix We continue to review actively our therapeutic area strategies to in December 2007.
We plan to submit our response to this letter in examine all the areas in which we have a presence and prioritise the second quarter of 2008 and continue our discussions regarding those that demonstrate the most potential.
We aim to derive 20% the application with the FDA.
of our pipeline from biopharmaceuticals by 2015 it is around 6% at present.
We have also increased our investment in neurosciences, While Cervarix is perhaps our most high-pro le vaccine, several other vaccines and oncology research.
Rotarix for rotavirus, a disease Whilst it remains a tough challenge to discover medicines and vaccines, which causes severe childhood diarrhoea, was led in the USA in the level of understanding, scienti c advancement and breakthrough June, following approval in over 100 countries worldwide.
We believe that at GSK the opportunity to discover led Syn orix, a vaccine to prevent pneumococcal disease, in Europe new products is now greater than ever.
and International markets at the end of the year.
Our meningitis vaccine Men-ACWY and our innovative Mage-A3 vaccine for the treatment of non small cell lung cancer both entered phase III trials in 2007.
GSK Annual Report 2007 I 7 Summary GSK is an industry leader in providing access to medicines in the developing world.
Q Preferential pricing ensures that the poorest can still bene t from our treatments and vaccines.
Our investment in R&D is helping to build a rich pipeline which re ects the needs of the A developing world.
What are you doing to Innovative partnerships have created breakthroughs in treatments and vaccines for neglected diseases.
improve healthcare in the Community investment activities help promote developing world?
GSK is also actively involved in supporting Getting the balance right For a commercial organisation like GSK, there is a balance to be patients in the developed world - see page 23. struck between the return to shareholders and our desire to improve access to our products, particularly for patients in the developing Preferential pricing world.
We have provided our vaccines at preferential prices to the developing world for over 20 years.
HIV AIDS has both worsened the healthcare crisis in sub-Saharan Africa and brought it worldwide attention.
Poverty means that too Our HIV AIDS and malaria treatments are offered at not-for-pro t many are denied education or die from malnutrition and a lack of prices to public sector customers and not-for-pro t organisations clean drinking water.
The ability of a pharmaceutical company to in all the Least Developed Countries and all of sub-Saharan Africa.
address the healthcare problems of the developing world must be Including Global Fund and other eligible programmes, our not-forseen in this broader context.
pro t prices are now available in around 80 countries.
Where we offer our anti-retrovirals ARVs and anti-malarials at Innovative partnerships not-for-pro t prices, this is in addition to our signi cant community For products with no viable commercial market, such as truly neglected investment activities.
Our Corporate Responsibility Report has more tropical diseases, we work in public-private partnerships.
We provide details of our efforts to improve access to medicines, in both the the R&D, technology, manufacturing and distribution expertise while developing and the developed world, and information about our academic institutions provide research and disease area knowledge.
Public sector partners, governments, or organisations such as the Gates Foundation, help fund the project and assist in getting Do more, feel better, live longer the medicines to the people who need them.
Funds are usually HIV AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria are killing around 20,000 people channelled through organisations such as the TB Alliance and the every day.
We believe that playing our part is not just the right thing Malaria Vaccine Initiative.
to do: it is the only thing to do.
These programmes have transformed R&D in neglected diseases.
For We contribute through action in four areas: preferential pricing of example, the pipeline for malaria treatments is now the richest the our ARVs, anti-malarials and vaccines: investing in R&D into diseases world has ever seen.
of the developing world: community investment activities and partnerships that foster effective healthcare: and through innovative We have granted voluntary licenses to allow generic manufacturers partnerships.
to produce their own versions of our key ARVs for HIV AIDS.
There is now global capacity to manufacture enough ARVs to meet the Sometimes, the healthcare crisis in Africa is used by some pressure worlds needs the challenge is to get the medicines to the people groups to attack our industry or the intellectual property IP system.
But it is important to understand that we rely on IP to generate the funds which enabled us to invest 3.2 billion in R&D during 2007.
Community investment We will continue to stress this to those who would like to see the IP January 2008 saw the 10th anniversary of our commitment to environment weakened.
eliminate lymphatic lariasis LF, also known as elephantiasis.
To date we have reached over 130 million people, and 24 million children Without investment in R&D we will not see the much-needed new have been born in areas that are now LF-free.
This requires a delicate balance which we believe we achieve - to the bene t of shareholders and patients the We also currently support significant HIV AIDS education world over.
programmes in Africa, India, China and Mexico.
Each programme faces different challenges, but the importance of education among people marginalised by society is common to all.
Further community investment programmes include Personal Hygiene and Sanitation Education PHASE, which focuses on how the simple act of washing hands can prevent diarrhoeal disease and save lives.
