60 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors present their annual report together with the Directors interests in shares audited financial statements of the company and the group for The beneficial interests of each of the directors and their the fifty-two weeks ended 29 April 2007. immediate families in the ordinary share capital of the company are shown below: Profits and dividends 29 April 2007 30 April 2006 The groups profit before taxation and exceptional items for the period amounted to 139.8 million 2006 119.6 million.
The directors recommend a final dividend of 16.45p Justin Adams - - per ordinary share 2006 14.35p, making a total dividend for the John Brady 5,000 5,000 period of 22.9p per share 2006 20.15p.
Subject to the approval Ian Bull - - of shareholders at the AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 10 Ian Durant 2,800 - September 2007 to shareholders on the register at the close of David Elliott 78,888 68,533 business on 3 August 2007.
Jonathan Lawson - - Norman Murray 25,000 13,000 Howard Phillips 21,700 21,700 Activities and business review Jane Scriven 5,000 5,000 Greene King plc is the holding company for a group whose principal activities are operating managed, tenanted and leased public or date of appointment, if later houses, brewing beer, and wholesaling beers, wines, spirits and soft drinks.
In accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act The company has established an employee benefit trust, the 1985, as amended, the company is required to produce a business trustee of which is Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited.
review containing a fair review of the business of the company and As at 29 April 2007 the trustee held 778,953 2006 - 555,393 a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the shares and Rooney Anand, Justin Adams, Ian Bull, David Elliott and company.
Shareholders are referred to the chief executive's review, Jonathan Lawson, as employees of the company, are potential the financial review and the corporate social responsibility report beneficiaries of the employee benefit trust and therefore are for the required information.
They are intended to provide a deemed to have an interest in the 778,953 shares in the company.
balanced and comprehensive analysis of the development and performance of the business of the group during the financial year At 29 April 2007, Tim Bridge had a non-beneficial interest in 89,768 and the position of the group at the end of the year.
2006 - 89,768 shares, in addition to the holding shown above.
Directors Interests in contracts Details of the current directors are given on page 18.
Nine of these No director had a material interest in any contract, other than an directors held office throughout the period, whilst Ian Durant was employment contract, that was significant in relation to the appointed to the board on 16 March 2007 and Jonathan Lawson on groups business at any time during the period.
In accordance with article 90 of the companys articles of association, Ian Durant and Jonathan Lawson will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for Share capital election.
Alan Bowkett served as a non-executive director until Details of the share capital of the company are set out in note 25 1 September 2006 and Mark Angela as an executive director until to the accounts on page 49.
1 2 A total of 270,960 ordinary shares of 12 p each with an aggregate Under article 85 of the company's articles of association Rooney nominal value of 33,870 were allotted, for cash, during the period Anand and Norman Murray retire by rotation and, being eligible, in connection with the companys sharesave and executive share 1 2 offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition, 270,532 shares of 12 p were allotted addition, Howard Phillips, who has served on the board since June to the trustees of the Greene King Free4All Share Incentive Plan.
1998, offers himself for re-election as required by the provisions of the combined code.
During the period the company bought back and cancelled 3,058,608 shares.
The trustees of the company's employee Details of the directors service agreements, remuneration, and benefit trust, Kleinwort Benson Guernsey Trustees Limited, 1 2 interests in share options are set out in the remuneration report on acquired 1,046,947 ordinary 12 p shares and transferred 1 2 pages 63-70.
Except as disclosed, there have been no changes in 896,943 ordinary 12 p shares in the company to employees to their interests between 29 April 2007 and the date of this report.
satisfy the exercise of share options.
GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 61 DIRECTORS REPORT Share capital authorities the authority is limited to a specified period of time and only A number of resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM permits the company to purchase on the London Stock 1 2 in connection with the companys share capital: Exchange shares of 12 p each with a total nominal value of 1,834,412, being approximately 10 per cent of the Share allotment authority companys current issued share capital: This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to allot securities in the company up to an aggregate nominal the minimum price per share which may be paid is the amount of 6,114,709, being the authorised but unissued nominal value: capital of the company and representing approximately 33.3 per cent excluding any shares held in treasury of the issued the maximum price per share that may be paid is 105 per cent ordinary share capital as at 1 July 2007 for up to fifteen months of the average closing market price for the companys shares after the AGM or until the date of the AGM in 2008, whichever as shown in the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List for is earlier.
The directors consider that this authority is desirable the five business days immediately preceding the purchase.
to allow the company to retain flexibility, although they have no present intention of exercising this authority.
In accordance with the Listing Rules, the company will not, save in accordance with a pre-determined, irrevocable and nonDis-application of statutory pre-emption rights discretionary programme, repurchase shares in the period of This resolution seeks to renew the authority of the directors to two months immediately preceding the preliminary dis-apply pre-emption rights and allot equity securities for cash announcement of its annual or interim results or, if shorter, in connection with a rights issue and otherwise and to sell between the end of the financial period concerned and the time ordinary shares held in treasury see below up to an aggregate of a relevant announcement or, except in accordance with the nominal amount of 917,206, being approximately 5 per cent Listing Rules, at any other time when, in terms of the model of the ordinary share capital, in issue at 1 July 2007 for up to code, the directors would be prohibited from dealing in shares.
fifteen months after the AGM or until the date of the AGM in 2008, whichever is earlier.
The full exercise of all options outstanding at the date of this report would require the issue of 4,775,687 ordinary shares.
This Authority for the purchase of own shares represents 3.25% of the current issued share capital excluding This resolution seeks to renew shareholders authority for the any shares held in treasury and 3.62% of what the share capital company to make market purchases of its own shares, as would be if the proposed authority to purchase the company's permitted by article 8 of the articles of association for up to own shares had been obtained and exercised in full.
The company fifteen months after this AGM, or until the date of the AGM in has issued no warrants to subscribe for share capital.
The directors would only purchase and cancel shares after taking into account the effects on earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 July 2007, the last practical date prior to the date of this Pursuant to the Companies Act 1985 as amended, the report, the company has been notified of the following interests company can hold any shares which are repurchased as in 3 per cent or more of the issued share capital of the company.
treasury shares and either re-sell them for cash, cancel them, either immediately or at a point in the future, or use them for AXA S. A 15.7 per cent the purposes of its employee share schemes.
The directors Deutsche Bank 6.0 per cent believe that it is desirable for the company to have this choice.
Legal & General Group plc 3.5 per cent Holding the repurchased shares as treasury shares will give the company the ability to re-sell or transfer them quickly and costeffectively and will provide the company with additional Communications with shareholders flexibility in the management of its capital base.
No dividends At the forthcoming AGM a resolution will be put to shareholders will be paid on, and no voting rights will be exercised in respect to make a number of changes to the articles of association, in of, treasury shares.
order to comply with the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 in relation to communications with shareholders.
The Companies Shares held as treasury shares will not automatically be Act 2006 provides a mandatory statutory regime for cancelled and will not be taken into account in future communications by and to a company.
A number of changes to calculations of earnings per share unless they are the articles are therefore proposed to ensure that the articles are subsequently re-sold or transferred out of treasury.
in line with the company communication provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
Further details of the proposed changes are The authority that will be sought contains several important set out in Appendix 1 to the notice of meeting.
restrictions, being: GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07 62 DIRECTORS REPORT Whilst the company does not propose, given the nature of its To the best of each director's knowledge and belief, there is no shareholder base, to seek individual shareholder consent to information relevant to the preparation of their report of which permit communication with such shareholders by means of the company's auditors are unaware, and publication on the company's website, the company does wish to continue to be able to communicate with shareholders via the Each director has taken all the steps a director might website, for those shareholders who are interested in signing up reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant to e-communications.
Shareholders wishing to do so should refer audit information and to establish that the company's auditors to the shareholders information page for further information on are aware of that information.
Auditors Charitable donations Ernst & Young LLP has expressed its willingness to continue in Donations by the company for charitable purposes made during office and a resolution to re-appoint the firm as the company's the period amounted to 15,900 2006 - 21,100.
The group auditors will be proposed at the AGM.
Annual general meeting Payments to suppliers The AGM will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 4 September 2007 The group understands the benefits to be derived from at the Millennium Grandstand, Rowley Mile Racecourse maintaining good relationships with its suppliers and where Conference Centre, Newmarket, Suffolk.
The notice of the AGM is possible enters into agreements over payment terms.
Where such set out on page 76. terms have not been agreed it is the group policy to settle invoices close to the end of the month following invoicing.
This The directors consider that all of the resolutions set out on the policy is dependent on suppliers providing accurate, timely and notice of AGM are in the best interests of the company and its sufficiently detailed invoices.
Payment in respect of 49 days shareholders as a whole and recommend that shareholders vote average purchases from trade creditors was outstanding at the in favour of each of them.
By order of the board Directors' and officers' indemnity insurance Lindsay Keswick The group has taken out insurance to indemnify, against third Company Secretary party proceedings, the directors of the company whilst serving on 2 July 2007 the board of the company and of any subsidiary.
This cover indemnifies all employees of the group who serve on the boards of all subsidiaries.
These indemnity policies subsisted throughout the year and remain in place at the date of this report.
Financial instruments The group's policy on the use of financial instruments is set out in note 24.
Post balance sheet events Details of events occurring after the year end are set out in note 31.
Directors' statement as to disclosure of information to auditors The directors who were members of the board at the time of approving the directors' report are listed on page 18.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the company's auditors, each of these directors confirms that: GREENE KING ANNUAL REPORT 2006 07
