18 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Board confirms that it has FIXED ASSETS Directors Indemnities reviewed the effectiveness of the As at the date of this report, In the opinion of the directors, the system of internal control covering indemnities are in force under which market value of all of the Groups all material controls, including the Company has agreed to indemnify properties is not significantly different financial, operational, compliance the directors, to the extent permitted from their historical net book amount.
and risk management systems by law, in respect of losses arising out DIRECTORS AND THEIR during the year under review and up of or in connection with the INTERESTS to the date of approval of the Annual execution of their duties, powers or The names of the directors in office Report and accounts.
responsibilities as directors of the during the year together with their Company.
The indemnities do not Accountability, Audit and Going relevant interests in the share capital of apply in situations where the relevant Concern.
the Company at 29 December 2007 director has been guilty of fraud or The Board acknowledges its and 30 December 2006 or at date of wilful misconduct.
responsibility to present a balanced appointment if later are set out in and understandable assessment of the AUTHORITY TO PURCHASE note 26 to the accounts.
Details of Companys position and prospects.
SHARES directors share options are set out in This is fulfilled by the statements At the AGM on 14 May 2007, the the Directors Remuneration Report contained in the Chairmans statement shareholders passed a resolution on pages 58 to 65. and Managing Directors report, which authorising the purchase by the In accordance with the Companys supplement the statutory accounts Company of its own shares to a Articles of Association, Stephen themselves.
A statement of directors maximum of 1,116,500 ordinary shares Curran, Mike Darrington, Julie responsibilities in respect of the of 20p each.
That authority has been Baddeley and Richard Hutton retire preparation of accounts is given on used as to 497,321 shares as at 29 from the Board.
The balance remains Curran who has decided not to seek responsibilities is given in the report in force until the conclusion of the re-election, being eligible, offer of the auditors on page 25.
AGM in 2008 or 13 August 2008, themselves for re-election.
After making enquiries, the directors Roger Whiteside, who will have taken have a reasonable expectation that the office before the AGM, will also retire Group has adequate resources to and, being eligible, seek election.
continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
