MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT Accordingly, over the year as a whole, dairy products and vegetable oils, It is pleasing to report much we regard the weather impact on our particularly in the second half.
improved results after the business as broadly neutral.
We continue to enter into forward disappointing performance of contracts for certain key inputs with 2006.
This was not a quick Like-for-like sales increased by 4.6 the aim of achieving predictability in fix, but the first phase of our per cent in the first half 24 weeks our cost base in the short term.
three-year plan designed to and the rate of growth improved to 5.8 per cent in the second half, GREGGS BRAND UK transform Greggs from a despite the rather more demanding devolved and divisionalised Like-for-like sales under the Greggs 2006 comparatives encountered in business into a much more brand increased by 5.5 per cent, the final weeks of the year.
As the unified, centrally driven including core volume growth of 0.9 Chairman has noted, this made an national operation, with a per cent.
increase in Group like-for-like sales greatly enhanced capability to Management.
Following the for the year of 5.3 per cent, including understand and meet the appointment of Raymond Reynolds as core volume growth of 0.9 per cent.
We are Retail Director in December 2006, we Customer growth, as measured by encouraged by our progress to have given priority during the year to the number of transactions, was a date, but there is much more building strong central teams to lead little over one per cent.
potential for the future as we the growth and development of the We benefited from some of our initial Greggs brand in the areas of Retail, work to enhance our products actions to make the business more Marketing and the Supply Chain.
and shops, spread best practice responsive to customer needs, These teams have been assembled through the business and build including the opening of more of our both by external recruitment and the awareness of our brand and all shops on Sundays, and the extension transfer of suitably qualified divisional that it has to offer.
of weekday opening hours in locations management.
The appropriate where we identified sufficient demand.
Trading performance capability is now in place and gaining Although we continue to operate in Wage costs increased as the result of steadily in experience.
Having created an extremely competitive market our general pay settlement of just this new structure during 2007, we place, trading conditions during the under four per cent, and the expect to deliver progressively increasing year proved more benign than in recruitment of additional senior benefits from the implementation of a 2006.
As a daily purchase business, personnel at the centre to drive the more unified approach in the current we are sensitive to the effects of development of the Greggs brand.
climatic extremes, and like-for-like Energy costs, after a 4.5 million sales growth slowed as a result of the increase in 2006, rose by a further exceptionally wet period in June, but 0.5 million.
We experienced benefited from very favourable significant cost pressure on a number conditions in August and September.
of key ingredients, including flour, 8 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED Customers.
We are committed to Shops.
We have continued to develop Marketing.
There has been a constant improvement of our our range of outlets and their opening significant expansion of our central understanding of the million times, to ensure that they are marketing department during the customers who visit Greggs each day, appropriately geared to each meal year, and we are applying greater and to providing them with what they occasion and to local demand for food resources and professional expertise want, when they want it.
Our new shop openings in to this area than ever before.
During seek to extend our appeal to new 2007 included a number of units in the year we undertook a 3 million groups of consumers by increasing the non-traditional locations away from the integrated marketing campaign, which variety of locations in which we trade, high street, such as industrial estates.
included two major bursts of national adapting our opening hours to meet Developments of this type will be an TV and radio advertising as well as their lifestyle needs, and developing increasing feature of our opening the use of posters and the internet.
Increased programme in 2008 and beyond.
We The advertisements, fronted by TV investment in research to aid have increased the number of our comedian Paddy McGuinness, understanding of our customers and shops trading on Sundays by around achieved good consumer recognition the fast-moving market place in which 150, and extended weekday opening and we have been pleased by the we operate is a continuing feature of hours where local demand exists, for initial response, though the real our new strategic approach.
example to meet the early morning objective is to build awareness of the needs of office workers or to cater for Greggs brand nationally over the Products.
We are determined to customers of retail centres or leisure longer term.
We will continue this meet consumer demand for attractions seeking early evening food strategic marketing push over the innovative and more aspirational on the go.
Early results from our next two years, emphasising the products, while retaining our experimental shop formats have freshness, quality and sheer traditional strength in iconic bakery provided us with some valuable enjoyability of our products.
products such as sausage rolls and learning which is being progressively doughnuts, which deliver great taste Now that we have established the applied across the business as a whole.
and enjoyment at competitive prices.
right management infrastructure at We continue our rolling programme of We have begun the process of the centre, we are well placed to capital investment to enhance the harmonising products and practices build up the momentum of our drive appeal of our shops through refits and across our divisions, aiming to identify to ensure the adoption of best refurbishments.
During the first half, the best recipes and working practice in all areas of the Greggs we also refreshed some 350 shops to methods, for example in sandwich business.
This will help us to soften the somewhat strident colours production in our shops, and to improve efficiency by driving down of our previous takeaway-orientated ensure that they are adopted costs, at the same time as facilitating design, and to re-emphasise our key nationwide.
The implementation of development of our reputation as a point of difference as bakers.
This has unified training programmes across consistent, high quality, national brand.
helped to create a significantly more the business will bring even more attractive shopping environment at a consistency to our product offer relatively modest cost per unit.
GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 9 BAKERS OVEN BRAND Retail profile investment was in our new Glasgow Our Bakers Oven business now We opened 56 new shops during the bakery, which was completed on time operates from 164 shops in the year and closed 24, giving us a net and to budget, and is meeting all our Midlands and the South following the increase of 32 units and a total of expectations: we also completed a restructuring changes made in 2006.
The smaller scale expansion of our Like-for-like sales under the Bakers pace of new openings accelerated in production facility in South Wales.
Oven brand grew by 4.3 per cent, the final months of the year, enabling During 2008 we plan to invest a total including core volume growth of 1.2 us to exceed our initial estimate of a of 44 million: this will include the per cent.
Bakers Oven Midlands net addition of 20 25 units during development of a new bakery in successfully absorbed an additional 15 2007.
The Greggs brand in the UK Manchester, an increased number of shops transferred to it following the continued to account for some 87 per new shop openings and the restructuring of the brand in the cent of our total retail portfolio, with continuation of our drive to raise North and Scotland.
The projected 1,193 shops trading at the year end standards in our existing shops ongoing cost savings from this 2006: 1,165, an increase of 28.
The through refits and refurbishments.
restructuring have been delivered in Bakers Oven estate was relatively Cash flow and balance sheet full, enhancing Group profits by 1.25 stable at 164 shops 2006: 165, while The Group is consistently and million.
The Bakers Oven operations our small acquisition in Belgium strongly cash generative, providing in the Midlands and South now have a expanded the Greggs chain there to 11 the basis for our progressive dividend stable and profitable estate, generating shops 2006: six, an addition of five.
policy over the last 23 years and good returns on our investment.
We completed 29 comprehensive underpinning the Boards more recent GREGGS BRAND shop refurbishments and 53 minor strategic decision to reduce dividend CONTINENTAL EUROPE refits during the year.
cover and conduct a continuing share Our Belgian business now trades from buyback programme.
During the year We expect to achieve a net addition a total of 11 shops in Antwerp, we returned a total of 38.9 million of at least 40 shops to our portfolio Leuven and Brussels, following the to shareholders, comprising 13.2 during 2008, with significant numbers acquisition of a small chain of five million in dividend payments and a of new openings planned in both shops in the Belgian capital early in the further 25.7 million through share Scotland and the South West to second half.
All of the acquired shops buybacks.
Despite these substantial exploit the new bakery capacity we have been re-branded as Greggs, and outflows, we ended the year with net have recently created in these regions.
a rolling programme of comprehensive cash on the balance sheet of 11.6 Capital investment refurbishment is in hand to bring them million 2006: 19.6 million.
Capital expenditure for the year all up to the standards of the rest of Community and the environment totalled 42.3 million, exceeding our the chain.
The business as a whole Greggs continues to pride itself on stated budget of 39 million, mainly as continues to make satisfactory being a socially responsible business, a result of the increased number of progress, achieving good core sales and I am pleased to be able to shop openings compared with our growth and providing us with valuable announce that we have now original projections.
Our largest single learning about the market place.
underlined that commitment by the 10 GREGGS plc ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 Directors Report and Business Review CONTINUED MANAGING DIRECTORS REPORT CONTINUED appointment of a new Social of the business are perfectly aligned The future Responsibility Director: Graham with the protection of the Our year of change in 2007 was Randell, formerly managing director environment.
We are also pursuing a merely the start of a longer term of Greggs North East.
Reporting wide range of initiatives designed to strategic programme designed to directly to me, Graham brings to his reduce our environmental impact by increase our responsiveness to our new role seniority and experience increasing recycling and reducing the customers, and to build an even which will ensure that he can exercise amount of food waste going to landfill.
stronger and more unified national real authority, and I look forward to Greggs brand.
We have now laid firm Fuller details of the Companys working with him to ensure that our foundations which we believe will charitable activities and environmental social and environmental strategies significantly enhance the longer term initiatives are contained in the are better co-ordinated and driven growth prospects of the Group.
We Corporate Social Responsibility section forward, with the backing of the continue to see significant potential of this report on pages 20 to 23.
Board and all our colleagues.
for further retail expansion in the UK, People and feel confident that we can We have continued to support the After coping with a difficult year in increase the rate of shop openings in communities in which we operate 2006, our people were faced with the coming years.
We will make through both corporate donations to extensive changes in the way we run further progress towards our goals by charity and the voluntary fund-raising the business from early 2007.
These ensuring that we remain true to our efforts of our employees.
In total the naturally made a particularly strong core values and focusing on the Company gave 730,000 to charities impact in an organisation such as delivery of great products and during the year 2006: 540,000, Greggs, which has enjoyed a high excellent service.
I am confident that amounting to 1.4 per cent of our predegree of stability over many years.
we are on track to realise our vision tax profit.
This was directed I know how difficult it can be to of sustained, long term growth as principally through the Greggs Trust maintain operational effectiveness and Europes finest retail baker.
and our Greggs Breakfast Clubs, sustain morale through a period of which operate in 124 primary schools major change, which inevitably in disadvantaged areas across the creates unfamiliarity and uncertainty.
In addition to this our staff It is therefore a real tribute to the Managing Director raised an impressive 175,000 for the quality and character of our people 11 March 2008 BBC Children in Need Appeal and a that the necessary changes to the way further 310,000 for childrens cancer we work have all been made charities through our long-established remarkably smoothly, and adopted in programme of regional fun runs.
I am grateful We have continued our business-wide to every member of the team drive to improve energy efficiency throughout the business for the and reduce carbon emissions.
This is exceptional way they have responded an area where the financial interests to these challenges.
