22 23 Halfords Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Richard Pym Ian McLeod Non-executive Chairman Chief Executive Richard joined the Board as the Senior Independent Director in Ian joined Halfords in September 2003 and was appointed to the May 2004 and was appointed Chairman on 1 April 2006.
He became Chief Executive in April 2005.
Group Chief Executive of Alliance & Leicester plc.
He was a nonPreviously, he was Chief Executive of Celtic plc for two years.
executive director of Selfridges plc and has held various roles at Prior to this Ian was on the Executive Board of Wal-Mart, Germany Thomson McLintock & Co, British Gas plc, BAT Industries plc and and held several positions within Asda over the course of 20 years The Burton Group plc.
and was Director of Asda Stores Limited between 1997 and 2001.
Ian is a non-executive director of Fulham Football Club Ltd. Nick Wharton Paul McClenaghan Finance Director Director of Trading Nick was appointed as Finance Director in February 2007.
He Paul was appointed as Director of Trading on 31 March 2007.
He joined Halfords Limited as Finance and Planning Director in March joined Halfords Limited as Trading Director in May 2005.
Prior to 2002, becoming Business Development Director in 2003.
Nick has this Paul worked for the Dixons Group, most recently as Trading also held Board responsibility at Halfords Limited for Information Director for its Vision and Audio division.
He also held the Systems and Human Resources.
Prior to this Nick held senior positions of Buying Director for Brown Goods and Commercial finance positions with Boots Opticians, Boots Healthcare Director for Dixons Asia.
International, Do-it-All Limited and also within Cadbury Schweppes.
He is a qualified Chartered Accountant.
Keith Harris Non-executive Director Keith was appointed a non-executive director in May 2004.
He has been Executive Chairman of Seymour Pierce Limited since its acquisition from Investment Management Holdings Plc.
Prior to this Keith was Chairman of the Football League and Chief Executive of HSBC Investment Bank plc.
Keith is currently on the boards of Wembley National Stadium Limited, Benfield plc and CLS Holdings plc.
Nigel Wilson Bill Ronald Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Nigel joined the Board as a non-executive director in May 2004 Bill joined the Board as a non-executive director in May 2004.
He and was appointed Senior Independent Director on 1 April 2006. is Chairman of Bezier Limited and Chairman of Europackaging Currently he is Chief Financial Officer of United Business Media Limited.
He is also a non-executive director of Alfesca.
Prior to that he was Group Finance Director of Viridian Group he was Chief Executive of Uniq plc for three years, prior to which plc from 1996 to 2000, and became Managing Director of Viridian Bill spent 23 years in a variety of roles within the Mars Capital in 2000.
Previous appointments include Group Finance Corporation.
His final positions there were Managing Director Director at Waste Management International, Chief Executive, of the UK confectionery operation and Vice-President of Corporate G. P. A.
Head of Corporate Finance and Group Masterfoods Europe.
Commercial Director of Dixons Group plc, Managing Director of Stanhope Properties plc and a consultant at McKinsey & Co. Nigel has a PhD from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
