80 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Report of the Directors The Directors present their Annual report on the affairs of the As at 19 June 2007 the latest practicable date prior to the Group, together with the Accounts and the Independent Auditors publication of the notice, the Company had 373,239,695 reports, for the 52 weeks to 31 March 2007. ordinary shares of 10p each in issue and held 805,635 treasury shares, which is equal to approximately 0.2% of the issued Activities share capital of the Company excluding treasury shares Halma p. l. c. is a holding company.
A list of its principal subsidiary as at that date.
companies and their activities is set out on pages 92 and 93.
The Companies Act 1985 also requires that, if the Company issues new shares for cash or sells any treasury shares, it must Results of the period first offer them to existing shareholders in proportion to their The Consolidated income statement for the 52 weeks to current holdings.
At the annual general meeting a special 31 March 2007 is set out on page 38.
The Group profit on resolution will be proposed which, if passed, will authorise the continuing operations before amortisation of acquired intangible Directors to issue a limited number of shares for cash and or assets and taxation is 66,091,000 2006: 58,140,000. sell treasury shares without offering them to shareholders first.
The profit attributable to equity shareholders amounts to The authority is for an aggregate nominal amount of up to 5% 44,011,000 2006: 40,875,000. of the aggregate nominal value of the issued share capital of the Company as at 19 June 2007 the latest practicable date Ordinary dividends prior to the publication of the notice.
The resolution will also The Directors are recommending a final dividend of 4.33p per modify statutory pre-emption rights to deal with legal, regulatory share and, if approved, this dividend will be paid on 22 August or practical problems that may arise on a rights or other 2007 to ordinary shareholders on the register at the close of pre-emptive offer or issue and to permit non pre-emptive issues business on 20 July 2007.
Together with the interim dividend pursuant to an employee share scheme.
The authority will expire of 2.85p per share already paid, this will make a total of at the same time as the resolution conferring authority on the 7.18p 2006: 6.83p per share for the financial year.
The Directors consider this authority necessary in order to give them flexibility to deal with Business review opportunities as they arise, subject to the restrictions contained A review of activities together with business and future in the resolution.
developments, risks and uncertainties and key performance indicators that management use is included on pages 20 There are no present plans to issue shares, except under share to 37 inclusive and forms part of this report.
plans previously approved in general meeting.
Share capital Electronic communications Details of share capital issued in the financial year are set out The Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act has introduced in note 21 to the accounts.
provisions designed to make it easier for companies to use the internet to communicate with shareholders, and so reduce Allotment authority printing and distribution costs.
Under the Companies Act 1985 the Directors may only allot Although it has been possible for some years for the Company shares if authorised by shareholders to do so.
At the annual to use electronic means to deliver certain documents to general meeting an ordinary resolution will be proposed which, our shareholders, the 2006 Act has extended the range of if passed, will authorise the Directors to allot and issue new information that can be communicated electronically and shares up to an aggregate nominal value of 6,332,519.50 relaxed certain requirements for communication by our website.
up to 63,325,195 new ordinary shares of 10p each, which is As before, the Company cannot send a shareholder material equal to approximately 17% of the issued share capital of the by e-mail unless the shareholder has agreed to this, and has Company excluding treasury shares as at 19 June 2007 supplied an electronic address for that purpose.
Where, however, the latest practicable date prior to the publication of the notice a company that complies with the requirements of the 2006 of meeting.
The authority will expire five years after the date of Act wishes to communicate information to its shareholders by passing of the resolution or, if earlier, at the conclusion of the making it available on a website, each shareholder who has been annual general meeting of the Company in 2012.
Passing this invited to accept this form of delivery, and has not objected within resolution will give the Directors flexibility to act in the best 28 days, is deemed to have agreed to it.
interests of shareholders, when opportunities arise, by issuing new shares.
Halma p. l. c. 2007 81 If special resolution 8 is passed at the annual general meeting, Following approval of the performance share plan PSP at the the Company will be able to send shareholders a written request 2005 annual general meeting, the Directors made, and intend which must set out the consequences of a failure to respond to continue to make, routine purchases of Halma shares in the to agree to website delivery, and may deem the shareholder market for holding in treasury until required for vesting under to have agreed unless the shareholder objects within 28 days.
In the year to 31 March 2007, 614,000 shares were If a shareholder declines website delivery, that shareholder purchased in the market for treasury.
Otherwise, the Directors will continue to receive documents by post in the usual way and have no present intention of using this authority.
In reaching a the Company will not be permitted to seek that shareholders decision to purchase shares, the Directors will take into account deemed agreement to website delivery for at least 12 months.
the Companys cash resources, capital requirements and the effect of any purchase on the Companys earnings per share.
Those shareholders who do not object to website delivery will It is anticipated that renewal of the authority will be requested no longer receive documents by post.
They will, however, receive at subsequent annual general meetings.
notification as and when key information is made available on the Companys website, with details of how to access it.
As at 19 June 2007, which is the latest practicable date prior This notification will be given by post or, if the shareholder has to the publication of the notice of meeting, options were agreed, by e-mail.
In addition, shareholders will still have the outstanding to subscribe for a total number of 10,314,962 right, once they have received information electronically, to ordinary shares, or 2.8% of the Companys issued share capital.
require the Company to send a hard copy of that information, If this authority to purchase shares were used in full and the free of charge, within 21 days, and they may also opt for all shares cancelled, the proportion of the adjusted issued share information to be sent in hard copy form.
capital represented by this figure would be 3.1%.
The resolution, if passed, will supersede any inconsistent Deeds of indemnity provisions in the Companys current Articles of Association.
Following amendment of the Companys Articles of Association The Company also intends to discontinue the practice of mailing at the annual general meeting in 2006, the Company has the half-yearly financial report to shareholders with effect from entered into deeds of indemnity, which are qualifying third party November 2007 and will only make it available on its website indemnity provisions for the purpose of the Companies Act 1985, and on request.
with each of the current Directors.
Purchase of own shares Supplier payment policy The Company was authorised at the 2006 annual general The Company does not follow any particular supplier payment meeting to purchase up to 36,000,000 of its own 10p ordinary code of practice.
The Company has due regard to the payment shares in the market.
This authority expires at the end of the 2007 terms of suppliers and generally settles all undisputed accounts annual general meeting.
In accordance with the Directors stated within 30 days of the due date for payment.
At 31 March 2007 the intention to seek annual renewal, a special resolution will be Companys trade creditors represented 37 days 2006: 39 days proposed at the annual general meeting to renew this authority of its annual purchases.
until the end of next years annual general meeting, in respect of up to 37,000,000 ordinary shares, which is approximately 10% of Employees the Companys issued share capital excluding treasury shares Matters which affect the Group are communicated to employees as at 19 June 2007 the latest practicable date prior to the through formal and informal meetings, internal announcements, publication of the notice of meeting.
The Directors consider it the Group intranet, the Group bulletin board on our secure Virtual desirable that the possibility of making such purchases, under Private Network VPN and regular contact with Directors and appropriate circumstances, is available.
Their present intention is Divisional Chief Executives.
that the shares purchased under the authority will to the extent An employee share scheme is open to all UK employees of the statutory requirements are met be held in treasury for future Group following a qualifying period and has been operating cancellation, sale for cash or transfer for the purposes of, or since 1980. pursuant to, an employee share scheme, although in the light of circumstances at the time it may be decided to cancel them The Company provides equal employment opportunities to all immediately on repurchase.
The effect of any cancellation would employees and applicants for employment without regard to be to reduce the number of shares in issue.
For most purposes, ethnic origin, religion, gender, age, disability, sexual orientation while held in treasury shares are treated as if they have been or any other reason prohibited by local legislation.
Halma gives cancelled for example, they carry no voting rights and do not disabled people the same consideration as other individuals.
82 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Report of the Directors continued Directors remuneration Auditors An ordinary resolution will be proposed at the annual general In the case of each of the persons who are Directors of the meeting seeking shareholder approval of the Directors Report Company at the date when this report was approved: on remuneration set out on pages 87 to 91. so far as each of the Directors is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in the Companies Act 1985 Corporate responsibility of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and The Groups Corporate responsibility report is set out on pages 30 to 33. each of the Directors has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any Research and development relevant audit information as defined and to establish that Group companies have continuous research and development the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
programmes established with the objective of the improvement Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to of their product ranges and increasing the profitability of continue in office as Auditors and resolutions to re-appoint them their operations.
and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Donations Group companies made charitable donations amounting to By order of the Board 5,762 2006: 5,209 during the financial year.
There were no political donations 2006: nil.
C T Chesney Directors Secretary The Directors of the Company are listed on page 79.
Misbourne Court Brief biographies are set out on page 78.
Rectory Way Andrew Walker resigned as a non-executive Director on Amersham 22 March 2007.
Bucks HP7 0DE 19 June 2007 Directors proposed for re-election Stephen Pettit retires by rotation and being eligible offers himself for re-election.
Shareholdings As at 19 June 2007 the Company has been notified of the following major shareholdings of the Company's ordinary shares: Shares Per cent Silchester International Investors Limited 25,829,195 6.94 Sprucegrove Investment Management Limited 24,361,142 6.54 Barclays Bank PLC 21,914,973 5.88 Sanderson Asset Management Limited 15,083,480 4.05 Legal & General Investment Management Limited 12,824,344 3.44
