26 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Industrial Safety sector review Sector overview We make products which protect property Industrial Safety contributed 22% of Group revenue 80 million and people at work and 23% of Group profit 16 million.
Following recent acquisitions, we created a new Asset monitoring sub-sector.
KPI Group target 2007 2006 Gas detection We make portable instruments and fixed systems restated which detect flammable and hazardous gases.
We make our gas 1 Revenue growth 5% 15% 20% detectors in the UK where we have a market leading position.
2 Profit growth 5% 19% 34% Bursting discs We make one time use pressure relief devices to 3 Return on sales 18% 20.0% 19.4% protect large vessels and pipework in process industries.
We are UK market leaders and, based on our own estimates, number 4 ROCE Return on four in the world market.
Our bursting discs are made in the UK capital employed 45% 75% 76% and the US.
5 R&D as a % of revenue 4% 2.9% 3.2% Safety interlocks We make specialised mechanical, electrical restated to reflect the reclassification of Radio-Tech Limited from the Health and and electromechanical locks which ensure that critical processes Analysis sector.
operate safely and prevent accidents.
We have significant market strength in petrochemicals, oil and gas, and significant KPIs are calculated on results from continuing operations.
geographic market share in Western Europe and Australasia.
Sector revenue compared with the prior year.
We manufacture interlocks in the UK, The Netherlands, France, 6 2.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense compared with the prior year.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Asset monitoring We make products which monitor the condition 6 of physical assets above ground, below ground and underwater 4.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
using innovative sensor and communications technologies.
Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of This sub-sector was created following the acquisitions of Radiosector revenue.
Tech in 2005 and, most recently Tritech System Technologies in 6.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Underwater applications include monitoring of oil pipelines and telecommunications cables as well as vessel and harbour security.
Applications on dry land include systems for monitoring railway tracks and structures such as bridges.
Our asset monitoring products are made in the UK.
Sector strategy We choose to operate in global industrial safety market niches which demand innovative, robust technologies to protect against critical safety hazards where the cost of the protecting product is relatively small compared with the cost of an accident.
Competitive advantage can be gained through technical innovation and superior customer service and technical support.
Strong global competition in gas detectors means that we must have a dual strategy of constant cost reduction and a regular stream of new products.
In the next year we plan to start manufacturing in China and are already using R&D resources in India to accelerate the rate of product development.
See note 1 to the accounts Strategic achievements Strategic directions Strong organic revenue and profit growth Organic profit growth driven by revenue growth New Asset monitoring sub-sector created through Expand gas detector R&D and manufacture in India Tritech acquisition and China Strengthened Gas detection presence in China and India Develop more new products for the oil and gas industry Introduced new wireless communication technology for use Accelerate new product development cycles by our Water businesses in the Health and Analysis sector Introduce wireless communication technologies into other Halma businesses Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 27 Our Bursting disc companies continue to develop their Rising global demand for closer monitoring of energy usage distribution network to improve market share.
Capital investment and for capturing data relating to high value infrastructure assets, in plant, improved processes, product rationalisation and offers excellent growth prospects for our Asset monitoring outsourcing of component supplies have cut production costs businesses.
Our recent acquisition, Tritech, serves an exciting and increased competitiveness by reducing lead times.
niche in subsea sensors and communication products which help service companies install, inspect and monitor underwater Our strong position in the global market for Safety interlocks assets.
The trend towards deeper water activities in the oil and dictates that we not only have to protect our position through gas sector will support demand for our underwater acoustic new products and market leading customer service but also find surveillance sensors.
Online research indicates that between ways to broaden our market opportunity.
For example we are 2001 and 2005 global deepwater capital investment was adding safety interlock capability to adjacent product categories 16.5 billion and it is estimated to more than double to 44 billion like the new eGard product which marries safety interlocking with during 2006 to 2010. machine control.
Sector performance In Asset monitoring we see a significant opportunity in satisfying 2006 07 was a very successful year with organic revenue the growing worldwide demand for remote monitoring of and profit growth significantly above the market growth rates expensive or safety critical physical assets particularly those and a major acquisition completed.
in hazardous or remote locations.
Geographically, revenue growth was particularly good in the Market trends Middle East where we benefited from major oil and gas projects.
Our internal assessment of the global market for gas detection Regions such as the UK were also strong where our new products is 500 million: we forecast an average annual growth Sprint V flue analyser product was adopted by BG Group with rate of 3% to 4%.
The demand for gas detection products a 1.4 million supply contract.
remains robust in the developed industrial countries.
The gradual adoption of Western safety standards in the fast-growing Asian We succeeded in integrating our wireless communications economies will drive additional demand in these markets.
technology used in asset monitoring with other sectors in the Group and can see other opportunities for technical Our internal data suggest that the market for bursting discs is collaboration in the future.
Substantial continued investment by our customers in lower cost labour markets, and the transfer of US Relative to our other sectors we invest a slightly lower percentage and European safety standards is leading us to allocate more of of revenue in R&D.
However, good growth opportunities continue our resources into developing regions such as Eastern Europe to exist and the Return on sales and ROCE remain at a high level.
Sector outlook In addition to increasing safety awareness and regulation, the In the long term, increasing safety regulation, greater concern safety interlock market continues to benefit from the trend of over the consequences of accidents from company boards increasing capital spending in the oil and gas sector driven and higher safety expectations by workers will continue to drive by relatively high oil prices and global demand.
High-profile demand for our Industrial Safety products.
accidents at petrochemical processing plants during the past We will continue to seek bolt-on acquisitions which will enhance 18 months have impacted on customer behaviour with some oil our products and distribution strength in higher growth markets.
companies now specifying safety interlocks earlier in the plant design phase.
We have solid positions in each of our chosen markets and by continuing to invest in new products, additional sales offices and Customer feedback suggests that Chinese authorities are now our activities in lower cost territories such as Eastern Europe and encouraging Western companies with manufacturing plants Asia, we are well placed to continue our track record of healthy in China to adopt the same safety standards as in their home organic growth.
Over the medium term, this will help to improve industrial safety expectations throughout China and drive demand for our products.
Geographic regions Main growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Australia China Risk and cost of accidents France Commercial construction new build and refurbishment India Population growth, ageing and urbanisation Italy Malaysia Rising expectations of health and safety The Netherlands Capital investment in industrial facilities Singapore Industrialisation of developing world Tunisia UK Energy and water resources markets growth USA New technology 28 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Operating environment, risks and uncertainties Macro-economic, regulatory and competitive environment We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, We anticipate that the 2007 08 macro-economic environment in common with all businesses, our activities have an will be broadly favourable to our growth strategy.
In global terms, environmental impact.
Our strategy is not to have capitalwe see the US, Europe and Asian economies offering good intensive manufacturing processes, so the environmental impact opportunities with Asia having higher growth rates from a lower of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers base.
Growth in the more mature economies is important to our in other sectors.
We also recognise that we can improve our overall growth prospects albeit that our products are often used own environmental performance and so resources are now in regulated markets and this affords some protection from the being deployed to actively reduce our own carbon footprint.
More information on these activities is given in the Corporate responsibility section of this review.
Safety and environmental legislation is constantly evolving, worldwide, towards increased safeguards and protection.
Halma was designated a member of the FTSE4Good UK index This favours us because it relentlessly drives demand growth in on its establishment in July 2001. our core markets.
Legislative change challenges us to continually Resources, risks and uncertainties refresh our product portfolio whilst regulatory compliance is also The main intangible resources which deliver competitive a powerful barrier to entry for competitors.
Our well developed advantage and which support our strategic objectives are: capacity to innovate, coupled with strong R&D resources, the patents and trade marks which protect our products: our positions our companies for leadership of markets dominated employees, whose understanding of our technology, customers by regulatory control.
needs and the dynamics of the markets we operate in, enable The markets we operate in are generally highly competitive.
us to maintain leadership in many markets: and the enviable Our diversified product portfolio and wide geographic coverage reputation enjoyed by our brands for superior product quality means that competitive product manufacturers are analysed and market leading customer support.
Our businesses build at subsidiary company or operating sector level.
We have competitive advantage and strengthen barriers to entry in many commented on the competitive environment in the ways including patents, product approvals, technical innovation, sector reviews.
product quality, customer service levels and branding.
We look for these qualities in the businesses we seek to acquire.
Employee, health and safety and environmental issues Our core values are Innovation, Empowerment, Achievement We like regulated markets which require suppliers to achieve and Customer Satisfaction.
The core values have been selected compliance with demanding product standards but also look following extensive surveying of employees across the Group.
for other long-term growth drivers such as demographic change.
Our culture is one of openness, integrity and accountability.
We seek to continuously grow our profits, generating a high We encourage our employees to act fairly in their dealings with return for shareholders over the long term.
We view risk within fellow employees, customers, suppliers and business partners.
the context of this objective as well as in absolute terms.
We recognise that our employees determine our success and therefore have invested in and encouraged their development In any business there are inherent risks that are an integral more this year than ever before, not only with our intranet training component of its business activities.
Our strategy is to operate a facilities and Halma Executive Development Programme, but also continuous process to identify the risks faced by our companies through clearer leadership and decisive action.
By ensuring that and the Group, to assess each risks likelihood of occurring our team has the approach and skills required to succeed we are and impact were it to occur, and to ensure that a system of better placed to meet the challenges of the future.
controls is in place to manage or mitigate those risks assessed as significant.
Appropriate actions are taken to address any We recognise the necessity of safeguarding the health and weaknesses.
Comprehensive insurance cover is maintained safety of our own employees whilst at work and operate so where warranted and cost effective.
as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment for employees, visitors and the public.
Our policy is to manage our Our key means of risk control is the choice of the markets in activities to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable which we operate and the people and methods we use to exploit risks to health and safety and the environment.
We have an those market opportunities.
We perceive our primary operational excellent long-term record for addressing environmental issues risks to emanate from remoteness of operation and the actions that affect our businesses and for developing products that and quality of our people.
protect the environment and improve safety at work and in Our choice to operate in the safety products and health-related public places.
technology markets, and the depth of market knowledge we Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in have built up within the Group, allows us to adequately evaluate monitoring and improving the environment.
Our brands lead and assess the risks we encounter throughout our operations.
the world in a number of technologies which help to minimise environmental damage.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 29 We do not place undue reliance on any one Group company Financial irregularities and increasing span of control We nor does any one Group company rely heavily on one customer recognise that the size and remoteness of some operations or transaction.
In managing the portfolio of companies within the may not permit full segregation of duties and that Internal and Group and in managing the transactions in any one company, External Audit procedures may not always identify a financial we seek to spread our risks.
We have processes in place to irregularity.
This is increasingly the case as we pursue our ensure any major transactions are reviewed at the appropriate strategy of geographic expansion often into regions with different level, including at Board level if necessary.
Therefore the Group seeks to ensure there is adequate local management and financial Another factor limiting risk is that our products are predominantly resource and regularly reiterates to the operating company critical components or instruments which are warranted as fit for officers their fiduciary responsibilities, ensuring they are the purpose rather than systems or intangible products where adequately trained in financial matters whilst maintaining satisfactory performance is contingent upon third parties.
a culture of openness to promote disclosure.
Group companies Our procedures to identify, manage and mitigate the risks within operate a common set of reporting procedures and accounting the Group address the following major risk factors: policies, disseminated via the Group intranet.
Organic growth and competition The Group is affected by Pension deficit Monitoring the funding needs of the pension competition in the form of pricing, service, reliability and obligations is essential to controlling the cash the pension plan substitution.
There is an ever present risk of losing market share requires from Halma.
Our UK defined benefit pension plans are or failing to adapt to market changes.
High quality alternative closed to new members.
There is regular dialogue with pension products at low cost will always be a threat.
Our focus on fund trustees and pension strategy is a regular Halma Board improving our rate of innovation is a direct result of assessing agenda item.
The Groups strong cash flows and access to these risks and determining how best to concentrate our efforts.
adequate borrowing facilities mean that the pensions risk can Maintaining the high quality of our products is critical.
In addition, be adequately managed.
The Group is currently increasing all businesses analyse revenue and margin by product line on a contributions with the overall objective of paying off the deficit monthly basis.
Through continual innovation and by ensuring that in line with the Actuarys recommendations.
local management are well resourced and free to respond to Financial and treasury risks The Group does not use complex changing market needs, we feel that the adverse impact of derivative financial instruments and no speculative treasury downward price pressure and competition can be mitigated.
Foreign currency risk is the Acquisitions The identification and purchase of businesses which most significant treasury related risk for the Group.
Significant meet our demanding financial and growth criteria is an important currency denominated net assets are hedged but future part of our strategy for developing the Group.
Therefore we have currency profits are not hedged.
Therefore, the Sterling value of been increasing the resource allocated to this activity, focusing overseas profit earned during the year is sensitive to the strength on sectors where we see the greatest opportunity.
There is of Sterling, particularly against the US Dollar and the Euro.
always a significant potential integration risk, particularly in the The Group is exposed to a lesser extent to other treasury risks purchase of private businesses, and this is an area which is such as interest rate risk and liquidity risk.
These financial risks being continually improved.
are discussed more fully in note 26 to the accounts.
R&D New products have always been critical to the growth of Laws and regulations Group operations are subject to the Group and have underpinned its ability to earn high margins wide-ranging laws and regulations including employment, and high returns over the long term.
R&D is of necessity a risky environmental and health and safety legislation.
There is also activity but by devolving control of product development into the exposure to litigation and contractual risk.
All Group companies autonomous operating businesses, the Group spreads the risk have an employee handbook detailing employment practices and ensures that the resource is as close to the customer as and we consider our relations with our employees to be good.
possible, giving the maximum chance of success.
Protection of Each operating company has a health and safety manager our intellectual property is important to the Groups continued responsible for compliance and our performance in this area success.
Whilst no single product or process is critical to the is excellent.
The Groups emphasis on excellent financial control, Group as a whole, all appropriate actions are taken to protect the deployment of high quality management resource and strong the Groups intellectual property rights.
focus on quality control over products and processes in each operating business helps to protect us from adverse litigation and contractual issues.
30 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Corporate responsibility A summary of our progress and performance for all areas of The environment corporate responsibility follows.
Halma is developing meaningful Within Halma, we have an excellent long-term record and a clear key performance indicators KPIs that reflect the importance strategy for addressing environmental issues that affect our the Group places on corporate responsibility and will enable the businesses and for developing products that protect the Board to monitor the Groups progress in meeting its objectives environment and improve safety at work and in public places.
and responsibilities in these areas.
Halma will report against Our products these KPIs next year.
Many of our innovative products play a very positive role in The biggest area of emphasis over the past year has been the monitoring and improving the environment.
Halma brands lead transformation of the Groups environmental policy into a Carbon the world in a number of technologies which help to minimise Policy stating actual targeted reductions for the Group to achieve environmental damage.
Halma has an excellent health and safety Our principal environmental technologies are water leakage record and a culture of safety is deeply embedded within the detection, gas emissions monitoring, water and effluent analysis, Group.
We want to recognise the effort behind this exemplary UV water treatment and optical sensing.
We tirelessly promote record and will promote our safety culture more visibly over the the use of UV water sterilisation which eliminates the need to use coming year.
Finally, the increased investment in management dangerous chemicals, as well as products that minimise the training continues to be valuable and we are exploring a number waste of clean water.
of key metrics to better communicate this to stakeholders.
Our commitment to the development of equipment for measuring Socially responsible investment environmental changes and controlling the damaging impact Investing in Halma shares meets the criteria of many professional of industrial activities is long term.
and private investors who base their decisions on environmental, ethical and social considerations.
The Group is a world leader We make safety equipment for use at work, in public places and in several key environmental technologies and has a reputation in transportation systems that contribute to increased personal for honesty and integrity in its relationships with employees, safety by ensuring safe practice at work, protecting people from customers, business partners and shareholders.
fire and making elevators and automatic doors safe and effective.
We are the major world supplier in several of these areas.
Social conditions can be improved for all through the creation of wealth.
Halma creates wealth responsibly allowing our Carbon policy employees, customers, business partners and shareholders The Groups policy on carbon is published on our website and to determine where this wealth is best distributed.
has been distributed and explained to all Halma business units.
Halmas policies reflect the core requirements of the Universal A senior executive in each of our higher-impact business units Declaration of Human Rights and the ILO Declaration on is responsible for implementing the carbon policy at local level.
Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.
We do not tolerate The Group Finance Director, Kevin Thompson, has principal practices which contravene these international standards.
responsibility for coordinating and monitoring the policy.
Regulatory demands upon us vary considerably around the world, so in each of the following areas Halma establishes the core structure to ensure that Group companies fully comply with regulatory requirements while permitting them to tailor the solutions to their particular needs.
Keeler scholarship UV and wastewater Dr Srilakshmi Sharma from Bristol Eye Hospital is this year's The development of new UV technologies is a perfect example winner of the highly prestigious Keeler Scholarship for research of an industry investing to meet market demand for an effective, into ocular inflammatory disease.
Worth 20,000, the scholarship low cost, and environmentally friendly way to disinfect is funded by Keeler, Halmas world leader in high precision wastewater for reuse.
It allows the winner to spend up to two years Potential applications for wastewater reuse are extremely undertaking research into ophthalmology.
wide-ranging and include any instance where water is needed Im very pleased to have won this Scholarship, she said.
The most popular and widespread use It will be a fantastic experience which will allow me to is for agricultural irrigation, with California and Florida leading the conduct research at an internationally acclaimed medical way in the US and a number of Australian states also making ophthalmology clinic.
Other irrigation uses include landscape and recreational applications such as golf courses, parks, and lawns.
The Keeler Scholarship is awarded every two years and is designed to advance the science and practice of ophthalmology Founded less than ten years ago Anthem, a town just north of by enabling the winner to study, research or acquire special skills, Phoenix, Arizona, now has a population of over 40,000.
As part knowledge or experience for a minimum period of six months.
of its rapid expansion the town recently installed three closed The award is administered through the Royal College of chamber medium pressure UV systems from Berson UV-techniek Ophthalmologists.
This allows the town to not only meet increased demands in its water and wastewater treatment capacity, but also to exceed the output quality standards.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 31 Environmental management system The collected data confirms that the main areas of impact on the We are committed to developing and implementing an environment are energy consumption and solid waste disposal.
environmental management system EMS throughout the The Group does not operate a fleet of distribution vehicles Group to measure, control and, where practical, reduce our although we do own a number of company cars.
We are developing performance we are implementing a cap on permissible CO2 emissions of all indicators that will assist local management in implementing the UK company vehicles and will extend this requirement to the rest policy and developing an EMS.
The requirement for an EMS and of the world in the short term.
This limit will be reduced annually the related reporting has been rolled out to all UK business units, so as to consistently reduce our vehicles environmental impact.
which represent over 50% of Group production facilities in terms Having identified the main areas of impact, we are now of external turnover.
All Group companies are encouraged to committed to their reduction and minimisation.
Using the undertake ISO 14001, the international environmental standard, baseline data the total Group carbon emissions for 2006 07 was accreditation where warranted, and during the year, Radcom calculated as being approximately 15,000 tonnes, an average of Technologies Limited and Palmer Environmental Limited both less than 50 tonnes per million of revenues.
We plan to reduce obtained ISO 14001 approval.
The requirement to implement the Groups total carbon emissions relative to revenues by 10% an EMS will be extended to the rest of the Group in the by 2010. medium term.
We are working with AEA, an international environment and Our impacts energy consultancy, to facilitate this reduction by providing each We support the concept of sustainability and recognise that, subsidiary with the means to identify tailored initiatives for energy in common with all businesses, our activities have an efficiency.
This will be complemented by internal programmes, environmental impact.
Our strategy is not to have capitalincluding the use of our own wireless communications intensive manufacturing processes, so the environmental effect technology to monitor energy usage and use of the Group of our operations is relatively low compared to manufacturers intranet to allow for inter-company communication, reporting in other sectors.
FTSE4Good has assessed Halma as having of data and feedback.
We expect that this initiative will lead a low impact on the environment.
to cost savings for the Group as well as preparing us for Nevertheless, Group companies are encouraged to improve compliance with anticipated climate change legislation.
energy efficiency, reduce waste and emissions and reduce the The new Carbon Policy can be found on the Halma website.
use of materials in order to reduce their environmental impact.
The Groups environmental performance will continue to be The Group established baseline data in 2004 05 on emissions reported in both the Annual report and on our website.
to air and water, water and energy consumption, and waste production, the results of which are updated on the website The Group is committed to examining the establishment each year.
The data collected for the past three years has of green procurement policies and increasing our use enabled the Group to set comprehensive and quantifiable of recycled materials.
objectives for reducing its environmental impacts in those areas and to set targets for reduction in key areas.
Green innovation Fortress Interlocks has won the prestigious Green Innovation Award at this years innovation & Design Excellence Awards iDEA against strong competition.
The award was for Fortress eGard, a unique new product which combines both machine safety and control modules in one flexible unit.
The iDEAs, organised by Eureka, New Electronics and Cranfield School of Management, recognised that the innovation behind eGard opens up a new, large market sector for Fortress.
The award also recognised that Fortress designed and manufactured eGard along environmental principles taking into account the whole life-cycle of the product.
Fortress decided to make the housing from polymer using the same material throughout to make recycling more efficient.
Other parts are made of stainless steel.
In addition, the housing has no fixings or adhesive: parts are clipped together or ultrasonically welded.
This reduces component count and also makes recycling much easier.
32 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Corporate responsibility continued The workplace Training Halma operates an employment policy with the objective of 2006 07 was another successful year for the Halma Executive ensuring equal opportunities and preventing harassment in Development Programme HEDP which is based on our the workplace.
This gives us access to the widest labour market recognition of the fundamental part our people play in the and enables us to secure the best employees for our needs.
HEDP is an integrated development plan for our senior people including the next generation Halma demonstrated that it is one of the UKs most admired of Managing Directors and Divisional Chief Executives.
businesses again this year by another high ranking in Our objective is to provide these individuals with the tools and Management Today magazines annual survey of corporate training to achieve more in their existing role and potentially to reputation.
The awards are a peer review, distilling the opinions advance through the organisation if their achievements merit it.
of directors who run many of the UKs largest companies.
This is a revealing survey based on the key elements that make HEDP is aimed squarely at employees already serving on companies succeed.
Companies are, in effect, judged by their subsidiary boards but we also encourage applications from competitors, and the survey is unique in the UK.
senior managers who can demonstrate they already have equivalent responsibilities and will benefit from the programme.
Halma was ranked the 55th most admired company out of a list of 239 businesses.
The awards are based on a survey The programme has been developed from a proven course by Nottingham Business School of the ten largest UK-based structure and is specifically and continuously tailored to suit companies in each of 24 different sectors.
Respondents Halmas needs, aligning the content to the Groups four core rate companies in categories such as quality of management, values of Innovation, Achievement, Empowerment and Customer financial soundness, quality of products, ability to attract, Satisfaction.
It focuses strongly on strategic and leadership develop and retain talented managers, value as a long-term capabilities and developing personal attributes commitment, investment and capacity to innovate.
There is an emphasis on performance management and team development.
It includes skill-based elements such as sales and marketing, management, project leadership, corporate governance, finance and innovation, but all are presented in a strategic context.
The first four programmes have now been completed and the success of the programme can be measured by the enthusiasm of the participants upon their return to their businesses, the achievements and promotion of a number of participants and their eagerness to coordinate further sessions to explore topics of particular interest to their programme group.
The final week of the programme immerses the participants in an environment related to an emerging market or a market of significant opportunity.
Participants have been to China, India, Argentina and Japan and had access to many local businesses and officials as well as local community programmes aimed at improving the quality of life of local children and young adults.
In April 2007, Halma held a prize draw for its monthly innovation award, Eureka!
The lucky winner, Steve Jansen of Texecom was randomly picked from over 150 names who had submitted innovation ideas during the year and won a car to the value of 9,000.
Steve is Procurement Manager and entered two innovation ideas over the year that he has put into practice at the company, one for a small circuit board which reduced assembly times of the companys bell boxes by around 50% and another for the companys packaging which has also significantly increased the production rate.
is simply looking for the actual birth of the idea, the creative spark that heralds the start of an original thought process which will bring new benefit to a Group business.
A prize is also awarded for the most creative innovation idea submitted during any one month.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 33 Health and safety Innovation The Group recognises the necessity of safeguarding the health Innovation is a critical ingredient for Halmas growth.
Continually and safety of our own employees whilst at work and operates refreshing our intellectual property leads to new products and so as to provide a safe and comfortable working environment for processes and helps us to maintain the strong market positions employees, visitors and the public.
The Groups health and safety held by many of our companies.
Innovation is not just the policy, which is set out on our website, is to manage our activities responsibility of the R&D department but is integral to all to avoid causing any unnecessary or unacceptable risks to commercial activities within the business.
Innovative ideas can health and safety.
The policy is understood by all Group range from a novel way to enter a new or remote market to companies, and given the autonomous structure of the Group, administration process improvements speeding the delivery of operational responsibility for compliance with relevant local products to customers.
All employees within the Group have the health and safety regulations is delegated to the board of opportunity to deliver innovative ideas to help their company and directors of each Group company.
We believe health and safety the Group achieve the growth objectives.
training is important and it is carried out within companies The Group continued the successful Halma Annual Innovation as appropriate.
Adequate internal reporting exists in order Awards, launched in 2004 05, which recognise the major product that the Group Finance Director may monitor each companys and process innovations during the past year.
The 2006 07 Gold compliance with this policy.
Award of 20,000 was presented at the annual CEO Conference The Group has collected details of its worldwide reported by Geoff Unwin to Brian Back and Inder Panesar of Radio-Tech health and safety incidents which are available on our website for their Rail Temperature Monitor system, a radio telemetry at www.
We are pleased to report that there were system that enables rail temperatures to be monitored constantly, no fatalities during 2006 07 or 2005 06, and we achieved a anywhere on the network, providing early warning of the risk considerable decrease in both serious and minor injuries in of track buckling.
The Silver Award of 10,000 was awarded comparison with low levels in 2005 06. to Jim Lane, Phil Buchsbaum, Cliff Batchelder, Greg Williamson and Steve Mattessich of Ocean Optics Thin Films Division for Ethics the SeaChanger xG Color Engine, a revolutionary colour filter The Group culture is one of openness, integrity and system for spotlights.
It can be used to produce dramatic accountability.
Halma encourages its employees to act fairly in lighting effects in theatres and large venues such as museums their dealings with fellow employees, customers, suppliers and and churches.
The Bronze Award of 5,000 was awarded business partners.
We aim to have suppliers of high quality and to Emmanuel Eubelen, Thierry Jongen, Marc Meyers and operate to acceptable international standards.
Halma operates Jean-Michel Bechet of BEA for the 4Safe, a new type a confidential whistleblowing policy, which enables all Group of safety sensor, specifically designed to prevent anyone from employees to raise any concerns they may have.
being trapped or injured in automatic revolving or swing doors.
Halma has a zero-tolerance policy on bribery and corruption which extends to all business dealings and transactions in which we are directly involved.
This includes a prohibition on making political donations, offering or receiving inappropriate gifts or making undue payments to influence the outcome of business dealings.
Queens Award In April 2007, following the year end, Fortress Interlocks, one of our UK-based Industrial Safety businesses was awarded a prestigious Queens Award for Enterprise: Innovation in recognition of their mGard safety interlock product.
This is the 10th Queens Award received by one of our companies since the inception of the Queens Award scheme.
34 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Financial review A strong performance with widespread growth Record revenue and profit We achieved our highest ever revenue from continuing operations at 354.6 million 2006: 310.8 million, an increase of 14% over the prior year.
Profit before tax and amortisation of acquired intangibles at 66.1 million 2006: 58.1 million on our continuing operations, excluding the disposals made in the prior year, was 14% higher and was also a record.
Adjusting for the extra profit which came with acquisitions gives organic growth of 8.1% in revenue and 7.6% in terms of profit.
There was a notable currency headwind through the year and without that organic revenue and profit growth would have been 2.3% and 2.5% higher respectively.
See below for more detail on currency impacts.
Earnings per share were up 11% on a statutory basis and up 14% on our adjusted basis.
A year of good further progress.
As noted above there were disposals last year but none this year and so the comparative figures are for continuing operations only.
We have made a minor reclassification within our sector figures, moving our Asset monitoring business into the Industrial Safety sector and details of the change are given in note 1 to the accounts.
All sectors grew strongly Infrastructure Sensors and Industrial Safety sectors both grew revenue and profit by more than 15%.
The strong performance of Infrastructure Sensors, our largest sector, was underpinned by the higher investment made last year.
The Health and Analysis sector grew revenue by 9% and 7% in terms of profit, well above our target of 5% growth and following on from very strong growth in the previous year.
Return on sales for each sector remained firmly in the 18% to 21% range.
Sector performances are discussed further on pages 22 to 27.
Revenue to all destinations grew There was widespread geographic growth in revenue.
The following table gives revenue from continuing operations by destination.
% million Revenue change United States of America 98.9 5.1% United Kingdom 96.5 16.4% Mainland Europe 91.4 18.4% Asia Pacific and Australasia 35.5 6.6% Africa, Near and Middle East 22.3 51.5% Other 10.0 16.5% 354.6 14.1% In the US our Health and Analysis and Industrial Safety businesses showed solid growth with Infrastructure Sensors not yet making as strong progress.
In the UK, Africa, Near and Middle East, Infrastructure Sensors performed very well, as it did in Mainland Europe, with the majority of the European increase coming organically.
Industrial Safety grew strongly in the UK assisted by the addition of the Tritech business.
Growth in the Asia Pacific region was more modest although sales to China grew by 26% from a low base.
We are putting far greater resources into this region to capture the opportunity there.
Importantly, revenue outside of the US UK Mainland Europe Kevin Thompson grew by a further 20% as we expand our geographic coverage.
Finance Director See Financial highlights.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 35 A continued trend of strong margins and returns Maintaining a strong financial position Resumption of strong growth Good cash flow In the year we again achieved very good organic growth and The Group generated strong cash flow once again with cash at the same time maintained high returns.
An important part of generated from operations of 70.3 million.
The following table our strategy, reflected in our KPIs see page 20 is the delivery of sets out the main components of our cash flows and these are excellent returns and the strong cash flow which comes from discussed in the sections below.
These high returns have been a feature of the Group over Change in net cash debt many years, but significantly this has once again been coupled million 2007 2006 with good organic growth in these past two years.
Cash generated from operations 70.3 70.2 ROCE of 60.1% and ROTIC of 14.0% Acquisition of businesses 27.5 36.2 Our returns are strong and stable.
Return on capital employed ROCE was 60.1% 2006: 56.9% showing the high value we Disposal of businesses 14.6 generate from our tangible asset base.
Return on total invested Development costs capitalised 3.9 2.5 capital ROTIC increased to 14.0% 2006: 12.8%, this is a posttax return on the total asset base including all historic goodwill Net capital expenditure 7.3 11.6 but excluding the pension deficit.
See note 3 to the accounts for Dividends paid 25.9 24.5 the full calculation of ROCE and ROTIC.
The pattern of ROTIC over the past five years is as follows: Taxation paid 19.5 16.8 ROTIC % Issue of shares purchase of treasury shares 3.6 0.6 07 Net finance expense 0.8 0.4 06 Exchange adjustments 0.2 1.9 05 04 11.2 8.5 03 Net cash brought forward 3.5 12.0 0 5% 10% 15% 20% Net debt cash carried forward 7.7 3.5 Weighted average cost of capital The Group finances its operations from retained earnings and ROTIC has grown recently because we have grown earnings at has access to third party borrowings when needed.
There are a faster rate than the underlying capital base.
In each year ROTIC no material funds outside the UK where repatriation is restricted.
has been well in excess of our Weighted average cost of capital Our treasury policies seek to minimise financial risks and ensure WACC which has been calculated as currently being 7.7%.
No speculative transactions are undertaken.
A sustained high ROTIC well above our WACC is a central Foreign currency profits are not hedged but purchase and sale element of our value creation strategy.
transactions are hedged into the functional currency of the High Return on sales at 18.6% relevant operating company and balance sheet net currency Once again we delivered a high Return on sales figure at assets are substantially hedged.
We disposed of some businesses last More earnings enhancing acquisitions year which generated a slightly lower margin.
The Group has We continued to implement our strategy of acquiring successful operated with a Return on sales range of 16.2% to 19.8% for businesses and helping them grow.
In particular, we offer more than 20 years.
These sustained high margins demonstrate businesses an autonomous environment within which to continue the significant value placed on our products by our customers their record of success.
We spent 27.5 million on acquisitions throughout the economic cycle.
in the year of which 8.2 million related to the payment of deferred consideration on acquisitions made in previous years.
Acquisitions made in the year have met or exceeded our expectations.
36 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Financial review continued The largest acquisitions in the year were of Tritech System Tax rate Technologies and Labsphere.
We acquired Tritech System The effective tax rate on profit from continuing operations before Technologies, who design and manufacture underwater asset amortisation of acquired intangible assets is very similar to last monitoring equipment, in November 2006.
Future effective tax rates are more accounts showed annual revenue of 5.4 million and profit of likely to be higher although not significantly so.
1.1 million on a combined basis, with further encouraging Pension contributions increased, deficit reduced growth since that time.
We paid an initial consideration of As indicated last year we have increased the rate of 10 million, with a further potential payment of up to contributions into our defined benefit pension plans which were 4.5 million conditional on substantial future growth.
closed to new entrants in 2003.
An additional 3 million was paid Labsphere, a world leader in light testing and measurement into the plans in the year and over the next couple of years we products, was acquired in February 2007 for a cash expect the annual cash contributions to continue to increase by a consideration of US$14.3 million 7.2 million.
There are further 2 million so that we can meet our objective of paying off no additional payments to make for this acquisition.
Labspheres the deficit, as measured on an IAS 19 basis, over a ten-year unaudited accounts for 2006 show revenues of US$12.5 million period.
These extra contributions are not insignificant but are not 6.3 million and operating profit of US$2.4 million 1.2 million.
expected to impair our growth opportunities.
The pension deficit on an IAS 19 basis reported in the accounts has reduced from In the year we also acquired Mikropack, which makes light 46 million last year to 37 million at year end, before the related sources and photonic accessories, for 2.3 million 1.5 million deferred tax asset.
This decrease arises from an increase in the and Baldwin Environmental for US$1.1 million 0.6 million with a value of plan assets, helped by the additional contributions, offset potential further total of 1.9 million payable on the two by proportionately less of an increase in the present value of acquisitions if performance targets are met.
plan liabilities due to a higher discount rate being applied.
All of these acquisitions were immediately earnings enhancing Modest net debt of 7.7 million and were generating a rate of return in excess of our WACC We finished the year with a modest level of gearing at 7.7 million at the time of acquisition.
We continue to invest considerable 2006: 3.5 million net cash.
This begins to utilise the 60 million resources into identifying further acquisitions in our chosen five-year debt facility put in place last year with our wellmarkets.
The Board would be willing to Capital expenditure at typical levels utilise more of this facility if good acquisition and investment We spent 10.9 million on property, plant and computer software opportunities are identified.
The Group continues to be able to in the year, a lower figure than the high expenditure last year borrow at competitive rates and therefore currently deems representing 134% of depreciation amortisation a more typical this to be the most effective method of funding our level for the Group.
Two surplus properties sold during the year increasing investment.
In 2007 08 we expect to undertake A currency headwind continues two specific property developments at separate subsidiaries There was a currency headwind through the year, particularly in which should add to the underlying rate of capital investment the second half.
Approximately one-third of Group revenue is and also produce a small gain on a property disposal.
denominated in US Dollars and 15% in Euros with the US Dollar Further 5% dividend increase with cover raised recently showing significant adverse movement relative to The Board has recommended a further 5% increase in the Sterling.
We translated our US Dollar revenue and profit to final dividend up to 4.33p which together with the interim Sterling at an average rate of 1.78 in 2005 06 but in 2006 07 dividend also 5% higher will give a total dividend of 7.18p for this average was 1.89.
As a guide, a 1% weakening of the the year, assuming the final dividend is approved.
This will mean US Dollar relative to Sterling is expected to reduce revenue by a total payout to the shareholders in dividends of 26.7 million approximately 1 million and profit by 0.2 million in a full year.
in relation to the year ended 31 March 2007.
This continues our The adverse movement in the South African Rand relative to progressive dividend policy stretching back many years.
It also Sterling in the year also reduced profitability in our Infrastructure furthers our objective of increasing dividend cover based on Sensors business which has a sizable operation in South Africa.
profit from continuing operations before amortisation of acquired As previously indicated there has been an adverse impact intangible assets towards a figure of around 2.0 over time, by in translating our results into Sterling which we estimate as lifting the cover from 1.61 to 1.74 times.
reducing revenue by 2.3% and profit by 2.5% and most of this impact has fallen in the second half of the year.
If current exchange rates prevail, our results will continue to be adversely impacted, particularly in the first half of the current financial year.
Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 37 The impact of currency movements on the Groups net tangible Developing in China assets is largely offset by the currency hedging loans we have in We have taken a big step forward in China this year in terms of place.
getting more high quality resource on the ground.
The Asia Pacific region contributes only 10% of our total revenue, with Amongst the operating sectors it is the Health and Analysis China as a small part of this.
We see substantial opportunity for sector which has the biggest trading exposure to the US Dollar many of our products in this region and so the extra investment both in terms of origin and destination of its business.
The Health in China, around 0.5 million more in 2006 07, is an important and Analysis businesses generate 45% of their revenue from the part of the growth process.
Our task in 2007 08 and beyond US compared with 21% for Infrastructure Sensors and 16% is accelerating the payback on this investment.
This gives an indication of the relative impact of US Dollar movement and it is the profitability of the Developing our strong control culture and our people Health and Analysis sector which was hardest hit by the fall We spread our risks in part by operating through a number in the US Dollar relative to Sterling in 2006 07. of closely managed individual businesses.
The main risks and uncertainties facing Halma are discussed above in this Business Active investment for the future and financial review.
We have high quality local teams guiding Growing R&D and extending innovation each business within our overall reporting and control framework.
We continue to invest heavily in Research & Development R&D There is significant external review of these operations and one and are active in promoting an innovative culture across the element of that review process, our Internal Audit, has been Group.
Expenditure on R&D in the year was 4.3% of revenue further enhanced this year by more in-depth visits.
Each business 2006: 4.3% of revenue and amounted to 15.3 million, 14% has a senior finance executive on site who plays an important up on last year for continuing operations.
We do not specifically part in the control and growth of the business.
We continue to capture the expenditure on all innovation as it permeates every actively develop our people and we have now had 13 of our aspect of our activities but this is an increasing use of existing senior finance staff graduate from the Halma Executive and new resources.
The Sector reviews on pages 22 to 27 show Development Programme HEDP and are finding them able the percentage of revenue spent in each sector on R&D as one to make an even broader contribution to the progress of of our KPIs.
They show that relative to our growing revenue the business.
our spend this year is consistent with last year and that the Health and Analysis sector continues to invest the highest Taking our environmental responsibilities seriously percentage at 5.3%.
Our impact on the environment is low and we produce many products which themselves have a positive impact.
Carbon Under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS we are emissions reduction seems to be important for the future and we required to capitalise certain development expenditure on the are putting in place a variety of actions to both monitor and Consolidated balance sheet and also to amortise that asset over actively manage our carbon footprint.
We are at the early stages an appropriate period.
In the year we capitalised 3.9 million of of formulating reliable measures and KPIs, but are making good such development expenditure and amortised 1.5 million, progress and this is discussed more fully on pages 30 and 31. giving rise to an asset of 6.1 million in the March 2007 balance We take a broader view that our impact on the environment is sheet.
The nature of R&D is that it involves risk and therefore not just in relation to carbon emissions but also water usage, we carefully monitor all costs carried on the balance sheet.
packaging and waste generally, all areas where we have a The Consolidated income statement was charged with a cost good record.
This increasing rate of investment in new, innovative products underpins our future growth.
Not only should we be able to comply with regulations as they develop but also we are focussing our efforts in this area on increasing profitability and genuinely improving our business.
Improving further in these areas should deliver greater value for customers and shareholders.
Cautionary note The Business and financial review has been prepared solely to assist shareholders to assess the Boards strategies and their potential to succeed.
It should not be relied on by any other party, for other purposes.
Forward-looking statements have been made by the Directors in good faith using information available up until the date that they approved the Report.
Forward-looking statements should be regarded with caution because of the inherent uncertainties in economic trends and business risks.
In preparing this Business and financial review, the Directors have aimed to comply with the Accounting Standards Boards 2006 Reporting Statement guidance on Operating and Financial Reviews.
However, we are only at the early stages of developing non-financial Key Performance Indicators and so these have not been included in this Annual report.
