22 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Infrastructure Sensors sector review Sector overview We make products which detect hazards Infrastructure Sensors, our largest business, contributes to protect people and property in public 44% of Group revenue 155 million and 41% 28 million of Group profit.
Our principal products are sensors for fire, and commercial buildings.
security, automatic doors and elevator controls.
There are four sub-sectors: KPI Group target 2007 2006 1 Fire detection We make fire and smoke detectors and Revenue growth 5% 17% 12% audible visual warning devices.
We are the second largest 2 Profit growth 5% 16% 2% manufacturer of point smoke detectors in the world.
We make fire products in the UK and US, with sales offices in the US, Europe, 3 Return on sales 18% 18.1% 18.3% Africa, the Middle East and Asia.
4 ROCE Return on Security sensors We have a strong presence in this strategically capital employed 45% 64% 60% important and fast growing market.
We are the market leaders 5 in the UK and South Africa for security sensors used in public R&D as a % of revenue 4% 4.2% 4.4% and commercial property.
These products are made in the UK.
KPIs are calculated on results from continuing operations.
Automatic door sensors We are one of the worlds largest manufacturers of sensors used on automatic doors in public 1.
Sector revenue compared with the prior year.
These products are made in China, 6 2.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense compared with the prior year.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Elevator safety We are the worlds largest manufacturer of 6 4.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage elevator lift door safety sensors.
We also make emergency of sector operating net assets.
communication devices, display modules and control panels 5.
Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage for elevators.
These products are made in the UK, the Czech of sector revenue.
Republic, New Zealand, the US, China and Singapore.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
Sector strategy Our strategy in this sector is to become the leading supplier of safety-critical sensor components used in non-residential building monitoring and control systems.
We focus on specialist components, not complete installed systems.
The global manufacturers of complete building infrastructure systems see us as a strategic partner or specialist supplier of advanced technology components rather than a direct competitor.
To support our Elevator safety sales growth, during the past year we organised our companies into three regional businesses covering Asia, Europe and North America.
Our strategy is to boost competitiveness by presenting customers with a single, seamless source for our complete range of elevator safety products in each region.
As part of a strategy of getting closer to elevator customers than our competitors, we opened new regional sales offices in Delhi, Houston and Toronto adding to the new offices opened in Asia and the Middle East last year.
Continuous manufacturing cost reduction remains a key strategic activity within this sector balanced by the need to remain close to our customers.
Consequently, we will continue to invest significantly in our Czech and Chinese factories.
See note 1 to the accounts Strategic achievements Strategic directions Return to organic profit growth Organic profit growth driven by revenue growth New global strategy for Elevator Safety Increase direct presence further in China and Asia regions Further new sales offices opened in North America and Asia Develop internal technical commercial collaboration opportunities Launch of first Chinese designed and manufactured automatic door sensor product Complete implementation of new global strategy for Elevator Safety businesses Add new products and technology organically and via acquisition Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 23 Market trends New European legislation called Safety Norm EN-81, designed A significant trend in the Infrastructure Sensors market sector is to improve elevator safety and accessibility for people with rising demand for integrated fire, security, evacuation and access disabilities, boosted European demand for our products in the systems.
To accommodate this need, we have developed a new building modernisation market.
technology platform which will be licensed to our fire alarm Sector performance system partners so that our fire detectors can be specified Our Fire detector businesses produced record revenues and in buildings with integrated fire and security monitoring.
In 2006 07, organic revenue and profit growth was more Worldwide demand for fire detectors remains strong.
With an than double market growth rates thereby increasing market estimated growth rate of 18%, China continues to offer the share while improving profitability.
More than 10 significant new highest revenue growth potential.
Europe, where our fire product fire products were introduced and we obtained 450 new product revenues grew by over 15%, reversed the downward trend of approvals for global markets.
last year due to recovery in the German market.
Despite strong revenue growth, profit growth from security Downward pricing pressure continues in the fire detector market, sensor products suffered from currency volatility as well as high particularly in the Middle East and Asia.
Further investment in our investment in new markets and product development.
sales channels, coupled with increased spending on R&D and Even with strong price competition in the automatic door sensor the supply chain, delivered continued growth in these markets market, both revenues and profits grew significantly.
We and gross margins remained solid.
maintained our high market shares in Europe and the US and Our ability to innovate and respond rapidly to frequent regulatory defended our good profit margins partly by cutting production changes maintains competitive advantage.
In addition to new costs through increased investment in our Chinese technical standards, during the past year we accommodated manufacturing capacity.
However, we also benefited from new regulations covering: safe disposal and recycling of waste launching innovative, market leading products, such as the 4Safe electrical products WEEE Directive : restrictions on the use of sensor which prevents people from being trapped or injured in hazardous substances in electrical products RoHs Directive : automatic, revolving or swing doors.
New legislation boosted and enhanced electromagnetic compatibility standards sales of 4Safe in Germany.
Last year we began to increase our direct presence in key Our Security sensors sell into a global market worth over developing elevator markets and this year both revenue and 2 billion annually, which continues to grow at 6% per year.
We countered a slight dip in margins in Following our acquisition of Texecom in November 2005, the past year with new, lower cost products and by cutting we established a strong presence in the UK and South African production costs.
Revenues from offices set up in Dubai and markets and are making good progress towards gaining the Mumbai have grown very successfully, whilst progress in new necessary product approvals to sell our products into China regional offices in China has been more varied.
These markets offer us significant growth potential ROCE for the sector as a whole continues to be excellent.
and we will be using expertise in our other Infrastructure Sensors businesses to develop our presence more rapidly.
Sector outlook With our Fire detector and Automatic door sensor businesses Our internal estimate is a 3% to 4% global growth rate for the achieving solid organic profit growth on increased revenues, automatic door safety market.
We have high market shares in a flow of new products aimed at diversification and market Europe and the US where many of our competitors have chosen expansion is planned to drive growth.
Continued strengthening of low prices as their main competitive strategy.
Our strategy to senior management and IT investment in our Security sensor and maintain our margins and market share by reducing production Elevator safety businesses is well underway to improve the costs and introducing new market leading products tailored for potential for profit growth in these businesses in the future.
each region, continued to be successful.
Sources of information: We believe that the global market growth rate for new Internal market analysis including confidential market sources elevators and elevator services is in the region of 5% to 6%.
Freedonia Industry Study 2016 World Elevators and elevator We calculate the annual value of the elevator markets that manufacturers websites we serve at 180 million.
The Middle East, India and China offer the highest growth rates for elevator safety sensors.
Price competition is prevalent: severe in China, but moderate in Europe and the US.
Geographic regions Main growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Belgium Brazil Risk and cost of accidents China Commercial construction new build and refurbishment Czech Republic Population growth, ageing and urbanisation France Germany Rising expectations of health and safety Italy Capital investment in industrial facilities Hong Kong India Industrialisation of developing world Japan Energy and water resources markets growth New Zealand New technology Singapore South Africa Spain United Arab Emirates UK USA
