24 Halma p. l. c. 2007 Business and financial review Health and Analysis sector review Sector overview We make components and products used Health and Analysis contributed 34% 120 million of Group to improve personal and public health.
revenue and 36% 24 million of Group profit.
There are four We also develop technologies and products principal sub-sectors: which are used for analysis in safety, Water We estimate that we are the world leaders in monitoring and finding leaks in underground water pipelines and among environmental and leisure related markets, the world leaders in UV technology for disinfecting and treating including Water.
We manufacture our water products in the UK, The Netherlands, France and the US.
KPI Group target 2007 2006 restated Fluid technology We make critical components such as pumps, 1 probes, valves, connectors and tubing used by scientific, Revenue growth 5% 9% 18% environmental and medical diagnostic instrument manufacturers 2 Profit growth 5% 7% 52% for demanding fluid handling applications.
These products are 3 made in the US and UK.
Return on sales 18% 20.4% 20.7% Photonics We have market leading technologies and products 4 ROCE Return on which generate, measure and condition light and analyse the capital employed 45% 75% 79% interaction of light with substances.
We have manufacturing sites 5 R&D as a % of revenue 4% 5.3% 4.9% in the US, Germany and The Netherlands.
restated to reflect the reclassification of Radio-Tech Limited to the Industrial Health optics We make handheld devices used to assess Safety sector.
eye health, diagnose disease and assist with eye surgery.
Our ophthalmic products are made in the UK and the US.
KPIs are calculated on results from continuing operations.
Sector revenue compared with the prior year.
6 In Water management we aim to be the technology leaders and 2.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense compared with the prior year.
6 offer water utilities worldwide new solutions to their water supply 3.
Return on sales is defined as adjusted sector profit before finance expense and taxation expressed as a percentage of sector revenue.
Our Water UV treatment growth strategy is to unlock 6 new regulated markets via further product validations, and to 4.
Adjusted sector profit before finance expense expressed as a percentage of sector operating net assets.
adapt existing product lines for new applications.
Sector research and development expenditure expressed as a percentage of We aim to grow our Fluid technology business by broadening sector revenue.
our product range and our presence outside of our traditional 6.
Adjusted to remove the amortisation of acquired intangible assets.
US stronghold both via organic growth and acquisitions.
Geographic expansion and innovative product development are our twin organic growth strategies for Photonics.
The Mikropack and Labsphere acquisitions completed this year added complementary light generation and measurement technologies.
We will seek further photonics acquisitions which we can grow rapidly using our well-established sales channels.
In Health optics, higher R&D investment is resulting in an increased rate of new product introduction.
This will enable us to grow market share in developed countries whilst we build sales channels in the developing world for the longer term.
See note 1 to the accounts Strategic achievements Strategic directions Organic revenue and profit growth despite strong adverse Organic revenue and profit growth currency movement Develop business in China and Asia region Mikropack, Baldwin Environmental and Labsphere acquisitions Establish local manufacturing in major export territories Five companies establish new presence in China via Increase technical collaboration Halma hubs Target further acquisitions Increased rate of R&D to 5.3% of revenue Over 40 new products launched Business and financial review Halma p. l. c. 2007 25 Market trends New ophthalmic products undergo lengthy clinical trials and Confidential market research values the US market for UV water rigorous medical product regulation which is a disincentive treatment plant at 120 million annually which our internal to market entrants.
Digital and video imaging technology estimates suggest equates to the rest of the worlds combined for examining the eye continues to evolve and a disruptive markets.
Market growth is estimated to be over 15%, driven by technology could emerge to change the market dynamics in increasing health regulation and an expanding industrial the medium term.
We continue to monitor this closely and have customer base including semiconductors, aquaculture and established relationships with some of the leading digital leisure pools.
imaging companies where our products can be complementary to their technology.
Regulation plays an increasingly important role in developing regional water markets.
The US Environmental Protection Agency Sector performance recently issued guidance that will accelerate adoption of UV In our Water businesses we consolidated the strong recovery treatment for controlling water-borne diseases in drinking water.
Although progress in the US market EU expansion is driving demand: new member states must adopt remained patchy, revenues in European markets rose sharply.
EU health and safety regulations.
Fluid technology revenues increased although profits were flat Using internal data, we estimate that the global market for water due to increased investment in new products as well as in sales pipework monitoring and leak location equipment is worth over and distribution.
We estimate the market has grown by 7% Revenues and profits from Photonics products grew to record per year for the past four years and we anticipate similar growth levels.
A new photonics sales and technical support office was as a minimum for the next five years.
opened in Shanghai and European activities were strengthened In Fluid technology, there has been greater consolidation within by the Mikropack acquisition.
the clinical diagnostic instrumentation market than in previous In Health optics our strong brand positioning and a healthy years due to M&A activity.
We are broadening our product stream of new and enhanced products delivered record offering into the medical and environmental instrumentation revenues and profit.
segments which are also growing fast.
For example, China plans to invest 87 billion between 2006 and 2010 on environmental The increased rate of investment in R&D now 5.3% of revenue protection projects.
is an important element in maintaining the excellent operating returns in this sector.
Photonics continues to offer us exciting organic and acquisition growth prospects.
We are global leaders in the miniature Sector outlook spectrometer market niche which we estimate to be worth New product innovation and technical collaboration are 70 million annually and growing at 15% per year.
increasingly important organic growth drivers.
The use of photonic methods is increasing rapidly in a vast Geographic expansion into developed and developing regions range of end markets.
The advantages of optical sensors over offers further organic growth opportunities and we hope to traditional methods can include lower cost, greater sensitivity, benefit from the higher investment in 2006 07 in the coming year.
in-situ measurement capability particularly in hazardous Increased acquisition search resources are identifying environments, immunity from electromagnetic interference, opportunities which can strengthen our technology and repeatability and stability.
Over 60% of Halma companies use market presence.
This combination of organic and acquisitive growth prospects Growth drivers for our Health optics products include rising should lead to further progress during 2007 08. demand for eye care due to demographic changes in the developed world plus increasing access to health services Sources of information: in developing countries.
We estimate that the health optics EPA Long-Term 2 Enhanced Surface Water Treatment Rule market is growing in developing countries by 5% annually and Chinese official Xinhua News Agency 2% to 3% worldwide.
Discussions with competitors, company country visits, confidential market reports Geographic regions Main growth drivers Safety regulations and legislation Australia China Risk and cost of accidents France Commercial construction new build and refurbishment Germany Population growth, ageing and urbanisation The Netherlands UK Rising expectations of health and safety USA Capital investment in industrial facilities Industrialisation of developing world Energy and water resources markets growth New technology
