D Diire rec ctors tors Re Rep port ort G Gov ove ern rnan anc ce e Bo Aud ar itdCo ofmmitte Directo ers Report External auditors The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the Board for approval by the shareholders the appointment of the external auditor.
Brian Wallace Audit Committee Chairman The Audit Committee considers the scope and materiality for the audit work, approves the audit fee, reviews the results of their work Members: and considers the effectiveness of the external auditors annually.
Lesley Knox William Eccleshare There is an agreed policy on the engagement of the external Paul Stoneham auditors for non-audit services to ensure that independence and Paul Harrison objectivity are safeguarded.
Work closely related to the audit, such as taxation or financial reporting matters can be awarded to the auditors by the executive Directors provided the work does not The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the nonexceed 150,000 in fees per item.
Work exceeding 150,000 executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms requires approval by the Audit Committee.
All other work either of reference include all matters indicated by the Combined requires Audit Committee approval or forms part of a list of Code.
They are reviewed annually by the Committee and any prohibited services, where it is felt independence or objectivity changes are then referred to the Board for approval.
In addition, there is an overall cap on nonaudit service fees, based on a multiple of prior year audit fees.
Composition of the Audit Committee Mr B G Wallace, an independent non-executive Director, chairs Internal audit the Audit Committee.
Mrs L M S Knox and Messrs C W Eccleshare The Audit Committee oversees the internal audit function.
and P H Stoneham were members of the Committee throughout During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the performance the year.
Mr P S Harrison was appointed to the Audit Committee of the internal audit function and the audit plan for the coming on 8 May 2007. year was reviewed and approved, along with the departments Mr Wallace, a Chartered Accountant, is Group Finance Director resource requirements.
He is also a member of the audit committee The plan provides financial and geographical coverage of the of Scottish & Newcastle plc.
As such, he is considered suitably business and is focused to review the major business risks qualied to be the Audit Committee Chairman.
identied as part of the Audit Committees annual internal Mr Wallace will be resigning as a Director with effect from the controls review.
conclusion of the Annual General Meeting on 15 November 2007.
Internal audit reports include recommendations to improve internal Mr P S Harrison will be appointed as Chairman of the Audit controls and management action plans to address any issues.
Internal audit monitor the progress made in implementation.
Mr Harrison, a Chartered Accountant, is the Group Finance The Audit Committee receives details of all the key findings and Director of The Sage Group plc, adding to the relevant finance regular updates on progress made in implementing improvements.
As such, he is considered suitably qualied to succeed Mr Wallace as Audit Committee Chairman.
Any known instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit Committee.
At the invitation of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, Head of Whistleblowing policy Internal Audit, Group Financial Controller and external auditors The Groups whistleblowing procedure provides a mechanism for regularly attend.
employees to raise serious concerns.
This was reviewed during The Audit Committee also meets the external auditors without the year to ensure the arrangements remain appropriate for the management being present.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Overview Committee and the Group Chairman, who is not a member of the As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee Audit Committee, and they recommend new appointments to the has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms Nomination Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
of reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity The Audit Committee is comprised of five independent nonof the external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee executive Directors and two members constitute a quorum.
will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any The Committee met four times during the financial year ended questions about the work of the Committee.
Attendance at meetings is shown on page 25.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are published on the Companys website, www.
com, and are also available On behalf of the Audit Committee from the Company Secretary at the Registered Ofce.
B G Wallace Chairman of the Audit Committee Main activities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee examines all financial statements and preliminary announcements, and considers the appropriateness of accounting polices adopted and whether the financial statements give a true and fair view.
In addition the Committee reviews financial and control issues throughout the Group.
These include tax and treasury issues, issues relating to the disposal of the Groups former businesses and the Groups key risks and the approach for dealing with them.
It reviews the assessment of senior finance staff across the Group, the adequacy of the Groups information technology capability and considers compliance with legal, regulatory, ethical and other issues.
