Headlam Group plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report The directors present their annual report on the affairs of the group, Furthermore, since the groups principal activities are supply and together with the audited Financial Statements and Independent distribution, it has the ability to quickly respond to market changes.
Auditors Report, for the year ended 31 December 2007.
This, coupled with the development of broad market penetration through the establishment of a range of diverse regional, national and Principal activity specialist businesses provides the group with a degree of resilience The groups activities are wholly aligned to the sales, marketing, supply and protection.
and distribution of floorcovering products.
The principal trading subsidiaries are listed on page 91.
Competitor risk The group operates in four different geographical markets which Review of the business generally share similar trading characteristics.
Within each market, the A review of the groups activities and future developments, which group competes with a variety of regional and national distributors, fulfils the requirements of the Business Review, including the financial manufacturers selling directly to our customer base and indirectly performance during the year and key performance indicators with multiple retail chains.
is included in the Business Review and the Financial Review on pages 12 to 16 and pages 18 to 20 and Corporate Social The group seeks to sustain its competitive position by maintaining Responsibility on pages 41 to 43 which are incorporated into this close relationships with its supplier and customer base.
The description of the groups corporate and continued investment in: governance arrangements on pages 29 to 34 also forms part of this report.
A description of the groups financial risk management management objectives and policies and its exposure to price, credit liquidity and an extensive product offering cash flow risk is contained in note 22 to the Financial Statements on a knowledgeable sales resource page 80.
Other matters material to the appreciation of the groups stock availability position are contained in the Chairmans Statement on pages 10 IT and 11 and the Business Review on pages 12 to 16. efficient material handling and logistics Principal risks and uncertainties The groups business, results and financial condition are influenced removes the need to compete strictly on price and allows the group by a range of risks and uncertainties many of which are beyond the to enhance its overall market position through its commitment to control of the board.
Whilst the following highlights some of these risks it is not intended The distribution competition in Continental Europe is diverse to provide an exhaustive analysis of the risks affecting the business.
The group has deliberately adopted a cautious For instance, there are some risks which are as yet not known and acquisition policy in these markets searching for opportunities that others which whilst not presently material could become a significant provide good growth opportunities but at sensible valuations.
Given the number of opportunities it is possible that a competitor, Market demand following a more aggressive acquisition strategy on the Continent, Approximately 94% of the groups sales are to independent retailers could challenge the groups position as Europes leading floorcovering and flooring contractors.
The activity levels within this customer base are determined Credit risk by consumer demand created through residential property The group trades with the majority of its customers on credit terms refurbishment or moves, new residential housing developments and and therefore there is always the risk that customers are unable to a wide range of commercial refurbishment and new building projects.
Periods of recession, low consumer confidence or changes in The group has standardised credit checking and debt collection trends and preferences have the potential to affect market activity procedures at each individual business.
Businesses are encouraged and therefore demand for products supplied by the group.
However, to share credit information with other group businesses on a regular market activity is monitored in each individual business and at group basis in order to prevent the escalation of small credit risks.
All open level on a daily basis which enables a rapid response to any factors accounts are subject to credit limits and businesses must obtain adversely affecting trading.
central approval for credit limits in excess of 10,000.
Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Directors Report continued These procedures, combined with the local knowledge of the Pension credit control teams, not only reduce the risk of default, but also, The cost of funding the groups defined benefit plans may increase in a number of instances, provide opportunities to assist the customer due to a decline in investment returns, movement in interest rates to trade out of their default position.
As a result of the triennial actuarial valuation of the UK plan, undertaken at 31 March 2005, the group The group does not use credit insurance since the level of default agreed to make an additional payment of approximately 1.5 million is generally low.
Appropriate impairment provisions are made on a every year until 2016. regular basis whenever the likelihood of default is high.
The results of future scheme valuations, the next being 31 March Infrastructure 2008, could result in this commitment increasing.
An important element of the groups ability to service its customer base is its network of distribution and service centres.
The groups Government legislation policy of improvement through continued investment in new or The groups operations are regulated by a variety of laws, which extended facilities has been one of the principal drivers behind the relate, amongst others, to health and safety, the environment, groups historic growth rates.
employment, commercial, corporate, financial and tax.
In order to support growth rates in the future, the group will The group is committed to complying with these requirements continue to invest in new centres.
in each of the markets in which it operates and achieves this by managing its obligations at the group level and within individual There is a risk that future growth will be constrained if these businesses.
Where appropriate, the group engages the services development projects are unduly delayed through either land of competent third party advisers.
availability, planning consent or prohibitive building cost.
Changes in regulations are incorporated into the groups polices Systems and procedures on a timely basis.
The group is highly reliant on its IT systems to deliver its operational objectives and maintain financial control.
As a consequence, any Results prolonged IT failure has the potential to adversely affect business The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income activity.
However, each business has its own dedicated computer system and Dividends failure in one will not interrupt another.
Furthermore, the group An interim dividend of 5.35p per share 2006: 4.85p was paid on operates well defined back up procedures and has contingency plans 2 January 2008 and your board is recommending a final dividend in place to enable swift recovery from a failure of this nature.
of 17.75p per share 2006: 15.30p, making a total dividend of 23.10p per share for the year 2006: 20.15p.
The final dividend, if approved Transport by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM, will be The majority of customer orders result in deliveries within twentypayable on 1 July 2008 to shareholders whose names appear on four hours on vehicles operated by the group.
Any interruption to the register at the close of business on 6 June 2008. this service, for example, major disruption to road networks or the prolonged reduced availability of vehicle fuel could have an adverse AGM affect on activity.
This years AGM will be held at the groups distribution facility in Coleshill, Birmingham on 20 June 2008 at 10.00am.
The notice People convening this meeting, together with explanatory notes for the The groups ability to deliver continued success is very dependant special business are set out in a shareholder circular which will be upon its people.
posted with the annual report and accounts and proxy voting papers.
At the meeting resolutions will be proposed to renew the authority The group is committed to providing a workplace that is safe and to issue shares without applying statutory pre-emption rights and to environmentally sound and creating opportunities for individuals to authorise the company to make market purchases of its own shares.
Recruitment, training and development are Resolutions will also be proposed to introduce new long term aimed at ensuring that the group has suitably skilled and qualified executive incentive schemes and plans.
Full details of these resolutions people to meet the operational needs of the business.
are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
Headlam Group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report continued Share capital would also take into account the cash generated in the business and The companys issued share capital comprised a single class of share other investment opportunities that might arise over time.
During the capital which is divided into ordinary shares of 5p each.
Details of the year ended 31 December 2007, the company made market companys share capital are given in note 21 to the Financial purchases of 3,838,006 of its own shares of 5p for a total Statements.
During the year, 40,700 new ordinary shares were issued consideration of 21.69 million.
Of these 1,756,478, 2% of the issued under employee share schemes.
The rights and obligations attaching share capital with a nominal value of 87,824 were cancelled and to the companys ordinary shares are set out in the companys 2,081,528, 2% of the issued share capital with a nominal value of articles of association, copies of which can be obtained from 104,076 were held as treasury shares, of which 2,575 have been Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company utilised to satisfy the exercise of SAYE share option awards.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with December 2007 2,078,953 were held as treasury shares, that being such rights and restrictions as the company may by ordinary the maximum held during the year.
resolution decide or, if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision, as the board may decide.
Holders of Substantial shareholdings ordinary shares are entitled to receive the companys Annual Report As at the last date prior to posting the Annual Report and Accounts, and Accounts, to attend and speak at general meetings of the the company had been notified of the following holdings of voting company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of rights attaching to the companys shares in accordance with the ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may Disclosure and Transparency Rules: share in the assets of the company.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of ordinary shares may requisition a general Ordinary % of % of meeting of the company or propose resolutions at AGMs.
Voting shares of share capital share capital rights for ordinary shares held in treasury are suspended and the 5p each directly owned indirectly owned treasury shares carry no rights to receive dividends or other distributions of assets.
Aberforth Partners LLP 4,163,928 0.00% 5.02% Aegon UK There are no restrictions on the transfer of ordinary shares in the Group of Companies 4,347,020 4.62% 0.37% company other than: Aviva plc 4,343,469 3.35% 3.04% AXA S. A.
7,003,815 0.10% 7.94% Certain restrictions as may from time to time be imposed by Credit Suisse Asset laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : and Management Limited 6,605,674 7.91% 0.00% Legal & General Investment Pursuant to the companys share dealing code whereby the Management Limited 4,201,896 4.41% 0.60% directors and certain employees of the company require approval Lloyds TSB Group Plc 5,017,503 0.00% 6.02% to deal in the companys shares.
Schroders plc 8,289,262 0.00% 9.52% None of the ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to Directors and their interests control of the company.
The only restrictions on voting rights are The names of the directors of the company at the date of this those that apply to the ordinary shares held in treasury, as described report and biographical details are given on page 22.
Electronic and paper proxy appointments and voting list of directors who served during the year is shown within the instructions must be received by the companys registrars not later Remuneration Report on page 38.
No other person has acted as than 48 hours before a general meeting, or any adjournment thereof.
a director of the company during the financial year ended 31 December 2007.
The companys articles require that one third of the The company is not aware of any arrangements between directors retire by rotation each year.
Accordingly, Tony Brewer and shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of ordinary Dick Peters retire by rotation and being eligible, offer themselves for shares or on voting rights.
At the AGM of the company held on re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In proposing their re-election, 25 May 2007, shareholders approved a resolution to permit directors the board confirms to shareholders that following a formal to undertake market purchases of its own shares up to a maximum performance evaluation, each of these individuals performance number of 13,066,500 ordinary shares of 5 pence each.
The continues to be effective and they have expressed a willingness to resolution remains valid until the conclusion of this years AGM.
It is continue in their roles.
the directors intention only to exercise the authority to purchase the companys shares where it would continue to improve balance sheet David Grove was appointed to the board on 19 October 2007 efficiency.
This power will only be used if the directors consider that and, in accordance with the companys articles of association, to do so would be in the best interests of shareholders generally.
The offers himself for election at the forthcoming AGM.
He is also a purchase of shares would be dependent on market conditions and member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees.
Accounts Headlam Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Directors Report continued David is the Executive Chairman of Hill & Smith Holdings PLC and The group remains committed to providing a workplace that is safe Chairman of Grove Industries Limited.
He has held a number of and environmentally sound and which complies with applicable laws senior management posts in a variety of businesses and the board and regulations.
The group expects employees to respect confidential believes that his business knowledge and financial and management information and company time and assets and believes in open and expertise will be a positive contribution as the group continues to honest communication, fair treatment and equal opportunities.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Combined The group supports the fundamental principles of good governance.
Code relating to non-executive directors, the board believes that David Grove should be elected and makes such a recommendation It is the groups policy that employment opportunities, training, career to shareholders.
development and promotion should be available to all, irrespective of age, gender, ethnic origin, religion or disability.
Due consideration is Details of directors remuneration and service contracts are set given to applications for employment, having regard to the particular out on pages 37 and 38.
The beneficial interests of the directors and aptitudes and abilities of the applicants.
Any employee who develops their immediate families in the companys shares and their interests in a disability during employment is given the opportunity to retrain for share options are detailed on page 39.
No director had, at any time alternative employment where practicable, given the nature of the during the period under review, a material interest in any contract groups activities.
with the company or any of its subsidiaries.
The groups human resources policies are available to all staff and Directors insurance include guidance on employment matters, ethics, equal opportunities, The company continues to maintain directors and officers liability staff benefits and training and development.
It is the groups continued practice to maintain employee participation Political and charitable donations and involvement in matters which affect their interests.
The group The groups Charities Committee considers requests for charitable places considerable value on the involvement of its employees and donations within set criteria.
During 2007, in addition to donations has continued to keep them informed on matters affecting them as made to overseas charities, the group contributed charitable employees and on the various factors affecting the performance of donations to UK charitable organisations, principally to local the group.
This is achieved through formal and informal meetings and organisations serving the communities in which we operate, through the annual and interim financial statements.
The board has maintained representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters its policy of not making political donations.
affecting their current and future interests.
Supplier payment policy Employee turnover remains low and as a result the employee base The groups policy with regard to the payment of suppliers is to agree remains stable.
The group is firmly committed to developing the the terms of payment as part of the conditions of supply of goods potential of its people and regularly reviews its succession planning and services.
The group seeks to strictly comply with these payment processes.
Recruitment, training and development is designed to terms whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has provided the ensure the group has suitably skilled and qualified employees to meet goods and services in accordance with the agreed terms and the operational needs of the business and offer the opportunity for conditions.
The payment policy has been and will continue to be employees to develop and grow.
Training is delivered primarily developed to meet the groups specific requirements and is not based through internal resources with assistance from external providers on on any particular code or standard relating to payment practice.
The specialist subjects as and when required.
number of creditor days of the company at 31 December 2007 was 43 days 2006: 40 days.
The group considers it important that its employees provide for their retirement and accordingly provides opportunities for them to Employment, training and development participate in retirement plans.
The board values two-way communication between senior management and employees on all matters affecting the welfare of Health, safety and environmental the business including regular management visits to operating units The group provides and maintains a safe environment for all employees, and through the intranet.
customers and other visitors to its premises and the wider workplace.
The group complies with the relevant health and safety legislation in the The groups annual report is made available to staff which provides jurisdictions in which it operates.
The group monitors its health and employees with a greater awareness of the groups performance as well safety processes and seeks to make continual improvements.
Guidance as the financial and economic factors that affect it.
In addition, those and solutions are provided to the operating businesses on all aspects of employees who are eligible are also encouraged to become involved in health and safety and serves to strengthen further the health and safety the groups performance through participation in share schemes.
The system sets and closely monitors the achievement of standards for health and safety on all sites and during Headlam Group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors Report continued the year the average performance exceeded the benchmark standard Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also set by the group.
The board is committed to ensuring that the groups responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors activities are carried out in accordance with relevant statutory provisions Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that and all reasonable and appropriate measures are taken to avoid risk to comply with that law and those regulations.
employees or others who may be affected.
Whilst management is committed to providing a safe working environment with the The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity appropriate working practices and training, this can only be achieved if of the corporate and financial information included on the employees equally give their commitment to a rigorous health and safety companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation culture.
During the year there were thirteen reportable accidents made and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation to the Health and Safety Executive, none of which resulted in serious in other jurisdictions.
There were no prosecutions for breaches of health and safety in the year.
The groups health and safety policy and performance is Going concern regularly reviewed by the board.
Further details are included on The group continues to place considerable emphasis on its budgeting page 42 of the Corporate and Social Responsibility report.
and forecasting procedures and each month produces a forecast of trading and cash flow for the accounting period.
Accordingly, the Statement of Directors Responsibilities group continues to have in place all the procedures and information The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report and appropriate to the going concern assessment required by the the group and parent company financial statements in accordance Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
Having reviewed the with applicable law and regulations.
groups resources and a range of likely trading out-turns, the directors believe that they have reasonable grounds for stating that the group Company law requires the directors to prepare group and parent has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the law they are required to prepare the group financial statements going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Disclosure of information to the auditor on the same basis.
In accordance with the provisions of section 234 ZA of the Companies Act 1985 the directors who held office at the date of The group and parent company financial statements are required approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are by law and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the position of the group and the parent company and the performance companys auditor is unaware, and each of the directors has taken all for that period: the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make himself financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to aware of any relevant audit information, as defined, and to establish financial statements giving a true and fair view are references to their that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditor In preparing each of the group and parent company financial KPMG Audit Plc has expressed its willingness to continue in office statements, the directors are required to: as auditor of the company and in accordance with the provisions of section 385 of the Companies Act 1985, a resolution for its select suitable accounting policies and then apply them re-appointment and to authorise the directors to agree its consistently.
remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Auditor make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
remuneration and fees paid during the year to 31 December 2007 state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs are set out in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
as adopted by the EU and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless This directors report has been approved by the board and signed on it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the parent its behalf by company will continue in business.
Geoff Duggan The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Company Secretary that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial 17 March 2008 position of the parent company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
