Headlam Group plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Directors, Officers and Advisors markets and brings a wealth of general management K R Yates Board of Directors experience to the company.
He is currently a nonManaging Director, Mercado G Waldron executive director of Psion Teklogix plc, Helphire plc, Keith joined Mercado in April 1983 and was the Stroud & Swindon Building Society and Digital Chairman subsequently appointed its Managing Director in Healthcare Limited, where he is Chairman.
Graham was appointed an executive director in 1996.
Keith has 25 years experience in the June 1991 becoming Chairman later that year until floorcovering industry.
On the resignation of Trevor Non-executive Director Larman on 1 June 2006 he was re-appointed Audit committee Chairman.
He has 55 years experience in the David was appointed a non-executive director in Remuneration committee October 2007.
He is the Executive Chairman of floorcovering industry.
He is the non-executive Nomination committee Hill & Smith Holdings PLC and a shareholder and Chairman of Tandem Group plc.
Charities committee non-executive director of a number of private A J Brewer manufacturing, distribution and investment Advisers companies.
Group Chief Executive Tony was appointed an executive director in June Auditors 1991, becoming Managing Director of the Company Secretary KPMG Audit Plc Floorcoverings Division in January 1992, and was 2 Cornwall Street G M Duggan appointed Group Chief Executive in November Birmingham B3 2DL 2000.
He has 30 years experience in the Geoff joined the company in April 1998.
He is an associate of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries floorcovering industry.
Taxation Advisers and Administrators and a fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Deloitte & Touche LLP S G Wilson Group Finance Director Four Brindleyplace Steve was appointed Group Finance Director in Executive Management Birmingham B1 2HZ December 1991.
He is the non-executive Chairman of Synergy Healthcare plc and is a fellow A J W Simpson Principal Bankers of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
Managing Director UK Operations Barclays Bank PLC Andrew joined the company in September 1991 PO Box 34 R W Peters and is the Managing Director of UK Operations.
15 Colmore Row Non-executive Director Andrew has 35 years experience in Birmingham B3 2BY Dick was appointed a non-executive director in the floorcovering industry.
He was formerly Senior Partner The Royal Bank of Scotland plc for the East Midlands practice of Deloitte & G B Phillips Corporate and Institutional Banking Touche in Nottingham.
He is a BSc in Mathematics Finance Director Operations 5th Floor, 2 St Philips Place and Statistics and is a fellow of the Institute of Gary joined the company in June 1992 and is the Birmingham B3 2RB Chartered Accountants.
He has considerable Finance Director of floorcovering operations.
experience of auditing large companies, both UK He is an associate of the Chartered Institute of Stockbrokers and overseas, transactional support and project Management Accountants.
Arden Partners plc management activities.
He is a director and Arden House chairman of Headlam Pension Trustees Limited.
A R Judge 17 Highfield Road, Edgbaston Age 53.
Managing Director, Coleshill and Tamworth Birmingham B15 3DU businesses M K OLeary Tony joined the company in May 1992 and is Registrars Senior Independent Director Mike was appointed a non-executive director in Managing Director of all businesses operating from Capita Registrars March 2006.
He was formerly a director of MISYS the Coleshill and Tamworth distribution Northern House plc and chief executive of Marlborough Stirling plc.
Tony has 27 years experience in the Woodsome Park Mike has worked in domestic and international floorcovering industry.
