Board of Directors 4 1 2 3 67 8 5 1 Samih Darwazah 3 Mazen Darwazah 6 Michael Ashton Non-Executive Chairman, 77 Executive Vice-Chairman, CEO of MENA, 49 Independent Non-Executive Director, 62 Samih Darwazah, a qualied pharmacist, worked Mazen Darwazah joined Hikma in 1985 as a medical Michael Ashton was appointed to the Board in for Eli Lilly from 1964 to 1976, before establishing representative and has held several positions, October 2005 and holds the position of Chairman Hikma Pharmaceuticals Ltd in 1978.
Between 1995 including Chairman and CEO of Hikma of the Remuneration Committee.
He is also and 1996 he served as Minister of Energy and Pharmaceuticals Limited Jordan, Chairman of a member of the Audit Committee and the Mineral Resources in Jordan.
He also founded the Trust Pharma Limited and Pharma Ixir Co Ltd.
Michael has over 30 years Jordan Trade Association and was a member of the He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
experience in the pharmaceutical industry, having Advisory Economic Council to His Majesty the King He is a Director of Jordan International Insurance worked with Pfizer, Inc. Merck, Inc. and holding the of Jordan.
Samih holds a masters degree from the Company, Capital Bank of Jordan and of several positions of Chairman, President and Chief Executive St. Louis College of Pharmacy, Missouri.
Mazen has served as the of Faulding, Inc and Chief executive of Skyepharma president of the Jordanian Association of PLC.
He serves on the Boards of Transition 2 Said Darwazah Manufacturers of Pharmaceuticals and Medical Therapeutics and Proximagen.
Chief Executive Officer, 50 Appliances, and has been a member of the Jordanian Said initially joined Hikma in 1981.
From 1994 Higher Education Council since 2003.
Mazen serves 7 Breffni Byrne until 2003, Said was Chairman and CEO of Hikma on a number of other international advisory boards Independent Non-Executive Director, 62 Investment Company, then the holding company in the non-governmental and educational sectors Breffni Byrne was appointed to the Board in October for the Hikma Group.
During his tenure at Hikma, and is Chairman of the Business Development 2005 and holds the position of Chairman of the Said led the Company through significant change Centre in Jordan.
Mazen holds a BA in Business Audit Committee.
He is also a member of the and achievement.
Key milestones include the Administration from Beirut University, Lebanon.
As a chartered accountant acquisition, integration and turnaround of West-ward with over 30 years of experience in public practice, Pharmaceuticals in the US and the development of 4 Sir David Rowe-Ham including significant international responsibilities, the Injectables business in Europe and the MENA Senior independent Non-Executive Director, 72 he has extensive experience in financial reporting, region.
Under his leadership, the Companys facilities Sir David Rowe-Ham was appointed to the Board corporate governance and general financial and in Jordan, the US and Portugal were inspected and in October 2005 and holds the position of Chairman commercial matters.
Breffni is Chairman of NCB approved by the FDA.
From 2003 to 2006 Said was of the Nomination Committee.
He is also a member Stockbrokers, a Director of Irish Life and Permanent Minister of Health for the Hashemite Kingdom of of the Audit Committee and the Remuneration plc, Cpl resources plc, Coillte Teoranta the Irish state Jordan.
Said was appointed Chief Executive Officer Committee.
Sir David brings to Hikma a wide forestry company and other companies.
Said is currently experience in financial matters, corporate on the Board of the Central Bank of Jordan, is the governance, public affairs and the development 8 Dr. Ronald Goode Chairman of Dead Sea Touristic & Real Estate of listed companies.
He is also Chairman of Arden Independent Non-Executive Director, 64 Investments, Vice-Chairman of the Jordan Petroleum Partners plc, Olayan Europe Ltd and Peninsular Ronald Goode was appointed to the Board in Refinery, and a member of the Board of Trustees South Asia Investment Co Ltd. December 2006.
He is a member of the Audit of the the King Hussein Cancer and Biotech Institute, Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
the International College in the Lebanon, and the 5 Ali Al-Husry Ron has spent over 30 years in the international Jordan River Foundation.
He is also Chairman of the Non-Executive Director, 50 pharmaceutical industry, including having held senior Health Care Accreditation Council of Jordan.
He has Ali Al-Husry has been a Director of Hikma Pharma positions with Pfizer and Searle.
He is the chairman a degree in industrial engineering from Purdue Limited and other companies within the Hikma of The Goode Group, advisers to the pharmaceutical University in the US and an MBA from INSEAD.
He was a founder of The Capital industry, a Director of Greystone Pharmaceuticals, Bank of Jordan and its Chief Executive Officer from sits on the Advisory Board of ART Recherches et its establishment in 1995 until 2007.
He brings Technologies Avancees Inc a TSX-listed company, great financial experience to the Board as well as and is a Director of Mercy Ships International and an in-depth knowledge of the MENA region.
a trustee of Thunderbird School of Global Ali has a degree in mechanical engineering from Management.
He was formerly President and the University of Southern California and an M. B.
Chief Executive Officer of Unimed Pharmaceuticals, from INSEAD, France.
Inc and eXegenics Inc, and a Director of several other companies, including Genitope Corporation, Hokuriku Seiyaku and Vitro Diagnostics.
34 Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007
