Senior management 23 4 5 1 67 8 9 1 Bassam Kanaan 4 Nabil Rizk 7 Fadi Nassar Chief Financial Officer CEO of Generic Pharmaceuticals Corporate Vice President, Bassam joined Hikma in 2001 and played a leading Nabil joined the Company in 1991 from Pioneer Active Pharmaceutical Ingredients API role in preparing the Company for its IPO in 2005.
Pharmaceuticals, Inc, a division of Dow Chemical, Fadi joined Hikma in 1988 and has worked in Prior to joining Hikma, Bassam was the CFO of where he worked as Vice President of Operations.
many areas across the Group including Operations, PADICO from 1994 to 2001.
He currently serves on From 1976 to 1983 he served in various capacities Purchasing and Business Development.
He was the Board of Zara Holding and has previously served with Hudson Pharmaceuticals, a division of Cadence promoted to Corporate Vice President, API in 2007. as a Board member of several large corporations Corporation including as Manager of Quality Control Fadi holds a bachelors degree in chemical engineering including Palestine Telecommunication Co and and Quality Assurance and Laboratory Supervisor from Newcastle University and a masters degree in Central Electricity Generation Company in Jordan.
Nabil holds a masters chemical enginering from Leeds University.
Fadi is He qualified as a CPA with Deloitte & Touche in Los degree in chemistry from the New Jersey Institute also a graduate of INSEADs International Executive Angeles where he worked as an audit manager.
of Technology and a BSc in applied chemistry from Programme.
Bassam holds an Executive MBA from Northwestern Cairo University.
University and a BA from Claremont McKenna 8 Michael Raya College in the United States.
5 Dr Ibrahim Jalal Executive Vice President, Operations, Senior Corporate Vice President for R&D West-ward Pharmaceutical Corporation and 2 Taghreed Al-Shunnar Ibrahim Joined Hikma in June 1979 as Technical Senior Corporate Vice President, Corporate Vice President Director.
He was promoted to Corporate Technical Regulatory Affairs and Quality Systems Branded Pharmaceuticals, MENA Vice President for Compliance in 1998 and to Senior Michael joined the Company in 1992 from Vitarine Taghreed joined the Company in 1988 after Corporate Vice President for R&D in 2008.
He has Pharmaceuticals where he worked from 1984 until graduating from the University in Jordan with a played a leading role in getting FDA approval to 1992 in various capacities, including Vice President, degree in pharmacy.
In 1995, she was appointed as Hikma manufacturing units.
Ibrahim holds a PhD in Quality Control.
Prior to Vitarine, Michael worked at Marketing Planning Director of Hikma pharmacy from the University of Wisconsin Madison Schering-Plough and Hoffman LaRoche.
Michael is a Pharmaceuticals Limited and in 2002, promoted to in the United States.
member of Hikmas Ethics Committee and is in General Manager of Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited.
charge of the Corporate CAPEX Committee.
In 2005, Taghreed became Corporate Vice President 6 Henry Knowles Michael holds a masters degree in industrial of Branded Pharmaceuticals MENA.
Taghreed General Counsel and Company Secretary pharmacy from Long Island University and a completed her Executive MBA from INSEAD in Henry joined the Company in September 2005. bachelors degree in chemistry from St. Francis December 2007.
Before joining Hikma, he worked for the international College.
Michael is also a graduate of INSEADs law firm, Ashurst, where he specialised in corporate International Executive Programme.
Since joining Hikma, Henry has advised on all Vice President of Injectables and General Manager, aspects of the Groups business, including commercial 9 Susan Ringdal Hikma Farmaceutica negotiations, supervising corporate governance and Investor Relations Director Majda joined the Company in 1985 as a purchasing compliance and contributing to the execution of the Susan joined the Company in November 2005, manager at Hikma Pharmaceuticals Limited and Groups acquisition strategy.
Henry is admitted as a having previously worked for the pharmaceutical held several positions there culminating in her current solicitor in England and Wales and holds an MA in distribution and retail pharmacy group Alliance appointment in March 2001.
Majda holds a masters Social and Political Science from Cambridge UniChem plc as Investor Relations Manager.
degree in health economics and a BA from the University.
She also has experience as an equity analyst at American University of Beirut.
Susan holds a BA in history from Cornell University and an MBA from London Business School.
Hikma Pharmaceuticals PLC Annual report 2007 35
