Board of Directors Carl Symon Simon Fox Chairman Chief Executive officer Aged 61 Aged 46 Carl Symon, a US national, was appointed to the Board as Simon Fox was appointed to the Board with effect from Chairman on 1 February 2006.
He is a non-executive director 4 September 2006 and became Chief Executive officer on of BT Group plc, Rolls-Royce Group plc and Rexam PLC.
He was previously Chief Operating officer He is also Chairman of BT Groups Equality of Access Board for Kesa Electricals plc with responsibility for Comet in the UK, and an advisory board member of Cross Atlantic Capital Partners.
Kesas subsidiaries in Continental Europe and e-commerce He retired from IBM in May 2001 after a 32-year international developments.
Prior to his appointment as COO of Kesa, career during which he held several senior executive positions.
he was Managing Director of Comet, which he led through its demerger from Kingsher.
Prior to this he founded Ofce World, Nomination Committee Chairman the UKs first out-of-town ofce supplies retailer.
He began his career as a graduate trainee at Security Pacic Bank and thereafter worked at Boston Consulting Group and Sandhurst Marketing plc.
Christopher Rogers Lesley Knox Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Aged 47 Aged 53 Christopher Rogers was appointed to the Board on 1 October Lesley Knox was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2002.
He is Finance Director of Whitbread plc, having been a founder director of British Linen Advisors, a specialist corporate appointed in May 2005.
Prior to joining Whitbread plc, he was finance adviser focusing on growth companies.
Prior to that she Group Finance Director of Woolworths Group plc and Chairman was Corporate Finance Director then Head of Institutional Asset of the Woolworths Group Entertainment and Wholesale Management at Kleinwort Benson Group.
She is non-executive Publishing businesses.
He qualied as an accountant with Price Chairman of The Alliance Trust and a non-executive director of Waterhouse and joined Kingsher Group as Corporate Finance Hays plc.
She is also a member of the Board of Governors of the Manager in 1988.
Subsequent appointments included Group Museum of London.
She is a former director of the arts charity Financial Controller at Kingsher plc, Finance Director of Comet The Federation of British Artists Limited.
Group plc and four years as Commercial Director at Comet.
Audit Committee Audit Committee Chairman Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee 24 24 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Neil Bright Roy Brown Group Finance Director Senior Independent Director Aged 44 Aged 60 Neil Bright was appointed to the Board as Group Finance Roy Brown was appointed to the Board as Senior Independent Director in March 1998.
He joined HMV in August 1996 Director on 23 April 2002.
He is the non-executive Chairman as Group Finance Director from its then parent company, of GKN plc and a non-executive director on the Franchise Board Thorn EMI plc where he was Group Planning Manager.
He was appointed non-executive director He is a Chartered Accountant, having trained and qualied and Deputy Chairman of Alliance & Leicester plc on 4 May 2007 with Coopers & Lybrand in London.
and retired as a non-executive director of Brambles plc and British United Provident Association Limited BUPA in December 2006 and June 2007 respectively.
He is a former executive director of Unilever plc and Unilever NV.
He is a member of the CBI International Advisory Board.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chairman Mark McCafferty Non-Executive Director Aged 48 Mark McCafferty was appointed to the Board on 23 April 2002.
He is Chief Executive of Premier Rugby Ltd and a director of the European Rugby Cup.
He is also a non-executive director of Umbro plc and an Associate of the Institute of Bankers.
Until November 2003, he was Chief Executive of Avis Europe plc, having joined in April 1998 as Group Managing Director.
In 1987 he joined Thomas Cook Group from Midland Bank International becoming Managing Director of Worldwide Travel-Related Businesses.
Audit Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee 25 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
