Directors report The Directors submit their report and audited financial None of the Directors or their families at any time during the statements for the 52 weeks ended 28 April 2007, which period under review, or subsequently, were interested in any were approved on behalf of the Board on 27 June 2007. shares of the Companys subsidiary undertakings.
Principal activities and business review Principal shareholders The principal activities of the Group are the retailing of As at 25 June 2007 the Company had been advised of the pre-recorded music, video and electronic games under the following holdings representing 3% or more in its issued HMV brand and the retailing of books principally under the Ordinary Shares: Waterstones brand.
The Group has operations in eight countries, Number of Percentage with the principal markets being those of the UK, Japan and Ordinary of issued Shares share capital Canada.
The Business and Financial Review on pages 12 to 23 contains details of the performance of the Group during the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC 50,030,661 12.42 year, likely future developments and the principal risks and UBS AG 44,464,407 11.04 uncertainties facing the Group.
Fidelity International Limited 34,407,085 8.54 Results and dividends Brandes Investment Partners LP 38,049,060 9.45 The consolidated profit after deducting taxation amounted to Tameside Metropolitan 16.1m 2006: 56.2m.
The Board of Directors recommends Borough Council 25,826,555 6.41 a final dividend of 5.6p per Ordinary Share.
This together with Standard Life Group 23,317,356 5.79 the interim dividend of 1.8p, already declared and paid, makes a total for the year of 7.4p per Ordinary Share 2006: 7.4p per Newton Investment Management Ltd 22,059,959 5.48 Ordinary Share.
Subject to approval at the forthcoming Annual Barclays PLC 21,346,188 5.30 General Meeting the final dividend will be paid on 12 October Prudential plc 16,383,648 4.06 2007 to those shareholders whose names are on the register of members on 14 September 2007.
Legal & General Investment Management Limited 15,917,475 3.95 Directors Aviva plc 15,416,469 3.83 David Kappler retired as a Director of the Company on 6 July Allianz SE 13,747,615 3.41 2006 and Alan Giles and Brian McLaughlin each retired as a Director of the Company with effect from 28 September 2006.
Policy on payment of creditors After his retirement from the Board Mr McLaughlin was appointed as a consultant to the Board for a period of The Group does not impose standard payment terms on its 10 months.
Steve Knott retired as a Director with effect from suppliers but agrees specific terms with each and ensures that each supplier is made aware of such terms.
Simon Fox was appointed a Director on policy to pay its suppliers in accordance with the terms that they 4 September 2006 and became Chief Executive Officer with have agreed.
The Company is a holding company and therefore effect from 28 September 2006.
Christopher Rogers was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 October 2006. has no trade creditors.
All other Directors served throughout the year under review and details for all present Directors are listed, together with their Financial instruments The Groups Treasury Department is principally responsible for biographical details, on pages 24 and 25.
In accordance with the managing the Groups funding arrangements and certain financial Articles of Association of the Company, Christopher Rogers will offer himself for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General risks, described below, to which the Group is exposed.
The Companys Articles of Association require one-third manages these risks using policies approved by the Board.
of the Directors to retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting and, in any event, each Director must offer himself or Liquidity risk The Group has committed bank facilities currently comprising herself for re-election at least once every three years.
Accordingly, Lesley Knox and Mark McCafferty will offer themselves for a multi-currency revolving credit facility of 260m and an 80m re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
term facility which together with cash on deposit provides The Directors interests in the shares of the Company, sufficient funding for the Groups operations.
The adequacy together with their remuneration where applicable and further of the funding arrangements is reviewed regularly.
At 28 April 2007, the Group had undrawn committed bank details of their service agreements are detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 30 to 39. facilities plus cash available to it totalling 163.0m.
No Director, at any time during the period under review, had a material interest in any contracts with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings, other than the Executive Directors who had such an interest through their service agreements with the Company, details of which are summarised on page 38.
43 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Directors report continued Interest rate risk Share capital With reported net debt of 130.2m at 28 April 2007, and with At the Annual General Meeting held in September 2006, the Group being in a net cash position in the third quarter shareholders authorised the Company to purchase up to a as was the case in the previous year, the Group currently maximum of 40.2m of its own Ordinary Shares, representing 10% considers that there is limited interest rate exposure and thus of the issued share capital of the Company.
During the period there are no requirements for interest rate hedging.
The net under review the Company did not purchase any of its own shares.
exposure will continue to be monitored throughout the year.
Details of the Companys share capital can be found in Note 28 on page 72.
Since the end of the period under review the Counter party risk Company has not increased its issued share capital.
Treasury deposits any cash balances that arise with counter parties that have a strong credit rating, with an agreed limit for Charitable donations each counter party, so as to limit the risk of loss arising from The Group made charitable donations of 38,000 in the period a failure.
Counter parties include AAA-rated liquidity funds, under review 2006: 25,000.
It is Group policy not to make and various banks.
donations to political parties and therefore no political donations were made during the period.
The Group is also involved in Foreign exchange risk charitable fundraising, details of which can be found in the Corporate Responsibility Statement on page 42.
The Group uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge the foreign exchange risk of imports where volumes are significant.
However, the Groups operating businesses generally source the Auditors majority of their products from suppliers within their country of The Directors who were members of the Board at the time of operation and so the foreign exchange exposure is small.
approving the Directors Report are listed on pages 24 and 25.
The Group is also exposed to foreign currency translation Having made enquiries of fellow Directors and of the Companys risk through its investment in overseas subsidiaries.
This is auditors, each of these Directors confirms that: partially hedged by local debt, but the Group does not hedge to the best of each Directors knowledge and belief, there is the remaining exposure.
Generally, the Group does not hedge no information relevant to the preparation of their report of any net translation exposure of overseas earnings, although which the Companys auditors are unaware: and it may in certain circumstances implement hedges to secure short-term financial objectives.
each Director has taken all steps a director might reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of relevant audit Employee policies information and to establish that the Companys auditors are The Group aims to employ and develop the best people, aware of that information putting them in the right positions with a significant level of Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue delegated authority and supporting them with the infrastructure in office and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors and technology required to perform at the highest levels and and authorising the Directors to fix their remuneration will be at the lowest costs with the quickest response time.
proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Responsibility for employment rests primarily with each business operation under the general guidance of central policy Annual General Meeting and procedural guidelines.
The Group companies are committed The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held to the maintenance of a work environment free of discrimination at 2.30 pm on 6 September 2007 at Simmons & Simmons, on the grounds of gender, nationality, ethnic or racial origin, CityPoint, One Ropemaker Street, London EC2Y 9SS.
The special non-job related disability, sexual orientation or marital status.
business to be proposed at that meeting will be the renewal The Group gives full consideration to applications from of the Directors authority to allot new Ordinary Shares and to disabled persons where a disabled person can adequately fulfil disapply pre-emption rights in certain circumstances: the renewal the requirements of the job.
Where existing employees become of the Directors authority to buy back the Companys shares disabled, it is the Groups policy, wherever practicable, to provide in the market: a proposal to extend the Companys authority continuing employment under normal terms and conditions to use electronic communications with its shareholders: and, and to provide training, career development and promotion to avoid an inadvertent breach of the Political Parties, Elections to disabled employees wherever appropriate.
and Referendums Act 2000, the renewal of the Groups authority In order to promote employee involvement in the Group, to make political donations.
The Notice of Meeting and details regular meetings are held between local management and of the special business to be proposed can be found in the employees to allow a free flow of information and ideas.
The Company encourages staff involvement in the Groups performance via a combination of employee bonus and share By order of the Board schemes.
The Group has established a Share Incentive Plan, details of which are set out on page 32, in which the UK Elaine Marriner employees are entitled to participate provided they meet certain Company Secretary service conditions.
27 June 2007 Shelley House, 24 York Road, Maidenhead, Berkshire SL6 1SR 44 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
