Business and financial review continued Our business and markets DVD Music 32% of Group sales 31% of Group sales Overview Overview In HMV UK & Ireland DVD is now a signicantly The HMV store format is present in three larger product category than music, accounting of the worlds six largest music markets for 47% of sales against 37% for music, whilst in Japan, the UK and Canada which in 2006 HMV HMV Canada DVD has grown to almost match had a combined retail value of US$9.2bn IFPI, HMV operated from 422 stores music at 47% of sales.
DVD representation in including digital sales.
HMV stores are also in the UK & Ireland, Canada, HMV Asia is lower at 31% of sales, reecting present in Hong Kong and Singapore.
In the Japan, Hong Kong and Japans stronger rental market and lower financial year 2006 07 music represented 31% of Singapore and through local territory transactional websites.
household penetration 2006: 50% Screen Digest total HMV sales, down from 36% in the prior year.
The HMV brand is one of DVD players than in the UK 2006: 80% ONS The Groups medium-term plans anticipate further of the worlds best known and Canada 2006: 87% CRTC.
The combined declines in the physical music market.
In the and respected retailers retail value for DVD in all five HMV markets Groups largest market, the UK, physical music of entertainment products.
during 2006 was US$11bn, down from US$12bn sold on the high street is expected to decline by 422 in the prior year Screen Digest.
The Group has 13% per annum, with digital sales failing to offset Stores in six countries incorporated into its medium-term plans the view this.
Music will remain central to the HMV brand, that falling average selling prices will contribute as it has over the last 80 years, though as new 2.2m to a continuing total decline of the DVD format, products are introduced into our stores to offset sq ft of prime retail space and that this will accelerate as video-on-demand music market trends the category will continue 1.3bn and video downloads begin to gain consumer to decrease as a proportion of Group sales.
However, this will be partially offset Digital continues to grow quickly, though Apple by growth from new higher denition formats, currently dominates.
As this market opens up, 78m where HMV is well positioned.
our strategy is to enable music fans to purchase CD and DVD units sold in HMV UK and Ireland downloads from multiple HMV digital channels, including mobile, PC and in-store kiosks.
2006 07 bestselling DVDs 2006 07 bestselling CD albums Pirates of the Snow Patrol: Caribbean: Eyes Open Dead Mans Chest Casino Royale Take That: Beautiful World High School Musical Razorlight: Razorlight Ice Age 2: Scissor Sisters: The Meltdown Ta-Dah The Da Vinci Code James Morrison: Undiscovered 14 14 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Bestsellers are for the UK market FY 2006 07 Games Books 6% of Group sales 29% of Group sales Overview Overview The cycle for new console and hand-held The acquisition of Ottakars and its integration games platforms, including the Xbox360, PSP, with Waterstones during the financial year helped Nintendo Wii and PS3, is at a relatively early stage to increase books as a proportion of Group Waterstones and will continue to drive market growth in both sales to 29%, from 23% in the prior year, and Waterstones is the UKs hardware and software.
Games is an established Waterstones now sells almost half of all books leading specialist high street part of HMV UK & Irelands entertainment offer sold on the high street.
The total UK book market bookseller, renowned for and represented 12% of sales in 2006 07, up from has grown on average by over 4% per annum both its wide range and 10% in the previous year.
The retail value of the quality of advice.
The chain in the three years to 2006.
However, total market operates through 323 stores UK games market during the Groups financial growth has begun to slow down, with the high and a transactional website, year was 1.8bn, which by 2010 is expected street segment of the market showing value Waterstones.
com to grow by almost a quarter Screen Digest.
growth of less than one per cent over the last HMV Canada completed the roll out of games across three years, including value decline in 2006 323 Stores throughout the UK the chain, towards the end of the financial year BML Nielsen Bookscan.
Growth in the market and Ireland including the enhancing its specialist entertainment proposition.
continues to come from the supermarkets and former Ottakars Internet, while price deation has intensied across all channels.
Waterstones now participates 1.8m sq ft of prime retail space in the growing online channel, following the launch of Waterstones.
537m Total sales 58m Total number of books sold 2006 07 bestselling games software 2006 07 bestselling books Pro Evolution Soccer 6 The Sound of Laughter: Peter Kay Fifa 07 The Island: Victoria Hislop Canis Canem Edit Why Dont Penguins Feet Freeze?
And 114 Other Questions: Mick OHare Grand Theft Auto: The Devil Wears Prada: Liberty City Stories Lauren Weisberger Need For I Know You Got Soul: Speed Carbon Jeremy Clarkson 15 15 HMV Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007 HMV UK & Ireland Total consumer market
