38 Board of Directors Oliver Stocken Terry Duddy Richard Ashton Chief Executive Finance Director Chairman Terry began his career at Letraset in 1978.
Richard started his career at Oliver was a director of NM Rothschild and Initially he worked in personnel  LLP where he Sons and held several roles within Barclays management and later in product trained as a chartered accountant.
In 1994 Group culminating in his appointment as management.
In 1984 he joined the Dixons he joined GE where he spent eight years group finance director of Barclays PLC.
In Stores Group where he held a variety of and held a variety of positions.
These 2000, he was appointed to the GUS Board commercial positions, including sales included chief financial officer of GE where he chaired the audit committee and director of Currys, product marketing Capital's pan-European equipment financing subsequently the remuneration committee.
director of the Dixons Stores Group and, business, headquartered in The Netherlands, He is deputy chairman of 3i plc, a nonlatterly, managing director of PC World.
assistant to GE Capital's chief financial executive director of Standard Chartered plc Terry joined GUS in August 1998 as chief officer in the US and various finance roles and chairman of Rutland Trust plc, executive of the newly acquired Argos, in the UK.
Richard joined Argos Retail Group Stanhope plc and Oval Limited.
becoming a GUS director later that year.
In as finance director in November 2001.
2000 he was appointed chief executive of Argos Retail Group.
John Coombe Andy Hornby Penny Hughes Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director John held a number of senior finance roles Andy began his career at Boston Consulting Penny spent ten years with Coca Cola, within Charterhouse Group plc and Charter Group before joining Blue Circle as business initially as marketing director and Consolidated plc before joining Glaxo development director, Blue Circle Home ultimately as president of Coca Cola UK & Holdings in 1986.
He was ultimately chief Products.
Following a move to ASDA he held Ireland.
Over the last decade she has held a financial officer of GlaxoSmithKline for five a number of senior general management number of non-executive roles on the years before retiring in 2005.
He joined roles including managing director of the Boards of international businesses such as the GUS Board in 2005.
He is a member of George clothing business.
In 1999, Andy Vodafone, Trinity Mirror and Body Shop.
the supervisory board of Siemens AG, a joined the Board of Halifax as chief Currently she serves on the Board of non-executive director of HSBC Holdings, executive, Halifax Retail.
Since August 2006, Reuters, GAP and the Swedish bank, chairman of Hogg Robinson and a member he has been chief executive of HBOS plc.
She also of the Code Committee of the Panel on Andy joined the GUS Board in 2004.
Andy belongs to the Advisory Board of Takeovers and Mergers.
John is the senior chairs the remuneration committee of Bridgepoint Venture Capital and is president independent director and chairs the audit Home Retail Group.
Penny joined committee of Home Retail Group.
the Board of Home Retail Group in December 2006.
39 Operating Board Greg Ball Sarah Carpenter Mike Sibbald Managing Director, Financial Services Director of Strategic Development Human Resources Director retired April 2007 Maria Thompson Gordon Bentley Peter Connor Commercial Director Company Secretary IS Director Sara Weller Eugene Brazil Paul Loft Managing Director, Argos Managing Director, Customer Services Managing Director, Homebase Committees NOMINATION COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Andy Hornby Chairman Oliver Stocken Chairman John Coombe Chairman John Coombe John Coombe Andy Hornby Penny Hughes Terry Duddy Penny Hughes Oliver Stocken Andy Hornby Penny Hughes HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Board of Directors & Operating Board
