We are the UKs leading home and Our 990 stores are located throughout general merchandise retailer.
Supporting these stores customers know us better as Argos and are central operations in Milton Keynes, Homebase two household names and Buckinghamshire, together with logistics highly successful retail formats.
Argos and support operations across the sells a broad range of products country.
We also have our own sourcing consumer and household electrical goods: operations in overseas locations.
a comprehensive range of furniture and We are more than just store locations.
Terry Duddy housewares: equipment and other goods Chief Executive We offer our customers extensive Internet for sporting and leisure pursuits: DIY, and telephone ordering services, gardening and outdoor equipment: toys supported by a home delivery service for all ages: and jewellery.
Homebase also which delivers direct to customers homes sells across a broad range of home-related more than seven million times a year.
categories to help people improve their Why?
homes and gardens Homebases offer Home Retail Group is new we demerged includes all the products needed for dofrom our former parent company GUS plc it-yourself, decorating and gardening in October 2006.
That made us a projects as well as fitted kitchens and standalone, independent business and a bathrooms: furniture, housewares and FTSE 100 company in our own right.
Both businesses are supported by an in-house financial services We have a long and trusted heritage.
operation that provides customers with a Argos has been building its position as the range of credit and insurance products.
UKs most successful catalogue retailer since 1973, and Homebase became a Both Argos and Homebase use catalogues, new, distinctive DIY format in 1981. websites, brochures and stores to present their extensive product ranges and make Our vision is to be a leading retailing it easy for customers to shop.
This multigroup that delivers sustainable returns for channel approach has helped Home Retail all our stakeholders.
We aim for sectorGroup gain a market-leading 10% share leading sales and profit growth, while in the 58 billion home and general acting responsibly and ethically towards merchandise market with strong market all those with whom we have a positions in each of the categories we sell.
We look forward to a bright future.
We We are the 53,000 colleagues that make a have grown strongly, and have a clear winning team focussed on delivering strategy in place to continue driving our customers what they want for their business forward for further success.
We are the store staff, the buyers and merchandisers, the home delivery and logistics personnel and all the supporting functions that make a highly successful retailer.
We are also each and every one of our stakeholders, including our customers who shop with us over 200 million times a year our investors, commercial partners and the wider communities in which we operate.
1973 1981 1998 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 Launch of Launch of Acquisition of Acquisition of Launch of Argos Launch of Acquisition of 33 Demerger of Argos Homebase Argos by Homebase by Extra 17,000 Homebase Index stores Home Retail Group GUS plc GUS plc SKU catalogue Furniture Extra from GUS plc Argos online sales Launch of reached 1 billion www.
co. uk Argos Extra rolled out nationally Homebase Furniture Extra rolled out nationally HOME RETAIL GROUP Annual Report 07 Store Guide and Introduction
