Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting Share capital contracts, bank loan agreements, Details of the authorised and issued and employee share plans.
The only their report and the audited financial statements for the 52 week period share capital, together with details of one of these, which is considered to the movements in the Companys issued be significant in terms of likely impact ended 29 December 2007.
Comparative figures relate to the 53 weeks ended share capital during the year are shown on the business of the Group as a in note 25.
The Company has one class whole, is the 175m bank facility as 30 December 2006. of ordinary shares which carry no right described in note 22 which requires to fixed income.
Each share carries the majority lender consent for any change Principal Group activities, business review and results right to one vote at general meetings of of control.
Should such consent not be the Company.
forthcoming, a change of control would The principal activity of Galiform plc and its subsidiaries is the sale of kitchen trigger mandatory prepayment of the There are no specific restrictions entire facility.
cabinetry and related products, along with the associated procurement, manufacture on the size of a holding nor on the transfer of shares which are both Substantial shareholdings and distribution of such.
The Company is required by the Companies Act to governed by the general provisions The following substantial interests 3% of the Articles of Association and or more in the Companys share capital include a business review in this report.
A detailed review of the development prevailing legislation.
The directors are had been notified to the Company: not aware of any agreements between and activities of the Groups business Standard Life Investments 19.10% and expected future developments is holders of the Companys shares that may result in restrictions on the transfer contained in the Chairmans Statement, Hermes Focus Asset Management 15.06% Chief Executives Statement, Review of of securities or on voting rights.
Operations and Finance and Corporate IFG Corporate Services Social Responsibility Report set out on Details of employee share schemes as trustee of Galiform are set out in note 30. pages 6 to 20.
This information fulfils the Employee Share Trust 5.59% requirements of the Business Review and Artisan Partners 5.22% No person has any special rights of is incorporated in this report by reference.
Legal & General 4.01% control over the Companys share capital and all issued shares are fully paid.
The full results for the period are shown in the Financial Statements on pages 38 The percentage interest is as stated by the With regard to the appointment to 98. shareholder at the time of notification and and replacement of directors, the current interests may vary.
Company is governed by its Articles Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its of Association, the Combined Code, the Charitable and political contributions Companies Acts and related legislation.
subsidiaries is given in notes 20 and 21 In addition to furniture products and to the financial statements.
The Articles may be amended by special services donated to various charities, resolution of the shareholders.
The the Group made charitable donations The subsidiary and associated business of the Company is managed during the period amounting to 410,000 by the Board who may exercise all the undertakings principally affecting the 2006: 376,000.
The Group made no profits or net assets of the Group in powers of the Company subject to the political donations during the current and provision of the Articles of Association, the year are listed in the table of Parent previous period.
Company and Principal Subsidiary the Companies Acts and any special resolution of the Company.
Fixed assets There is no material difference Under its Articles of Association, Dividends between the book value and the current The Board is recommending that a final the Company has authority to issue open market value of the Groups interest 775,152,000 ordinary shares.
dividend of 0.5p per ordinary share in land and buildings.
2006: nil be paid on 13 June 2008 to ordinary shareholders on the register on There are a number of agreements Suppliers payment terms 30 May 2008.
No interim dividend was that take effect, alter or terminate upon The Group and Companys policy, paid during the year 2006: nil.
a change of control such as commercial in relation to all its suppliers, is to settle GA2227 - AR07 front AW02.
indd 22 26 3 08 10:39:44 Galiform plc Annual Report 2007 its terms of payment when agreeing the The Group promotes the importance Annual General Meeting of diversity and adopts an Equal The Annual General Meeting terms of the transaction and to abide by those terms provided that it is satisfied Opportunities Policy under which training is to be held at The Lincoln Centre, and career development opportunities 18 Lincolns Inn Fields, London that the supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with the agreed are available to all employees, regardless WC2A 3ED on 16 May 2008. of gender, religion or race.
The Group terms and conditions.
is committed to meeting the code of Directors and their interests practice on the employment of disabled Details of the directors in office The number of days purchases outstanding for payment by the Group people and full and fair consideration on 29 December 2007 are shown is given to disabled applicants for on page 21. at the period end was 37 days 2006: 27 days and nil 2006: nil for the Company.
It aims to do all that is practicable to meet its responsibility Mark Robson will retire by rotation Acquisition of the Companys towards the employment and training at the Annual General Meeting and of disabled people and welcomes and in accordance with Article 76 of the own shares At the end of the year, the directors considers fully, applications by disabled Articles of Association offers himself persons, having regard to their particular for reappointment.
had authority under the shareholders resolutions of 18 May 2007 to purchase aptitudes and abilities.
It is also the Groups policy to retain employees who Information on the directors service through the market 63,346,521 of the Companys ordinary shares at prices may become disabled while in service agreements, options and interests of the and to provide appropriate training.
directors and their families in the share ranging between 10p and 105% of the average middle market quotation for capital of the Company, are set out in Audit information and auditors the separate Report on Remuneration an ordinary share as derived from the London Stock Exchange Daily Official List The directors at the date of approval on pages 24 to 33.
Details of indemnity of this report confirm that: provisions made for the benefit of for the five business days immediately preceding the day on which the ordinary directors are given in the Corporate so far as each of the directors Governance Report on pages 34 to 37. share is purchased.
The authority expires at the conclusion of the next AGM or 15 is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys By order of the Board months from the date of passing.
auditors are unaware Employees The average number of employees the directors have taken all the steps Caroline Bishop they ought to have taken as directors Secretary and their remuneration are shown in note 8 to the Financial Statements.
in order to make themselves aware of any relevant audit information and to 5 March 2008 The Group has approximately 6,546 establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information employees throughout the United Kingdom and overseas and strives The confirmation is given and should to engage its employees wherever possible in its business goals by means be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies of regular regional and local meetings and staff briefings.
The Board remains committed to linking Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as reward to business budgets and targets thereby giving employees the opportunity auditors and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming to share in the financial success of the Group.
The Board recognises employees Annual General Meeting.
for their contribution in this regard and includes employee incentive plans and share plans within remuneration overall.
indd 23 26 3 08 10:39:44 THe business revieW HOW we govern the business
