18 annual report & accounts two thousand & seven Report of the Directors The Directors present their report, together with the audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2007. Business Review and Principal Activities The Company is an industrial holding company, whose subsidiaries are primarily involved in international oil and gas services.
The Business Review, encompassing the Chief Executives Review and the Finance Directors Review on pages 4 to 14 together with the Chairmans Statement on page 2, reports on the activities during the year ended 31 December 2007 and likely future developments.
Details of the Companys principal subsidiary and associated undertakings are set out in note 46.
Results The results of the Group are set out in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 47.
Dividends The final dividend for 2006 of 5.2p per share 2005 4.0p was paid on 2 July 2007 and on 21 November 2007 the 2007 interim dividend of 2.55p per Ordinary share was paid 2006 2.3p.
The Directors recommend a final Ordinary dividend of 5.7p per share 2006 5.2p payable on 1 July 2008 to shareholders on the register at 30 May 2008.
Directors Brief biographies of the Directors are shown on page 16.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Dennis Proctor and George Helland retire by rotation at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In addition, Richard Hunting offers himself for re-election in accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
No Director during the year had a material interest in any contract of significance to which either the Company or any of its subsidiaries were a party.
Directors interests in the shares of the Company are shown on pages 30 and 31.
As at 31 December 2007, no Director of the Company had any beneficial interest in the shares of subsidiary companies.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains insurance against certain liabilities which could arise from a negligent act or a breach of duty by its Directors and officers in the discharge of their duties.
Principal Acquisitions During 2007, the Group made the following six acquisitions, all of which were in Canada and all of which were for a cash consideration only: Dels Propane Ltd on 1 February for a consideration of 2.8m: Western Propane and Gas Services on 31 May for 1.3m: Boychuk Energy Inc on 1 June for 6.2m: Rev Fluids Solutions Inc on 1 September for 2.5m: MP Energy Partnership on 1 October for 8.8m and on 2 October, Hunting Oryx Ltd was acquired for 8.6m, of which 1.0m is deferred.
All the acquisitions were for 100% of the share capital except MP Energy Partnership, which was an acquisition of its partnership units.
Further details are provided in note 38 to the accounts.
annual report & accounts two thousand & seven 19 Report of the Directors continued Disposals On 12 July 2007, the Group disposed of its interests in Aero Sekur SpA, its former Italian subsidiary, for a consideration of 2.0m.
Further details are provided in note 39 to the accounts.
Major Shareholdings As at 12 February 2008, major shareholdings in the Ordinary shares of the Company, other than Directors interests, notified to the Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial Services Authority, were as follows: Percentage Number of of issued Ordinary Ordinary Notes shares shares Legal & General Investment Management 11,443,226 8.70 Hunting Investments Limited i 10,884,743 8.28 AXA S. A. and Group Companies 9,387,047 7.14 Slaley Investments Limited 6,411,679 4.88 F Godson as trustee ii 6,155,089 4.68 Schroder Investment Management 5,580,100 4.24 DRL Hunting 199,910 other beneficial iii 2,484,583 as trustee ii 2,549,117 5,233,610 3.98 Globeflex Capital 5,146,384 3.91 Liontrust Asset Management 5,055,126 3.84 Prudential PLC iv 4,963,619 3.77 Barclays Global Investors 4,098,888 3.12 JP Morgan Chase and Co. 4,045,079 3.08 JA Trafford as trustee ii 3,974,200 3.02 Notes: i Included in the holding are 9,437,743 Ordinary shares held by Huntridge Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hunting Investments Limited.
Neither of these companies are owned by Hunting PLC, either directly or indirectly.
ii After elimination of duplicated holdings, the total Hunting family trustee interests shown above amount to 6,458,783 Ordinary shares.
iii Arise because DRL Hunting and his children are or could become beneficiaries under the relevant family trusts of which DRL Hunting is a trustee.
iv Held by certain of its subsidiaries.
20 annual report & accounts two thousand & seven Report of the Directors continued Corporate Social Responsibility Details of the Groups policies on employment, health, safety and the environment are contained within the Business Review on page 5 and within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 24 and 25.
Research and Development Group subsidiaries undertake, where appropriate, research and development to meet particular market and product needs.
The amount incurred and written off by the Group during the year was 0.7m 2006 1.0m.
Charitable and Political Contributions During the year the Group donated 57,000 2006 49,000 to UK charitable organisations and 213,000 2006 137,000 to overseas charities.
No UK political donations were made 2006 nil.
Property, Plant and Equipment Details of movements in property, plant and equipment are shown in note 12 to the financial statements.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held on Wednesday 23 April 2008 at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS commencing at 10.30 a. m. Further details of resolutions the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and purchase of its Ordinary shares are set out in the letter containing details of the Annual General Meeting which accompanies the Notice of the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2008.
Powers of the Directors Subject to the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation and any directions prescribed by ordinary resolution of the Company in general meeting, the business of the Company is managed by the Board.
The Directors have been authorised to allot and issue Ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Companys Ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at its Annual General Meeting.
Share Capital The Companys issued share capital comprises a single class of share capital which is divided into Ordinary shares of 25 pence each.
Details of the share capital of the Company are set out in note 30 to the financial statements.
The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys Ordinary shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Subject to applicable statutes, shares may be issued with such rights and restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution decide, or if there is no such resolution or so far as it does not make specific provision as the Board may decide.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint one or more proxies and, if they are corporations, corporate representatives and to exercise voting rights.
Holders of Ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a liquidation may share in the assets of the Company.
Holders of Ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys annual report and accounts.
Subject to meeting certain thresholds, holders of the Ordinary shares may require a general meeting of the Company to be held or the proposal of resolutions at Annual General Meetings.
annual report & accounts two thousand & seven 21 Report of the Directors continued Authority to Allot Shares and Disapply Statutory Pre-Emption Rights The Directors will seek to renew their authorities to allot unissued shares and to disapply statutory pre-emption rights at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2008.
Purchase of Own Shares At the Annual General Meeting held on 25 April 2007, the Company was given authority to purchase up to 13,106,858 of its Ordinary shares until the date of its next Annual General Meeting.
No purchases were made during the year.
The Directors will be seeking a new authority for the Company to purchase its Ordinary shares at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2008.
Any shares purchased will be cancelled and the number of Ordinary shares in issue reduced accordingly.
Voting Rights and Restrictions on Transfer of Shares On a show of hands at a general meeting of the Company every holder of Ordinary shares present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote and on a poll every member present in person or by proxy and entitled to vote has one vote for every Ordinary share held.
Further details regarding voting at the Annual General Meeting can be found in the notes to the Notice of the Annual General Meeting.
None of the Ordinary shares carry any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Proxy appointments and voting instructions must be received by the Companys Registrars not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
A shareholder can lose his entitlement to vote at a general meeting where that shareholder has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share which is not fully paid, provided that the refusal does not prevent dealings in shares in the Company from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register a transfer of a certificated share unless the instrument of transfer: i is lodged, duly stamped if stampable, at the registered office of the Company or any other place decided by the Directors accompanied by the certificate for the share to which it relates and or such other evidence as the Directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: ii is in respect of only one class of shares: iii is in favour of a person who is not a minor, bankrupt or a person of unsound mind: or iv is in favour of not more than four transferees.
Transfers of uncertificated shares must be carried out using CREST and the Directors can refuse to register a transfer of an uncertificated share in accordance with the regulations governing the operation of CREST.
The Directors may decide to suspend the registration of transfers, for up to 30 days a year, by closing the register of shareholders.
The Directors cannot suspend the registration of transfers of any uncertificated shares without obtaining consent from CREST.
There are no restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares in the Company other than: certain restrictions may from time to time be imposed by laws and regulations for example insider trading laws : pursuant to the Companys share dealing code whereby the Directors and certain employees of the Company require approval to deal in the Companys shares: and 22 annual report & accounts two thousand & seven Report of the Directors continued where a shareholder with at least a 0.25% interest in the Companys certificated shares has been served with a disclosure notice and has failed to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfer of Ordinary shares or on voting rights.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting of the shareholders.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2008, a resolution will be put to shareholders proposing the adoption of new Articles of Association.
A summary of the principal proposed changes can be found in the Appendix to the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Significant Agreements The Company is a party to certain funding agreements in which the counterparties can determine whether or not to cancel the agreements where there has been a change of control of the Company.
The service agreements of the executive Directors include provisions that provide for compensation for loss of office or employment as a result of a change of control.
Further details of the Directors service contracts can be found in the Remuneration Committees Report on pages 28 and 29.
Appointment and Replacement of Directors Rules for the appointment and replacement of Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
Directors are appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution at a general meeting of holders of Ordinary shares or by the Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The Company may also remove a Director.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out further details of the requirements for re-election of Directors on page 34.
In addition, further details of the workings of the Nomination Committee are set out on page 35.
Policy on Payment of Creditors The Companys and Groups policy is to pay all creditors in accordance with agreed terms of business.
The Company itself has no substantial trade payables.
The total amount of Group trade payables falling due within one year at 31 December 2007 represents 40 days worth 2006 33 days, as a proportion of the total amount invoiced by suppliers during the year ended on that date.
Statement on Disclosure of Information to Auditors In accordance with Companies Act requirements all Directors in office as at the date of this report have confirmed so far as they are aware there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all reasonable steps necessary in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
Going Concern The Directors, after making enquiries and on the basis of current financial projections and the facilities available, believe that the Company and the Group have adequate financial resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
annual report & accounts two thousand & seven 23 Report of the Directors continued Auditors  LLP have indicated their willingness to continue in office as auditors.
A resolution to reappoint them as auditors to the Company will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 April 2008.
By order of the Board Peter Rose Company Secretary 28 February 2008
