GROUP OPERATING REVIEW driving impulse purchase insight OUR MERCHANDISING BUSINESS PROVIDES SUPERIOR PERMANENT POINT OF SALE SOLUTIONS THAT INFLUENCE CONSUMER PURCHASING DECISIONS AND GENERATE REVENUE FOR OUR BRAND OWNER AND RETAILER CUSTOMERS.
We combine knowledge of what drives uplift as well as inventory control, came from cosmetics with some a consumers impulse purchase with environmental sustainability, theft and significant European successes and engineering expertise, marketing and labour reduction benefits.
Display some promising inroads being made into project management skills to create Technologies and Cannon Equipment are the US market.
Solid progress was and deliver display equipment developing new products and services made in the food and beverage sectors, specifically designed to achieve our for major retailers in increasingly while the automotive sector held up customers sales and marketing sophisticated retail markets.
well, supported by a strong commitment objectives.
We have the retail insight and the scale to merchandising from the car The role of point of purchase displays is to handle major customer brand manufacturers.
Sales within our particularly significant in high-volume, merchandising programmes with consumer electronics sector however high-margin sectors like cosmetics, demanding timescales.
were disappointing, with a number of new one of the main areas served by our In a generally fragmented industry, launches failing to deliver the anticipated Artform business unit.
DCI provides the our US and UK-based Merchandising momentum.
The opportunities in this automotive industry with merchandising businesses, demonstrate the advantages sector, however, remain considerable.
expertise for new model launches and that a well co-ordinated team with a Second half operating margins increased consumer electronics brands with depth and breadth of capabilities can to nearly 13%, with our cost base displays that increase their product bring to the marketplace.
continuing to benefit from value sales.
In bulk bins eco-friendly engineering programmes in general and Performance and prospects dispensers for food, coffee, from a focus on low cost sourcing in The organic growth for the year was confectionary and liquids grocery and China and India in particular.
4% with a number of shipments beverage stock management systems, With strong shipments in the first originally slated for December delivery Display Technologies and Cannon two months of 2008, momentum rescheduled to early 2008.
The Equipment bring their customers sales remains positive.
strongest sector performance in 2007 186 180 FACTFILE Merchandising 174 Key businesses Artform, Cannon Equipment, DCI Marketing, Display Technologies.
21.4 20.0 Strategic focus Providing permanent point of sale 19.4 solutions and technologies that enhance retailer and brand owner profitability by driving impulse purchase.
11.5 11.5 10.8 Main markets Global brand owners and retail sales outlets.
Major operational USA and UK.
locations 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 Revenue Operating Operating Employees 1,400 m profit m margin % before restructuring, investigation costs, intangible amortisation and other income 20 Merchandising KEY ACCOUNT MANAGER Understanding the Wegmans business - and the importance of the bulk food departments - has been critical to our ability to support the companys business objectives.
April Tefteller Trade Fixtures Accounts Manager Display Technologies CUSTOMER Passion and commitment to a unique business model has helped to make Wegmans a supermarket leader.
Close working relationships ensure that Display Technologies shares our insight and that our bulk food dispense systems make a statement to consumers about quality, craftsmanship, customer service and delivery.
Todd Marino Category Merchant Bulk Foods Wegmans Food Markets, Inc. IMI plc Annual Report 2007 21
