GROUP OPERATING REVIEW perfecting indoor climate innovat OUR INDOOR CLIMATE BUSINESS PROVIDES THE EXPERTISE AND TECHNOLOGY TO DELIVER RELIABLE INDOOR CLIMATES IN BUILDINGS.
We meet the challenges faced by There was, however, a significant For both new and refurbished buildings building designers, operators, downturn in our thermostatic radiator we analyse the relationship between architects and engineers who seek valve business in Germany during the heating, ventilation, air conditioning, problem-free, energy efficient and cost second half, following a sharp fall in the lighting and power systems to deliver effective heating and cooling systems number of residential building permits the most efficient energy performance.
for buildings and indoor environments.
issued earlier in the year.
Sales in the Investment in our strong TA and Our services and our products, emerging markets of Eastern Europe Heimeier brands, new products and principally balancing systems and maintained their strong development customer training, positions us to thermostatic radiator valves TRVs, of recent years.
2007 operating profit benefit positively from global energy help our clients to meet local and was 32.9m representing an operating concerns and the fast growing Eastern international regulatory obligations, margin of 15.9%.
European, Asian and Middle Eastern significantly reduce energy 32,000 industry professionals economies.
consumption and deliver personal around the world received Performance and prospects comfort in both commercial and training in Indoor Climate The Indoor Climate organic revenue domestic buildings.
Growth did slow in Strong balancing system design technologies in 2007, the second half of the year to 1% knowledge, experience, commissioning encouraging additional after a particularly strong first half.
and project management skills are demand for our The majority of the increased cost of essential to ensure that hospitals, products and copper, which represents a significant airports, offices, retail outlets, hotel services.
part of the cost of the valves, was chains, restaurants and other facilities passed on in selling prices.
The enjoy indoor environments that underlying volume growth in the optimise the comfort of their balancing valve business remains firm employees and clients, while also being and was particularly strong in Europe.
FACTFILE Indoor Climate 207 Key businesses TA, Heimeier, FDI, Pneumatex.
186 172 32.9 Strategic focus Perfecting indoor climate through the 29.5 provision of critical energy-efficient valve 25.6 products and related services for waterbased heating and cooling systems.
15.9 15.9 14.9 Main markets Heating and cooling systems for commercial buildings and temperature control for residential buildings.
Major operational Sweden, Germany, Switzerland and USA.
locations 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 Revenue Operating Operating Employees 2,000 m profit m margin % before restructuring, investigation costs, intangible amortisation and other income 16 Indoor Climate KEY ACCOUNT MANAGER Our wide experience in this field and our unique hydronics balancing software enabled us to provide the best energy-efficient solution possible for our clients needs.
More than 500 TA valves were used to deliver the perfect indoor climate for this prestigious public building.
Juan Torralba Key Account Manager TA ion The acquisition of Pneumatex, with CUSTOMER its complementary product range, After many years of joint work, our confidence enhances our offering in this field.
in TA's people and the quality of the valves is It made a strong contribution in its very high.
This is exactly what we look for when first few months in the Group and has carrying out projects of this importance.
already made inroads into new markets Federico Cantera previously beyond its reach.
Chief of Maintenance Services Palace of the Arts, Valencia IMI plc Annual Report 2007 17
