BUSINESS OVERVIEW our goals and how we are achieving them WE AIM TO DELIVER SUSTAINABLE ORGANIC GROWTH EQUIVALENT TO TWICE GDP GROWTH AND OVER TIME TO REACH OPERATING MARGINS OF 15%.
We have a clear strategy that is relevant and appropriate form of service and spares to our customers installed for a successful engineering solutions business in product base.
the 21st century and we continue to pursue it vigorously.
Our five business platforms share this common philosophy.
We are focused on growth with industry or sector leading While each business platform is predominantly an customers in niche markets which are themselves growing.
autonomous business, we operate in two main areas.
Adding value to such customers and improving their The Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate performance is the route to sustainable profit growth for business platforms serve Fluid Controls markets, where our shareholders.
We operate in markets where we our customers are plant operators and original equipment already hold or can achieve a market leadership position manufacturers.
and where we can clearly differentiate ourselves from our The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses competitors with end-user insight and the application operate in Retail Dispense markets, where our customers of innovative technology.
Key account management and are brand owners and retailers.
project management are important disciplines for the Our strategic growth drivers are understood by all the effective delivery of bespoke solutions to our leading senior management in IMI and embedded throughout our customers.
We also provide aftermarket support in the businesses.
OUR FOUR KEY STRATEGIC GROWTH DRIVERS accelerating our key account focus Highly talented, customer-focused, entrepreneurialPaul McWilliam, Artform minded teams of people in IMI add long-term value for Key Accounts Director, both customers and ourselves.
Developing these skills, coordinates relationships understanding the drivers of our customers' businesses, with our major cosmetics customers across the and our own, and ensuring that we work with the best Merchandising business.
customer partners, are critical components of our business model.
Recognising where value can be added for both parties is a fundamental part of our approach.
A centrally-based Key Account Academy helps to train our people and ensure that best practice is shared across the Group.
Nearly 100 key account managers and sales leaders received training via the academy in 2007.
4 balance sheet management increasing our creative abilities We invest in techniques that improve market and Greg Croydon, IMI plc Treasurer, customer insight, frequently working with academics is responsible for maintaining a and other partners who can aid our understanding.
strong and flexible balance sheet, ensuring that adequate funding is We then apply our acquired knowledge and our available to meet our requirements engineering capabilities to the issues faced by our whilst managing the financial risks customers.
The result is relevant, new, value-adding associated with foreign currency, technologies and products that strengthen our interest rates, base metals, cash and investments.
Strategic acquisitions that support our existing Indoor Climates businesses help us to develop new markets further.
Business Development Director, Andrew Lane, Acquisitions must align with our growth and margin ensures that innovative, targets and meet key criteria including technology, talent, energy-saving new market sector or key account relationships and the ability products help us to maintain our competitive to create significant differentiation and leadership edge on major positions in the market place.
construction projects around the world.
In addition to our acquisition programme, we continue to invest in our existing businesses where we see potential to promote organic growth and use the share buyback seizing the initiative in rapidly programme to help manage our balance sheet growing economies efficiently.
All potential acquisitions and all major investment proposals must be able to We continue to invest in the fast-growing markets of demonstrate positive economic value added Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Asia, particularly on a cumulative basis within three years.
In recent years we have significantly increased our The Group also aims to maintain cash ability to generate sales, manufacturing and procurement conversion levels no less than 80-90%.
opportunities in these territories through the development of regional and local teams with relevant local industry knowledge and experience.
Focused Leading IMIs procurement team investment of this sort enables us to support our in Asia, Wayne Huang plays a customers as they enter new markets, while also helping critical role in sourcing essential to drive value for our customers in established markets.
components for IMI products at A high-profile advisory board supports our commitment the right price and quality levels.
to current and future activities in China.
