BOARD OF DIRECTORS board of directors NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS NORMAN B M ASKEW Chairman Age 65: non-executive: joined the IMI Board in 2005.
Norman Askew has extensive international experience in industry including previous positions as Chief Executive of Virginia Power in the USA and BNFL.
His current positions include the chairmanship of both Taylor Wimpey plc and the Board of Governors of Manchester University.
TERRY M GATELEY LANCE BROWNE CBE KEVIN S BEESTON ANITA M FREW Age 54: non-executive: joined Age 58: non-executive: Age 45: non-executive: Age 50: non-executive: joined the IMI Board in 2003. joined the IMI Board in joined the IMI Board in the IMI Board in 2006.
Terry Gateley began his Anita Frew is the senior noncareer as a chartered Lance Browne is the nonKevin Beeston is the nonexecutive director of Victrex accountant and was in executive Chairman of executive Chairman of plc and a non-executive private practice until moving Standard Chartered Bank, Serco Group plc and is also director of Aberdeen into investment China, where he was Chief a member of the CBIs Asset Management PLC, management in 1999.
Executive between 1996 Presidents Committee, Northumbrian Water Ltd, and He is a member of the and 2001.
He has held a Chairman of the CBIs Securities Trust of Scotland Industrial Advisory Board of range of senior positions Public Services Strategy plc.
Director of City of London Alchemy Partners LLP and in banking and engineering Board, non-executive Trust plc.
She was previously his current directorships businesses and has lived in Chairman of Partnerships an executive director of include Kestrel Holdings China for over 20 years.
in Care Limited, Infinitas Abbott Mead Vickers PLC, Limited, Everyday Loans Director of China Learning BV, Domestic Director of Corporate Holdings Limited, Goldmines plc.
An Honorary and General Limited and Development at WPP Group Presentation Service Citizen of Shanghai, he has a non-executive director Plc and Head of UK Equity Providers Limited and also received a CBE for his of Ipswich Town Football Investment at Scottish Leicester Tigers.
34 Board of directors EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS MARTIN J LAMB DOUGLAS M HURT DAVID C NICHOLAS ROY M TWITE top right top left bottom left bottom right Chief Executive Finance Director Executive Director Executive Director Age 48: joined IMI in 1986.
Age 51: joined IMI and the Age 58: joined the IMI Board Age 41: joined IMI in 1988.
Martin Lamb was Roy Twite was appointed to appointed to the Board Douglas Hurt was previously David Nicholas is responsible the Board in February 2007 in 1996 and as Chief with GlaxoSmithKline, where for IMIs Fluid Controls with responsibility for IMIs Executive in 2001.
He has he held both financial and businesses, which comprise Retail Dispense businesses, extensive experience of operational roles including a Fluid Power, Indoor Climate which comprise Beverage engineering and managed number of US and European and Severe Service.
several major businesses senior management positions.
recent past directorships He was previously President within the Group before his He is a member of the include Tyco Flow Control of IMI's Indoor Climate present appointment.
He has extensive business, having held a He is a non-executive Accountants.
experience in managing number of senior operational director of Severn Trent engineering businesses.
