GROUP OPERATING REVIEW pioneering beverage dispense solutions global r OUR CORNELIUS BUSINESS SUPPLIES COMPELLING BEVERAGE DISPENSE EQUIPMENT SOLUTIONS FOR A BROAD RANGE OF BEVERAGE PRODUCTS.
We drive growth for our customers, We also had a pleasing contribution to meet their public commitments to the worlds leading beverage brand growth from new products in 2007. reduce carbon emissions.
owners and major retailers, by helping We remain confident of the new 3Wire, our successful US-based on-line them to increase beverage incidence product opportunities in the growing parts service, provides parts to the the number of times that a consumer health and wellness drinks categories beverage and food service industries.
such as water, juices, dairy, smoothies We continue to increase our presence Excellent product quality and availability and frozen drinks and have an extensive in emerging markets, particularly the are critical to our blue chip customers new product development programme Middle East and Russia.
Our facilities in and to emerging and local brand addressing many of these needs.
the Ukraine, China and Mexico, North owners as we help them to satisfy Operating profit for the year was America, Continental Europe and the growing consumer demand for health 25.6m representing an unchanged UK ensure that we are well placed to and wellness drinks and greater variety.
The Beverage service local, regional and global Our market-driven new product team closed two significant factories customers.
development programme addresses in 2007, on time and to budget, and we Performance and prospects changing consumer tastes, the expect to see the benefits from this The organic growth for the year was 6% development of signature or consolidation flowing through in 2008 in Beverage Dispense.
Both the Asia destination beverages that are and beyond.
We also trebled the Pacific market and Eastern European unique to the large retailers and the manufacturing space of our factory in market returned strong performances.
increasingly important responsible China and increased our production The US market did show some signs of business agenda of our customers.
capacity in low cost economies to half improvement in the second half, in Just one of the benefits of our new of our total manufacturing output for particular in the health and wellness Energize cooler, for example, is that it this business.
categories to a variety of retailers.
reduces energy consumption by up to The beer market in the UK remained 40% by comparison with previous challenging, however.
models, helping major customers to 285 278 282 FACTFILE Beverage Dispense Key businesses Cornelius, 3Wire.
28.4 Strategic focus Supplying innovative beverage cooling 25.6 25.4 and dispense solutions to brand owners and retailers around the world.
Main markets Soft drinks, health and wellness drinks 10.2 9.0 and alcoholic beverage cooling, dispense 9.0 and point-of-sale equipment for bars, restaurants and retail outlets.
Major operational USA, UK, Germany, Mexico and China.
locations 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 Revenue Operating Operating Employees 2,500 m profit m margin % before restructuring, investigation costs, intangible amortisation and other income 18 Beverage Dispense KEY ACCOUNT MANAGER We work as a team with McDonalds to meet the project objectives.
With our global technical and local management support, 600 McDonalds restaurants were upgraded successfully within 12 months.
Sam Femia Key Account Manager Cornelius, Australia each CUSTOMER The Cornelius Automated Beverage System is an integral part of our beverage strategy and allows us to expand our flavour offering, increase profitability and improve efficiencies, which have benefited both our customers and our company.
David Bridger Head of Equipment Dept.
McDonalds Australia IMI plc Annual Report 2007 19
