The Company is not aware of any arrangements between Corporate social responsibility shareholders that may result in restrictions on the The Board has adopted a range of corporate policies, transfer of ordinary shares or on voting rights.
including a Responsible Business Policy, which reflects the high standards of conduct it sets for itself and its Own shares acquired by the Company employees across the Group.
A relevant selection of In 2007 the Company made market purchases of a total of corporate policies is available on our website 17,210,273 of its own ordinary shares representing 5.1% of www.
Further information on corporate social the shares in issue at the beginning of the year excluding responsibility matters is set out on pages 28 to 33. treasury shares at an aggregate cost of 93.3 million nominal value 4,302,568.25 including dealing costs of Employment policies 0.5 million pursuant to the authorities granted by the The Group continues to support employee involvement at shareholders at the annual general meetings held on all levels in the organisation and strongly encourages each 12 May 2006 and 18 May 2007.
The authority granted of its businesses to keep its employees informed on Group at the annual general meeting held on 18 May 2007 to and individual business developments and to make its purchase up to 50,500,000 of its ordinary shares will employees aware of the financial and economic factors expire at the conclusion of the next annual general affecting the performance of the business in which they meeting to be held on 9 May 2008.
The directors were of operate, using their own consultative and communication the opinion that the purchase of these shares was both methods.
The Group has a European Works Council which in the best interests of the shareholders generally and has been in operation since May 2003 and which meets at constituted an effective use of the cash the Group least once a year to exchange views on pan-European generates.
At the date of this annual report, there are 19 members of the European Works Council On 13 December 2007, the Company cancelled 25,281,586 comprising 15 employee representatives nominated from ordinary shares each with a nominal value of 25 pence per among employees from each European company with the share that were being held in treasury representing 7% balance being Company appointees.
The Groups financial of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at results and important initiatives are communicated that time.
As at 31 December 2007, 16,000,000 ordinary through a number of mechanisms including newsletters shares were held in treasury representing 5% of the and intranets for the individual businesses and the issued share capital excluding treasury shares at that Company's website.
The annual report is available to all time.
The maximum number of shares held in treasury during The Company operates an all employee share ownership the year ended 31 December 2007 was 41,281,586 nominal plan covering all UK employees of certain operations, value 10,320,396.50 on 11 December 2007, representing under which an annual bonus worth up to 3,000 can be 12% of the issued share capital excluding treasury awarded to employees in shares and employees can invest shares at that time.
their own money to acquire additional shares in a tax Substantial shareholdings efficient manner.
A savings-related share option scheme, As at 5 March 2008, the Company has been informed, which is available to the majority of UK employees, has pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules, operated since 1984.
Further details of employee share of the following notifiable voting rights in its issued share schemes are set out in the remuneration report on pages capital: 49 to 51 and in note 21 and the financial statements on Standard Life Investments Limited 13.26% pages 95 to 97.
AXA Investment Managers UK Limited 5.37% A number of people development initiatives are coNewton Investment Management Limited 4.87% ordinated across the Group, including the IMI Graduate Legal and General Group plc 4.00% programme and a senior talent management programme So far as the Company is aware, there are no persons with called Aspire.
These programmes and the Companys significant direct or indirect holdings in the Company.
approach to employee development are explained on Information provided to the Company pursuant to the pages 22 and 23.
FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules is published on a regulatory information service.
IMI plc Annual Report 2007 37 DIRECTORS REPORT directors report It is Group policy to promote equal opportunities in be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the W employment consist e have a clear strat ent with the requirement egy that is relevant and appropriat s of the e legislation in force from time to time.
A resolution will be countries in which the Group operates.
The policy applies proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting to for a successful engineering solutions business in to both employees and applicants for employment.
make certain changes to the Company's articles of the 21st century and we continue to pursue it vigorously.
Companies in the Group are required to eliminate association.
The Corporate Governance Report sets out We are focused on growth with industry or sector leading discrimination and communicate and promote the policy further details of the requirements for re-election of customers in niche markets which are themselves growing.
Managing Directors of operating units directors on page 42.
Adding value to such customers and improving their have responsibility for compliance and each employee is In accordance with the Companys articles of association, performance is the route to sustainable profits growth required to abide by the policy.
Every effort is made to Mr N B M Askew, Mr K S Beeston and Mr M J Lamb retire for our shareholders.
We operate in markets where we ensure that applications for employment from disabled by rotation at the forthcoming annual general meeting and already hold or can achieve a market leadership position persons are fully and fairly considered and that disabled all are recommended for re-election.
Biographical details and where we can clearly differentiate from our employees have equal opportunity in training and appear on pages 34 and 35.
Messrs N B M Askew and competitors with end-user insight and the application promotion.
As a matter of longstanding policy, where K S Beeston are non-executive directors with a letter of of innovative technology.
Key account management and appropriate, employees who become disabled have been appointment and do not have a service contract.
project management are important disciplines for the given suitable training for employment within the Group Mr M J Lamb is an executive director and has a service effective delivery of bespoke solutions to our leading or elsewhere.
contract terminable on one years notice.
We also provide aftermarket support in the Health, safety and the environment The Company maintains directors and officers liability form of service and spares to our customers installed It is Group policy to maintain healthy and safe working insurance and all directors of the Company benefit from product base.
conditions and to operate in a responsible manner qualifying third party indemnity provisions which were in Our f with regard t ive busines o the environment.
s platforms share this common philosophy Information on certain.
place during the financial year.
At the date of this annual key performance indicators in this area is given on pages While each business platform is predominantly an report there are such indemnity arrangements with each 7 and 29 and further information is available on our autonomous business, we operate in two main areas.
director in respect of the costs of defending civil, criminal website www.
The Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate and regulatory proceedings brought against them, in their Policy and practice on the payment of trade creditors capacity as a director, where not covered by insurance.
business platforms serve Fluid Controls markets, where Operating units are responsible for making their suppliers our customers are plant operators and original equipment Directors powers aware of the terms of payment and agreeing such terms manufacturers.
The powers of the directors are determined by UK with their suppliers for each business transaction.
legislation and the memorandum and articles of The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses The Company is not a trading entity.
association of the Company in force from time to time.
operate in Retail Dispense markets, where our customers Donations The directors have been authorised to allot and issue are brand owners and retailers.
220,000 was given during 2007 for community and similar ordinary shares and to make market purchases of the Our strategic growth imperatives are understood by all purposes including 205,000 for charitable purposes.
These powers are exercised the senior management in IMI and embedded throughout The Group supports a range of selected national charities under authority of resolutions of the Company passed at our businesses.
and smaller charitable organisations operating in its annual general meeting.
Further details of resolutions communities where the Group has a presence.
the Company is seeking for the allotment, issue and Our approach to charitable and other donations is purchase of its ordinary shares will be set out in the explained on pages 32 and 33.
No donations to political separate circular containing the notice of the annual parties were made during the year.
Directors Directors interests The persons who were directors throughout the year The interests of the persons including the interests of were Mr N B M Askew, Mr T M Gateley, Mr K S Beeston, their families and any connected persons who were Mr L Browne, Ms A M Frew, Mr M J Lamb, Mr D M Hurt and directors at the end of the year, in the share capital of Mr D C Nicholas.
Mr W R Whitney retired from the Board the Company, and their interests under share option and on 31 January 2007 and Mr R M Twite was appointed as an incentive schemes, are shown on pages 54 to 57. executive director with effect from 1 February 2007.
Change of control The rules for the appointment and replacement of The Company is not a party to any significant agreements directors are set out in the Companys articles of that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change association.
Changes to the articles of association must of control following a takeover bid.
38 Directors report The Company does not have any agreements with any For the parent company financial statements, state director or employee that would provide compensation whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been for loss of office or employment specifically resulting from followed, subject to any material departures disclosed a takeover although provisions of the Companys share and explained in the parent company financial schemes include a discretion to allow awards granted to statements: and employees under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Prepare the financial statements on the going concern Directors responsibilities for the financial statements basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual Group and the parent company will continue in business.
report and the Group and parent company financial The directors are responsible for keeping proper statements, in accordance with applicable law and accounting records that disclose with reasonable regulations.
accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company law requires the directors to prepare Group company and enable them to ensure that its financial and parent company financial statements for each statements comply with the Companies Act 1985. financial year.
Under that law the directors are required They have general responsibility for taking such steps as to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law.
the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
EU adopted IFRSs may differ temporarily from IFRSs as published by the International Accounting Standards Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are Board IASB, if at any point in time, new or amended IFRSs also responsible for preparing a directors report, a have not been adopted by the EU.
At 31 December 2007, remuneration report and corporate governance statement there were no unadopted standards effective for the year that comply with that law and those regulations.
ended 2007 and there is therefore no difference between The directors are responsible for the maintenance and IFRSs as adopted in the financial statements and IFRS integrity of the corporate and financial information issued by the IASB.
included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the The directors have elected to prepare the parent company UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting financial statements may differ from legislation in other Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted jurisdictions.
Disclosure of information to auditor The Group financial statements are required by law and The directors who held office at the date of approval of IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are position and performance of the Group.
The Companies each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which Act 1985 provides in relation to such financial statements the Companys auditor is unaware: and each director has that references in the relevant part of that act to taken all the steps that he or she ought to have taken financial statements giving a true and fair view are as a director to make himself or herself aware of any references to their achieving a fair presentation.
relevant audit information and to establish that the The parent company financial statements are required Companys auditor is aware of that information.
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Risks and uncertainties of the parent company.
In common with all businesses, there are a number of risks In preparing each of the Group and parent company and uncertainties which could have a material impact on financial statements, the directors are required to: the Groups long-term performance.
The Group has in place a risk management structure and internal controls Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them which are designed to identify, manage and mitigate consistently: business risk.
A summary of the Groups risk management Make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and structure is given on pages 44 and 45.
The Groups prudent: financial risk management practices are also discussed For the Group financial statements, state whether they in note 19 to the financial statements.
In addition, the have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as Groups approach to corporate social responsibility and adopted by the EU: associated risks is described on pages 28 to 33.
IMI plc Annual Report 2007 39 DIRECTORS REPORT directors report The principal risks faced by the Group, as identified by the Further costs and actions potentially arising from the W Board, e have a clear strat are summarised belo egy that is refile w: vant and appropriate investigation into the Severe Service business in 2007 are a possible risk in the near term.
However, it is anticipated for a successful engineering solutions business in External risk that any such actions and associated costs would not the 21st century and we continue to pursue it vigorously.
Political and natural catastrophe extend significantly beyond 2008 9.
We are focused on growth with industry or sector leading The Groups worldwide operations expose it to economic, Financial market risks customers in niche markets which are themselves growing.
business, political and other risks such as sudden changes Adding value to such customers and improving their in regime, expropriation of assets, imposition of trade The Group is exposed to a number of financial market per barriers and w formance is the rout age controls e to, limit sustainable prof s on the export of its growth risks including credit risk, liquidity risk and fluctuations in currency and volatility of prices, taxes and currencies.
foreign exchange rates, interest rates and commodity for our shareholders.
We operate in markets where we prices.
A description of these risks and the Group's already hold or can achieve a market leadership position Economic cycle centralised approach to managing them is described in and where we can clearly dif The Group will, by the nature of ferentiat its busines e from our s, be affected note 19 to the financial statements.
by the economic cycles for industrial and capital competitors with end-user insight and the application equipment.
The Group recognizes the need to mitigate Competitive markets of innovative technology.
Key account management and the negative effects of these cycles with such strategies The Group operates in highly competitive markets.
project management are important disciplines for the as a spread of global and sector interests, focusing Significant product innovations, technical advances or the effective delivery of bespoke solutions to our leading growth in sectors least affected by cyclical trends, intensification of price competition could all adversely customers.
We also provide aftermarket support in the development of aftermarket revenues and appropriate affect the Groups results.
form of service and spares to our customers installed contingency planning.
Environmental Talent acquisition Our five business platforms share this common philosophy.
The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which the If the Group is unable to recruit and retain high calibre While each business platform is predominantly an Group operates impose actual and potential obligations managers and engineering talent, it may not be able to autonomous business, we operate in two main areas.
on the Group to remediate or to fund remediation of effectively implement its business plans and strategy The Severe Service, Fluid Power and Indoor Climate contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned and could experience delays in the development of, or business platforms serve Fluid Controls markets, where by the Group.
The Group makes provision for the expected increased difficulty in developing and selling, its products our customers are plant operators and original equipment cost of remediation based on independent professional and services.
There is a risk that remediation could prove more Internal controls The Beverage Dispense and Merchandising businesses costly than expected and that further contamination The Company operates various corporate governance and operate in Retail Dispense markets, where our customers could be discovered.
Failures in these controls might have a are brand owners and retailers.
Key customers and suppliers material impact on the Group.
Our strategic growth imperatives are understood by all Certain of the Groups businesses benefit from close New products and technology the senior management in IMI and embedded throughout commercial relationships with key customers and The Group is exposed to risks associated with the suppliers.
The loss of certain of these key relationships our businesses.
commercial failure of new products, projects and could have a material impact on the Groups results.
The Groups top ten customers represent approximately M & A activity 15% of total group revenues.
IMIs growth strategy is in part dependent on acquisitions.
Legal and regulatory The execution and integration of acquisitions involves a The Groups worldwide operations also expose it to number of risks, including diversion of managements different legal and regulatory requirements and standards attention, failure to retain key personnel of the acquired in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates including business and risks associated with unanticipated events those for taxation, environmental, operational and or liabilities.
The Group may also be subject to liabilities as competition matters.
a result of past or future disposals.
The nature of the Groups operations exposes it to the Pension funding potential for litigation from third parties which may arise Poor investment returns and longer life expectancy may in the ordinary course of business.
result in the cost of funding defined benefit pension arrangements becoming a significant burden on the Groups financial resources.
40 Directors report Cautionary statements The foregoing statements of directors responsibilities for the financial statements and the confirmations regarding audit information are addressed solely to shareholders and made pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation and regulations, without any other or special assumption of responsibility on the part of the Company or its directors and officers.
The business review and other content of this annual report is addressed to the shareholders of IMI plc as a body.
Neither the Company nor its directors or officers accept or assume responsibility to any person for this annual report beyond the responsibilities arising from the production of this annual report pursuant to and for the purposes required by UK legislation.
Sections of this annual report may contain forwardlooking statements about the Group, including, for example, statements relating to: future demand and markets for the Groups products and services, research and development relating to new products and services, tax rates, liquidity and capital resources and implementation of restructuring plans and efficiencies.
Any forward-looking statements are by their nature subject to numerous risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such statements depending on a variety of factors, including, for example, those described above under the heading 'Risks and uncertainties'.
IMI undertakes no obligation to update any forwardlooking statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Annual general meeting The annual general meeting will be held at the Hilton Birmingham Metropole Hotel, National Exhibition Centre, Birmingham on Friday 9 May 2008, commencing at noon.
Notice of the meeting will be sent to shareholders as a separate circular.
Auditor Resolutions for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to authorise the directors to determine the auditors remuneration are to be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
By order of the Board John OShea Company Secretary 5 March 2008 IMI plc Annual Report 2007 41
