GROUP OPERATING REVIEW developing the talent for success THE INSIGHT THAT WE BRING TO OUR CUSTOMERS, THE PACE AT WHICH WE DEVELOP AND DELIVER INNOVATIVE PRODUCTS AND OUR ABILITY TO MAINTAIN CLEAR LEADERSHIP POSITIONS IN OUR MARKETS RELIES ON DEVELOPING THE RIGHT PEOPLE IN THE RIGHT ROLES.
IT RELIES ON DEVELOPING INTERNAL TALENT AND ON BRINGING APPROPRIATE NEW SKILLS AND EXPERTISE INTO THE COMPANY.
The geographical distribution of our Language skills, diplomatic experience operations and activities across the and business acumen have helped Michael world enables us to draw upon a broad Carbine MBE to grow Indoor Climates spectrum of talented people from a business in Eastern Europe by 71% in the diversity of ethnic, cultural and past 5 years.
In recent years we have accelerated the development of programmes and disciplines that will deliver the human or businesses.
This intensive, resources necessary to maintain and personalised programme prepares grow our business.
Ensuring that capable people for early movement into the company has the appropriate senior positions.
Recent examples of expertise and skills at all levels is a Over the last 18 months each of our the proactive way in which IMI offers fundamental management business units has rigorously reviewed Aspire members highly stretching responsibility.
the requirements for all key roles and developmental roles are the putting in place development or appointment of a new managing Aspire programme recruitment activity to address any director for Cornelius UK and a new member, Michael capability gaps.
Recruitment to senior operations director for Heimeier, Preinerstorfer, has level positions follows a demanding, Germany.
Both of these moves revitalised Norgrens disciplined and professional process.
involved international relocation and Buschjost business in IMIs internal high potential both individuals had already made Germany since taking on programme, Aspire, is designed to previous international moves to take the role of Managing develop the most talented individuals, advantage of career development Director in 2006. particularly those willing to take on opportunities.
new challenges in different countries On-the-job development experiences IMI graduate trainees like Maria Hooper, who scooped a top award from Britains Chartered Institute of Marketing in 2007 pictured right with CIM President, Lord Heseltine, are encouraged to develop skills and expertise through professional institutions and academic study as well as practical experience.
22 Kim Blackaby, Kuldeep Singh, Jon Kedge, Ian Jones, Harjinder Kalsi and Doug Hartshorne represent a group of more than 100 employees at Norgren, Lichfield, UK, who gained a level 2 Performing Manufacturing Operations NVQ qualification in 2007 with the support of the company.
for members of Aspire are Acquiring excellent businesses brings complemented by a range of pragmatic great talent into IMI.
Alberto Aliani, Orton classroom based workshops and Managing Director, has accelerated the relationship support activities, such as growth of the Orton part of the Severe coaching and mentoring.
Service business since joining IMI with Each year IMI actively recruits between Truflo in 2006.
20 and 30 high calibre graduates from a variety of disciplines and diverse backgrounds, from universities across 2007 develops graduates with Chinese the world, for its prestigious graduate language skills for leadership positions programme.
Demand for graduates in our Asian markets.
within the business is high, as is At the operational level each IMI facility demand for places on the programme.
different locations around the world ensures that employees receive A comprehensive selection and over a two-year period, and through suitable and continuing on-the-job assessment process ensures IMI only tailored language and other training, training and support, with health and takes on those graduates with the graduates develop a thorough practical safety and environmental matters potential to progress to senior grounding in modern business.
Once a Assignments through the two-year IMI encourages its operating units graduate is hired they embark on a programme are carefully matched to to train and develop employees at series of six-month assignments in each graduate and frequently contribute all levels through a wide range significant market opportunities or of business-related education savings to the sponsoring business unit.
Certain types of At the end of the two-year period, training, such as compliance graduates take on their first permanent and risk management are roles, with continuing access to training also undertaken by senior including a business leadership level employees annually.
An initiative launched in Cherie Smith joined IMI in 2007, bringing a wealth of external experience and business discipline to her role as Chief Financial Officer with our Merchandising business.
