GROUP OPERATING REVIEW creating competitive advantage in motion and fluid control executi NORGREN, IMIS PNEUMATIC MOTION AND FLUID CONTROLS BUSINESS, PROVIDES SOPHISTICATED SOLUTIONS TO CONTROL AIR AND OTHER FLUIDS IN PRECISION ENGINEERED APPLICATIONS.
We engineer advantage for our costs of ownership for the end user.
Our commercial vehicle customers by enabling them to operate In wider pneumatic motion markets, business outside the US, and PET faster, more efficiently and more costaround two-thirds of todays business, bottling demonstrated particularly effectively.
superior service is the key to success.
Our targeted market sectors, Norgren Express, for example, provides Amongst our non-sector business the representing around a third of todays rapid delivery of standard products Americas were generally flat while business, include commercial vehicles, from stock and is built upon our European revenues grew about 8%.
rail, life sciences, in-plant automotive, inventory and logistics efficiency.
2007 operating profit was 76.3m and printing and PET bottling applications Norgrens worldwide operations enable represents a 13.4% operating margin.
that show the strongest long-term it to manage the most demanding of During 2007, 14m of costs were growth potential.
In these sectors our international projects and help our charged to continue the restructuring intimate understanding of our customers to achieve their objectives.
of the Fluid Power cost base.
One US customers, their businesses, their site has now moved production to an Performance and prospects needs and values, processes, and enlarged established Mexican facility, Underlying revenue growth in Fluid commercial and regulatory an additional UK site closure was Power was around 6% before the environments creates significant announced and that production is being impact, as expected, of the 40% competitive advantage.
Understanding, transferred to an existing facility in the downturn in our North American truck knowledge and experience enable us to Czech Republic and to the Mexican business, which reduced overall organic develop innovative and reliable solutions facility.
A further rationalisation saw growth to 2%.
that help our OEM customers to grow production move from Switzerland Our sector businesses have continued their revenues and reduce the lifetime to the Czech Republic.
to perform well and, excluding US trucks, 571 557 FACTFILE Fluid Power 492 Key businesses Norgren.
76.3 72.4 Strategic focus Engineering advantage in motion and fluid control applications.
60.0 Main markets Industrial pneumatic applications: on-board commercial vehicles: 13.4 13.0 12.2 rail: life sciences: in-plant automotive: printing and PET bottling.
Major operational UK, USA, Germany, Switzerland, Mexico locations and the Czech Republic.
05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 Employees 6,000 Revenue Operating Operating m profit m margin % before restructuring, investigation costs, intangible amortisation and other income 14 Fluid Power KEY ACCOUNT MANAGER We relished the challenge to design high-flow valves for use on Donaldson's XLR gas turbine air inlet filter system.
We delivered a product that provided twice the flow of the previous valves and helped Donaldson to reduce the size of their system by 40%.
Manfred Reckefuss Technical Sales Manager Buschjost, Norgren on The resultant cost benefits will accrue CUSTOMER more fully in 2008 and beyond.
Whilst we Norgren has been an important partner remain alert to the possibility of for 20 years.
The small size of the XLR a slowdown in certain industrial markets, filter helps us to win market share and order intake in the first two months of helps our customers reduce their 2008 has been encouraging.
The US truck total costs of ownership.
market is expected to recover sharply in 2008 and early 2008 order patterns and Dominique Renwart industry intelligence support that view.
Technical Development Manager, The Kloehn acquisition, completed in June Donaldson Filtration Solutions 2007, strengthens our capabilities in the life sciences sector.
