GROUP OPERATING REVIEW controlling critical processes leaders IMIS SEVERE SERVICE VALVE BUSINESS PROVIDES THE ABILITY TO MANAGE GAS AND LIQUID FLOW RATES AND PRESSURES IN THE EXTREME PHYSICAL ENVIRONMENTS TO BE FOUND IN CRITICAL PLANT APPLICATIONS.
Our valve solutions enhance plant process industries are growing possession of the new Orton factory performance and reliability by fast across the globe to satisfy the in October 2007 and have commenced protecting valuable machinery such worlds increasing need for energy.
fitting it out which, when complete, as turbines and compressors and Industry lead times average six to will double its capacity.
enable them to operate with nine months and can stretch to two Revenues from the conventional maximum efficiency.
power market, and particularly in We provide outstanding customOur severe service valve, actuation the USA, showed good growth.
In the engineered control valves for power and control solutions make a nuclear power sector specification generation, oil & gas production, significant contribution to meeting work for new power stations is petrochemical, pulp and paper and the worlds energy demands picking up and we are investing other process facilities.
Our expert efficiently and effectively, both now heavily in nuclear engineering and knowledge of plants and process and for the foreseeable future.
certification from a strong existing industries includes a dedicated technical base.
We have manufacturing Performance and prospects customer service network which capability for the nuclear industry in Severe Service revenue, excluding supports our installed base, which our facilities in the US, Switzerland, acquisitions and exchange rate now totals more than 60,000 high UK, Canada, Japan and Korea.
All end performance valves, for the life of We ended 2007 with a strong order markets remain buoyant with the each plant.
Revenues in 2008 are expected strongest growth in North America improve efficiency, reduce to be at similar levels to 2007 with a and the emerging markets, especially maintenance and operating costs, resumption of growth expected in in the Middle East.
and help minimise downtime, thus 2009.
Oil and gas markets remain firm.
helping our clients to optimise their Orton, a supplier of high technology operating and financial performance.
valves to the LNG market, grew Power generation, fuel, and energy revenues at over 50%.
We took 362 FACTFILE Severe Service Key businesses CCI, Orton, Truflo Rona, Newman Hattersley.
300 56.0 Strategic focus Controlling critical in-plant processes by providing superior custom-engineered 45.1 213 critical and severe service valve, actuation and control solutions.
15.5 15.0 13.3 28.3 Main markets Power generation: oil & gas production: combined heat & power CHP : liquefied natural gas LNG : petrochemical and gas processing.
Major operational USA, Switzerland, Italy, Sweden, Austria, 05 06 07 05 06 07 05 06 07 locations South Korea, Japan, Belgium, China, Canada.
Revenue Operating Operating m profit m margin % Employees 2,400 before restructuring, investigation costs, intangible amortisation and other income 12 Severe Service KEY ACCOUNT MANAGER We are delighted that our superior valve technology helps the combined heat and power facility of Swedens Sdra Cell Vr mill generate environmentally friendly energy and provide a reliable steam supply for the plants pulp processes.
Kermit Karlsson CCI Sales Engineer hip CUSTOMER Backed by CCIs thorough knowledge of thermal dynamics, the excellent valves in our new bio-fuelled steam plant give us precise control of steam pressure and temperature plus green power we can sell to the grid.
Larry Kvarnstrm, Instrument Engineer Sdra Cell Vr pulp mill IMI plc Annual Report 2007 13
