Directors Report: Business Review Broad Product and Brand Portfolio A strategy that delivers globally Our broad product and brand portfolio includes international cigarette brands such as Davidoff and West and strong regional Our strategy is to create sustainable shareholder value by and local brands such as JPS, Lambert & growing both organically and through acquisitions.
Butler, Classic, Maxim, Excellence and Horizon.
Complementing our cigarette portfolio is our world leadership in ne cut tobacco, rolling papers and tubes Our Strategy and Key Performance Indicators with brands such as Golden Virginia, Drum and Rizla.
To ensure we continue to leverage and build brand equity, our brand strategy takes a portfolio approach responsive to individual market dynamics Group strategy and price segmentation.
2 Cost Optimisation and To create sustainable Efficiency Improvements shareholder value by growing both Our continued focus on reducing costs organically and through acquisitions and improving our efficiency supports our 1 Strategic objectives sales development.
Our ongoing search for productivity improvements, through 1 2 3 the effective use of our assets and by Cost optimisation optimising our manufacturing capacity, Sales and efficiency Effective cash is the primary driver of our manufacturing development improvements management strategy.
We seek continuous performance improvements and believe there is further Measuring success Key Performance Indicators potential for cost savings through our ongoing programme of standardisation Adjusted earnings per Total shareholder return Adjusted operating margin and the extension of best practice across share all our manufacturing facilities, while Cigarette market Cash conversion Volumes Productivity safeguarding our reputation for quality, rate share exibility and innovation.
This cost focus extends beyond manufacturing and, throughout Imperial Tobacco, our culture is focused on cost the Republic of Ireland, France, Belgium, Our Strategic Objectives optimisation and shareholder value creation.
Luxembourg, Spain, Portugal, Greece and We deliver our strategy by actively pursuing Italy.
In these countries we are focused on three primary objectives: 3 Effective Cash Management building our cigarette market shares, along Imperial Tobacco is a highly cash generative 1 Sales Development with strengthening our position in ne cut business.
Our focus is on managing capital We are growing our business internationally tobacco and rolling papers.
expenditure and working capital, tax and through organic growth and acquisitions.
Outside Western Europe we have 1 interest costs.
Our strategy is to ensure strengths in sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle 1 that the cash we generate is used efficiently Strong Geographic Footprint East, selected countries in Central and through acquisitions, organic investment We have a strong international prole, with Eastern Europe, Asia and Australasia and and returning funds to our shareholders, our products sold in over 130 countries.
Our key markets within these adding to our value creation.
We see opportunities, both organic and regions include the Ivory Coast, Saudi Arabia, We have invested 6.2 billion in acquisition-led, to enhance and extend our Poland, Russia, Ukraine, Taiwan and Australia.
acquisitions since our listing on the existing operations in our Rest of Western Our strategy continues to be focused on London Stock Exchange in 1996 and have Europe, United States and Rest of the World developing our international strategic and returned over 0.8 billion to shareholders regions, with our strong positions in the regional brands and expanding our presence through our share buyback programme.
UK and Germany continuing to be key in both existing and new markets.
Our We are committed to continuing to expand contributors to our overall results.
recent acquisition of Commonwealth our business through both acquisitions Our historical roots are in the UK and we Brands gives us an established platform and organic investment opportunities.
have held a significant position in Germany from which to grow in the US market.
Our dividend policy is to increase dividends since our acquisition of Reemtsma.
In both We continue to seek acquisitions which broadly in line with growth in adjusted these markets, our strategic focus is the increase both our international scale and earnings per share, with a payout ratio profitable development of our strong portfolio penetration of our targeted markets, of around 50 per cent.
particularly where those businesses across all product groups.
We operate in Western Europe with have highly complementary geographic important markets including the Netherlands, proles and strong brand portfolios.
