Directors Report: Business Review Davidoff.
In the Caucasus, we delivered Manufacturing significant volume increases with good performances from West, Davidoff and R1.
We have a consistent approach across our 31 factories, enabling our simplication and standardisation strategy to deliver Africa and the Middle East performance improvements, without compromising on quality.
We have an established presence in the sub-Saharan region of Africa and in the Middle East, where Davidoff is our leading brand.
Our market shares grew in a number of markets across the region including We seek to deliver further cost savings by the end of March 2007.
Senegal with growth in Excellence, across our manufacturing footprint, In March 2007, we announced our Madagascar with Good Look performing and this year delivered 33 million of plans to build a factory in Taiwan at well, Burkina Faso with Mustang and the savings from a variety of initiatives a cost of 45 million which will aid the Ivory Coast with Fine.
including ongoing business simplication further development of our presence In the Middle East region, Davidoff has and continued cost management.
We expect to generate annual again been driving growth with volumes cost savings of 20 million from 2010 up by 29 per cent and market share gains Our Performance as a result of a reduction in supply across the region including Saudi Arabia, We increased our productivity by chain costs and other operational Kuwait and UAE.
per cent, with higher cigarette 7 efficiencies, with the factory planned volumes contributing to our improved to be fully operational by the end of Americas and Duty Free performance.
We also reduced our our 2008 financial year.
We are focused on building our presence unit costs in both cigarette and ne We gained further ISO14001 into other markets in the Americas region.
cut tobacco, by 3 and 13 per cent accreditation in the year with We launched Davidoff into Canada and respectively.
In addition, we have further Madagascar and Burkina Faso West and Davidoff into Mexico.
simplied our blends and ingredients bringing the total number of factories In duty free, our cigarette volumes in the year.
certied to 21 or 68 per cent of our have remained stable and ne cut tobacco We aim to ensure that our manufacturing operations.
volumes have grown by 27 per cent.
In manufacturing footprint is structured We constantly review potential particular, we have increased Davidoffs effectively, to ensure a fast response standardisation opportunities and presence in duty free following the to changing market dynamics and have delivered further operational introduction of new variants.
Our progress has been to meet growing demand in Eastern reected in the improvements in our Outlook Europe, we have increased the manufacturing performance indicators.
With over 100 countries in our Rest capacity at both our Volgograd and of the World region it is a key area of future Kiev factories with the installation Outlook investment and potential growth for the of new and upgraded machinery.
We We are focused on the quality of Group.
In the context of the challenges have also added cigarette and other our products and on the continuing that the geographic diversity of this region tobacco product machinery in success of our simplication and brings, we believe there is considerable Germany, in support of new product standardisation strategies, while scope for continued market and initiatives.
The closures of our factories ensuring we remain responsive and brand development.
in Liverpool in the UK and Lahr in exible to changes in market and Germany were completed on schedule regulatory conditions.
com 25 Directors Report: Business Review Operating Review continued Cost efficiency We are focused on the quality of our products and on the continuing success of our simplication and standardisation strategies, while ensuring we remain responsive and exible to changes in market conditions.
We have again delivered excellent productivity gains and cost progress.
David Cresswell Manufacturing Director Manufacturing Excellence We have a consistent approach across our 31 factories enabling us to deliver performance improvements, without compromising on quality.
26 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Business Review Our manufacturing assets worldwide 3 22 6 Rolling papers Cigarette factories Other tobacco and tubes product factories factories Overall productivity up by 7% Increased Productivity Continued Investment We increased our productivity by 7 per cent, Our investment in manufacturing has increased this year, with higher cigarette volumes contributing to with construction of our new factory in Taiwan underway our improved performance.
and other initiatives in Russia, Ukraine and Germany.
