Directors Report: Governance Board of Directors The right team 12 3 4 5 6 7 8 Board of Directors Name: 1.
Alison Cooper, BSC, ACA Title & Age Chairman, 58 Title & Age Corporate Development Director, 41 Appointment Appointed Chairman in January 2007 Appointment Appointed to the Board, July 2007 Non-Executive Director from March 2000 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Chairman of Nominations Committee and Member of the membership membership Remuneration Committee Skills and Alison has responsibility for strategic planning and business Skills and Iain was formerly main Board Director of Bass PLC, Chief experience development, as well as for Corporate Affairs.
Alison joined the experience Executive of Bass Leisure and then of Bass Brewers and Bass Group in 1999 and has held a number of senior roles including International Brewers.
He was then Vice President UK and Director of Finance and Planning and Director of Rest of Western Ireland for Interbrew SA until August 2001.
Previously she was with  Executive of Taylor Woodrow International Housing and External Currently no external Director appointments Development from 2001 to 2005 appointments External Currently Non-Executive Chairman and Director of McBride appointments PLC, Collins Stewart PLC and Tomkins PLC Name: 2.
David Cresswell, C ENG, MIEE Title & Age Chief Executive, 57 Title & Age Manufacturing Director, 62 Appointment Appointed Chief Executive on demerger in 1996 Appointment Appointed to the Board, June 2003 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Chief Executives Committee membership membership Skills and Gareth led the successful Hanson demerger and subsequent Skills and David has undertaken a number of senior management experience listings on the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
With 35 experience roles across the Group.
An electrical engineer by background years experience across all aspects of the Company, he has played he has previously held the position of Managing Director for a key role in the development of general strategy and the Groups each of Imperial Tobaccos major operating divisions, namely ongoing expansion programme cigarette, rolling papers and roll your own tobacco External Non-Executive Director, Wolseley plc since 2003 External Currently no external Director appointments appointments appointments Name: 3.
Robert Dyrbus, BSC, FCA Name: 7.
Anthony Alexander, FCA Title & Age Finance Director, 54 Title & Age Vice Chairman, 69 Appointment Appointed Finance Director on demerger in 1996 Appointment Appointed Vice Chairman on demerger in October 1996 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Nominations Committee membership membership Skills and Robert was Finance Director of Imperial Tobacco Limited Skills and Anthony was appointed Vice Chairman on demerger with experience from November 1989 and one of the three-man Hanson team experience Hanson in 1996.
Previously he was an Executive Director of involved in the strategic reorganisation of the Group.
Since then Hanson PLC with responsibility for all UK operating companies he has played an integral part in shaping the strategic direction while serving as Chief Operating officer of the Group External Currently no external Director appointments External Currently no external Director appointments appointments appointments Name: 4.
Pierre Jungels, CBE HON, C ENG, PHD Title & Age Group Sales and Marketing Director, 60 Title & Age Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, 63 Appointment Appointed to the Board, October 2005 Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, August 2002 Committee Chief Executives Committee Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and Member membership membership of the Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee Skills and Graham is responsible for global sales and marketing activities.
Skills and Pierre has held numerous senior international positions experience With over 39 years experience with the Group he has held a experience within the oil industry with Shell International, Petrona SA number of senior sales and marketing positions, including and British Gas PLC.
He became CEO of Enterprise Oil in Managing Director UK and Regional Director for 1996, leading the business to substantial geographic and Western Europe financial growth until retirement in November 2001 External Currently no external Director appointments External Chairman of Oxford Catalyst Group PLC, Director of Baker appointments appointments Hughes Inc. Non-Executive Chairman of Offshore Hydrocarbon Mapping plc and Rockhopper Exploration PLC and a NonExecutive Director of Woodside Petroleum Ltd 32 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007 Directors Report: Governance 910 11 12 13 14 15 16 Name: 9.
Ken Burnett, MA, MBA, PHD Name: 13.
Mark Williamson, CA SA Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 55 Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 49 Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, April 2006 Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, July 2007 Committee Nominations Committee Committee Chairman of Audit Committee: and Member of the membership membership Nominations Committee and Remuneration Committee Skills and Ken was President, Asia Pacic of Allied Domecq from Skills and Mark has considerable international financial and general experience 1996 until its acquisition by Pernod Ricard in 2005.
He joined International Power in 2000 to joining Allied Domecq, he held senior management positions as Group Financial Controller and was appointed to the Board in the Asia Pacic region with Seagram, Interbrew and as Chief Financial officer in 2003.
Previously, he was Group International Distillers & Vintners Ltd now part of Diageo plc Financial Controller and Group Chief Accountant at Simon Group, the engineering and bulk chemicals storage group External Currently serves on the Board of ID Lanka Ltd appointments External Currently serves on the Board of International Power appointments Company Secretary Name: 10.
Michael Herlihy, MA Oxon, Solicitor Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 54 Name: 14.
Matthew Phillips, LLB Appointment Appointed Non Executive Director, July 2007 Title & Age Company Secretary, 37 Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Appointment Appointed Company Secretary, October 2004 membership Remuneration Committee Committee Chairman of the Disclosure Committee, Secretary to and Skills and Michael was formerly Company Secretary, General Counsel membership Member of the Chief Executives Committee: Secretary to the experience and Head of Mergers and Acquisitions for ICI PLC with overall Audit and Remuneration Committees responsibility for corporate acquisitions and divestments and Skills and Matthew joined Imperial Tobaccos legal department in has extensive experience of both private and public market experience 2000 and was closely involved in negotiations for the transactions acquisitions of Tobaccor and Reemtsma.
Previously External Currently serves on the Board of Compass Partners he worked for law rms Linklaters and Burges Salmon appointments International LLP External Currently no external Director appointments appointments Name: 11.
Charles Knott, FCMA Chief Executives Committee Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 52 Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, April 2006 Name: 15.
Kathryn Turner Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Title & Age Group Human Resources Director, 52 membership Remuneration Committee Appointment Appointed Group Human Resources Director in 2002 Skills and Charles was a Director of ICI plc from 2004 to 2007 Committee Chief Executives Committee experience Chairman and Chief Executive of Quest International, ICIs membership avours and fragrances business.
Previously fullled a variety Skills and Kathryn is responsible for all aspects of human resource of international assignments as a long term executive at experience management across the Group.
She joined in 2002 from National Starch, a Unilever company until 1997 Somereld PLC, where she was a member of the PLC Board.
External Currently CEO of Flint Group She has also held a number of senior operational consulting appointments roles in change management in the FMCG sector External Currently no external Director appointments appointments Name: 12.
Susan Murray Title & Age Non-Executive Director, 50 Name: 16.
Gary Aldridge, MBA Appointment Appointed Non-Executive Director, December 2004 Title & Age Manufacturing Director Designate, 54 Committee Nominations Committee, Audit Committee and Appointment 1 January 2008 membership Remuneration Committee Committee Chief Executives Committee Skills and Susan was a Board member at Littlewoods Limited from membership experience October 1998 until January 2004, latterly as Chief Executive Skills and Gary will succeed David Cresswell as Manufacturing of Littlewoods Stores Limited.
Prior to this she was worldwide experience Director on 1 January 2008.
Gary was Regional Operations President and Chief Executive of The Pierre Smirnoff Company, Director Far East, Eastern Europe, Africa and Middle East.
a part of Diageo plc Previously, he was Director of Operations, Central and Eastern External Non-Executive Director of Enterprise Inns Plc, SSL International Europe.
He held a number of senior manufacturing roles in appointments PLC, Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc and Compass Group RJ Reynolds International before joining Reemtsma in 2001 PLC.
Previously Non-Executive Director of Aberdeen Asset External Currently no external Director appointments Management PLC.
Also fellow of the Royal Society of Arts appointments and council member of the Advertising Standards Authority www.
