Directors Report: Business Review Chief Executives Strategic Review continued World tobacco market context More than five trillion cigarettes are consumed each year, with the worlds largest cigarette market, China, accounting for over a third of total global consumption.
Industry Overview In mature markets, we expect smoking Industry Growth Opportunities The five largest international tobacco incidence to decline with percentages While the tobacco industry is mature, companies are Altria, British American of smokers within total populations with global volumes broadly stable, we Tobacco, Japan Tobacco including reducing.
However, the number of believe there are still many opportunities recently acquired Gallaher, Imperial adults in the world is set to grow and, to grow profits.
Global market as a result, we expect that overall annual While traditional communications share of the five largest international global consumption will remain broadly channels are reducing through increased tobacco companies, excluding China, unchanged at around five trillion regulation, we expect the significant are 28 per cent, 25 per cent, 16 per cent, cigarettes per annum in the medium term.
international cigarette brands to grow 6 per cent and 3 per cent respectively.
Tobacco regulation and legislation from their current position of around has increased in recent years, including 30 per cent of total global volume, restrictions on smoking in public places, excluding China.
advertising and promotional restrictions Recent industry consolidation such Global market shares and pictorial health warnings.
as Japan Tobaccos acquisition of excluding China Gallaher and our proposed acquisition Excise Duty of Altadis, combined with investments Increases in excise duty in many of the in smaller scale bolt-on acquisitions and mature higher price markets such as underlying organic growth, should increase the UK, are leading consumers to opportunities for the international downtrade to cheaper brands.
Conversely in emerging markets, premium brands are growing as consumers are increasingly trading up.
One of the biggest challenges facing Altria 28% the industry is illicit trade.
International British American Tobacco 25% disparities in the rates of excise duty have Japan Tobacco 16% created an environment that encourages Imperial Tobacco 6% the growth of smuggling, illegal crossAltadis 3% Other 22% border trading and counterfeiting.
For more information visit www.
com 8 Imperial Tobacco Group PLC 2007
