Directors Report: Business Review Proposed Acquisition of Altadis Transaction Summary able to generate annual operational combination which would strengthen efficiencies of approximately 300 million.
our position as the worlds fourth On 18 July 2007, we made a proposed largest international tobacco company.
cash offer for the whole of Altadis at The proposed acquisition will initially The proposed acquisition meets 50 per share.
This gave an equity value be nanced through new debt facilities our strict acquisition criteria, providing of 12.6 billion or 8.5 billion.
When and an equity bridge loan, which will us with a significant enhancement to be renanced, in part, by a rights issue existing net debt and minorities are our operating platform and scale, included, it represented an enterprise following completion of the deal.
The with increased presence in profitable value of 16.2 billion or 11.0 billion.
rights issue will occur before 18 July mature markets as well as improved 2008, and will be sized to ensure we Altadis Board considers that this is opportunities in emerging markets.
an attractive offer and that, in the absence issue the minimum amount of equity The enlarged Group will also have of a competing offer at a higher price needed to maintain an investment stronger and more diversied brand grade credit rating, to which we being led with the Spanish regulator, and product portfolios.
the Altadis Board will recommend it remain committed.
Combined with the revenue benets to their shareholders.
and substantial cost savings we expect We see revenue benets and Strategic Rationale to achieve, we believe this is an excellent substantial cost savings arising from Altadis and Imperial Tobacco are deal that will create significant value the enlarged Group and expect to be a great strategic t, a powerful for shareholders.
Date Event 18 July 2007 Imperial Tobacco made a proposed cash offer of 50 per share to acquire Altadis 13 August 2007 Extraordinary General Meeting: 99.82% of voting Imperial Tobacco shareholders were in favour of the proposed acquisition August 2007 US Hart-Scott-Rodino antitrust clearance received October 2007 European Commission merger clearance received November 2007 Expected approval of the proposed offer by the CNMV Spanish regulator January 2008 Expected completion of the proposed acquisition Before 18 July 2008 Rights issue For more information visit www.
com Outlook I believe that the proposed acquisition of Altadis will be a great strategic t that will Looking ahead, we are focused on strengthen our position as the worlds fourth long term sustainable growth across largest international tobacco company, with the business and remain committed to revenue benets and substantial cost our strategy of growing our operations savings arising from the enlarged Group.
In conclusion, I believe we are well We have a growing geographic base on placed to continue to deliver sustainable which we seek to build our position, with shareholder value.
our broad product and brand portfolio.
Our focus on cost and efficiency continues, as well as ensuring the most effective use of our free cash ow through value creating acquisitions such as Commonwealth Brands and the proposed acquisition of Altadis, coupled with the ongoing investment in Gareth Davis our existing business.
