Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Business Streams Performance Improvement Multi-national clients rely on us to close the gap between strategy and execution.
We do it through transforming the knowledge, and skills attitude of their people.
Sharon Daniels Left: Sharon Daniels, President, AchieveGlobal Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 17 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Performance Improvement Performance Improvement PI at 225.3m accounted for 20% of Informas revenue in 2007.
Revenues grew on a pro forma basis by 8% reflecting good demand by multi-nationals looking to achieve efficiencies and consistency of best practice performance globally.
The PI businesses experienced strong demand across all industry sectors as well as from the US Federal Government which constitutes approximately 40% of total PI revenues and 85% of Robbins-Gioias, the Program Management specialists, revenues who represent almost 30% of total PI revenues.
The other two of the three largest PI businesses, AchieveGlobal and ESI, experienced good growth not just in the Government sector but among Fortune 1000 companies with particular increases in financial services, retail, manufacturing and healthcare where organisations looked to them to help drive better results, particularly in these more turbulent times.
By using the PI businesses tailored intellectual property and learning based programmes to change the way employees behave, clients were able to execute strategy and drive measurable results consistently and confidently through their organisations.
A good example of this comes from Forum, the mid size PI company specialising in Leadership and transformational growth, which has been working with American Express to improve the effectiveness of senior leaders moving into new roles.
Using Forums First 90 Days programme as part of their leadership development approach, time to effectiveness in the new role has reduced by 25%.
Consequently, Amex is expanding the programme to more leaders and more levels in its organisation.
18 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Similarly Forum and Omega both saw double digit revenue growth in Asia and AsiaPac regions in 2007, significantly ahead of 2006.
Revenue by sector AchieveGlobals purchase of its Taiwan and Greater Chinese franchise operation also produced good results both ahead of budget and 2006.
AchieveGlobal is now co-located with ESI and the IIR events business in new offices in Beijing, enabling strong cross promotion and savings in general office and infrastructure costs.
6 Street sales of AchieveGlobal solutions in 2007 moved to 40% non-US originated and are tracking towards 50% by the end of 2008.
Some of AchieveGlobals largest wins in 2007 such as that of a large multinational confectionery producer, started overseas and then expanded back into the US.
From a client perspective 44% of all Achieve engagements are now global, creating a significant competitive advantage as there Sector % of total revenue is no other PI company with Informas global reach.
Finance 16% ESI is also benefiting from this global footprint.
This in Government 43% conjunction with investment in the EMEA sales force and Professional Services 5% closer partnering with events sister companies in Dubai, Pharmaceutical & Healthcare 5% South Africa and Spain, contributed to excellent full year Manufacturing & Industrial 8% top line growth in EMEA.
Total ESI non US revenues now Hospitality, Leisure, Retail 3% make up almost 30% of the brands revenues.
IT & Telecoms 11% Energy, Utilities & Transportation 5% In 2007 non-US PI revenues accounted for almost 20% Other 4% of total PI revenues compared to 10% of revenues produced under the ownership of IIR prior to its acquisition in July 2005.
Informas decision to buy back some of the small PI Asian franchises delivered good growth in 2007.
ESIs 2006 acquisition and subsequent integration of its Asian distributor and successful launch in India in 2007 has produced good top line growth in Asia significantly 6 Street sales equal sale of wholly owned operations ahead of last year.
and all sales of franchise businesses.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 19
