Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Business Streams Events Geo-cloning of events succeeds by connecting our global brands to our local market strength.
Tariq Zaidi Left: Tariq Zaidi, Regional Director, Informa Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 21 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Events In 2007 Informa grew its LSE portfolio by over 20%.
Events at 408.8m contributed 36% of Informa continues to benefit from the increased Informas revenue in 2007, a 13% pro forma requirement of corporate marketing departments to revenue increase.
This is the largest growth measure Return-On-Investment in their marketing of any of the Informa revenue streams.
Sponsorship and Exhibition SpEx revenues It is driven by a continuing focus on must now represent 28% of total Informa event revenues attend Large Scale Events LSE : geo-cloning and over 50% of revenue in the top 200 event brands.
of these established brands and the ability Much of this growth was driven by geo-cloning, taking to seize market opportunities quickly in flagship events with their leading multi-national new geographies, sectors and topic areas.
sponsors and exhibitors, and rolling them out to new territories.
Of the top 200 events in 2006, twelve of them LSEs create high barriers to entry, good pricing power, were geo-cloned in 2007.
Average revenue for each of substantial levels of repeat business and the opportunity the cloned events was over 650,000. for replications elsewhere in the world, known as geocloning.
All of these factors have contributed to strong The Dubai events business was particularly successful in trading in 2007 and position the business well for 2008. its geo-cloning, helping to deliver another excellent set The top event brands represent 40% of event revenue of results.
It cloned both its Cityscape and Arab Health and approximately 70% of adjusted operating profit.
In October Cityscape Dubai, the worlds largest 22 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams growth in India.
The event was also successfully held in Singapore, China, Brazil and Abu Dhabi.
In 2008 it will Event Topic Sector Distribution also take place in Russia.
The Arab Health Abu Dhabi clone was also similarly successful, beating budgeted by Number of Events expectations and delivering significant operating profit in its launch year.
In the Professional division, the geo-cloning strategy is also producing good results.
ICBI, the market leading international financial events specialists, has continued to perform strongly all year.
In December the business held its largest ever inaugural geo-cloned event with the extension of its LSE, SuperReturn, the worlds largest private equity conference, to the Middle East.
This followed the earlier success of Funds Asia in the first half of the year, when ICBI took its flagship mutual funds events, in its 17th year, and attracting over 1,400 participants, to Hong Kong.
Sector % of events Seizing opportunities in emerging markets, in 2007 Energy & Utilities 7% Informa increased the number of conferences held in Finance 14% China, Czech Republic, Dubai, Singapore, South Africa, Health 12% Russia and the Ukraine with considerable success.
Human Resources 9% Industrial 9% Leisure 2% Management 10% Marketing 5% Other 3% Public Sector 2% Real Estate Property Construction 4% Tax Law Accounting 11% Technology & Telecoms 12% property event, attracted more than 50,000 participants from 120 countries.
Over 1,000 exhibitors showcased their projects and services on 75,000 square metres of exhibition space.
Record show revenues were 35% ahead of 2006.
In November the first Cityscape India was held, beating expectations on both exhibitor and delegate figures and providing a strong platform for further Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 23
