Senior Independent Directors Report Report on the Corporate Governance of the Company by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director On 15 May 2007, Mr Rigby, who had until that time been the Companys Chief Executive for three years, was appointed as Chairman.
When this appointment was announced on 14 March 2007, it was also announced that the Board had resolved to make certain governance and reporting changes, including the provision as part of the Annual Report of this report from me as the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance that was issued in 2006 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2007 the Company was in compliance with all the Code provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code except for Code Provision A.
This is because on appointment the Chairman did not meet the independence criteria prescribed by the Code since immediately prior to his appointment, he had been Chief Executive.
In accordance with the Code, the Companys six largest shareholders were consulted as to the proposal that Peter Rigby be made Chairman prior to the appointment being made.
In reaching its decision as to the appointment of Mr Rigby as Chairman, the Board considered in particular the complexity of the Groups global operations, the need for management stability at the top of the Group following three years of fundamental changes, and the long-term partnership and proven complementary leadership provided by Peter Rigby and David Gilbertson since 1998.
Together this report and the Directors Remuneration Report, explain how the Company has applied the principles and supporting principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
A schedule which sets out the matters reserved for the Boards approval is reviewed and updated annually.
The specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: approving the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy: approving the Groups annual operating and capital expenditure budgets: reviewing operational and financial performance: approving major acquisitions, disposals and capital projects: reviewing the Groups systems of internal controls and risk management: reviewing the environmental, health and safety policies of the Group: approving appointments to and removals from the Board and of the Company Secretary: and approving policies relating to Directors remuneration.
The Board has delegated the following activities to the Executive Directors: the development and recommendation of strategic plans for consideration by the Board that reflect the longer-term objectives and priorities established by the Board: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: monitoring of the operating and financial results against plans and budgets: monitoring the performance of acquisitions and investments against plans and objectives: prioritising the allocation of capital, technical and human resources and developing and implementing risk management systems.
54 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Senior Independent Directors Report continued The Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Director is clearly defined.
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for organising the business of the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information and for effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman also has executive responsibilities, particularly with regard to non-UK operations.
Certain functions such as the provision of internal leadership, formulation of strategy, major corporate investment matters and the overall leadership of the Group are divided between the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for its operational and financial performance.
The Chief Executive is also primarily responsible for implementation of the Companys strategy including ensuring the achievement of the Groups budgets and optimising the Groups resources.
He also has primary responsibility for managing the Groups risk profile, identifying and executing new business opportunities and for management development and remuneration.
I have been the Senior Independent Director since 10 March 2005.
On 15 May 2007, as a result of the appointment of Peter Rigby as Chairman, the status and scope of this role has been considerably expanded.
I hold separate review meetings with each of the Chairman and the Chief Executive at least quarterly.
I am also consulted by the Chairman on a number of major strategic and governance matters including: significant issues raised by major shareholders: setting the board agenda: ensuring constructive relations between the executive and non-executive directors: board evaluation: and promotion of high standards of corporate governance.
I also chair each of the Audit Committee, the Risk Committee and the Nominations Committee, as well as being a member of the Remuneration Committee.
I am also available to meet shareholders on request and to ensure that the Board is aware of any shareholder concerns not resolved through existing mechanisms for investor communication.
Directors and Directors Independence As of 31 December 2007 the Board comprised four independent Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors, one of whom is the Chairman.
In addition, in November 2007, Brendan ONeill was appointed as a fifth independent Non-Executive Director: his term of office commenced on 1 January 2008.
The names of the Directors, together with their brief biographical details, are given on pages 45 and 46.
The periods served by each Director during 2007 are set out on page 48.
The Board includes independent Non-Executive Directors who constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The independent Directors are of sufficient calibre and number that their views carry significant weight in the Boards decision-making process.
The Board considers all of its Non-Executive Directors to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board has considered the independence of Mr S Watson with particular care in view of his position as a partner at the law firm of CMS Cameron McKenna, one of several legal advisers used by the Company.
The Board does not consider the relationship between the Group and the law firm to be of a material nature given that the transaction values between the two entities have not exceeded 1% of their respective total revenues during each of the three years ended 31 December 2007.
In addition, Mr Watson does not lead any transaction or have any active role in any work undertaken by the law firm on behalf of the Company.
There is an agreed procedure in place for the Directors to obtain independent professional advice, at the Groups expense, should they consider it necessary to do so in order to carry out their responsibilities.
The only significant other professional commitment of the Chairman, Mr P Rigby is his position as Non-Executive Chairman of Electric Word plc.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 55 Senior Independent Directors Report continued Professional Development On appointment the Directors receive relevant information about the Group, the role of the Board and the matters reserved for its decision, the terms of reference and membership of the principal Board committees and the powers delegated to those committees, the Groups corporate governance policies and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group.
This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
On appointment Directors are also advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company.
Throughout their period in office, the Directors are continually updated on the Groups business and the environment in which it operates, by written briefings and by meetings with senior executives, who are invited to attend and present at Board meetings from time to time.
They are also updated on any changes to the legal and governance requirements of the Group and which affect themselves as Directors and are able to obtain training, at the Groups expense, to ensure they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and changing commercial risks.
Performance Evaluation The Board utilises a formal and rigorous process, led by the Chairman, for the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its principal committees and individual Directors, with particular attention to those who are due for re-appointment.
On appointment the Directors are made aware that their performance will be subject to evaluation.
For 2007 the evaluation was performed by the Chairman who conducted a series of focused interviews with each member of the Board in his or her capacity as a Director and, where applicable, as a member or Chairman of a principal committee.
The findings and recommendations of the review were presented to the Board as a whole, with a view to implementing any recommendations made to improve the overall effectiveness of the Board during 2008.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by me as the Senior Independent Director, also met without the Chairman present to conduct an evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
At the end of 2008 the Board proposes to commission an outside consultancy to carry out the Board evaluation working with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director.
This will specifically include consulting some major shareholders about any concerns they may have with the structure of the Board that has been in place since 15 May 2007 and its composition.
Re-election All of the Companys Directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters and all Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Information Regular reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely manner in preparation for Board and Committee meetings.
These papers are supplemented by any information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
The Non-Executive Directors receive monthly management reports from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director which enable them to scrutinise the Groups and managements performance against agreed objectives.
Relations with Shareholders Each of Peter Rigby as Chairman and myself as Senior Independent Director provides the Board with feedback on any issues raised with us by shareholders.
The Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance.
These include meetings with the Groups largest institutional shareholders on an individual basis following the announcement of the Groups interim and annual results.
In addition, the Group responds to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from institutional shareholders.
Following meetings held with shareholders after the interim and annual results announcements, the Board is provided with feedback from each of the Chief Executive, the Groups brokers and its public relations advisers on investor perceptions.
External analysts reports on the Group are also circulated to all Directors, as are monthly reports of significant changes in the holdings of larger investors.
The Annual General Meeting AGM, for which at least 20 working days notice is given and where shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and are able to meet with the Directors after the meeting, is normally attended by all the Directors.
The number of proxy votes for, against or withheld in respect of each resolution is disclosed at the AGM and a separate resolution is proposed for each item.
The Groups corporate website at www.
com contains a wide range of information of interest to both institutional and private investors, including any announcements made by the Company to the Financial Services Authority as well as video recordings of the interim and annual presentations made to analysts.
56 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Senior Independent Directors Report continued Internal Control and Risk Management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
In accordance with the Code, the Board regularly reviews this process, which has been in place from 1 January 2007 to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of financial and non-financial internal controls, including operational and compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high-level internal control arrangements.
The Boards monitoring is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks have been identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
In addition, the Board performs a formal risk assessment, which is embedded through the annual planning cycle into the operations of the Group.
Each operating unit prepares a business plan, which sets out detailed objectives, which are submitted to Executive management and the Board for approval.
As an integral part of the plan, each operating unit considers the significant risks to its business and to the achievement of the proposed plan.
Risk is measured in terms of impact, inherent risk and residual risk, and takes account of managements control actions in mitigating against both external and internal risk events.
The risk model consolidates unique risk events and aggregated risk categories at both a business unit level and group-wide, and the results are presented to the Risk Committee a sub-committee of the Audit Committee which I also chair, and the Audit Committee for discussion and review, and assists in the allocation of Internal Audit previously known as Group Internal Control resource to provide assurance on significant risks in its annual plan.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
Internal Audit prepares a report for each committee meeting held, providing an update on current projects being undertaken, the results of reviews completed since the prior meeting and the status of all recommendations arising from prior reviews.
Board Meetings and Committees The number of scheduled Board meetings and committee meetings attended as a member by each Director during the year was as follows: Scheduled Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee meetings of 8 meetings of 3 meetings of 3 meetings of 3 R Hooper 111 P Rigby 83 D Gilbertson 8 A Foye 8 D Mapp 8333 S Watson 7333 P Kirby 833 J Davis 632 Mr Hooper ceased to be Director on 15 May 2007.
Nomination Committee The Company has established a Nomination Committee whose terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Companys website.
The membership of the Nomination Committee throughout 2007 comprised the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee considers the mix of skills and experience that the Board requires and seeks the appointment of Directors who meet those requirements to ensure that the Board is effective in discharging its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee met three times during 2007, for the purposes of: 1 following the outcome of the consultation process with the six largest shareholders in relation to the proposal to appoint Mr Rigby as Chairman and Mr Gilbertson as Chief Executive, to make final decisions concerning those two appointments: 2 in relation to the decision to appoint Adam Walker as Finance Director: and 3 as to the appointment of Brendan ONeill as Non-Executive Director.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 57 Senior Independent Directors Report continued Remuneration Committee The membership of the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 60 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Group website.
The Committees principal responsibilities are to: set, review and recommend to the Board for approval the remuneration policy and strategy with respect to the Executive Directors: set, review and approve the individual remuneration packages of the Executive Directors including terms and conditions of employment and any changes to the packages: and approve the introduction and rules of any Group share-based incentive schemes.
Audit Committee The membership of the Audit Committee throughout 2007 comprised me, Derek Mapp, as Chairman of the Committee, Mr Watson and Mr Davis.
It met three times during 2007.
The Audit Committee has at least one member possessing recent and relevant experience, as described in the Smith Report appended to the Code.
I have extensive experience of audit committee procedures, and Mr Davis is a qualified chartered accountant and the Chief Financial Officer of Yell Group plc, a FTSE 100 company.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Groups performance.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit process and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditors.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups system of internal controls and the process for monitoring and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
It reviews the effectiveness of the Group Internal Audit function which includes business risk management and is responsible for approving, upon the recommendation of the Chief Executive, the appointment and termination of the head of that function.
These responsibilities are principally carried out through the Risk Committee, which is a sub-committee of the Audit Committee.
The Committee meets as appropriate with the Executive Directors and management, as well as privately with both the external and internal auditors.
In 2007 the Committee discharged its responsibilities primarily by: reviewing the Groups draft preliminary and interim results statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: reviewing the Groups pre-close period updates prior to their release: reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: reviewing regularly the impact on the Groups financial statements of matters such as the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards: recommending to the full Board, which adopted the recommendation, the reappointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP as the Groups external auditors: reviewing and approving the audit fee and reviewing non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors: reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups accounts, which included key areas of scope of work: key risks on the accounts: confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: reviewing the Groups system of controls and its effectiveness: reviewing the Groups systems to identify and manage risks including regular consultation with the Head of Internal Audit : reviewing the ongoing reports from Business Risk Management: and reviewing post-acquisition reports on integration and performance of significant recent acquisitions compared to plans.
The Audit Committee also monitors the Groups whistleblowing procedures to ensure that appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to raise matters of possible impropriety in confidence, with suitable subsequent follow-up action.
The Committee also undertakes a thorough performance evaluation which is led by me as Chairman of the Committee.
The Audit Committees terms of reference, which were updated by the Board in October 2005, are available on the Companys website.
58 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Senior Independent Directors Report continued Auditor Independence and Objectivity The Audit Committee regularly monitors the scope of the services and the non-audit services being provided to the Group by its external auditors to review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, taking into consideration the relevant professional and regulatory requirements, so that these are not impaired by the provision of permissible non-audit services.
Any activities that may be perceived to be in conflict with the role of the external auditors must be submitted to the Committee for approval prior to engagement.
Corporate Responsibility CR Mr Keith Brownlie is the senior executive with day to day responsibility for Corporate Responsibility.
He served in this capacity throughout 2007.
Management of the Groups CR priorities is led by a CR committee which is chaired by the Informa Chairman, Peter Rigby.
Meetings are minuted and information fed through to other senior level committees when appropriate.
In 2007, initiatives considered include Informas environmental performance, community activities, best practice for suppliers and ethical guidance for journalists.
The Group also receives input from a number of external parties.
During 2007 it received presentations from Cranfield Business School, Plan UK, GcapMedia and the Carbon Neutral Company.
CR priorities have been decided upon using a diverse range of stakeholder insights including: In-house expertise from colleagues who provide products and services in the social, environmental or business ethics fields: Institutional Investor feedback and insights: Our annual staff survey and perennial staff communications: Feedback and questions from our institutional customers: Dialogue with Trade Unions and NGOs: Our Membership of Corporate Responsibility networks such as the MediaCSRForum www.
org : and Advice from our retained CR advisers.
We can therefore summarise the areas we consider most important to be as follows: Maintaining trust and integrity in our product range Many of our customers demonstrate unrivalled loyalty and depend on the information we provide to them.
It is our responsibility not to break this trust at any cost, for example by the provision of inappropriate, misleading or sub-standard products and services or the misuse of their information.
Providing a rewarding, fair and inspiring workplace for our staff The quality of our people is the single greatest advantage we have.
We are rich in intellectual capital - our responsibility is to provide a transparent and unbiased meritocracy and invest in human resource tools and techniques to support this.
Maintaining and improving customer service levels It is our responsibility to anticipate, meet and exceed our institutional and individual customer expectations, whatever they may be.
Without them, their support and their referrals we would not be where we are today.
Fostering and encouraging innovation throughout the business Innovative is a core Informa value.
We often hire people because they are innovative and continually innovate and improve the products and services we offer.
It is therefore our responsibility to ensure that both internal and external innovation at Informa is allowed to flourish and appropriately rewarded.
Monitoring and managing our operational and product related environmental and climate change impacts We impact the environment via our day to day business operations and through our product and service footprint.
It is our responsibility to monitor, and reduce these impacts where practicable and keep up to date with stakeholder expectations.
Giving back to the communities where we operate Business and society need to progress hand in hand and Informa has a responsibility to support employees who wish to give back to the communities within which they operate.
We believe that this directly improves their working value too.
For more information on specific activities in each of these areas, including performance data and our plans for 2008 please refer to the separate 2007 Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
Mr Derek Mapp Senior Independent Director 27 February 2008 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 59
