Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Divisions Professional Original data, expert analysis and market insight that keeps Financial Institutions competitive, is more important today than it has ever been.
Left: Rosalind Oxley, CEO, ICBI, UK Finance & Adam Smith Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 29 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Divisions Professional Omega, the retail financial services specialists and market leaders in credit and commercial lending, who as the second smallest PI business contribute just 4.5% to total PI revenues, experienced a weaker second half year after a strong start to the year, 16% up on 2006, reported in the interim results.
As we enter 2008, the credit slow down primarily in the US, as clients took stock of current market conditions, appears to be being replaced by significant new activity as their clients look for proven solutions to their current difficulties.
Financial Data Analysis FDA which represented 18% of the divisions revenue in 2007 and 6% of the Groups revenue grew revenues and adjusted operating profit by 14% and 15% respectively benefiting from the Datamonitor financial and professional services client base.
On a pro forma basis FDA experienced a slight decline in revenue, partly off-set by cost savings.
Revenue increased by 7% on a pro forma Informa Global Markets IGM, the bond and foreign basis to 393.3m representing 35% of exchange information provider, which in 2006 experienced Informas total revenue.
Reported revenue a slight decline in pro forma revenue due primarily to consolidation in the banking community, continued to growth at a slightly lower 6% was primarily see some attrition in the first half of 2007 which was due to the impact of the weaker US dollar.
off-set by growth in the second half, particularly in the The strong reported revenue increase in EMEA markets, to finish the year slightly ahead of 2006.
Financial Data Analysis FDA is due to the Despite the challenging markets, IGM achieved year on Datamonitor and Investment Scorecard year margin growth.
Given current equity market turmoil, acquisitions which have contributed 14.2m.
attention to information and analysis of safe harbour alternatives is likely to increase.
Adjusted operating profit grew on a reported basis by 11% to 83.9m and on a pro forma basis by 9%.
International Insider, our Eurobond analysis business, experienced both revenue and profit growth for the year.
Performance Improvement PI, which represented 57% of Informa Global Markets and International Insider combined the divisions revenue in 2007 and 20% of Informas as a resources in 2007 and launched a consolidated product whole, was flat on reported revenues due to the impact of suite of capital markets analytical tools, which will the dollar, but increased revenues on a pro forma basis by 8%.
continue to be rolled out in 2008.
Second half trading was slightly ahead of the first half with 52% of full year pro forma revenue coming from the second Informa Research Services IRS, providing competitive half and 56% of pro forma adjusted operating profit.
intelligence, market research and mystery shopping services to the financial industry, had a disappointing Client revenue renewal rates of over 90% combined with start to the year.
While the core bank rate and fee over 100% retained value for another consecutive year information business performed well, the market contributed to good trading in 2007 and stands the research business experienced sufficient weakness that business in good stead for 2008. in the second half of the year we completely restructured it, leaving IRS in a much healthier position for 2008.
Robbins-Gioia R-G, the programme management specialists who contribute circa 30% of PI revenue, had Informa Investment Solutions IIS with its strong wealth a strong year.
The 2006 $4m investment programme, management solution set, finished the year strongly.
Having reported in last years Annual Report, produced a good successfully integrated Investment Scorecard, acquired in the return.
On a pro forma basis R-G revenue increased by first half of the year, IIS drove cross-selling synergies between 9% with double digit adjusted operating profit growth.
30 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Divisions Financial events, which includes the market leader in Large Scale Financial Events, ICBI, traded strongly.
Professional Revenue increased by double digits year on year whilst still delivering a 30% margin.
As well as contribution from a small acquisition, growth came from the execution of a number of recurring Informa strategies.
Average delegates and yield increased in our LSEs.
In turn, this expansion increased the high margin SpEx revenues as suppliers were eager to have access to senior audiences, with proven, considerable purchasing power.
The Adam Smith brand, specialising in Russia and other emerging central and eastern European markets, saw good productivity and delegate growth as it expanded into other countries such as the Ukraine, taking advantage of the scale and reach of Informa to ensure first mover advantage.
Revenue by Type % of total revenue Events 19% Both ICBI and US Finance successfully geo-cloned a number of their leading events including SuperReturn Performance Improvement 58% private equity, GAIM hedge funds and Funds in Asia Copy Sales 1% and the Middle East, taking sponsors and exhibitors to Advertising 1% new markets and attracting new local delegates while Subscriptions 21% reducing the reliance on more developed markets.
The weakest part of the division was the small Dutch the legacy clients and those acquired with Investment publishing unit which had flat year on year growth after Scorecard to increase revenues substantially.
Post acquisition it reduced its product portfolio, divesting less profitable adjusted operating profit growth for Investment Scorecard products following a poor 2006.
This unit accounts for compared to the same period in the prior year was over 50%.
iMoneyNet, the publishers of the subscription driven Money Fund Report R, also saw year on year revenue and Professional 2007 2006 Increase Pro forma adjusted operating profit growth primarily driven by the m m % % conversion of traditional data delivery to on-line browser Revenue based workflow analysis tools which provide greater yield Performance Improvement 225.3 225.8 - 8 and extend client engagements.
Financial Data Analysis 72.4 63.6 14 -3 Finance Insurance Law The strongest growth within the division came from the and Tax 95.6 83.3 15 13 Finance, Insurance, Law and Tax FILT unit which includes Informa Professional, a market facing unit, and legacy IIR 393.3 372.7 6 7 specialist finance events businesses in both the UK and Adjusted Operating Profit the US.
With revenues at 95.6m and adjusted operating Performance Improvement 35.3 34.7 2 10 profit at 26.7m representing 32% of the divisions adjusted Financial Data Analysis 21.9 19.1 15 -2 operating profit, FILT had pro forma revenue and adjusted Finance Insurance Law operating profit growth of 13% and 17% respectively.
and Tax 26.7 22.0 21 17 The stronger UK Professional performance was led by 83.9 75.8 11 9 its move to on-line data services in both the legal and insurance markets.
Here, the increased utility and timeliness Adjusted Operating Margin 21.3 20.3 of web based solutions continues to drive higher client yield, robust revenue renewal and new business acquisition.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 31
