Chairmans and Chief Executives Review: Business Streams Publishing The successful migration from print to technology based publishing has driven sales.
Fotini Liontou Left: Fotini Liontou, CEO, Informa Professional Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 13 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Publishing Publishing margins continue to improve through a good Publishing contributed 44% of revenue, combination of the yield improvements from electronic 495.0m, in 2007.
This 21% increase reflects revenues and cost reductions from print on demand in the growing importance of this resilient our book production.
The proportion of total Informa revenues that publishing constitutes, Technological advances in printing mean that Informa is able to print high quality books on demand at has increased from 39% in 2006 and is comparable costs to bulk printing.
This print on demand expected to increase still further in 2008 to capability continued to reduce cost, increase revenue and approximately 50% of total revenues and help the environment in 2007.
The number of books 60% of total adjusted operating profit when being printed on demand increased in 2007 by over 50%.
a full year of Datamonitor is delivered.
The average print run is being economically reduced by a similar percentage.
Subscription sales, which now represent over 60% of publishing revenues, grew by 8% on a pro forma basis In addition, some third of our total books catalogue is and 26% on a reported basis.
Subscriptions will increase now available electronically as e-books.
Holding virtual to approximately 65% of publishing revenue and 80% stock rejuvenated back lists by keeping out of print books of publishing adjusted operating profit with a full year on sale and also reduced Informas carbon footprint.
Books, largely in the academic sector, will account for another approximately 30% of In each of Informas divisions, the successful migration publishing revenue.
from print to technology based publishing has driven sales growth.
Revenue growth in pure digitally designed Advertising revenues, historically minimal in Informa, products is outstripping all other delivery media.
remain so at just 3% of total Informa revenue.
In Informas Academic and Scientific markets, on-line book sales, with their ability to drive back lists, now represent 30% of total sales.
Informas own purely electronic reference and e-books produced turnover well in excess of 5m and growth in 2007 of 48%.
The successful launch in 2006 of four electronic subject based archives, based on authoritative journals content, has continued well through 2007.
Informa now has rich archives in: Education Business, Management and Economics Chemistry Physics Mathematics & Statistics Geography, Planning, Urban and Environment Behavioural Science Engineering, Computing & Technology Health Sciences Politics, International Relations and Area Studies Strategic, Defence and Security Studies.
With still more in production, journal archive sales have more than tripled in 2007 and now include nationwide agreements in Germany and Greece.
14 Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 Chief Executives and Managing Directors Review: Business Streams Sales to the commercial, professional and pharmaceutical markets produced over 60% of subscription revenues Revenue by sector in 2007.
In the Professional division, growth in subscription revenues for Informa Professional was largely driven by the take-up of on-line products.
Expanding from a small base of early adopters, i-law, which brings together the core law report archives and in-depth analysis for the niche markets of shipping, insurance, arbitration, construction and intellectual property law, has grown significantly in 2007.
Sales to existing clients migrating to the on-line repository are typically 57% higher.
Market feedback has been excellent confirming that i-laws content depth and functionality is turning it from a research tool into a daily work aid.
Datamonitor also delivers its business intelligence via Sector % of total revenue electronic subscriptions.
It was fully integrated into Energy & Utilities 2% Informa in 2007, contributing 51.1m revenue and Finance 14% 17.6m to adjusted operating profit from the date Health and Pharmaceutical 20% of acquisition of 13 July 2007.
For the year ended 31 Humanities & Social Sciences 28% December 2007 it achieved a 22% pro forma revenue Industrial 7% increase and a pro forma adjusted operating profit Leisure and Food 4% rise of 59% on the same period a year earlier.
Tax, Law and Accounting 4% Science & Technology 15% For the second half of 2007 Datamonitor achieved Telecoms 6% a strong adjusted operating profit margin of 33% compared to 22% in the first half of the year.
The strong second half is the result of a combination of impressive drop through and cost savings from the Informa integration.
Datamonitor continues to execute on its strategy to Products in all Informa publishing and market facing achieve the dual objective of increasing the total number units are now designed to be media neutral.
The flag of subscribers whilst at the same time driving up the ship maritime title Lloyds List is a prime example of this.
number of subscribers spending in the top quadrant In June this year, to wide spread acclaim, it unveiled a of customer yields.
new design as a full-colour compact broadsheet format with increased content.
Maintaining the quality ethic At the end of 2007, Datamonitor had 3,458 subscribers underpinning it since 1734, the redesign was merely the compared with 2,861 at the date of its purchase.
In front end of a significant investment in a world-leading addition Datamonitor had another 3,000 report buyers.
All transport magazines Datamonitors sales model is to move these single buyers and newspapers are now migrating into the system, up the value chain to become subscribers.
Subscribers creating a large database of highly structured XML spending over 20,000 grew by 20% in 2007 on a full year content to combine with Maritimes data driven products pro forma basis.
Overall renewals were 90%, while clients and enabling the business to re-purpose content across spending over 20,000 had a 100% retention rate.
all titles spurring on-line revenue growth and producing significant cost efficiencies.
Informa plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 15
