Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2007 The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report The Company has pledged to make a payment to the World and the audited financial statements for the year ended Maritime University of US$100,000 in 2008 as part of its support 31December 2007. for the education of maritime specialists payment made in 2006 in respect of the 2007 financial year was US$100,000.
As explained in the Financial Review on page 11, in addition 1 to the Inmarsat Core operations, from 11 December 2007 the The Company also provides satellite telecommunication financial results of CIP UK Holdings Limited and its subsidiaries services and equipment in conjunction with support offered by CIP have also been incorporated into the Inmarsat its distribution partners and manufacturers to service providers consolidated financial statements.
References to Group in support of disaster relief management in affected areas of 1 on pages 22 to 41 include Inmarsat Core operations and the world.
No political donations were made during the year.
It remains Principal activities and business review the policy of the Company not to make political donations or The Group provides a broad portfolio of global mobile and incur political expenditure.
However, the Directors recognise transportable broadband communication services via satellite that occasions arise where it may be in the best interests of and solutions across its main areas of maritime, aeronautical shareholders for the Company to be able, if appropriate, to and land.
The principal services include safety and control participate in public debate and opinion-forming on matters communications, instant communications voice, fax and which affect its business.
To avoid inadvertent infringement low-speed data, and instant information services and of the Companies Act 2006, the Directors are seeking 1 high-speed data solutions from remote LAN access to shareholders authority at the 2008 AGM for Inmarsat Core video conferencing.
to be permitted to make political donations and to incur political expenditure.
The Group has several branch and regional ofces throughout the world.
Subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the Financial instruments profit and net assets of the Group are listed in note 36 to the Details of the financial risk management objectives and consolidated financial statements.
policies of the Group, including hedging policies and exposure of the entity to price risk, credit risk, liquidity risk and cash ow The Directors are also required to present an extended risk are given in notes 3 and 32 to the consolidated financial business review, reporting on the development and statements.
performance of the Group and the Company during the year and their positions at the end of the year.
That requirement is Post balance sheet events met by the Business Review on pages 4 to 9 and the Financial Details of material post balance sheet events are included Review on pages 10 to 19.
The cautionary statement set out on in note 37 to the consolidated financial statements.
the inside back cover forms part of this Annual Report and is incorporated by reference into the Business Review.
Directors and their interests A list of the Directors who served during the year is shown Results and dividends below: The results for the year are shown in the Consolidated Income Statement on page 44.
Michael Butler, President and Chief Operating officer Sir Bryan Carsberg The Directors propose the payment of a final dividend per Stephen Davidson ordinary share of 17.33 cents US$ making a total for the Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd year of 28.88 cents US$ dividend payments are made in Kathleen Flaherty Pounds Sterling based on the exchange rate prevailing in the Rick Medlock, Chief Financial officer London market four business days prior to payment.
Subject to John Rennocks, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent approval at the 2008 Annual General Meeting AGM, the final Director dividend will be paid on 23 May 2008 to shareholders on the Andrew Sukawaty, Chairman and Chief Executive officer register of members at the close of business on 9 May 2008.
All Directors were in ofce on 1 January 2007.
Research and development The Group continues to invest in new services and technology Biographical information on each of the Directors is contained through its research and development programmes.
These on page 20 of the Annual Report.
Their biographies illustrate include pure research into new products as well as developing the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective those services which have been demonstrated to have a Board to lead and control the Group excluding CIP.
The interests of the Directors in the share capital of the Charitable and political donations Company are disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report.
During the year, the Company paid US$130,000 None of the Directors at any time during the year ended 2006: US$110,000 to the telecommunications relief aid 31December 2007 or subsequently have had any interests organisation, Tlcoms Sans Frontires TSF.
The in any shares of the Companys subsidiaries.
Company has pledged to pay US$150,000 to TSF in 2008 and US$150,000 plus US$50,000 of airtime in 2009.
Inmarsat plc 1 22 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
Re-appointment of Directors As the Directors have no control over the business of CIP, they The Companys Articles of Association require that one-third do not have access to information regarding CIPs employees, of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general share plans and cannot comment on CIPs equal opportunities meeting of the Company.
Therefore, the following Directors, policy or health and safety procedures.
none of whom has been in ofce for more than three years, will retire and put themselves forward for re-appointment at Policy and practice on payment of creditors the 2008 AGM.
They have each confirmed that they will stand The Groups policy and practice on payment of creditors is: for re-appointment: to pay all suppliers within the time limit agreed with each Sir Bryan Carsberg at the start of business with that supplier: Stephen Davidson to ensure that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment: Andrew Sukawaty and to pay in accordance with the contractual and other legal Employees obligations whenever it is satisfied that the supplier has The Group has ensured that employees are fully informed provided goods and services in accordance with the agreed and involved in the business, through the use of various terms and conditions.
communications methods including regular brieng sessions and discussions with groups of employees, circulation of At 31December 2007, the Groups trade creditors represented newsletters, Company announcements, information releases 30 days equivalent of aggregate amounts invoiced by suppliers and dissemination of information through normal management during the year 2006: 30 days.
The Company has a Staff Forum to extend two-way communications between employees and management and Interests in voting rights to allow the views of employees to be taken into account in At 20 March 2008, the Company had been notied, pursuant making decisions which are likely to affect their interests.
to the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure & Transparency The Staff Forum is an elected body constituted in accordance Rules, of the following notiable voting rights in the Companys with prevailing legislation to provide the formal means of issued ordinary share capital: consultation on contractual matters, as and when required.
Number of voting rights over the ordinary The Company also undertakes regular employee satisfaction shares of c0.0005 each surveys.
Employees are actively encouraged to attend internal Direct Indirect training courses to learn about the Companys business, Harbinger Capital its products and services.
Partners Master Fund I, The Company encourages, through its share and share Ltd and Harbinger option schemes, employee involvement in the Companys Capital Partners Special performance.
Details of the outstanding options granted to Situations Fund, L. P. 129,068,751 28.2% employees are shown in note 27 to the consolidated financial Lehman Brothers statements.
An award of shares under the Inmarsat 2005 Share International Europe 52,986,812 11.58% Incentive Plan was made to employees in April 2007, capped Lansdowne Partners at 5% of salary.
The Executive Directors and the Executive Limited Partnership 50,958,170 11.14% Management Board did not participate in this award.
Details of the award made in April 2007 are provided on page 40.
BlackRock, Inc. 42,576,471 9.31% Legal & General The Group has a positive attitude towards the development Group Plc 35,631,512 7.78% of all its employees and does not discriminate between The Goldman Sachs employees or potential employees on grounds of race, ethnic Group, Inc. 26,179 0.01% 23,343,632 5.10% or national origin, sex, age, marital status or religious beliefs.
KDDI Corporation 21,739,149 4.76% The Inmarsat workforce is diverse in that it has more than F&C Asset 45 different nationalities amongst the staff.
Management plc 19,164,056 4.19% Equal opportunities Allianz SE 13,812,748 3.02% The Group gives full consideration to applications from Note: Percentages are based on the issued ordinary share capital in issue as at disabled persons and to the continuing employment of the date of the respective notications.
staff that become disabled, including making reasonable adjustments where appropriate or considering them for Share capital and control alternative positions.
The following information is given pursuant to the new requirements of the Companies Act 2006, specifically s992.
Health and safety The Group is committed to maintaining high standards The Companys ordinary shares of c0.0005 each are listed on of health and safety for its employees, customers, visitors, the London Stock Exchange LSE: ISAT.
Details of the issued contractors and anyone affected by its business activities.
share capital of the Company are given in note 26 to the Michael Butler is the Executive Director identied for health consolidated financial statements.
At the 2008 AGM, 1 and safety matters within the Inmarsat Core operations.
shareholders are being asked to approve the cancellation of the Deferred Shares of c0.01 each and deferred shares of 1 each which are not required by the Company.
There are no shares in issue for either class of share.
Inmarsat plc 1 23 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
Directors Report For the year ended 31 December 2007 continued The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the to the Articles of Association will be proposed at a later AGM Companys report and accounts: to attend and speak at to incorporate the remaining provisions of the 2006 Act that general meetings of the Company: to appoint proxies and to are yet to be brought into force.
There are no restrictions on transfer or limitations on the holding of any shares and no requirements The Directors have been authorised by shareholders to for prior approval of any transfers.
None of the shares carry issue and allot ordinary shares up to agreed limits and to any special rights with regard to control of the Company.
have the ability to make market purchases of ordinary shares.
There are no known arrangements under which financial At the AGM, shareholders are being requested to renew these rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares 2008 authorities.
and no known agreements on restrictions on share transfers or on voting rights.
significant contracts 1 The majority of the space segment revenue of Inmarsat Core Shares acquired through Company share schemes and plans is derived from sales to Land Earth Station Operators LESOs rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special and distribution partners DPs.
LESOs operate in accordance rights.
with the terms and conditions of the Land Earth Station Operator Agreement.
The existing five-year agreement 1,409,365 of the ordinary shares held by the Inmarsat Employee became effective in April 2004.
DPs operate under agreements Share Ownership Trust carry voting rights.
The beneciaries of with separate arrangements for the distribution of some 95% of these shares do not instruct the Trust on how to vote in services.
These agreements expire at the same time as the respect of these shares.
1 The Inmarsat Core operations have in place several significant The Directors are aware that the LESO Agreement and other agreements, which include, inter alia, its banking and debt distribution agreements, to which CIP is a party through arrangements, distribution agreements with suppliers and Stratos Global Corporation Stratos, are significant contracts contracts for the in-orbit insurance of its satellites.
However, as the Directors have no control over the to the identity of a third party bidder, in the event of a change business of CIP, they are not able to comment on any 1 of control following a takeover bid, Inmarsat Core does not additional significant contracts of CIP.
believe that these agreements would suffer a material adverse effect or be subject to termination upon a change of control.
None of the current Directors had a material interest in any 1 However, Inmarsat Core has customary clauses in all its long contract to which the Company or any of its subsidiary term debt funding specifying that in the event of a change of undertakings was a party during the financial year.
control following a takeover bid, the lenders have the option to have the debt repaid under the specic terms of each type The Company, through its wholly owned subsidiary, Inmarsat of debt.
Finance III Limited, has the future option not earlier than 15 April 2009 to acquire CIP Canada Investment Inc which The Company does not have agreements with any Director or owns the shares of Stratos.
1 employee of the Inmarsat Core operations that would provide compensation for loss of ofce or employment resulting from Directors and Ofcers liability insurance a takeover except that provisions of the Companys share Inmarsat plc maintains appropriate insurance to cover option schemes and share plans may cause options and Directors and Ofcers liability for itself and its subsidiaries awards granted under such schemes to vest on a takeover.
At the date upon which this report was approved and for the year to 31December 2007, the Company As the Directors have no control over the business of CIP, provided an indemnity in respect of all of the Companys they do not have access to provide information regarding Directors.
Neither the insurance nor the indemnity provides the impact on agreements to which CIP are a party in the cover where the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently event of a change of control.
The powers of the Directors are determined by UK legislation Registrars and the Memorandum and Articles of Association in force On 1 October 2007, Advent International completed its from time to time.
The rules about the appointment and acquisition, from Lloyds TSB Bank plc, of Lloyds TSB Registrars replacement of Directors are contained in the Companys and changed its name to Equiniti Limited.
Equiniti Limited Articles of Association.
Changes to the Articles of Association continues to act as the Companys Registrars and provides must be approved by shareholders in accordance with shareholder services.
legislation in force from time to time.
At the 2008 AGM, shareholders are being asked to approve changes to the Auditors Companys Articles of Association to implement the parts A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte & Touche LLP as Auditors of the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act which have come of the Company and to authorise the Board to determine their into effect at the date of the AGM and will come into effect remuneration will be proposed at the 2008 AGM.
Implementation of the 2006 Act is occurring in phases.
It is anticipated that further amendments 2008 Annual General Meeting Your attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting enclosed with this Annual Report which sets out the resolutions to be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Inmarsat plc 1 24 Annual report and accounts 2007 Inmarsat plc and its subsidiaries excluding CIP.
Directors responsibilities The following statement, which should be read in conjunction with the Auditors statement of Auditors responsibilities set out on page 42, is made with a view to distinguishing between the respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditors in relation to the financial statements.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
The Directors are required by the IAS Regulation to prepare the Group financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Group financial statements are also required by law to be properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In addition, the Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and which enable the Directors to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985 to 2006.
They are also responsible for maintaining sufficient internal controls to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group excluding CIP where they have no control and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the inmarsat.
Uncertainty regarding legal requirements is compounded as information published on the internet is accessible in many countries with different legal requirements relating to the preparation and dissemination of financial statements.
Each of the Directors has confirmed that: i so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and ii the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
This conrmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s234ZA of the Companies Act 1985.
By order of the Board Alison Horrocks FCIS Company Secretary 20 March 2008 Inmarsat plc 25 Annual report and accounts 2007
