Board of Directors as at 20 March 2008 4.
Stephen Davidson 1 2 3 Independent, Non-Executive Director Mr Davidson joined the Board in June 2005.
Mr Davidson is Chairman of SPG Media plc, Enteraction TV Ltd and Digital Marketing Group plc, and is also a non-executive director of several other companies.
He has held various positions in investment banking, most recently at West LB Panmure where he was Global Head of Media and Telecoms Investment Banking, then Vice Chairman of Investment Banking.
From 1992 to 1998 he was Finance Director, then Chief Executive officer of Telewest Communications plc.
He was Chairman of the Cable Communications 4 5 6 Association from 1996 to 1998.
He holds an MA first class in Mathematics and Statistics from the University of Aberdeen.
Admiral James Ellis Jr Rtd Independent, Non-Executive Director Admiral Ellis joined the Board in June 2005.
He is President and Chief Executive officer of the Institute of Nuclear Power Operations INPO, with headquarters in Atlanta, Georgia.
Admiral Ellis retired from the US Navy in 2004 as Commander, United States Strategic Command.
He was responsible for the global command and control of US 7 8 9 strategic forces to meet decisive national security objectives.
Admiral Ellis is a graduate of the US Naval Academy, was designated a Naval Aviator in 1971 and held a variety of sea and shore assignments in the United States and abroad.
He holds Master of Science degrees in Aerospace Engineering and in Aeronautical Systems.
He is a native of South Carolina and also serves as a Director of the Lockheed Martin Corporation and Level 3 Communications.
Kathleen Flaherty Independent, Non-Executive Director 1.
Andrew Sukawaty Ms Flaherty joined the Board in May 2006.
She retired as the Chief Chairman and Chief Executive officer Marketing officer at AT&T on 31December 2005, a position she had Mr Sukawaty joined the Company as Chairman in December 2003 held since June 2004.
She currently serves as a non-executive director and was appointed Chief Executive officer in March 2004.
He is of GenTek, Inc. Nasdaq.
Ms Flaherty served on the board of Marconi non-executive chairman of Xyratex Ltd Nasdaq and a non-executive Corporation plc from May 2003 until it was sold to L. M. Ericsson in director of Zesko Holding B. V. Between 1996 and 2000, he served 2005, and on the board of telent plc until October 2006.
She also served as chief executive officer and president of Sprint PCS.
He was chief on the boards of CMS Energy Corporation NYSE and Consumers executive officer of NTL Limited from 1993 to 1996.
Previously, he Energy Company NYSE from 1995 to 2004.
Ms Flaherty was previously held various management positions with US West and AT&T.
He has President and Chief Operating officer of Winstar International from served on various listed company boards as a non-executive director.
From 1997 to 1998, Ms Flaherty was the Senior Vice Mr Sukawaty holds a BBA from the University of Wisconsin and an President, Global Product Architecture for MCI Communications, Inc. MBA from the University of Minnesota.
Prior to that she was Marketing Director for National Business Communications at BT.
Ms Flaherty graduated from Northwestern 2.
Michael Butler University, Evanston, Illinois with a Ph.
D. in Industrial Engineering and President and Chief Operating officer Management Sciences.
She is a member of the McCormick Advisory Mr Butler joined the Board in December 2003.
He has served Board, Northwestern University, and sits on its executive committee.
as Managing Director of Inmarsat Global Ltd since May 2000 and became Chief Operating officer in June 2004 and President in 7.
Prior to joining Inmarsat, he was the managing Chief Financial officer director of MCI WorldCom International in the United Kingdom.
Mr Medlock joined the Board in September 2004.
Prior to joining Between May 1994 and November 1998, he held various general Inmarsat, he had served as chief financial officer and company management positions, initially at MFS Communications Limited and secretary of NDS Group plc Nasdaq and Euronext since 1996. subsequently MCI WorldCom International following WorldComs Mr Medlock previously served as chief financial officer of several acquisition of MFS at the end of 1996.
Between 1988 and 1994, private equity backed technology companies in the United Kingdom he was employed by British Telecommunications plc in a variety and the United States.
Mr Medlock is also a non-executive director of of business to business, sales and marketing roles.
Between January THUS plc LSE and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
He is a Fellow 1983 and November 1988, he held a number of managerial and of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales.
marketing positions within the various business units of 3M UK PLC.
Mr Medlock holds an MA in Economics from Cambridge University.
He holds an HNC in Business and Finance and a Diploma from the Chartered Institute of Marketing.
John Rennocks Senior Independent, Non-Executive Director and Deputy Chairman 3.
Sir Bryan Carsberg Mr Rennocks joined the Board in January 2005.
He is an independent, Independent, Non-Executive Director non-executive chairman of Diploma plc, Nestor plc and Intelligent Sir Bryan joined the Board in June 2005.
He is currently Chairman Energy plc, and a non-executive director of several other companies.
of the Council of Loughborough University.
He is an independent, He has broad experience in biotechnology, support services and non-executive director of RM plc and Novae Group plc.
Mr Rennocks previously served as a director of the first Director General of Telecommunications head of Oftel, Inmarsat Ventures plc, and as Executive Director-Finance for British the telecommunications regulator that preceded Ofcom from Steel plc Corus Group plc, Powergen plc and Smith & Nephew plc.
1984 to 1992, Director General of Fair Trading from 1992 to 1995 Mr Rennocks is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Secretary General of the International Accounting Standards of England and Wales.
Committee predecessor of the International Accounting Standards Board from 1995 to 2001.
He was an independent, non-executive 9.
Alison Horrocks director of Cable and Wireless Communications plc from 1997 to Company Secretary 2000 and non-executive Chairman of MLL Telecom Ltd from 1999 to Ms Horrocks has been Secretary to the Board since its inception and 2002.
Sir Bryan is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants also serves the boards of Inmarsats other main operating companies.
of England and Wales and an Honorary Fellow of the Institute of She was previously group company secretary of International Public Actuaries: he was knighted in January 1989.
He holds an MSc Econ Relations plc, a worldwide public relations company.
She is a Fellow from the University of London London School of Economics.
of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Inmarsat plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2007
