The Board of Directors David Webster Non-Executive Chairman Ralph Kugler Non-Executive Director Appointed Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is President, Unilever of InterContinental Hotels Group on the separation of Home and Personal Care, and joined the boards of Unilever plc Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Appointed Non-Executive and Unilever NV in May 2005.
Held a variety of senior positions Chairman on 1 January 2004.
Also Non-Executive Chairman globally for Unilever and has experience of regional management of Makinson Cowell Limited, a capital markets advisory firm, in Asia, Latin America and Europe, with over 25 years experience and a member of the Appeals Committee of the Panel on of general management and brand marketing.
Will become Takeovers and Mergers.
Formerly Chairman of Safeway plc Chairman of the Remuneration Committee following the and a Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier PLC.
Chairman retirement of Sir David Prosser on 31 May 2008.
Age 51. of the Nomination Committee.
Jennifer Laing Non-Executive Director Andrew Cosslett Chief Executive Appointed a Director in August 2005, she was Associate Dean, Appointed Chief Executive in February 2005, joining the External Relations at London Business School, until 2007.
A fellow Group from Cadbury Schweppes plc where he was most recently of the Marketing Society and of the Institute of Practitioners in President, Europe, Middle East & Africa.
During his career Advertising, she has over 30 years experience in advertising at Cadbury Schweppes he held a variety of senior regional including 16 years with Saatchi & Saatchi, to whom she sold her management and marketing roles in the UK and Asia Pacific.
Also serves as a Non-Executive Director of Hudson Also has over 11 years experience in brand marketing with Highland Group Inc. a US human resources company.
Non-Executive Chairman of Duchy Originals Limited.
Robert C Larson Non-Executive Director Appointed a Director in April 2003, he is a Managing Director Richard Solomons Finance Director of Lazard Alternative Investments LLC and Chairman of Qualified as a chartered accountant in 1985, followed by seven Lazard Real Estate Partners, LLC.
Also Chairman of Larson years in investment banking, based in London and New York.
Realty Group and Non-Executive Chairman of UDR, Inc.
Served Joined the Group in 1992 and held a variety of senior finance as a Non-Executive Director of Six Continents PLC formerly and operational roles.
Appointed Finance Director of the Hotels Bass PLC from 1996 until April 2003.
Will retire from the Board business in October 2002 in anticipation of the separation of on 31 December 2008.
Six Continents PLC in April 2003.
Responsible for corporate and regional finance, Group financial control, strategy, investor Jonathan Linen Non-Executive Director relations, tax and treasury.
Appointed a Director in December 2005, he was formerly Vice Chairman of the American Express Company, having held Stevan Porter President, The Americas a range of senior positions throughout his career of over 35 years Previously 13 years with Hilton Corporation in a variety with American Express.
Also serves as a Non-Executive Director of senior management positions.
Joined the Group in 2001 of Yum!
Brands, Inc. and on a number of US Councils and advisory as Chief Operating Officer, The Americas.
President, The Americas, he was appointed an Executive Director # in April 2003.
Responsible for the business development and Sir David Prosser Non-Executive Director performance of all the hotel brands and properties in the Qualified actuary with over 40 years experience in financial Americas region.
Additionally, has responsibility for the services.
Appointed a Director in April 2003, he was formerly development and deployment of best practice in franchising, Group Chief Executive of Legal & General Group Plc.
Non-Executive Director of Investec plc and of Investec Limited, a Director of the Royal Automobile Club Limited and of Epsom # David Kappler Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Downs Racecourse Limited.
Chairman of the Remuneration Appointed a Director and Senior Independent Director in Committee.
Will retire from the Board on 31 May 2008.
Non-Executive Chairman of Premier Foods plc and a Non-Executive Director of Shire plc.
A qualified accountant Ying Yeh Non-Executive Director and formerly Chief Financial Officer of Cadbury Schweppes plc Appointed a Director in December 2007, she is Chairman and until April 2004.
Also served as a Non-Executive Director President, North Asia Region, President, Business Development, of Camelot Group plc and of HMV Group plc.
Chairman of Asia Pacific Region and Vice President, Eastman Kodak Company.
Also a Non-Executive Director of AB Volvo.
Prior to joining Kodak in 1997 she was, for 15 years, a diplomat with the US Foreign Service in Hong Kong and Beijing.
26 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
