GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP BALANCE SHEET 2007 2006 31 December 2007 Note m m ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 10 962 997 Goodwill 12 110 109 Intangible assets 13 167 154 Investment in associates 14 33 32 Retirement benefit assets 24 32 Other financial assets 15 93 96 Total non-current assets 1,397 1,388 Inventories 16 3 3 Trade and other receivables 17 235 237 Current tax receivable 54 23 Cash and cash equivalents 18 52 179 Other financial assets 15 9 13 Total current assets 353 455 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 11 57 50 Total assets 2 1,807 1,893 LIABILITIES Loans and other borrowings 20 8 10 Trade and other payables 19 390 402 Current tax payable 212 231 Total current liabilities 610 643 Loans and other borrowings 20 869 303 Retirement benefit obligations 24 55 71 Trade and other payables 19 139 109 Deferred tax payable 26 82 79 Total non-current liabilities 1,145 562 Liabilities classified as held for sale 11 3 2 Total liabilities 2 1,758 1,207 Net assets 49 686 EQUITY Equity share capital 28 81 66 Capital redemption reserve 28 5 4 Shares held by employee share trusts 28 41 17 Other reserves 28 1,528 1,528 Unrealised gains and losses reserve 28 19 27 Currency translation reserve 28 6 3 Retained earnings 28 1,504 2,129 IHG shareholders equity 46 678 Minority equity interest 29 3 8 Total equity 49 686 Signed on behalf of the Board Richard Solomons 18 February 2008 Notes on pages 52 to 88 form an integral part of these financial statements.
Group cash flow statement and Group balance sheet 51 Corporate information and accounting policies Corporate information Foreign currencies Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the The consolidated financial statements of InterContinental Hotels functional currency at the exchange rates ruling on the dates of Group PLC the Group or IHG for the year ended 31 December the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated 2007 were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution of in foreign currencies are retranslated to the functional currency the Directors on 18 February 2008.
InterContinental Hotels Group at the relevant rates of exchange ruling at the balance sheet PLC the Company is incorporated in Great Britain and registered date.
All foreign exchange differences arising on translation are in England and Wales.
recognised in the income statement except on foreign currency borrowings that provide a hedge against a net investment in Summary of significant accounting policies a foreign operation.
These are taken directly to the currency Basis of preparation translation reserve until the disposal of the net investment, at The consolidated financial statements are presented in sterling which time they are recycled against the gain or loss on disposal.
and all values are rounded to the nearest million m except where otherwise indicated.
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill, are translated into sterling at the relevant rates of exchange ruling Statement of compliance at the balance sheet date.
The revenues and expenses of foreign The consolidated financial statements of IHG have been prepared operations are translated into sterling at weighted average rates in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards of exchange for the period.
The exchange differences arising on IFRS as adopted by the European Union and as applied in the retranslation are taken directly to the currency translation accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 1985. reserve.
On disposal of a foreign operation, the cumulative The Group has early adopted International Financial Reporting amount recognised in the currency translation reserve relating Interpretations Committee 14 IAS 19 The Limit on a Defined to that particular foreign operation is recycled against the gain Benefit Asset, Minimum Funding Requirements and their or loss on disposal.
IFRIC 14 provides guidance on assessing Derivative financial instruments and hedging the limit in International Accounting Standard 19 Employee Derivatives designated as hedging instruments are accounted Benefits IAS 19 on the amount of the surplus that can be for in line with the nature of the hedging arrangement.
The recognised as an asset.
It also explains how the pension asset Groups detailed accounting policies with respect to hedging or liability may be affected by a statutory or contractual minimum instruments are set out in note 21.
Documentation outlining the funding requirement.
Under IFRIC 14, the Group has recognised measurement and effectiveness of the hedging arrangement is retirement benefit assets of 32m on the balance sheet at maintained throughout the life of the hedge relationship.
Any 31 December 2007. ineffective element of a hedge arrangement is recognised in The Group has also adopted International Financial Reporting financial income or expense.
Standard 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures IFRS 7 for Interest arising from currency swap agreements is taken to the first time in these financial statements.
This is a disclosure financial income or expense on a gross basis over the term of standard only which has had no impact on the Groups results the relevant agreements.
Interest arising from other currency or net assets.
The new disclosures are included throughout derivatives and interest rate swaps is taken to financial income the financial statements.
or expense on a net basis over the term of the agreement.
Other new accounting standards and interpretations issued Foreign exchange gains and losses on currency instruments are by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB and the recognised in financial income and expense unless they form International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee part of effective hedge relationships.
IFRIC, becoming effective during the year, have not had a material impact on the Groups financial statements.
The fair value of derivatives is calculated by discounting the expected future cash flows at prevailing interest rates.
The principal accounting policies of the Group are set out below.
Property, plant and equipment Basis of consolidation Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less depreciation The Group financial statements comprise the financial statements and any impairment.
of the parent company and entities controlled by the Company.
All inter-company balances and transactions have been eliminated.
Borrowing costs are not capitalised.
Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.
The results of those businesses acquired or disposed of are consolidated for the period during which they were under the Land is not depreciated.
All other property, plant and equipment Groups control.
are depreciated to a residual value over their estimated useful lives, namely: buildings lesser of 50 years and unexpired term of lease: and fixtures, fittings and equipment 3 to 25 years.
All depreciation is charged on a straight-line basis.
Residual value is reassessed annually.
52 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Property, plant and equipment are reviewed for impairment Associates when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the An associate is an entity over which the Group has the ability to carrying value may not be recoverable.
Assets that do not exercise significant influence, but not control, through participation generate independent cash flows are combined into cashin the financial and operating policy decisions of the entity.
If carrying values exceed estimated recoverable Associates are accounted for using the equity method unless the amount, the assets or cash-generating units are written down associate is classified as held for sale.
Under the equity method, to their recoverable amount.
Recoverable amount is the greater the Groups investment is recorded at cost adjusted by the Groups of fair value less cost to sell and value in use.
Value in use is share of post acquisition profits and losses.
When the Groups assessed based on estimated future cash flows discounted to share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the Groups their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects carrying amount is reduced to nil and recognition of further current market assessments of the time value of money and losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has the risks specific to the asset.
incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments On adoption of IFRS, the Group retained previous revaluations on behalf of an associate.
of property, plant and equipment at deemed cost as permitted Financial assets by IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial The Group classifies its financial assets into one of the two Reporting Standards.
following categories: loans and receivables or available-for-sale Goodwill financial assets.
Management determines the classification on Goodwill arises on consolidation and is recorded at cost, being initial recognition and they are subsequently held at amortised the excess of the cost of acquisition over the fair value at the date cost loans and receivables or fair value available-for-sale of acquisition of the Groups share of identifiable assets, liabilities financial assets.
Interest on loans and receivables is calculated and contingent liabilities.
Following initial recognition, goodwill is using the effective interest rate method and is recognised in the measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
income statement as interest income.
Changes in fair values of available-for-sale financial assets are recorded directly in equity Goodwill is tested for impairment at least annually by comparing within the unrealised gains and losses reserve.
On disposal, the carrying values of cash-generating units with their recoverable accumulated fair value adjustments recognised in equity are amounts.
recycled to the income statement.
Dividends from  assets sale financial assets are recognised in the income statement as Software other operating income and expenses.
Acquired software licences and software developed in-house are Financial assets are tested for impairment at each balance sheet capitalised on the basis of the costs incurred to acquire and bring date.
If an available-for-sale financial asset is impaired, the to use the specific software.
Costs are amortised over estimated difference between original cost and fair value is transferred from useful lives of three to five years on a straight-line basis.
equity to the income statement to the extent of any cumulative Management contracts loss recorded in equity, with any excess charged directly to the When assets are sold and a purchaser enters into a management income statement.
or franchise contract with the Group, the Group capitalises as part Financial liabilities of the gain or loss on disposal an estimate of the fair value of the Financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost using the contract entered into.
The value of management contracts is effective interest rate method.
A financial liability is derecognised amortised over the life of the contract which ranges from six to when the obligation under the liability expires, is discharged 50 years on a straight-line basis.
Other intangible assets Inventories Amounts paid to hotel owners to secure management contracts Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
and franchise agreements are capitalised and amortised over the shorter of the contracted period and 10 years on a straightTrade receivables line basis.
Trade receivables are recorded at their original amount less provision for impairment.
It is the Groups policy to provide for Internally generated development costs are expensed unless 100% of the previous months aged receivables balances which forecast revenues exceed attributable forecast development costs, are more than 180 days past due.
Adjustments to the policy may at which time they are capitalised and amortised over the life of be made due to specific or exceptional circumstances when the asset.
collection is no longer considered probable.
The carrying amount Intangible assets are reviewed for impairment when events or of the receivable is reduced through the use of a provision account changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may and movements in the provision are recognised in the income not be recoverable.
statement within cost of sales.
When a previously provided trade receivable is uncollectable, it is written off against the provision.
Corporate information and accounting policies 53 Corporate information and accounting policies continued Cash and cash equivalents Borrowings are classified as non-current when the repayment Cash comprises cash in hand and demand deposits.
date is more than 12 months from the balance sheet date or where they are drawn on a facility with more than 12 months to expiry.
Cash equivalents are short-term highly liquid investments with an original maturity of three months or less that are readily Retirement benefits convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to insignificant Defined contribution plans risk of changes in value.
Payments to defined contribution schemes are charged to the income statement as they fall due.
In the cash flow statement cash and cash equivalents are shown net of short-term overdrafts which are repayable on demand and Defined benefit plans form an integral part of the Groups cash management.
Plan assets are measured at fair value and plan liabilities are measured on an actuarial basis, using the projected unit credit Assets held for sale method and discounting at an interest rate equivalent to the Non-current assets and associated liabilities are classified current rate of return on a high quality corporate bond of as held for sale when their carrying amount will be recovered equivalent currency and term to the plan liabilities.
The difference principally through a sale transaction rather than continuing between the value of plan assets and liabilities at the balance use and a sale is highly probable.
sheet date is the amount of surplus or deficit recorded on the Assets designated as held for sale are held at the lower of balance sheet as an asset or liability.
An asset is recognised in full carrying amount at designation and sales value less cost to sell.
when the employer has an unconditional right to use the surplus at some point during the life of the plan or on its wind up.
Depreciation is not charged against property, plant and equipment classified as held for sale.
The service cost of providing pension benefits to employees for the year is charged to the income statement.
The cost of making Trade payables improvements to pensions is recognised in the income statement Trade payables are non interest bearing and are stated at their on a straight-line basis over the period during which any increase nominal value.
To the extent that improvements in benefits vest Loyalty programme immediately, the cost is recognised immediately as an expense.
The hotel loyalty programme, Priority Club Rewards, enables Actuarial gains and losses may result from: differences members to earn points, funded through hotel assessments, between the expected return and the actual return on plan during each stay at an IHG hotel and redeem the points at a assets: differences between the actuarial assumptions underlying later date for free accommodation or other benefits.
The future the plan liabilities and actual experience during the year: or redemption liability is included in trade and other payables and changes in the actuarial assumptions used in the valuation is estimated using eventual redemption rates determined by of the plan liabilities.
Actuarial gains and losses, and taxation actuarial methods and points values.
thereon, are recognised in the Group statement of recognised The Group pays interest to the loyalty programme on the income and expense.
accumulated cash received in advance of redemption of the Actuarial valuations are normally carried out every three years points awarded.
and are updated for material transactions and other material Self insurance changes in circumstances including changes in market prices The Group is self insured for various insurable risks including and interest rates up to the balance sheet date.
general liability, workers compensation and employee medical Taxes and dental coverage.
Insurance reserves include projected Current tax settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims.
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior Projected settlements are estimated based on historical trends periods are measured at the amount expected to be recovered and actuarial data.
from or paid to the tax authorities including interest.
The tax rates Provisions and tax laws used to compute the amount are those that are Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present enacted or substantively enacted by the balance sheet date.
obligation as a result of a past event, it is probable that a payment Deferred tax will be made and a reliable estimate of the amount payable can Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognised in respect of be made.
If the effect of the time value of money is material, temporary differences between the tax base and carrying value the provision is discounted.
of assets and liabilities, including accelerated capital allowances, Bank and other borrowings unrelieved tax losses, unremitted profits from overseas where Bank and other borrowings are initially recognised at the fair the Group does not control remittance, gains rolled over into value of the consideration received less directly attributable replacement assets, gains on previously revalued properties transaction costs.
They are subsequently measured at amortised and other short-term temporary differences.
Finance charges, including issue costs, are charged to the income statement using an effective interest rate method.
54 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GROUP FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is regarded The Group has taken advantage of the transitional provisions of as probable that the deductible temporary differences can be IFRS 2 Share-based Payments in respect of equity-settled awards realised.
The recoverability of all deferred tax assets is reassessed and has applied IFRS 2 only to equity-settled awards granted after at each balance sheet date.
7 November 2002 that had not vested before 1 January 2005.
Deferred tax is calculated at the tax rates that are expected to Leases apply in the periods in which the asset or liability will be settled, Operating lease rentals are charged to the income statement based on rates enacted or substantively enacted at the balance on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease.
Assets held under finance leases, which transfer to the Group Revenue recognition substantially all the risks and benefits incidental to ownership Revenue is derived from the following sources: owned and leased of the leased item, are capitalised at the inception of the lease, properties: management fees: franchise fees and other revenues with a corresponding liability being recognised for the fair value which are ancillary to the Groups operations.
of the leased asset or, if lower, the present value of the minimum lease payments.
Lease payments are apportioned between the Generally, revenue represents sales excluding VAT and similar reduction of the lease liability and finance charges in the income taxes of goods and services, net of discounts, provided in the statement so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the normal course of business and recognised when services have remaining balance of the liability.
Assets held under finance been rendered.
The following is a description of the composition leases are depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful of revenues of the Group.
life of the asset and the lease term.
Owned and leased primarily derived from hotel operations, Disposal of non-current assets including the rental of rooms and food and beverage sales from The Group recognises the sales proceeds and related gain or loss owned and leased hotels operated under the Groups brand on disposal on completion of the sales process.
Revenue is recognised when rooms are occupied and whether the gain or loss should be recorded, the Group considers food and beverages are sold.
whether it: Management fees earned from hotels managed by the has a continuing managerial involvement to the degree Group, usually under long-term contracts with the hotel owner.
associated with asset ownership: Management fees include a base fee, which is generally a has transferred the significant risks and rewards associated percentage of hotel revenue, and an incentive fee, which is with asset ownership: and generally based on the hotels profitability or cash flows.
Revenue can reliably measure and will actually receive the proceeds.
is recognised when earned and realised or realisable under the terms of the contract.
Discontinued operations Discontinued operations are those relating to hotels sold or those Franchise fees received in connection with the license of the classified as held for sale when the results relate to a separate Groups brand names, usually under long-term contracts with line of business, geographical area of operations, or where there the hotel owner.
The Group charges franchise royalty fees as a is a co-ordinated plan to dispose of a separate line of business percentage of room revenue.
Revenue is recognised when earned or geographical area of operations.
and realised or realisable under the terms of the agreement.
Exceptional items Share-based payments The Group discloses certain financial information both including The cost of equity-settled transactions with employees is and excluding exceptional items.
The presentation of information measured by reference to fair value at the date at which the excluding exceptional items allows a better understanding of shares are granted.
Fair value is determined by an external the underlying trading performance of the Group and provides valuer using option pricing models.
consistency with the Groups internal management reporting.
The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, together Exceptional items are identified by virtue of either their size or with a corresponding increase in equity, over the period in which nature so as to facilitate comparison with prior periods and to any performance conditions are fulfilled, ending on the date on assess underlying trends in financial performance.
Exceptional which the relevant employees become fully entitled to the award items can include, but are not restricted to, gains and losses vesting date.
on the disposal of assets, impairment charges and reversals, restructuring costs and the release of tax provisions.
The income statement charge for a period represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised at the beginning and Amounts that have previously been disclosed as special items end of that period.
No expense is recognised for awards that do have now been called exceptional items in accordance with not ultimately vest, except for awards where vesting is conditional market practice.
There has been no change to the Groups upon a market condition, which are treated as vesting irrespective accounting policy for identifying these items.
of whether or not the market condition is satisfied, provided that all other performance conditions are satisfied.
Corporate information and accounting policies 55
