BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Business review In this section we present an overview of our business, including the markets in which we work, our strategy, activities, resources and operating environment.
We also describe the development and financial performance of the business during 2007, main trends and factors impacting the business, together with environmental and employee matters.
6 Business overview 6 Market and competitive environment 7 Strategy 8 Operating model 8 Business relationships 9 People 11 Corporate responsibility 12 Group performance 12 Group results 12 Total gross revenues 13 Global hotel and room count 13 Global pipeline 14 The Americas 16 Europe, Middle East and Africa 18 Asia Pacific 19 Central 20 Other financial information 20 Exceptional operating items 20 Net financial expenses 20 Taxation 20 Earnings per share 20 Dividends 20 Share price and market capitalisation 20 Cash flow 20 Capital structure and liquidity management 21 Asset disposal programme 21 Return of funds programme 22 Risk management The IHG brands and Business review 5 Business review This Business Review provides a commentary on the performance of InterContinental Hotels Group PLC the Group or IHG for the financial year ended 31 December 2007. Business overview Branded v unbranded Market and competitive environment 2006 branded hotel rooms by region as a percentage of the total market Global room capacity The global hotel market has an estimated room capacity of US 67% 18 million rooms.
Room capacity has grown at approximately 3% per annum over the last five years.
Competitors in the Europe, Middle East and Africa EMEA 35% market include other large hotel companies and independently owned hotels.
Asia Pacific 28% The market remains fragmented, with an estimated seven million Source: IHG Analysis, Northstar Travel Management.
branded hotel rooms approximately 40% of the total market.
IHG has an estimated 8% share of the branded market approximately Within the global market, a relatively low proportion of hotel 3% of the total market.
The top six major companies, including rooms are branded: however, there has been an increasing IHG, together control approximately 38% of the branded rooms, trend towards branded rooms.
Branded companies are therefore only 15% of total hotel rooms.
gaining market share at the expense of unbranded companies.
IHG is well positioned to benefit from this trend.
Hotel owners are Geographically, the market is more concentrated with the top increasingly recognising the benefits of working with a group such 20 countries accounting for 80% of global hotel rooms.
Within as IHG which can offer a portfolio of brands to suit the different this, the United States US is dominant more than 25% of global real estate opportunities an owner may have, together with hotel rooms with China, Japan and Italy being the next largest effective revenue delivery through global reservation channels.
The Groups brands have a leadership position top three Furthermore, hotel ownership is increasingly being separated by room numbers in each of the six largest geographic markets, from hotel operations, encouraging hotel owners to use third a greater representation than any other major hotel company.
parties such as IHG to manage or franchise their hotels.
Drivers of growth Other factors US market data indicates a steady increase in hotel industry Potential negative trends impacting hotel industry growth revenues, broadly in line with Gross Domestic Product, with include increased terrorism, environmental considerations growth of approximately 1% to 1.5% per annum in real terms and economic factors such as high oil prices, risk of recession since 1967, driven by a number of underlying trends: and global credit restrictions.
change in demographics as the population ages and Supply growth in the industry is cyclical, averaging between becomes wealthier, increased leisure time and income zero and 5% per annum historically.
The Groups fee-based profit encourages more travel and hotel visits: is partly protected from changes of supply due to its model of increase in travel volumes as low cost airlines grow rapidly: third-party ownership of hotels under IHG management and globalisation of trade and tourism: franchise contracts.
increase in affluence and freedom to travel within the Chinese middle class: and increase in the preference for branded hotels amongst consumers.
6IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007 BUSINESS REVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW Strategy IHGs ambition IHG seeks to deliver enduring top quartile shareholder returns, when measured against a broad global hotel peer group.
IHGs strategy The Groups underlying strategy is that by putting the guest first, IHG will grow a portfolio of differentiated hospitality brands in core strategic countries and global key cities to maximise our scale advantage.
With a clear target for room growth and a number of brands with market premiums offering excellent returns for owners, the Group is well placed to execute the following strategic priorities: Strategic priorities Key performance indicators Current status and 2008 priorities KPIs v 2006 2007 developments Brand performance Global revenue per available Relaunch of Holiday Inn Roll-out of the Holiday Inn To operate a portfolio of brands room RevPAR growth 6.9%: and brand family: brand family relaunch: and attractive to both owners and RevPAR growth premiums International launch of Define and roll-out Hotel guests that have clear market to respective key market Staybridge Suites: and Indigo internationally and positions and differentiation in segments % pt increase continue to build scale in InterContinental positioning the eyes of the guest.
4.4 InterContinental US continued to gain ground, with 1.0 Holiday Inn US advertising driving a material change in consumer intent 0.7 Holiday Inn Express US to stay, up 10% in the year.
3.5 InterContinental EMEA 0.3 Holiday Inn and Holiday Inn Express UK.
Excellent hotel returns Total gross revenue TGR Increased revenue delivery through Integrate reservation channels To generate higher owner growth 17.1%: IHG global reservation channels by to provide a seamless and returns through revenue 19.3% to $6.8bn of global system differentiated experience Continuing operating profit delivery and improved room revenue in 2007, including for guests: margin growth 1.4% pts: operating efficiency.
$2.6bn from the internet: Drive more value from the Priority Club Rewards PCR Industry leading PCR loyalty IHG loyalty programme membership growth 17.6%: programme with 37 million initiatives: and and members, contributing $5.2bn Implement technology Return on capital employed of global system room revenue, upgrades across guest insight, ROCE increased by 4% pts an increase of 16.3%: and owner insight and revenue to 7% for IHGs flagship Strong web presence: delivery systems.
com is the industrys New York, London Park most visited site, with around Lane, Paris Le Grand and 75 million site visits per annum: new Hong Kong.
Market scale and knowledge Progress against 2008 Significant progress against Achieve 2008 growth targets: To accelerate profitable growth growth targets, set in 2008 growth targets: 50,000-60,000 net room growth: in the largest markets where June 2005: TGR growth in US 8.5%, UK 125 hotels in China: the Group currently has scale.
47,419 net room growth: 22.4%, China 31.0%, Japan 15-25 net InterContinental 81 hotels in China: and 269.9%: and hotel additions: and 13 net InterContinental 90% of pipeline focused on Execute agreed strategies hotel additions.
Aligned organisation 2007 employee engagement Defined core purpose Align organisation To create a more efficient of 65%, as defined on page 10 for the organisation behind core purpose of organisation with strong core of this Report.
Great Hotels Guests Love: Great Hotels Guests Love: capabilities.
and Continued to strengthen IHGs senior management team with Increase investment in new regional and functional key countries to compete appointments: and for talent.
Created Winning Ways and Room to be yourself initiatives, as explained on page 9 of this Report, resulting in increased employee engagement.
Source: STR, Deloitte Business review 7
