Business review continued The Group may experience a lack of selected development existing facilities on terms it considers favourable.
The availability opportunities of funds for future financing is, in part, dependent on conditions While the strategy of the Group is to extend the hotel network and liquidity in the capital markets.
through activities that do not involve significant capital, in some The Group is required to comply with data privacy regulations cases the Group may consider it appropriate to acquire new land Existing and emerging data privacy regulations limit the extent or locations for the development of new hotels.
If the availability to which the Group can use customer information for marketing of suitable sites becomes limited, this could adversely affect its or promotional purposes.
Compliance with these regulations results of operations.
in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates may require The Group is exposed to risks related to corporate responsibility changes in marketing strategies and associated processes which The reputation of the Group and the value of its brands are could increase operating costs or reduce the success with which influenced by a wide variety of factors, including the perception products and services can be marketed to existing or future of key stakeholders and the communities in which the Group customers.
In addition, non-compliance with privacy regulations operates.
The social and environmental impacts of business are may result in fines, damage to reputation or restrictions on the under increasing scrutiny, and the Group is exposed to the risk use or transfer of information.
of damage to its reputation if it fails to demonstrate sufficiently The Group is exposed to funding risks in relation to the defined responsible practices in a number of areas such as sustainability, benefits under its pension plans responsible tourism, environmental management, human rights The Group is required by law to maintain a minimum funding and support for the local community.
level in relation to its ongoing obligation to provide current and The Group is exposed to the risk of litigation future pensions for members of its pension plans who are entitled The Group could be at risk of litigation from its guests, customers, to defined benefits.
In addition, if any plan of the Group is wound joint venture partners, suppliers, employees, regulatory authorities, up, the Group could become statutorily liable to make an franchisees and or the owners of hotels managed by it for breach immediate payment to the trustees to bring the funding of these of its contractual or other duties.
Claims filed in the US may defined benefits to a level which is higher than this minimum.
include requests for punitive damages as well as compensatory The contributions payable by the Group must be set with a view damages.
Exposure to litigation or fines imposed by regulatory to making prudent provision for the benefits accruing under the authorities may affect the reputation of the Group even though plans of the Group.
the monetary consequences are not significant.
Some of the issues which could adversely affect the funding of The Group may face difficulties insuring its business these defined benefits and materially affect the Groups funding Historically, the Group has maintained insurance at levels obligations include: determined by it to be appropriate in light of the cost of cover poor investment performance of pension fund investments and the risk profiles of the business in which it operates.
However, which are substantially weighted towards global equity forces beyond the Groups control including market forces, may markets: limit the scope of coverage the Group can obtain as well as the long life expectancy which will make pensions payable Groups ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates.
Other for longer and therefore more expensive to provide : forces beyond the Groups control, such as terrorist attacks or natural disasters may be uninsurable or simply too expensive adverse annuity rates which tend in particular to depend to insure against.
Inadequate or insufficient insurance could on prevailing interest rates and life expectancy as these will expose the Group to large claims or could result in the loss of make it more expensive to secure pensions with an insurance capital invested in properties, as well as the anticipated future company: and revenue from properties, and could leave the Group responsible other events occurring which make past service benefits more for guarantees, debt or other financial obligations related to expensive than predicted in the actuarial assumptions by such properties.
reference to which the Groups past contributions were assessed.
The Group is exposed to a variety of risks associated with its ability The trustees of the UK defined benefit plan can demand increases to borrow and satisfy debt covenants to the contribution rates relating to the funding of this pension The Group is reliant on having access to borrowing facilities plan, which would oblige the relevant members of the Group to to meet its expected capital requirements and to maintain an contribute extra amounts to such pension funds.
The trustees efficient balance sheet.
The majority of the Groups borrowing must consult the plans actuary and principal employer before facilities are only available if the financial covenants in the exercising this power.
In practice, contribution rates are agreed facilities are complied with.
If the Group is not in compliance between the Group and the trustees on actuarial advice, and are with the covenants, the lenders may demand the repayment of set for three year terms.
The last such review was as at the funds advanced.
If the Groups financial performance does 31 March 2006. not meet market expectations it may not be able to refinance its 24 IHG Annual Report and Financial Statements 2007
