International Power Annual Report 2007 79 CASE STUDY WIND GENERATION IPR European wind portfolio, Canunda, Germany, Italy, France and the Netherlands South Australia Wind turbines are being used increasingly The rotor, shaft, gearbox and generator, and to harness the naturally produced energy sometimes the first transformer, are located generated by wind.
The turbines use a in a housing, called a nacelle, on the top of the three-bladed rotor with slender, tapered tower.
The nacelle is turned on a platform at aerofoil sections that can be adjusted to the top of the tower so as to face the wind.
optimise performance, according to wind The tower is usually made of tubular steel speeds or to stop the machine by stalling sections but occasionally a lattice like a or turning out of the wind.
The rotor is transmission pylon or hollow concrete tower fixed on the end of a horizontal shaft, is used.
The whole system is controlled by attached to the support tower, which drives computers within each tower, which continually a gearbox.
This in turn drives a smaller adjust the blade pitch and monitor for faults, IPR European wind portfolio, shaft at higher speeds inside a generator.
operating hours and power output.
The Germany, Italy, France The rotor is upwind of the tower to avoid computers are also linked to a control centre, and the Netherlands the shock waves to the rotor that would where all machines can be monitored and otherwise occur as each blade passes the controlled remotely.
All of International Powers wind turbines are The voltage from a wind turbine is only 690 of the types described above, made by leading volts a small multiple of household voltage manufacturers.
Mostly they have been acquired so it is increased via transformers to make it after construction, and the operations and suitable for transmission to the local grid.
maintenance is generally contracted out to a combination of the original developers and manufacturers.
International Power does, however, still take an active role in the management of its wind farm portfolio and is one of the worlds leading owners of wind turbines.
