International Power Annual Report 2007 23 CASE STUDY PRODUCING FRESH WATER THROUGH DESALINATION Only 6% of the water on earth is fresh Power stations usually have waste heat.
Hence, water and a large proportion of this fresh combining power plants with desalination plants water is frozen in polar ice caps, mountain is a logical and economically attractive solution snow and glaciers or remains underground.
and this has been successfully applied, especially Any water with dissolved solid content of in the Middle East, thereby maximising the up to 600mg litre is considered to be efficient use of fuel.
The majority of our drinkable.
Water becomes significantly less desalination plants use a thermal process palatable when total dissolved solids exceed to produce fresh water.
1,000mg litre, so historically, this has led Reverse osmosis is the most common to the development of population centres membrane process used for desalination.
The around sources of fresh water such as technique involves pumping seawater at pressure Hidd, Bahrain rivers and springs.
The Over the last 50 years, advances in desalination membrane allows the water to pass through technology have made it possible to convert whilst restricting any dissolved salts, which get large quantities of saline water, from seas and left behind in the remainder of the seawater.
oceans, into fresh water suitable for drinking and Energy is required in the form of electricity for agriculture.
Desalination of seawater has played driving the pumps, but no heat is used as there a significant part in the growth and development is no evaporation process.
The efficiency of the of arid regions such as the Middle East and has process is improved by employing energy offered security of water supply to its residents.
recovery devices to draw energy from the pressurised return water stream.
Water desalination technologies can be broadly divided into two processes, thermal and International Power is actively engaged in membrane.
Thermal processes such as multi seawater desalination across a number of plants Umm Al Nar, UAE stage flash distillation MSF and multi effect in the Middle East such as Shuweihat S1 and distillation MED involve adding heat to Umm Al Nar in Abu Dhabi, Hidd power station seawater until part of it evaporates into water in Bahrain and Ras Laffan B in Qatar.
This, in turn, is condensed into high International Power has interests in a total quality fresh water called distillate.
The process capacity to produce over 500 MIGD of fresh is carried out over several stages and, by water, enough to fill approximately 550 adjusting the pressure to keep the water Olympic-sized swimming pools per day.
boiling and vaporising in each cycle, the We operate some of the largest desalination performance and efficiency of the process is facilities around the world e. g. Umm Al Nar improved.
The distillate produced is so pure 143 MIGD and Shuweihat S1 100 MIGD.
that to make it suitable for drinking it has to At Shuweihat the desalination units each have a be re-mineralised by adding certain chemicals capacity of 16.7 MIGD, making them the largest such as calcium carbonate.
MSF units in commercial operation worldwide.
