64 Senior management team SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Peter Barlow Edward Metcalfe Peter is the head of corporate finance for International Edward manages operations and engineering and Power and is responsible for funding and bank has 34 years experience in the industry.
Peter joined us in 1998 and has been appointment in July 2006, he was executive managing involved in corporate finance, project finance and director of Arabian Power Company and was previously treasury activities since that time.
responsible for our operations in South Australia, specifically Pelican Point, Synergen and SEA Gas.
Penny Chalmers Penny is head of global resources.
She is responsible Sean Neely for Group human resources, information technology Sean heads up mergers and acquisitions.
He is a and corporate communications.
Penny has 20 years chartered accountant with 16 years experience in the experience in the energy sector and has been with power sector.
He joined us in October 1998, and has a us since 1997. background in project finance and investment banking.
Gareth Griffiths Stephen Ramsay Gareth manages global trading, with responsibility Stephen is our Company Secretary and General for our trading operations in the UK, US and Australia.
He joined the Company in 1996, after He has 15 years experience in the industry and was 10 years as a solicitor in private practice, first working previously Vice President, Marketing and Trading for at National Wind Power and then in the international our North American business.
legal group before becoming Company Secretary in October 2000.
Vince Harris OBE Vince is the head of our Asia region and was previously Ranald Spiers head of one of the UKs first cogeneration businesses Ranald is head of our Middle East and Africa region.
prior to becoming CEO of HUBCO in Pakistan.
He has He has been with us for 15 years, having previously nearly 40 years experience in the power generation worked for the BP Group for 12 years across a wide industry.
Vince was awarded his OBE in 2007 for spectrum of industries, including petrochemicals, services to British industry in Pakistan.
detergents, oil refining, downstream gas, advanced materials and aerospace.
International Power Annual Report 2007 65 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 Peter Barlow 2 Penny Chalmers 3 Gareth Griffiths 4 Vince Harris OBE 5 Edward Metcalfe 6 Sean Neely 7 Stephen Ramsay 8 Ranald Spiers
