International Power Annual Report 2007 97 DIRECTORS REPORT Introduction Share capital The Directors submit their report and the International The Companys share capital consists of Ordinary Shares of 50p each Power plc Group and parent company audited financial which rank pari passu with each other in respect of all rights, including statements for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The dividend, voting and return of capital.
The Company has an unclassified principal activity of International Power plc the Company share of 1.00 and 21 deferred shares of one pence each, which carry is to act as the holding company for a group of companies no rights.
and a number of associated companies and joint ventures During the period 1 January 2007 to 31 December 2007 the Company the Group.
The principal activities of the Group are the did not purchase any of its Ordinary Shares.
generation and sale of electricity, and closely related activities such as district heating and desalination.
Resolutions will be proposed at the 2008 AGM to renew for a further year the Directors general authority to allot shares: to renew for a year Business review the partial disapplication of shareholders statutory pre-emption rights The Company is required to present a fair review of the business and over Ordinary Shares: and to renew the authority to purchase a the Group during the year ended 31 December 2007 and of the proportion of the Companys shares.
position of the Group at the end of the financial year and a description An explanation of these and other resolutions being proposed at the of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group known as 2008 AGM will be provided in the Notice of AGM, which will be sent a Business Review.
The information that fulfils the requirements to shareholders during April 2008. of the Business Review can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report: Shares held in trust Business and financial review: pages 8 to 60: As at 31 December 2007 253,990 Ordinary Shares of the Company were held in trust for the benefit of employees of the Company and Current Directors biographical details and Directors who served its subsidiaries.
These shares had a nominal value of 126,995 and a through the year: pages 62 and 63: market value of 1,151,845.
The employee share plan for which these Corporate governance: pages 67 to 71: shares may be utilised is the 2002 Performance Share Plan.
Employees: pages 80 to 82: Employee share schemes Directors remuneration: pages 83 to 95 No employee share schemes have any rights regarding control of the Company.
which are incorporated in this review by reference.
Substantial shareholdings Dividend As at the date of this report, the Company is aware of interests in 3% Following the payment of the 2007 interim dividend of 2.77p per or more of the issued share capital of the Company on behalf of the Ordinary Share, paid on 30 October 2007, the Directors propose to organisations as shown in the table below.
pay a final dividend of 7.39p per Ordinary Share in respect of the year Substantial shareholdings Number of shares ended 31 December 2007, making a total dividend for 2007 of 10.16p 2006: 7.9p.
172,827,826 11.49% Charitable and political donations Invesco Perpetual 95,854,537 6.38% The Group does not make political donations.
Details of charitable Legal and General Group plc 60,765,891 4.04% donations are set out in the Corporate responsibility section on Standard Life 58,397,077 3.88% pages 77 and 78.
Fidelity Management & Research Co. 55,475,789 3.69% Research and development Pure research is not a core element of the business of the Company.
Going concern For the period under review, the Company did not undertake any The Directors are satisfied that the Company and the Group have expenditure on research and development.
The Company will look adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable future.
to take advantage of technical advances as they arise and will continue Accordingly, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis to seek to develop power stations in the regions in which the Group for the preparation of the financial statements.
operates making effective use of current and new technology as and when available.
98 Directors report Disclosure of information to the auditor The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of this information.
Auditor A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company and to authorise the Directors to agree the auditors remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Amendments to the Companys Articles of Association Any amendment to the Companys Articles of Association requires a special resolution 75% majority to be passed at a duly held meeting of the shareholders.
Appointment and replacement of Directors The Board has the power to appoint and replace any Director.
Any Director appointed by the Board has to offer him her self for re-election at the Companys next AGM.
The Companys shareholders may by ordinary resolution simple majority appoint or remove any person as Director.
All Directors offer themselves for re-election every three years.
There is no agreement in place between the Company and any of the Directors providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Restrictions and transfers of securities There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company or on voting rights except in the circumstances set out in the Articles of Association of the Company for example, failure to disclose interest in shares and non-payment of calls.
Significant agreements There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control.
Prompt payment policy The Company aims to observe the highest standard of business practice as both a buyer and seller of products and services.
The Companys average number of days outstanding in respect of trade creditors at 31 December 2007 was 33 days.
By order of the Board Stephen Ramsay Company Secretary 5 March 2008
