96 Our core values OUR CORE VALUES FINANCIAL DISCIPLINE INTEGRITY OF COMMUNICATION RESPECT FOR THE INDIVIDUAL SAFE BEHAVIOUR TEAM FIRST CULTURE FIRST is translated into practical guidance through Respect for the individual International Powers business policies.
These cover the International Power is staffed at all levels by highly skilled professionals with communications, environment, health and safety, equal a range of expertise.
Mutual respect is a key priority, demonstrated by: opportunities, procurement, ethical business practices, respecting the opinions of colleagues: conduct in the community and charitable contributions.
A Board-approved staff handbook, the International Power zero tolerance for physical or verbal abuse: Code of Business Conduct, which incorporates all relevant hiring new professionals with not only the right competences, but International Power policies to guide the Companys activities also the proper attitude and work ethic to integrate within in all regions, has been distributed throughout the Group.
International Power: Financial discipline applying equal opportunities to all, regardless of nationality, gender, Our aim of long-term financial success depends upon financial discipline.
ethnicity or religion: While as a growing Company we are entrepreneurial in our approach operating our business to the highest professional standards with to investments, we are aware of our duty to protect and enhance zero tolerance for any person who compromises these standards.
While we do not guarantee lifetime employment, we do believe every Financial discipline means: International Power professional should have ample opportunity to use making realistic risk assessments to value potential investments: his or her existing skills and develop new ones to the full.
If circumstances change, International Power and the individual will work not overpaying for assets we acquire or develop: together to find a mutually acceptable solution.
ensuring that risk can be managed and properly priced: Safe behaviour cutting out extravagance and waste in business-related expenditures, It is relatively easy to introduce corporate policies and procedures which including administrative and overhead costs.
demand compliance, but in essence all unsafe acts or omissions can be avoided if the right attitude and a safe behaviour is automatically applied Integrity of communication to everything we do.
International Power is managed on the basis of honesty, integrity, openness and fairness in business dealings, both internally and externally.
This safe behaviour will deliver our goal of zero accidents and zero Good business decisions are based on full and good quality information incidents whilst at work and can equally apply when not at work.
We presented clearly and concisely, in time, and with neither a positive nor therefore need to understand the right things to do and make sure that negative bias.
This applies equally to information flowing to and from they are performed properly, with no short-cuts or excuses in short, management.
We seek to build sustainable business relationships based to behave safely all day, every day.
Team first culture We will ensure that any corporate reports and any other external Our business has evolved from a technology-driven industry into one communications are complete, understandable and truthful and reflect in which technical skill, project development expertise, construction and the proper operations of the business.
At the same time, we will respect procurement know-how, trading capability, financial, IT, legal, human our confidentiality obligations.
resources, communications, accounting and tax acumen all play a substantial part.
Such a complex business depends upon teamwork, with each employee bringing his or her individual skills and expertise to the fore.
Teamwork requires complete sharing of necessary information, inclusion rather than exclusion and a lend a hand philosophy at all levels of the organisation.
Meeting our customers needs calls for us to be customerfocused and responsive.
We want our customers to know our team and respect its capabilities and performance.
