9am Cadw the Welsh Assembly Governments historic environment division An engineer uses the new 3D AutoCAD system to design a support framework for the preservation of a historic building.
6am British Airways Engineers undertake work on the hydraulics of the specialised platform used in maintaining BAs aircraft fleet.
10am 7am United Utilities Operatives complete the commissioning of a new pumping station, filter system and backwash treatment plant to enhance the performance and capacity of a water treatment works.
Reuters Security personnel oversee the check-in of Reuters staff as they enter the building for their working day.
8am 11am ITV, Belfast London Borough A specialist lift engineer of Croydon checks the operation A manager discusses the of an alarm unit on a work needed to prepare lift as part of a the Town Hall for a programme of planned meeting of councillors maintenance.
1am 4am Metropolitan Defence Estates, MoD Police Service Maintenance engineers Operatives deploy work on the boiler equipment to preserve controls in an RAF bunker evidence at a crime forming part of the scene, working alongside estate managed under police conducting the the South East Regional investigation.
Midnight 3am Highways Agency A team of engineers 5am manages the installation of expansion-joints and associated waterproofing on a new bridge forming North Cumbria Acute part of a major trunk Hospital Trust road.
A porter takes a patient through to the radiology department at Cumberland Infirmary BAA where clinical staff will A manager checks the take X-rays.
work on a shop refit at Heathrow airport.
Refits usually take place at night to minimise the loss of amenity for passengers.
2am Contractor to the Highways Agency High load-capacity trusses and props are put in place according to Interserves design during the construction of a series of motorway viaducts.
5pm CB Richard Ellis An Interserve customer service employee answers the questions of a visitor to the shopping centre 2pm and provides information on the facilities available.
4pm Midday Property developer Several different falsework products are brought together to create a framework BT that supports a historic Works progress in the faade while new creation of one of BTs buildings are created 21st Century Network Her Majestys behind it.
Interserves input Prison Service includes electrical and Work is completed on a HVAC services, back-up new cell block in the power supply and the extension of a prison sophisticated alarm.
through a contract under the new-build framework agreement.
1pm 3pm Cornwall County Council A maintenance operative adjusts a heating valve in one of the schools created as part of a PFI contract.
Central Networks An electrical engineer makes the connection on an insulator to ensure that the supply can be switched back on following routine maintenance on overhead lines.
10pm 8pm MoD Warship Support Agency Engineers adjust the settings on a control Borough of Telford panel at the Fleet & Wrekin Accommodation Centre, Reception staff at the Plymouth, in the Armada Hadley Learning PFI contract.
Community use the IT system to make a booking in the sports facility for a member 6pm of the public.
Urenco A specialist welder at Interserves fabrication facility completes a joint in a stretch of new pipework to be used in a nuclear power plant.
11pm MoD A nurse an Interserve employee at Welbeck the Defence Sixth Form 9pm College talks to a student before admitting her to the colleges medical centre.
Chelsea Football Club A steward helps a visitor locate his seat at a home 7pm match while another keeps a watchful eye on the crowd.
Bank of New York A cleaner puts the finishing touches to the reception desk at the prestigious Mellon Centre, where standards of cleanliness are critical to the facilitys image.
