Directors report Business review The directors of Interserve Plc present their report and the audited financial statements and notes for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Principal activities Interserve is a services, maintenance and building group.
We create buildings and other structures for our clients in the public and private sectors: we maintain many different types of buildings, the operational systems that support them and a range of plant and equipment in specialist fields: and we coordinate a host of background services for our clients to keep their operations running smoothly and efficiently, allowing them to concentrate on their core business.
Describing these buildings and other environments collectively as assets defines our role as supporting our clients by providing a range of services across the asset life cycle.
There is more detail on pages 2 and 3, and the principal companies of the Group, together with details of their individual activities and locations, may be found on pages 105 to 109.
Strategy Established client relationships in our core markets, together with our growing exposure to international markets, are fundamental to the Groups strategic positioning, conferring good visibility and providing stability throughout the economic cycle.
We can deliver the best value to our clients when combining several services.
This may be during one phase in the lifetime of an asset, such as where we supply a suite of support services in live operational facilities, or across several phases from early design through construction and into ongoing facilities management FM.
Our understanding of clients objectives and practices, combined with the breadth of skills and resources at our disposal across the asset life cycle, enable us to tailor the services we offer to meet individual client needs.
We believe that our existing markets offer significant opportunities through the long term and that our position in Providing security for Reuters them, built on the model above, is strong.
The main thrust of The Reuters Building at Canary Wharf, London, is the companys UK our strategy is therefore to develop each of our businesses headquarters and is home to more than 2,000 Reuters staff.
At such organically, based on the cultivation of long-term and mutually a high profile location security is a prime concern and Reuters uses beneficial relationships with our clients.
The breadth of our Interserve throughout the building and its environment to ensure the service capability means that we can extend and develop many safety of its staff and visitors.
of these relationships, offering enhanced value for money We are active 24 hours a day providing a range of services.
We man the through removing unnecessary interfaces and generating central security point and monitor the CCTV cameras, we issue Reuters mutual stability.
Many of our management skills are portable staff with their photo identification badges and check them into the and can be brought to bear on new sectors.
building, and in the loading bay we supervise entry and exit, including checks underneath vehicles to ensure that no suspicious packages are In addition to our core organic strategy we maintain a constant attached.
Our responsibilities also cover external patrols in the areas review of the market to identify further potential acquisitions.
These are intended to add value by extending the range of In addition to its normal function as a workplace the building is used services we can offer existing clients or by enabling us to regularly for special events such as receptions and conferences.
Our provide current services to clients in new sectors.
We role includes providing security for the guests and, in particular, for significantly enhanced our market reach and service scope with any VIPs attending.
the acquisition of MacLellan in 2006.
During 2007 we completed Interserve Plc Annual report 2007 11
