Board of Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 30 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 1 Vanni Treves 67 4 Richard Nelson 65 7 Christopher Knight 61 Chairman Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board in January 2001, Appointed Non-Executive Deputy Chairman Appointed to the Board in March 2006. he became Chairman in April 2001.
He is in April 2005 after retiring as Chief Executive He was an investment banker for nearly a corporate solicitor and was a Partner Officer of the Group, a position he had held 30 years, for much of that time with of a major London law firm, Macfarlanes, since the acquisition from lnchcape plc in Morgan Grenfell and Deutsche Bank, for 30 years.
He has been Chairman of three 1996.
Prior to that he was Chief Executive of which he was a managing director until listed companies, Channel Four Television Officer of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd from 2001.
He has extensive corporate finance and London Business School and is currently 1987 and before then of Transcontinental experience gained during his banking career Chairman of Equitable Life Assurance Society, Services Ltd, which was bought by lnchcape in London, New York and Hong Kong.
Korn Ferry International UK Limited and plc in 1985.
A Chartered Accountant, he is A Chartered Accountant, he is Chairman of the National College for School Leadership.
also Chairman of Wogen plc.
Brooks Macdonald Group plc and NB Real He is also a Senior Advisor to Oliver Wyman, Estate Group Limited and a Non-Executive a leading management consultancy, and a 5 David Allvey 62 Director of Lloyds Register Holdings.
Trustee of the J Paul Getty Charitable Trust.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive 8 Mark Loughead 48 2 Wolfhart Hauser 58 Director in May 2001.
With a career that Chief Operating Officer Chief Executive Officer started in civil engineering, as a Chartered Appointed to the Board and appointed Appointed to the Board as Chief Executive Accountant, he has held positions in major Chief Operating Officer COO of Intertek Officer in March 2005 after serving as international businesses including Group Group plc on 1 January 2008.
As COO, he a Non-Executive Director since November Finance Director for BAT Industries and leads the global integration of sales, key 2002.
He was previously Chief Executive Barclays Bank plc and Chief Operating account management, global information Officer of TV Product Services for ten years Officer for Zurich Financial Services.
He is systems and country-focused activities and Chief Executive Officer and President currently Chairman of Costain Group plc and across the Group.
Previously, he was Chief of TV Sddeutschland AG from 1998 Arena Coventry Ltd and a Non-Executive Executive of Interteks Oil, Chemical & Agri to 2002.
Starting his career as a scientist Director of Resolution Plc, William Hill plc division.
Before this, he was Vice President in pharmacology and ergonomics, he and Thomas Cook Plc, and is a former board of the division in the Americas and prior to established and led a broad range of member of the UK Accounting Standards Board.
that, divisional Vice President in Europe, successful international service industry Middle East and Africa.
He joined the Group businesses over 25 years.
He is also currently 6 Debra Rade 54 in 1988 as Operations Manager in Liverpool a Non-Executive Director of LogicaCMG plc.
Non-Executive Director and in 1993 he was promoted to Regional Appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Manager for Scotland, based in Aberdeen.
3 Bill Spencer 48 Director in January 2006.
Between 1989 and Prior to joining Intertek, he spent 13 years Chief Financial Officer 2002, she was an officer of Underwriters at Inspectorate including six years in the Appointed to the Board as a Director in Laboratories Inc. a global provider of product Middle East.
1996, he has been Chief Financial Officer of safety testing and certification and held the Group since its acquisition from Inchcape various positions there, including Chief Legal plc in 1996.
Previously, he was Finance Officer, Senior Vice President of External Director of lnchcape Testing Services Ltd, Affairs and Chief Administrative Officer.
She Chief Financial Officer of the Oil, Chemical is currently Of Counsel to Katten Muchin & Agri division for Europe, Middle East Rosenman LLP a major national US law firm.
and Africa and has held financial positions in Olivetti UK Ltd, Rexam PLC and Centrica plc.
He is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants and a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Appointed to the Board of Intertek Testing Services Ltd which was the previous parent company prior to the Group reorganisation and appointed to the Board of Intertek Group plc in April May 2002.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 31
