Directors Report The Directors of Intertek Group plc have pleasure in presenting their Purchase of own shares Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2007.
At the AGM held in 2007, shareholders generally and unconditionally authorised the Company to buy back up to 10% of its own ordinary Business review shares by market purchase until the conclusion of the AGM to be The Company has set out a Business and Financial Review in this held this year.
No such purchases have been made to date pursuant report which contains a fair review of the business of the Group to this authority.
The Directors will seek to renew this authority for during the financial year ended 31 December 2007 and a description up to 10% of the Companys issued share capital at the forthcoming of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group.
This power will only be exercised if the Directors are satisfied of this review is to inform members of the Company and help them that any purchase will increase the earnings per share of the assess how the Directors have performed their duties.
The information ordinary share capital in issue after the purchase and, accordingly, that fulfils the Business Review requirements can be found in the that the purchase is in the interests of shareholders.
The Directors following sections of the Annual Report which are incorporated will also give careful consideration to gearing levels of the Company into this report by reference: and its general financial position.
Any shares purchased in this way may be held in treasury which, the Directors believe, will provide Key performance indicators on page 19 and the Business and the Company with flexibility in the management of its share capital.
Financial Review incorporating principal risks and uncertainties Where treasury shares are used to satisfy share options or awards, affecting the Group on pages 10 to 24 and in note 26 to the they will be classed as new issue shares for the purpose of the 10% financial statements.
limit on the number of shares that may be issued over a ten-year period under our relevant share plan rules.
Principal activities The Groups principal activities continued to be the provision Directors of quality and safety services to a wide range of global and The Directors who held office during the year are set out below.
In addition, Mark Loughead was appointed on 1 January 2008.
Dividends and reserves Vanni Treves Chairman Note 19 to the financial statements sets out details of dividends and Richard Nelson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman movements on reserves during the year.
The Directors recommend Wolfhart Hauser Chief Executive Officer a final dividend of 12.2p per share 2006: 10.2p making a full year Bill Spencer Chief Financial Officer dividend of 18.0p per share 2006: 14.8p which will, if approved at David Allvey Senior Independent Non-Executive Director the AGM, be paid on 19 June 2008 to shareholders on the register Christopher Knight Non-Executive Director at close of business on 6 June 2008.
Raymond Kong Non-Executive Director retired 11 May 2007 Debra Rade Non-Executive Director Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions relating with details of the movements in the Companys issued share capital to the retirement, election and re-election of Directors.
during the year, are shown in note 18 to the financial statements.
There are no special restrictions on the transfer of the Companys Mark Loughead has been appointed since the last AGM and shares, which are admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchange therefore will offer himself for election at the forthcoming AGM.
and may be traded through the CREST system.
Vanni Treves and Richard Nelson, having not been re-elected at Allotment of own shares either of the previous two AGMs, retire by rotation and, being At the AGM held in 2007, the shareholders generally and eligible, offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
unconditionally, authorised the Directors to allot relevant securities up to approximately one-third of the nominal amount of issued Short biographies of all the Directors are set out on page 31. share capital, for a period of five years, under section 80 of the Companies Act 1985.
This authority was not exercised during Raymond Kong had a contract with Intertek Testing Services Pacific the year and the Directors currently have no intention to do Limited for the provision of consultancy services up to the date so although it is their intention to renew this authority, for up to of his retirement and Richard Nelson may occasionally undertake one-third of the nominal amount of issued share capital, at the special project work for the Group.
Details of these service forthcoming AGM.
arrangements are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 42 and in note 28 to the financial statements.
With these exceptions, Also at the AGM in 2007, the Directors were empowered by the other than employment contracts, none of the Directors of the shareholders to allot equity securities, up to 5%, for cash under Company had a personal interest in any business transactions of section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
It is intended that this the Company or its subsidiaries.
The terms of the Directors service authority be renewed, up to 5%, at the forthcoming AGM.
contracts and the Directors interests in the shares and options of the Company in respect of which transactions are notifiable to the Company under the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2. are disclosed in the Remuneration Report on pages 42, 45 and 46.
Directors indemnities The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Group to attract and retain the services of the most able and experienced Directors by offering competitive terms of engagement, including the granting of indemnities on terms consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Act were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended 31 December 2007 for the benefit of the then Directors and, at the date of this report, are in force for the benefit of the Directors in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur or have incurred in connection with their duties, powers or office.
Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 37 Directors Report Continued Employment Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group and Parent Information on the Groups employment practices is contained Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that within the Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages law, they are required to prepare the Group financial statements 26 and 27.
Information on employee share schemes appears in the in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 46. adopted by the European Union IFRSs and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company financial statements Policy and practice on payment of suppliers in accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law The Group does not follow a single standard on payment practice UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
but has a variety of payment terms with its suppliers.
Payment terms are agreed at the commencement of business with each supplier The Group financial statements are required by law and IFRSs and it is the policy of the Group that payment is made accordingly, as adopted by the EU to present fairly the financial position and subject to the terms and conditions being met.
The Company has performance of the Group: the Companies Act 1985 provides no trade payables.
in relation to such financial statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to financial statements giving a true Substantial shareholdings and fair view are references to their achieving a fair presentation.
As at 1 March 2008, the Company has received the following notifications of disclosable interests in the Companys voting rights The Parent Company financial statements are required by law to give in issued ordinary share capital pursuant to the Disclosure and a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Parent Company.
Transparency Rules: In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company financial Major shareholder Number of shares Percentage of voting rights statements, the Directors are required to: Eminence Capital, LLC 7,884,091 5.0% select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: HBOS 7,705,008 4.9% make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: F & C Asset Management plc 7,566,858 4.8% for the Group financial statements, state whether they have been Legal & General Group plc 6,347,087 4.0% prepared in accordance with IFRSs: Prudential Plc & The Prudential for the Parent Company financial statements, state whether Assurance Co. Ltd 5,953,194 3.8% applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject AXA S. A. and its subsidiaries 5,446,519 3.5% to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Parent Company financial statements: and Newton Investment Management prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless Limited 4,819,461 3.1% it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the Parent Company will continue in business.
Save for the above, at the date of this report no other person has reported an interest notifiable under the Disclosure and The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records Transparency Rules.
that disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial instruments and risk financial statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
An indication of the Companys financial risk management objectives They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are and policies in respect of the use of financial instruments, and its reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and exposure to credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk is set out in the to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Business and Financial Review on pages 22 to 24 and in note 26 to the financial statements.
Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report Charitable and political donations and Corporate Governance Report that comply with that law and The Group made charitable donations of 68,000 in 2007 those regulations.
The Group did not make any political donations in 2007 2006: nil.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys Disclosure of information to auditors website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation Report confirm that, so far as they are aware, there is no relevant in other jurisdictions.
audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to Annual General Meeting have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any The Notice of the AGM, to be held on Friday 9 May 2008, is set relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys out in a letter to shareholders from the Chairman which will be auditors are aware of that information.
The Notice will detail the business to be conducted at the meeting and include information concerning the deadlines Auditors for submitting proxy forms and in relation to voting rights.
The auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and a resolution that they be reappointed will be By order of the Board proposed at the forthcoming AGM in accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985.
Fiona Evans Group Company Secretary Statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and the financial statements 10 March 2008 The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report Registered Office and the Group and Parent Company financial statements 25 Savile Row in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
London W1S 2ES Registered Number: 4267576 38 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007
