Our Marketplace Our market has grown strongly as our customers expand product lines, increase speed to market and keep up with changes in regulation.
Intertek growth Our growth is a result of our clear and effective growth strategy.
Intertek labs and offices A global presence Revenue 1 by region 21,300 110 1 Asia Pacific 35% 2 Americas 35% 3 Intertek people Countries 3 EMEA 30% 2 16.7% 3,100 Revenue growth in 2007 New employees in 2007 4 Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 1 2 1 Paris 2 Kuala Lumpur Customer demands Creating value Our customers look to us as partners that By utilising Interteks resources, we add value to will help them meet their safety and our customers products and processes.
A global perspective Local knowledge, global network Drawing in world-class resources and capabilities through our Our global network of more than 1,000 offices and laboratories network of laboratories wherever and whenever theyre needed.
serving customers in more than 100 countries means that we are able to deliver the most comprehensive solutions in a range of diverse markets.
Speed and responsiveness Equipped to service our clients A partner who understands the importance of time-to-market to Our expanding range of high specification laboratory equipment help customers gain a competitive edge.
coupled with experienced scientists and engineers is at the disposal of our clients.
By outsourcing their quality and safety needs to Intertek, our customers can dedicate their primary energies to their core business activities.
Expertise Expertise An appreciation of local legislation and in-depth industry know-how, By combining a legacy of innovation and creative thinking with offering customers a one-stop-shop for all their safety and quality detailed knowledge of local legislation, culture, industry and market requirements.
conditions, our people are in the best position to understand the needs of our customers and deliver time-critical, optimised solutions to meet those needs.
Quality of service Respected and recognised marks By offering one global, consistently exceptional service, adapted to Intertek offers one of the broadest ranges of certification and local needs.
accreditation marks to help our customers services or products be accepted in markets around the world.
Intertek the mark of quality A symbol can speak volumes.
With a recognised safety mark on your product you can meet regulatory requirements, win new customers and open up markets.
We have a comprehensive suite of safety marks: ETL mark for US S mark, BEAB mark, GS mark and CE mark for European access ASTA Diamond mark accepted across Europe, Asia and beyond Intertek Group plc Annual Report 2007 5
