Business review Chan Galbato CEO and President, Controls CONTROLS Controls is a leading global provider of components, systems, and 2007 2006 % change % total at CER change services used in the appliance, heating, air conditioning, refrigeration and residential markets.
Orders m 741 797 4 7 Revenue m 737 788 4 6 Markets Operating profit m 65 64 3 2 Controls markets around the world have, in general, remained uncertain throughout the year.
In North America, demand for smoke Operating margin % 8.8 8.1 and carbon monoxide alarms and thermostats has been affected Operating cash flow m 54 48 15 13 by the downturn in the US new residential construction market.
Employees at year end numbers 12,681 13,921 9 However demand from the US appliance and HVAC market has remained strong as our customers generally have a larger exposure to the residential remodelling market, which has not been as significantly affected by the downturn in the new residential construction market.
The US new residential market accounts for some 10% of Controls revenue.
In the rest of the world, market conditions during the year were generally favourable.
F F E E A D D Developments The improved operating performance at Controls is gaining C A B momentum with a broad range of actions being taken to address the operational issues that have affected the results of the business C in recent years.
B During the year, we have improved the quality of our management information which has enabled us to better assess the performance of each product group and to facilitate remedial actions.
This has identified a number of areas of underperformance that had not REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY DESTINATION been apparent and has enabled management to produce clear plans to deal with the issues.
A Appliance 53% A United Kingdom 10% B Residential property 19% B Rest of Europe 26% Our increased commitment to research and development has led to C Discrete manufacturing 13% C North America 48% a significant increase in new product introductions, which have been D Commercial properties 7% D South America 7% well received by customers and helped to strengthen relationships.
E General industries 5% E Asia Pacific 8% F Utilities & power 3% F Africa and Middle East 1% The continued progress in operational efficiency, on-time delivery and product quality allowed us to enter price discussions with many of our customers for the first time in several years.
These discussions have led to a series of price rises across most of our product groups in the second half of the year and the impact of these rises has helped to mitigate the effect of recent raw material price inflation.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 35 Controls has made good progress in breaking what was a long-term negative trend in performance through a focus upon operational improvement that allowed price conversations with customers.
We are continuing to consolidate and optimise our manufacturing Outlook footprint where economically sensible.
During the year, the transfer Controls has made good progress in breaking what was a of production from Japan to China progressed well and is nearing long-term negative trend in performance through a focus upon completion.
Our European Appliance business has continued to operational improvement that allowed price conversations with review its high cost manufacturing base and in March initiated customers.
Market conditions are expected to continue to be discussions with employee representatives and local trade unions uncertain in most regions particularly in North America, where the regarding our intention to close down the manufacturing facility US new residential construction market is not expected to improve located in Lomazzo, Italy.
Since the year end, we have also initiated during 2007.
Some raw material prices are expected to increase discussions regarding our intention to end manufacturing operations further in the year.
However, key product penetration in other in Thyez, France: these discussions do not affect the research and regions, the ongoing benefits from exiting low margin areas and development activities carried on at that site.
focus on operational improvements are expected to drive further improvements in performance in the new financial year.
Performance Overall orders for the year were down 4% at CER to 741 million 2006: 797 million mainly due to the previously announced loss of the EDF contract at IMServ and the disposal of small contracting businesses: excluding the effect of these items, orders rose 3% at CER.
Reported revenue followed a similar trend, falling 4% at CER to 737 million 2006: 788 million : excluding the effect of the above items, revenue also rose by 3% at CER.
Operating profit rose to 65 million 2006: 64 million, an increase of 3% at CER.
The significant effect of raw material price inflation was offset by the effect of price rises, improved operational efficiency within the manufacturing plants and the absence this year of external consultancy costs.
As a result, operating margin improved to 8.8% 2006: 8.1%.
Operating cash flow was 54 million compared to 48 million in 2006 with lower disbursements relating to the earlier product recalls.
Following successful management of the two product recalls that were announced in prior years, Controls was able to release 5 million from the provision made in 2005.
36 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007
