Jeff Greene President, Eurotherm EUROTHERM Eurotherms commitment is to provide market leading control and 2007 2006 % change % total at CER change automation solutions, and to help customers meet the demands of the statutory regulations and validation requirements for their Orders m 111 119 5 7 industry.
The Eurotherm offering includes consultancy in the initial Revenue m 109 118 5 8 project planning phase, solution and system design, project Operating profit m 13 16 16 19 management, installation, onsite services and operator training.
These services are supported by market leading products ranging Operating margin % 11.9 13.6 from sensors and measurement indicators, through process and Operating cash flow m 12 15 13 20 power controllers to graphical paperless data recorders and Employees at year end numbers 1,123 1,126 integrated process automation equipment.
Eurotherm has global expertise in many industrial markets with dedicated specialists in some key areas including life sciences, glass manufacturing, heat treatment of metals for industries such as aerospace and automotive, metals and plastics.
Markets F F A E In our traditional markets in Western Europe and North America, E D the general trend whereby customers are transferring their D industrial manufacturing capacity to low-cost countries is inhibiting A Eurotherms growth in those regions.
In North America, strength C in the semiconductor equipment and extrusion machinery markets C was offset by weak markets in plastics and durable goods.
In B B Western Europe, life sciences is seeing good growth but other markets, particularly heat treatment and glass, remain challenging.
In contrast, market growth in Eastern Europe and Asia Pacific continues on a strong upward trend, especially in China where the rate of GDP growth continues to exceed expectations.
REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY DESTINATION Developments A Discrete manufacturing 44% A United Kingdom 14% During the year Eurotherm has continued to implement a major B Heat treatment 17% B Rest of Europe 47% restructuring programme to enable us to capture the expected C General industries 14% C North America 22% growth in certain industries and regional markets and to address D Pharmaceutical 8% D South America 2% issues within our manufacturing cost base.
E Utilities & power 6% E Asia Pacific 13% F Other 11% F Africa and Middle East 2% In addressing key industrial markets, Eurotherm has set in place dedicated global vertical sales and marketing teams, notably within heat treatment and life sciences.
Our product and solutions offerings have been enhanced by the introduction of new industrial controllers, graphic recorders and system components to support the offering.
26 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Business review During the year Eurotherm has continued to implement a major restructuring programme to enable us to capture the expected growth in certain industries and regional markets and to address issues within our manufacturing cost base.
Reducing our manufacturing cost base has involved migrating Outlook manufacturing and assembly from Western Europe to new The benefits from the actions being taken by the management team facilities in Poland and Shanghai, China.
Also we continue the to restructure the business should gradually become evident during process of transferring much of our component manufacturing the current financial year.
The dedicated sales approach should enable into our supply chain.
The pace of this restructuring has been Eurotherm to capture more business within our traditional markets slower than anticipated but is not expected to materially affect and the new presence within Poland and China should help us to the final outcome of the programme.
participate in the regional growth.
Performance The delays in implementing our restructuring programme have had a relatively minor impact on the performance of the business during the year.
Although orders for the year were reduced by 5% at CER to 111 million 2006: 119 million, 10 million of this decline was attributable to the motor drives distribution agreement which ceased in November 2005.
The remaining Eurotherm underlying business has seen a 2 million increase in orders over the period caused in part by increased systems business.
Revenue of 109 million 2006: 118 million was 5% lower at CER, principally due to the 10 million reduction in motor drives revenue.
Operating profit fell to 13 million 2006: 16 million, a decrease of 16% at CER.
The fall of 3 million arose mainly due to the lost contribution from the reduced motor drives revenue.
Operating margin fell to 11.9% 2006: 13.6% the fall in margin again reflects the lost contribution from the motor drives business.
Operating cash flow fell to 12 million, compared to 15 million in 2006.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 27 16.04.07: 13.22 GMT 15.22 local time Kolding, Denmark Pump and Heat Exchanger Manufacturing facility Our manufacturing facility at Kolding of our quality components produces hygienic pumps and heat to improve the manufacturing exchangers which are used in a processes in their global facilities.
APV variety of industries from heavy We also provide support and offshore to complex pharmaceutical.
services to their operations on Pernille Jensen Both products are supplied to a worldwide basis.
Product Sales Assistant Danone, who use a broad spectrum Business review Brian McCluskie President, APV APV APV is a global supplier of process engineering and automation 2007 2006 % change % total at CER change solutions to the dairy, food, beverage, pharmaceutical and healthcare industries.
From the supply of engineered components through to a Orders m 448 419 10 7 complete process plant equipped with latest automation technology, Revenue m 421 388 11 9 it specialises in helping its customers to improve their plants Operating profit m 16 performance and profitability which is maintained throughout the life time of the plant by a range of support services, carefully tailored Operating margin % 3.8 to its customers needs.
Operating cash flow m 18 6 255 200 Employees at year end numbers 2,944 2,760 7 Markets APVs markets for Products, Spares and Services PSS and projects have remained robust during the year with strong demand arising from its focus upon a large installed base and the levels of capital expenditure especially within the global food and beverage, pharmaceutical and chemicals industries.
The significant increase in demand for large industrial plate heat exchangers continues F A E F D to offer good opportunities across several market sectors such C as power generation and desalination, although APVs ability to capture this growth is being hampered by a shortage of titanium E A B B supply.
From a geographic perspective the market is evenly divided between Europe, North America and Asia Pacific and in line with D GDP growth expectations the Asia Pacific region is expected to C exhibit the highest growth.
Developments APV has been undertaking a variety of restructuring measures during the year to alter the mix of its business in order to achieve a more REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY DESTINATION stable and profitable financial performance.
The profitability of its project business has been improved by better execution and A Food, beverage & dairy 70% A United Kingdom 3% rejecting contracts which are low margin or have high execution risk.
B General industries 16% B Rest of Europe 44% At the same time it has been addressing its large installed base and C Utilities & power 7% C North America 16% has increased PSS revenue significantly.
This rebalancing of the D Oil & gas upstream 3% D South America 4% business has created a much more stable platform going forward.
E Pharmaceutical 2% E Asia Pacific 24% F Other 2% F Africa and Middle East 9% However APVs product sales have been constrained during the year by the pricing and shortage of certain raw materials, especially stainless steel and titanium.
In particular, despite some success in securing additional supplies of titanium, this shortage has prevented it from accepting some orders for large industrial plate heat exchangers thereby suppressing order growth.
Further investment has been made in a new plate component which is expected to Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 29 APV is in a much stronger position than it has been for several years and the continued self-help and further restructuring with regards to the business mix should lead to increased consistency in performance.
open up a new sector of the industrial market as well as providing Outlook more efficient usage of titanium.
APV is in a much stronger position than it has been for several years and the continued self-help and further restructuring with An additional production facility was opened in Poland during regards to the business mix should lead to increased consistency the year in order to expand capacity to meet the increased in performance.
demand for products and spares.
The key trends in the dairy industry, including plant consolidation, Performance product traceability and plant productivity, provide good APVs restructuring over the past couple of years is beginning opportunities for APV in automation, plant modifications and to yield results with a considerable improvement in overall product.
The emerging markets continue to provide good prospects performance.
Orders for the year rose 10% at CER to 448 million for projects growth and the increase in the heat transfer business 2006: 419 million, the increase being driven by large project looks set to continue, with APV making investments in industrial wins in North America, Belgium, Denmark and the UK and a large plate heat exchanger designs, further manufacturing capacity and service contract in New Zealand.
The PSS intake has been impacted alternative materials research.
by the ongoing shortage in global supply of titanium, resulting in a significant reduction in large industrial plate heat exchanger orders.
Good growth in PSS revenue and strong project trading in North America, Europe, China and Japan led to an increase in revenue of 11% at CER to 421 million 2006: 388 million.
Operating profit rose substantially from break even in the prior year to 16 million in 2007 due to the growth in higher margin PSS business and an improvement in executed project margins.
As a result, operating margin improved to 3.8% from break even in the prior year.
The operating cash flow rose to 18 million, compared to 6 million in 2006.
This was driven by good working capital management in the final quarter of the year.
30 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 16.04.07: 06.20 GMT 08.20 local time Madrid, Spain Dimetronic Our Dimetronic employees This includes the new ERTMS system Invensys Rail Group are responsible for the design, that will provide standardisation and installation, testing, commissioning interoperability of trains in Europe.
and maintenance of the signalling Manuel fide Dompablo systems on more than 500 km of Manufacturing Technician Spanish high speed lines.
