Group overview Transportation part of Invensys Rail Group Invensys Rail Group IRG is a multinational leader in the Westinghouse Rail Systems Australia design, manufacture, supply, installation, commissioning and Combining Westinghouse Signals Australia with Foxboro maintenance of safety-related rail signalling and control systems, transportation, both respected brands, the business is Australias as well as a complete range of rail signalling products.
Our offering leading manufacturer and supplier of railway signalling and control includes integrated SCADA management information systems, state equipment.
It has also become a specialist in the South East Asia of the art interlocking safety solutions designed with high-speed region with facilities in Indonesia, Malaysia and Thailand.
data link capability for rapid communication with a range of control centre solutions software for signalling design, integrated electronic Safetran Systems control centre equipment, and trackside products.
The demand Safetran Systems is a major supplier to the US railroad and transit for capacity on various networks continues, and signal engineering markets.
In addition, it is also the leading supplier of grade crossing control systems which safely improve the frequency of trains are warning systems.
The division also has some responsibility for therefore becoming increasingly important.
servicing the IRG export business.
The global business in rail signalling automation is highly regionalised Burco Services and, as such, the business of the Rail Group is largely channelled Burco Services, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Safetran Systems has through its regional businesses, all of which hold leading positions established itself as the leader in providing warehousing, packaging, in their markets.
inventory management and logistical services in the US and Canada.
Westinghouse Rail Systems Westinghouse Rail Systems is the leading supplier of signalling systems for mainline and mass transit railways in the UK.
It also has partial responsibility for expanding the IRG export offering with strong references in Europe and in the Far East.
Dimetronic Signals Dimetronic Signals, based in Madrid with facilities in Barcelona, Valencia, Lisbon and Porto, is the leading supplier of signalling and control systems for both mainline and mass transit railways in the Iberian peninsula.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 5 OUR BUSINESSES CONTINUED Controls The Controls business group is a global provider of control devices Water heating and HVAC for products in residential homes and commercial buildings with Controls develops products used in the water heating and HVAC strong positions in its served markets.
Its objective is to become heating, ventilation and air conditioning markets.
Its offering the number one value provider to its customers.
includes reversing valves, solenoid valves and humidistats for cooling and gas valves and energy regulators for heating.
Below we have listed our major markets.
Asia Pacific Appliance Controls provides a broad range of products and services including Controls supplies components and assemblies for cooking, HVAC, cooking, safety, food equipment, refrigeration, laundry, water refrigeration, laundry and dishwashing goods used in both heating and transportation to the Asia Pacific market.
They market the commercial and residential sectors.
In addition they offer the products under the various well-regarded brands.
a speciality design service and the first software-driven design, specification and testing system for controls.
IMServ This UK based business specialises in energy data management.
Safety and thermostat IMServ provides, installs and maintains energy meters and provides Controls produces residential alarms such as smoke or carbon automatic and manual capture of the data they provide.
It also produces a variety of ambient customers include retailers, banks, manufacturing businesses, thermostats used in both commercial and residential properties.
utility companies, building and construction firms and governments.
6 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 16.04.07: 16.54 GMT 17.54 local time Chippenham, UK Westinghouse Rail Systems In addition to designing signalling capacity by almost 50%.
Working Invensys Rail Group and control systems for UK projects, closely with local Chinese companies, our engineers at Chippenham Westinghouse has been involved Ashraf Khan designed the Automatic Train Control since 1989 and will be involved in system installed in the Beijing Metro the programme to introduce six Assurance Engineer network, which reduced headway new lines by 2010. by a third and increased passenger
