Paulett Eberhart CEO and President, Process Systems PROCESS SYSTEMS Process Systems provides products, services and solutions for 2007 2006 % change % total at CER change the automation and optimisation of plant operation in the process industries.
Process Systems occupies a top three position in the Orders m 845 798 9 6 distributed control system, Human Machine Interface HMI safety, Revenue m 779 725 11 7 and simulation markets: its products are installed in over 100,000 Operating profit m 104 81 33 28 plants across the world.
It is at the forefront of technological innovation, serving process and batch industries including oil and Operating margin % 13.4 11.2 gas, petrochemicals, power and utilities, specialty chemicals and Operating cash flow m 94 79 23 19 life sciences, metals and mining, and also the discrete and hybrid Employees at year end numbers 7,245 6,853 6 manufacturing sectors.
Process Systems also provides regulatory compliance and business systems solutions and services for the pharmaceutical, biotech, healthcare and life sciences industries.
Its core brands are Foxboro, SimSci-Esscor, Triconex, Avantis, Wonderware and InFusion.
Markets A F F Global demand within Process Systems core industries has increased B A thus driving the necessity for growth in capacity through the creation E of new greenfield sites and through efficiency improvements at E existing sites.
D D Its upstream and downstream oil and gas and petrochemicals B C C markets continue to see good growth due to increased capital spend supported by crude oil and natural gas prices remaining at high levels as well as the increasing demand for energy sources globally.
The utilities and power generation markets are also growing due to the expansion of capacity, particularly in Asia Pacific, as well as REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY DESTINATION continued increasing demand in North America and Western Europe.
Finally, its specialty chemicals and life sciences markets continue to A Oil & gas upstream 31% A United Kingdom 3% see production increases driven largely by growth in demand in B General industries 19% B Rest of Europe 24% Asia Pacific.
C Petrochemicals 16% C North America 36% D Utilities & power 12% D South America 6% Developments E Oil & gas downstream 11% E Asia Pacific 20% In April 2006, Process Systems launched InFusion, its enterprise F Other 11% F Africa and Middle East 11% control system that enables the integration of all plant floor systems with an enterprises business information systems.
The global marketing roadshow was successful in generating interest from over 500 customers around the world and the product has gained traction with several major orders secured during the year from clients such as Bechtel, Xcel Energy and Huntsman.
InFusion systems was also recognised by two major industry publications with the subscribers of Control Engineering voting it an Engineers Choice winner for 24 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Business review Global demand within Process Systems core industries has increased thus driving the necessity for growth in capacity through the creation of new greenfield sites and through efficiency improvements at existing sites.
2006 and Plant Engineering recognising it as one of the Products projects and several large InFusion projects.
Orders from the seven of the Year.
global key accounts were up only 4% versus the prior year mainly due to the timing of several large project bookings.
The development of new product enhancements and the positioning of the Process Systems offering expanded to promote services and Revenue for the year increased by 11% at CER to 779 million 2006: solutions to the installed base have been successfully progressed 725 million.
This growth was principally driven by Asia Pacific, up across all parts of the business.
At the December 2006 North 35% at CER, and EMEA, up 4% at CER.
The significant growth in Asia American customer conference attended by nearly 600 customer Pacific can be attributed to continued growth in China, the execution participants, product enhancements were launched to the Triconex of several major project bookings in ASEAN and South Korea and the safety system and the Avantis asset management system.
For the Reliance refinery project.
Similarly the EMEA strength was due to a eleventh consecutive year, the readers of CONTROL magazine have stronger backlog conversion from several large project bookings again rated Triconex as the top manufacturer of Safety Emergency across the region, particularly in France, Italy and Germany.
Shutdown Systems for the process control and automation industry.
In addition the latest wireless technology is attracting interest as it is Operating profit rose 33% at CER to 104 million 2006: 81 million beginning to overcome the reluctance of some customers who have due to the higher revenue, improved sales mix and a particularly previously cited security issues as a major barrier to adoption.
good margin performance in Asia Pacific and EMEA.
Operating cash flow On 3 May 2007, we announced the signing of a definitive agreement was 94 million 2006: 79 million with the effect of the higher to acquire Cimnet, Inc. a Manufacturing Execution System MES operating profit being offset slightly by working capital software company based in Pennsylvania, US.
Invensys has agreed requirements on the higher volume.
to pay approximately US$24 million on a debt cash free basis.
The agreement has been approved by the Board of Cimnet and Outlook completion is expected to take place by the end of July 2007.
In Process Systems, we do not anticipate any major changes in Completion is subject to certain customary conditions including demand in its global markets in the coming year.
The continued Cimnet stockholder approval: stockholders representing increase in global demand for oil and gas should ensure that this approximately 51% of Cimnets outstanding shares have entered market continues to grow despite commodity price increases and into voting agreements to support its acquisition by Invensys.
Its other markets should remain buoyant, especially in the core industries of petrochemicals, power, Performance pharmaceuticals and specialty chemicals.
The growth in the emerging Process Systems delivered a good performance with orders for the markets of Asia Pacific, especially China and India, the Middle East year rising 9% at CER to 845 million 2006: 798 million.
Asia Pacific and Eastern Europe will continue to be driven by major new witnessed particularly strong growth where orders rose by 23% at construction.
CER compared to last year, helped by the contract from Reliance for automation and safety systems to be installed into what will be the The services side of the automation market remains good and worlds largest refinery in Jamnagar, India: this refinery will also have is a great area of opportunity.
Despite the strong market, many one of the worlds largest Foundation Fieldbus installations.
Orders in customers are still looking for improvements in operational EMEA were up 5% at CER with some significant orders in the oil and efficiency and competitiveness.
In addition, the InFusion enterprise gas sector in the Middle East.
Orders in South America were up 17% control system is gaining market momentum and is being recognised at CER including significant projects from PDVSA in Venezuela.
In as an innovative product by the market and industry analysts.
North America, orders were up only 6% at CER with some recovery in the second half of the year: year on year growth can be attributed to large project bookings, particularly with two significant Triconex Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 25
