OUR BUSINESSES Industrial Automation Process Systems Eurotherm Process Systems provides products, services and solutions for Eurotherms commitment is to provide market leading control the automation and optimisation of plant operation and is at the and automation solutions, and to help customers meet the forefront of technological innovation.
It serves process industries demands of the statutory regulations and validation requirements such as oil and gas, hydrocarbons, chemicals, power and utilities, for their industry.
metals and mining, and also the discrete and hybrid manufacturing sectors such as pharmaceutical, biotech, healthcare and life sciences.
The Eurotherm offering includes consultancy in the initial project Its engineering services and technologies help production facilities planning phase, solution and system design, project management, across the world and across many different industries achieve more installation, onsite services and operator training.
These services are productivity, more efficiency and greater safety.
supported by market leading products ranging from sensors and measurement indicators, through process and power controllers Process Systems contains some of the markets leading brands.
to graphical paperless data recorders and integrated process Foxboro produces intelligent field instrumentation, distributed automation equipment.
control systems DCS, and supervisory control and data acquisition SCADA systems which are well-respected throughout Eurotherm has global expertise in many industrial markets with the world.
Our Triconex products are based on industry-leading dedicated specialists in some key areas including life sciences, Triple-Modular Redundant TMR industrial safety-shutdown glass manufacturing, heat treatment of metals for industries technology for critical control and turbomachinery applications.
such as aerospace and automotive, metals and plastics.
SimSci-Esscor is the leader in development and deployment of advanced plant and process simulation software and systems, APV while the Avantis brand provides comprehensive enterprise Operating worldwide, with employees in over 45 countries, APV asset management software EAM solutions.
provides the food, dairy, beverage, brewing, healthcare, power, chemical, biotechnical and petrochemical industry customers with Wonderware is the worlds leading supplier of industrial automation manufacturing solutions and process equipment.
It provides a unique and information software which transforms data into vital plant range of highly functional solutions and products that address key information to power intelligent plant decisions in real time.
The business drivers, such as advanced technology products, production ArchestrA software architecture is used to integrate software and efficiency, development expertise, maintenance management and hardware from any vendor, significantly reducing a plants total cost regulatory compliance.
of ownership through easy installation, operation, modification, maintenance and replication of automation applications.
All these APVs business is divided between project and technology, and is capabilities are utilised within Invensys InFusion enterprise control committed to helping the customers to improve the performance system ECS technology, which for the first time makes it easy and profitability of their manufacturing plant and processes, and and cost effective for our customers to integrate all existing plant Products, Spares and Services PSS, which provides service, and information assets into a common system.
maintenance and products for the installed base.
APVs product range includes pumps, valves, homogenisers and heat exchangers, along with an extensive range of products for fluid handling and automation.
4 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007
