James Drummond CEO and President, Rail Group RAIL GROUP Rail Group is a multinational leader in the design, manufacture, 2007 2006 % change % total at CER change supply, installation, commissioning and maintenance of safety-related rail signalling and control systems, as well as a complete range of rail Orders m 549 504 11 9 signalling products.
The global business in rail signalling automation Revenue m 516 438 20 18 is highly regionalised, and as such the business of the Rail Group is Operating profit m 80 65 24 23 largely channelled through its regional businesses, all of which hold leading positions in their markets.
Operating margin % 15.5 14.8 Operating cash flow m 135 92 48 47 Markets Employees at year end numbers 3,154 2,909 8 During the year UNIFE, the Association of European Railway Industries, commissioned Roland Berger to carry out a World Market Study for the industry which highlighted a variety of trends.
The world rail market is expected to grow at 2% above inflation per annum from 2005 to 2015, with signalling growing at 1.6% per annum over the same period.
The signalling and rail control market is estimated to be 7 billion, with Western Europe and Asia Pacific E C identified as the largest markets.
Signalling growth to 2015 is likely to contract slightly in Western Europe but strong real growth per A annum is expected to be seen in Latin America 7%, Africa and C B the Middle East 5% and Asia Pacific 4%.
Growth in mass transit signalling is expected to be significantly higher than growth in A mainline signalling, with the three regions of strong growth B showing particularly large variation.
Rail Groups core markets have remained stable throughout the year.
In the UK, Network Rail continues to spend on improving the infrastructure and its award of three Category A framework REVENUE BY SECTOR REVENUE BY GEOGRAPHY DESTINATION agreements to us during the year should provide us with a sound base.
The European Union EU infrastructure spending in Spain A Engineering and Contracting 69% A United Kingdom 40% is likely to be reduced but 14 billion of EU funds have been B Products 18% B Rest of Europe 23% earmarked for rail investment between now and 2013 in the C Logistics 13% C North America 28% member states that have joined since 2004.
According to the Roland D South America 0% Berger study, the NAFTA Rail Controls Systems market, estimated E Asia Pacific 9% at 700 million, is expected to grow at 0.9% per annum until 2015.
F Africa and Middle East 0% Developments During the year, our UK rail business Westinghouse was formally awarded three out of the available six Category A large signalling renewal framework agreements by Network Rail.
Two major contracts for projects under these framework agreements were signed during the year and the third contract has been signed since the year end.
Work continues on the 14 year 960 million Public 32 Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 Business review The levels of planned investment in rail infrastructure within Rail Groups core markets should provide a sound base for future operating performance as it seeks to establish itself selectively in new markets.
Private Partnership contracts to install new signalling and train Outlook control systems on approximately two thirds of the London The levels of planned investment in rail infrastructure within the Underground and we continue to monitor the situation closely.
Rail Groups core markets of UK, Iberia and the US should provide In addition, Westinghouse has received the contract for signalling a sound base for future operating performance.
In addition, the Rail on the new extension to the East London Line in the UK.
Group is seeking to establish itself selectively in new markets, where there is expected to be a significant increase in spending on The Iberian market remained strong throughout the year with work signalling and train controls systems.
proceeding on several high speed line projects and it also won the first order for European Rail Traffic Management System technology in a suburban commuter environment.
In the US, the anticipated benefits of the signing of the Transportation Bill last year have been slower to materialise than expected but this has been offset by an improvement in orders for signalling as the railroad companies have focused on increasing capacity.
In export markets, Rail Group continues to examine potential opportunities to capture the anticipated increase in global rail infrastructure spend, particularly in higher growth regions.
Amongst those regions some have been identified as potential core strategic markets, namely India, Latin America, Africa and the Middle East, China and South East Asia.
It is also seeking additional engineering resources outside its core markets to mitigate potential capacity constraints.
Performance A good performance from our core markets resulted in orders for the year rising 11% at CER to 549 million 2006: 504 million.
Despite the delay in the formal signing of one of the three initial contracts for large projects under the Network Rail Category A framework agreements, the full year book-to-bill ratio was 106%.
Revenue growth was particularly good in the UK, Spain and Australia, and overall revenue rose by 20% at CER to 516 million 2006: 438 million.
Operating profit rose to 80 million 2006: 65 million, an increase of 24% at CER, reflecting the increase in revenue.
This produced a higher than normal operating margin for the year of 15.5% 2006: 14.8% due to the benefit of increased volume and improved mix.
The increased profitability and strong receipts on long-term contracts resulted in an operating cash flow of 135 million, compared to 92 million in 2006.
Invensys plc Annual report accounts 2007 33 16.04.07: 21.03 GMT 16.03 local time Houston, US Equity Drive office Employees at our Equity Drive at the Lower Colorado River Authority Invensys Process Systems office are responsible for power facility.
This wholesale electricity engineering and supporting many power provider, serving Central Texas, Invensys applications, including the has been recognised as one of the Jennifer Iglio Foxboro I A Series control system, lowest cost coal fired producers in the Application Engineer which, along with our Triconex safety state and credits Invensys with helping system and SimSci-Esscor training to facilitate this.
