World class engineering We employ approximately 20,000 people across the world, providing high-value consultancy, engineering and project management services.
We have long-term relationships with our customers, who value our skills and ability to deliver projects safely, on time and on budget.
They recognise our expertise in working on complex assets, in often harsh conditions.
Here, we take a look at just some of the things that make AMEC a leading force in engineering... Natural Resources Power and Process Earth and Environmental In 2007, AMEC celebrated ten years of being AMEC has been providing engineering AMEC has been selected to perform in Baku, Azerbaijan.
We are proud of the support to the UKs nuclear reactor environmental impact analyses EIAs in story of our involvement in the country, programme over the last 40 years.
Many some of the most challenging and sensitive where we have worked with local of these reactors have now exceeded their areas of the world.
Examples during 2007 companies and transferred technology original design lives.
It is both of national include a liquefied natural gas deepwater and skills to the local workforce to deliver interest and good business practice that port proposed 30 miles off the Southern long-term benefits to the local economy.
these reactors continue safely to generate California coast: a proposed tungsten and electricity into the future and we are proud molybdenum mining operation in South In September 2007, AMEC celebrated the that our world class skills in reactor Korea and an unprecedented 17 state sail-away, ahead of schedule, of the services are making an important environmental impact statement for a Azerbaijan International Oil Companys contribution.
proposed 17,000 mile network of natural 12,700 tonne process, compression, gas pipelines in the US.
water injection and utilities facility.
For irreplaceable components such as Azerbaijan is an emerging market, in a the graphite cores, we have developed AMEC has also provided world class remote location with limited resources, analytical models to substantiate continued consultancy services to enable the clean up and extreme climate.
By bringing together safe functionality, validated by extensive test of former military firing ranges in difficult our international expertise with the local work in our facilities.
In Hawaii, our capabilities that we have developed with work has resulted in the removal of around During 2007, we developed a world class joint venture partners, we are able to 13 tonnes of lead from ranges located in the strategy for life extension and lifetime achieve world class standards in build crater of Diamond Head volcano, whilst at planning for the advanced gas cooled quality and project management.
We have Browns Island, a saltwater marshland on reactors AGRs owned and operated helped to develop a sustainable oil and gas the North Carolina coast, developmental by British Energy.
This has applied the services business in Azerbaijan, which in aerial techniques have been employed to guidelines developed by the US Electric future will be able to supply engineering identify locations most likely containing Power Research Institute mainly for light services and skilled resources to oil surface or buried unexploded ordnance water reactors to the specifics of the companies throughout this growth region.
This methodology also can be AGR technology.
Through the alliance used to safely survey areas littered with with AMEC, British Energy expects to see landmines to guide reacquisition ground year on year measurable improvement crews, thereby reducing risk to UXO in AGR performance.
00 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 2200007 7 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 10 2 4 08 10:28:33 World class engineering Its how we put those project management skills, those engineering skills to use that makes us different.
The people that we have working for us, the skills, the knowledge thats been built up over the years is second to none.
Neil Wem, Operational Excellence Programme Director, based in the UK.
I think AMECs expertise is with its people and its professionalism, its experience and track record, its ability to deliver and deliver consistently and reliably to customers.
Nick Walters, Operations Manager, based in the UK.
Clients arent expecting us to be perfect.
What theyre expecting though is competency, consistency, honesty, an ethical approach and if we do happen to make mistakes, which everybody does, we dont run from them, we turn them into wins.
Michael Davies, Vice President, based in Canada.
We have one client who still speaks our praises for one of our projects, and I think hes the best salesman we have.
Isabel Cellis, Graduate Engineer, based in Canada.
Neil Wem Operational Excellence Programme Director 00 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 2200007 7 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
