Power and Process Description of business Principal activities: This division is focused on the power and process markets, principally in the UK and the Americas, and the nuclear market globally.
The business designs, delivers, enhances and maintains infrastructure for a broad range of customers in the public and private sectors.
20-30 per cent of Power and Process revenues in 2007 were generated by fixed price contracting work.
Lump-sum Engineer Procure Construct EPC contracts are only entered into in selected markets where the balance of risk and reward is acceptable.
Principal locations: Atlanta US : Darlington, Knutsford UK : Santiago Chile : Toronto, Vancouver Canada.
Customers include: AWE, BIOX Corporation, British Energy, Bruce Power, Cargill, CMPC, EDF, Enbridge, Kimberly-Clark, Koch Georgia Pacific, National Grid, Ontario Power Generation, RWE, SABIC, Scottish Power, Southern Company, TXI, and Wales and West Utilities.
Significant contracts in 2007 included: Long-term contracts with National Grid for replacement of UK gas and electricity infrastructure and with Bruce Power, Canada, for nuclear reactor restarts: installation of clean-air systems on coal-fired power plants for both Southern Company and Nevada Power in the US and Scottish Power and RWE in the UK: engineering and project management services on three nuclear power plants in the UK for British Energy: and a long-term framework contract for turnaround management for SABIC in the UK.
Didier Pfleger Chief Operating Officer, Power and Process 3300 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 3311 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 30 1 4 08 15:55:54 Power and Process F ocus on margin improvement not revenues Power '%%, gdje :7 I6 Eg cX eVa VXi k i Zh This sector comprises the generation of electricity from all sources '%%, Y k h dcVa gZkZcjZh other than nuclear, together with electricity transmission and ' EdlZg % EgdXZhh VcY EgdXZhh distribution.
Here, AMEC provides consulting and feasibility studies ' EdlZg through to detailed engineering, project management, construction, ' CjXaZVg EPC contracting and commissioning services.
"These services are performed in the following segments: n Fossil fuel power generation, including clean-up of emissions :mXajY c i]Z ckZhibZcih VcY di]Zg VXi k i Zh Y k h dc# n Renewables power generation, including wind and hydro c bb ed &&- &&, 9 Wd][ GZkZcjZ '""&& $', ."
#, ', n High voltage power transmission services, including refurbishment of aging infrastructure :7 I6.
- n Low voltage power distribution services, including sub-station design, installation and inter-connections.
"CZi a VW a i Zh -$& # "" DgYZg Wdd` '$, Xd &# %Wc "" The majority of services are performed for regulated utilities and industrial companies, primarily in the UK and Americas."
"Customers 6kZgV Z cjbWZg d[ ZbeadnZZh, ""- !, &, value AMECs familiarity with their assets and the ability to provide :mXajYZh dcZ""d[[ Xdhih d[ HI:E 8]Vc Z d[ # b aa dc '%% c a # :jaa i bZ Zfj kVaZcih!"
cXajY c V ZcXn hiV[[# innovative solutions.
The UK business is based in Darlington and has locations across the UK.
In the Americas, AMEC operates from over a dozen offices across North and South America.
A range of projects are entered into, from low risk reimbursable through to higher risk lump-sum.
The business is focused on pursuing growth through lower risk projects, with fixed price work being undertaken on a selective basis, where the overall balance of risk and return is attractive.
L eading market p ositions on both sides of the Atlantic 3300 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 3311 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 31 1 4 08 15:55:54 Power and Process continued Markets In 2008, the total accessible market in AMECs chosen power sectors Higher spending over the period 2007-2012 is anticipated in fossil and is estimated to be 4.4 billion, principally in the UK and the Americas renewable power generation and electricity transmission.
As indicated source: AMEC estimates.
AMEC has leading market positions in in the chart below, annual growth rates range from 10 per cent in power certain segments such as the high voltage transmission line and AQCS generation and air quality control systems AQCS and 12 per cent in market in the UK, the Canadian wind engineering and construction power transmission, to five per cent in the power distribution market.
market, and AQCS regionally in the Americas.
Power: accessible market Strategy Power and Process strategy in the power sector over the next two years 86 G, !%%% will focus on the following actions: !%%% n Substantially expand activities in the renewables segment of power &' !%%% generation particularly wind farms, and other higher growth markets such as AQCS and transmission !%%% n Expand service offerings with existing power customers and !%%% partners through dedicated key account management &% '!%%% n Leverage environmental and feasibility studies into the execution &!%%% phases of projects.
'%&% '%&& '%&' Process ZcZgVi dc VcY 6F8H V g fjVa in Xdcigda hnhiZbh IgVchb hh dc 9 hig Wji dc Process covers a broad range of industries, but principally gas 8dbedjcY VccjVa gdli] gViZ processing and transmission, pulp and paper, petrochemicals, cement and biofuels.
Source: AMEC The business has major locations in Atlanta and Minneapolis US, This investment in power infrastructure reflects: Darlington UK, St Johns, Toronto and Vancouver Canada, Santiago n Overall demand growth for electricity and shifts between Chile and operates from over a dozen offices across North and South generation fuel types America and locations across the UK.
Most contracts are based either on framework, cost plus or target price.
Lump-sum EPC contracts n Aged assets safety concerns are only entered into for selected customers as part of a broader portfolio of services.
n A drive to meet national and international emissions controls and pollution control legislation Gas n Increasing grid interconnection and the requirement to connect The gas sector includes AMECs activities in high pressure gas import new renewable generation assets.
terminals, storage and transmission, and low pressure gas distribution.
AMEC is the UK market leader in high pressure gas transmission and storage services, and occupies a top three position in low pressure gas distribution.
3322 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 3333 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 32 1 4 08 15:55:55 b aa dc Power and Process #1 in UK high pressure gas transmission and storage AMECs centre of excellence for gas is in Darlington, UK, with project In downstream process AMEC has a leading position in the UK for offices throughout the country.
Services include front-end as well turnaround projects, managing complicated shutdowns of detailed engineering, project and programme management and petrochemical and refinery plants.
The companys capability to manage construction management.
the full scope of such projects is recognised by major oil and gas companies such as SABIC, BP and Shell.
The strategy in this sector The outlook for the gas sector is strong, driven primarily by the issues is to continue expanding internationally, particularly in Europe.
of security of supply and the drive to increase UK storage capacity in line with EU counterparts.
The cement sector for AMEC includes both large brownfield expansion as well as greenfield projects, primarily in North America.
Detailed The prime growth strategy is to expand the gas storage business in the engineering and project management construction management EU with selected customers.
services are provided to this sector, and, with partners, AMEC can provide up to full EPC services.
AMEC is a leader in cement plant design Pulp and paper and construction, where our customers levels of capital expenditure The pulp and paper sector covers various grades of printing and writing are expected to remain high.
paper, tissue, boxboard, container board, and other specialty products.
The strategy for this part of the business is to retain market position AMEC is a market leader in the Americas for consulting and design while being selective in new contracts taken on.
services, and has a strong position in the construction and EPC segment in the US as well as in South America.
Capital spending in AMECs targeted segments is expected to show steady growth over the next five years, as shown in the diagram below: Distributed engineering centres include Vancouver Canada, Greenville US, Santiago Chile while Atlanta US is the companys centre of Process: accessible market excellence for construction and projects.
Services include economic feasibility studies, detailed engineering, project management and full 86 G -!%%% project completion services.
!%%% The market outlook for South America is strong, influenced by the - !%%% pricing cycle of the commodity pulp business and mill expansions.
!%%% North America remains a mature market, however tissue and new - paper plant conversions continue to support levels of spending.
!%%% !%%% AMECs strategy is to expand in the high growth regions, using the Santiago office as a springboard for expansion in Peru and Brazil.
'!%%% &!%%% Other processes % AMEC is active in a variety of sectors and services including: '%%, '%%- '%%.
'%&% '%&& '%&' Ejae VcY eVeZg Di]Zg egdXZhh Vh igVchb hh dc Vh Y hig Wji dc n refinery shutdown and maintenance 8dbedjcY VccjVa gdli] gViZ n cement, biofuels and pharmaceutical plant design, project Source: AMEC management and construction.
indd 33 1 4 08 15:37:54 b aa dc Power and Process continued Markets Nuclear Nuclear: accessible market AMEC is a leading private sector supplier of project management, consultancy and engineering services to the nuclear industry in the 86 G '!
%% UK and Canada, and also provides services in the Americas, Central and Eastern Europe and South Africa.
Principal activities in 2007 were focused on: '!%%% n Reactor support &!
%% & Improving operational efficiency to increase output Safely extending the operational life of reactors &!%%% n Clean up ' %% Decommissioning and remediation of nuclear liabilities Environmental restoration % '%%, '%%- '%%.
'%&% '%&& '%&' Solutions to legacy waste disposal GZVXidg hjeedgi CZl Wj aY 8aZVc je 8dbedjcY VccjVa gdli] gViZ n New build Source: AMEC Bruce 1&2 Reactor restarts in Canada General design assessment and technical support to EDF Whilst the graph indicates the accessible market over the next five together with AREVA for the next generation of UK nuclear years, even higher market growth rates are likely in the period 2012 to power plants.
The longevity of the nuclear market is a key attribute and AMEC is targeting to be a major player.
For example, the long-term UK market The Nuclear business has principal locations at Knutsford and West for decommissioning is valued at over 73 billion source: National Audit Cumbria, UK and Toronto, Canada, as well as regional offices in Office Report, January 2008.
Eastern Europe and South Africa.
Major customers include: British Energy, EDF, Sellafield, AWE all UK, Bruce Power Canada, Eskom AMEC has formed two strategic partnerships to target opportunities for South Africa and Ontario Power Generation Canada.
long-term Parent Body Organisation PBO contracts being competed by UK Nuclear Decommissioning Authority NDA.
In January 2006, In Canada and UK, AMEC has a leading position in the consultancy AMEC formed an alliance with the UKAEA and CH2M HILL, to help business, as well as providing project management, specialist improve performance at the UKAEAs decommissioning sites and engineering, technical and safety support services.
prepare for the upcoming NDA PBO competitions.
This alliance has made a significant contribution to the improved performance at the AMEC continues to develop its strong technical, programme and asset NDAs Dounreay, Harwell and Winfrith sites.
The focus of the business is to continuously strengthen existing client relationships and build new ones across the In March 2007, AMEC announced that a joint venture comprising nuclear life cycle, from new power generation and reactor restart, AMEC, Washington Group and AREVA is bidding to become the NDA through operational reactor support, to clean up.
PBO for the Sellafield Site Licence Company in Cumbria, UK.
AMEC is also supporting major decommissioning work in Central and Eastern Europe.
3344 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 AAMMEECC ppllcc aannnnuuaall rreeppoortrt 22000077 3355 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 34 1 4 08 15:37:55 b aa dc Power and Process The UK Government has announced its intention to replace the current In Nuclear, activity levels remained high on the major project to restart UK fleet of nuclear power stations with a new build programme.
Over two reactors for Bruce Power in Canada, whilst in the UK, a five year the next 15 years, AMEC will be actively supporting EDF in the UK to contract was awarded by British Energy for engineering and project build a number of nuclear power plants, the first of which is expected management services on three of its fleet of nuclear power plants.
EBITA in 2007 increased by 71 per cent to 38.9 million 2006: 22.8 million, principally reflecting strength of end markets and greater Strategy management focus on higher margin contracts.
EBITA margin, before Life cycle asset management: one-off costs of STEP Change, showed strong improvement, being up by 48 per cent at 4.3 per cent 2006: 2.9 per cent.
n New build Establish AMEC as the utilities independent nuclear technology The Power and Process order book declined by three per cent to partner to assure the licensing, delivery and safe operation 1.36 billion as at 31 December 2007 2006: 1.40 billion, reflecting of the reactor and associated systems increased selectivity in this division during the course of 2007. n Reactor support Outlook 2008 Strengthen AMECs leading position as the independent nuclear The focus for this division in 2008 remains margin improvement.
expert for the existing reactors in current geographic markets Although the business is operating in a strong market environment, it is being more selective in new work taken on and revenue growth is n Clean up not a priority for 2008.
The STEP Change and Operational Excellence Establish AMEC as a major Tier 1 UK nuclear clean up programmes are expected to improve performance during 2008 contractor and long-term partner to the NDA.
In 2007, the UK businesses achieved an EBITA margin within the five to six per cent range targeted for the Power and Process division in 2008.
Financial performance 2007 The Americas business is expected to achieve the margin target in 2008.
Performance in the Power and Process division was strong, reflecting strength of end markets and the ramp-up of major contracts in the The quality of the order book was improved during 2007, with a higher UK.
As a result of the continued strength in trading during 2007 and gross margin threshold on all new contracts, as described above.
This, increased selectivity in new work taken on, the division has increased coupled with higher profit-take on contracts as they pass key milestones, its minimum gross margin on all new contracts to nine per cent, from is expected to lead to improved margin performance in 2008. eight per cent.
The board is confident that performance will be comfortably within Revenue for the period was 1,009.1 million 2006: 794.7 million, with the revised as at December 2007 2008 margin target range of five the 27 per cent increase for the year being almost entirely organic.
The Power and Process division is targeting an EBITA UK and Americas Power and Process businesses reported strong margin of six to seven per cent in 2010. growth in 2007.
During the year, activity increased on long-term contracts to improve gas and electricity infrastructure in the UK, whilst in North America, activity levels in the power generation, cement and alternative fuels markets were particularly high.
indd 35 1 4 08 15:37:55 A strong balance sheet is always important and following the sale of AMEC SPIE in July 2006, we expect to have 250 million of average net cash available in 2007, up to 100 million of which is being returned to shareholders in a share buy back programme.
Conversion of profit to cash AMECs knowledge and expertise in geotechnical and dam engineering have been has also improved considerably.
extremely valuable to the design team and project stakeholders.
Their personnel have been very responsive and a pleasure to work with throughout the project.
Jim Windsor, P. E. Resident Engineer, Arizona Department of Transportation Left to right: Jim Windsor, Professional Engineer P. E., Resident Engineer, Arizona Department of Transportation: Brett Howey, P. E. Unit Manager Geotechnical Services, AMEC: Gary Melita, P. E. Senior Project Manager, Stanley Consultants: Daniel Frchette, Ph.
D. P. E. Senior Geotechnical Engineer, AMEC AMEC plc annual report 2007 37 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
indd 36 1 4 08 15:38:16 AMEC has provided geotechnical investigation and design services for the rehabilitation of the existing Spook Hill Flood Retarding Structure and construction of the Red Mountain Freeway Levee Dam, Maricopa County, Arizona, US.
AMECs knowledge and expertise in geotechnical and dam engineering have been extremely valuable to the design team and project stakeholders.
Jim Windsor, P. E. Resident Engineer, Arizona Department of Transportation AMEC plc annual report 2007 37 1013 AMEC front 07 CS2.
