The directors have pleasure in presenting the annual report and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Report of the directors Business review Information fulfilling the requirements of the business review is contained in the business and financial review on pages 16 to 57, which includes details of AMECs development and performance during the year, its position at the year end and the outlook for the future, and is included in this report by reference.
Key events In October 2006, AMEC launched STEP Change, a programme of change in the structure and culture of the company.
The programme was completed ahead of schedule in September 2007 and exceeded original expectations.
Compared with the 2006 baseline, benefits of at least 40 million for the continuing businesses are expected in 2008, increased from an initial commitment in March 2007 of 35 million.
With all of AMECs end markets remaining buoyant, the board remains confident that margin targets of six per cent in 2008 and eight per cent in 2010 will be delivered.
Following the successful completion of STEP Change, AMEC is proceeding with Operational Excellence, a two to three year programme designed to radically improve operating performance.
Operational Excellence will be a major contributor to AMEC delivering its target margin of eight per cent in 2010.
AMEC intends to improve the quality of the business portfolio and service delivery to customers and to simplify and optimise internal controls and processes.
The Operational Excellence programme is packaged into 12 workstreams identified as those most important to achieving high performance across the group: n Business controls n Cash management n Commercial management n Employee development n Engineering n Health and safety n Information technology n Project management n Strategic marketing n Strategic relationship management and business acquisition n Supply chain management n Sustainability In June 2007, AMEC and Morgan Sindall plc agreed terms for the divestment of the Property Developments and UK Building and Civil Engineering businesses for a premium of 55 million to the aggregate net assets as at 30 April 2007.
Completion was achieved in July 2007.
AMECs interest in the Inland Revenue Newcastle Estate PPP project was subsequently excluded from this transaction and has been retained by AMEC, reducing the actual premium on disposal to 49 million.
In addition, a joint venture asset was subject to a pre-emption clause which was duly exercised by the partner which, together with other adjustments, reduced the premium achieved to 44.5 million.
In July 2007, AMEC and Land Securities Trillium LST agreed terms for the divestment of the management team and nine underlying PPP assets of the Project Investments business for 163.5 million.
Completion of the sale of eight of these assets to LST was achieved in November 2007.
The remaining asset, being AMEC plcs shares in two 66 AMEC plc annual report 2007 AMEC plc annual report 2007 67 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
indd 66 2 4 08 11:09:49 Report of the directors PPP road projects, was pre-empted by the fellow shareholders and was As at 31 December 2007, AMEC had as a consequence purchased sold to them in March 2008 for 11.1 million.
Following the disposal of 3.52 million shares in the market to be held in treasury at a total cost the Property Developments and Project Investments businesses, AMEC of 19.5 million.
On 6 September 2007, the board confirmed that has retained three PPP projects, being a completed UK road project the balance of up to 80.5 million would be returned to shareholders discontinued operation, the completed Inland Revenue Newcastle in 2007 and beyond.
A further 250,000 shares were purchased in the Estate project referred to above and the Incheon Bridge project in Korea market after the year end, to be held in treasury, at a total cost of which is under construction.
There were no further purchases of treasury shares up to the date of this report.
In July 2007, AMEC announced a proposal to increase its presence in the Caspian frontier region through the acquisition of a 60 per cent The directors consider that a share buy back is in the best interests interest in Kazakh oilfield services company, Batys Kazakhstan Kuat of shareholders generally and is expected to result in an increase Service Limited, for c. 5 million.
The transaction was completed in in earnings per share.
The directors will retain sufficient financial January 2008. flexibility to be able to progress AMECs strategic growth plans in its core businesses.
Repurchased shares will be held in treasury.
In August 2007, AMEC and SPIE S. A. agreed terms for divestment of the Building and Facilities Services business for 117 million.
Completion During late December 2007 and early January 2008, AMEC purchased took place in September 2007. a further 2.7 million shares in the market to be held in treasury at a total cost of 22.2 million, specifically to satisfy 2007 awards under the UK Also in August 2007, AMEC and MMC Oil and Gas, a leading Malaysian and International SAYE schemes previously approved by shareholders.
oil and gas engineering consultancy organisation, announced the formation of a new company, MMC AMEC Sdn.
to deliver project Authority was granted to the directors at the 2007 annual general management and engineering services to oil and gas customers in meeting to allot up to 55,938,640 of ordinary share capital of which the expanding Malaysian and Asian markets.
AMEC holds 49 per cent up to 8,390,796 could be allotted for cash other than by way of a rights of the shares in this company.
Resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming annual general meeting to extend this authority to May 2009.
The revised Section 80 In September 2007, AMEC announced the acquisition of Cade-Idepe, amount will be 55,154,246 and the revised Section 89 amount will based in Santiago, from its owner-managers for 12 million.
AMEC be 8,273,136. is now one of the largest engineering companies in Chile, employing some 900 engineers providing engineering services for Natural The directors have no present intention of issuing any shares other Resources and Power and Process clients in Chile and throughout than in respect of the exercise of share options.
No issue will be made South America.
Completion took place in October 2007. which will effectively alter the control of the company without the prior approval of shareholders in general meeting.
During the year, AMEC made four small acquisitions in the Earth and Environmental business.
Substantial interests Pursuant to the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR 5, Five peripheral non-core businesses were divested during the first half notifications have been received by the company of shareholdings of 2007, being AMEC SPIE Rail, Dynamic Structures, AMEC SPIE Capag, of 3 per cent or more of the voting rights of the company as at Buchan Concrete Solutions and Midwest Pipelines.
This was followed 11 March 2008 and these are as follows: by the sale of the Logistics and Support Services business which was completed in February 2008.
Number Per cent In total, the divestments of the Built Environment and peripheral Toscafund Limited 37,697,620 11.37 businesses generated overall cash proceeds of 279.2 million after Barclays PLC 14,410,295 4.35 costs but before tax and a post-tax gain of 243.3 million.
Legal & General Details of the good progress made with the settlement of legacy Investment Management Ltd 13,588,869 4.10 disputes are shown on pages 48 and 49.
ABN-AMRO Bank NV 13,317,635 4.02 Dividends The shareholding percentages have been adjusted from those notified The directors have proposed a final ordinary dividend in respect of to reflect the current issued share capital net of treasury shares.
the year ended 31 December 2007 of 8.8 pence per share.
This final dividend will be payable on 1 July 2008 to shareholders on the register There are no shareholdings which carry special rights relating to at the close of business on 23 May 2008. control of the company.
Dividends paid during the year comprised an interim dividend of There are no significant agreements in place to which the company 4.2 pence per share, and a final dividend of 8.0 pence per share both is a party which take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control in respect of the year ended 31 December 2006. of the company following a takeover bid.
Share capital Directors The authorised and issued share capital of the company as at Details of the directors of the company as at the date of this report, 31 December 2007, movements during the year and the rights attaching together with membership of the principal board committees, are set to the shares are set out in note 23 on pages 107 to 109 and the rights out on pages 62 and 63. and obligations attaching to the shares are more fully set out in the Non-executive director Mr J A Dallas stepped down as planned from articles of association of the company.
the board on 16 May 2007 and Mr J D Early retired from the board A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting to extend on 31 July 2007. the authority of the directors to make market purchases of up to Mr P J Byrom and Mr T W Faithfull retire in accordance with article 85 10 per cent of the companys shares within prescribed limits.
of the articles of association of the company and, being eligible, offer On 13 December 2006 the directors announced their intention, pursuant themselves for re-election.
Neither Mr Byrom nor Mr Faithfull has to the authority granted at the 2006 annual general meeting, to return an employment contract with the company.
up to 100 million via on-market share repurchases during 2007.
The total cost of treasury shares for the year ending 31 December 2007 was 21.5 million, including 2.0 million purchased to satisfy awards under the SAYE scheme.
AMEC plc annual report 2007 67 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
indd 67 2 4 08 11:09:50 Respect for cultural diversity and equal opportunities are included Report of the directors continued among AMECs Guiding Principles which are incorporated into management policies and processes worldwide.
AMECs policy is to recruit from the widest labour market, determining the careers of all employees solely on merit and making judgements about employees free from the effects of bias and prejudice.
It is AMECs policy to consider for employment suitably qualified disabled people and to assist them in overcoming handicaps at work.
AMEC recognises that special arrangements are necessary, in view of the nature of its main activities, to ensure that disabled employees are properly trained for the tasks they perform.
AMEC endeavours to retrain any employee who develops a disability during employment, wherever practicable.
Internal communication is of key importance for AMEC, as employees The beneficial interests in the share capital of the company of the embody AMECs knowledge, brand and reputation.
AMEC provides directors holding office as at 31 December 2007 were as follows: numerous opportunities for employees to raise issues and discuss matters of concern with management, whether face to face or using As at As at electronic means.
31 December 31 December Employees share knowledge and are kept informed of developments 2007 2006 within AMEC through various means, including a weekly letter from the Number Number chief executive, its intranet AMECnet, internal publications, best practice J M Green-Armytage 10,000 10,000 groups, news bulletins and announcements.
A global conference of S Y Brikho 116,979 52,892 senior managers is normally held each year to discuss developing issues.
S J Siddall 34,859 30,628 The company operates a UK tax authority approved savings related E P Airey 18,120 18,120 share option scheme which is open to eligible UK employees and M O Hesse 16,414 16,414 introduced the International Savings Related Share Option Scheme in 2005.
A further offer to eligible employees under both schemes P J Byrom was made during November 2007.
T W Faithfull 5,000 5,000 The terms of employment of one senior executive who is not a Except for interests under share option schemes and the Performance director provide that the employees normal notice period of 12 months Share Plans, details of which are contained in the directors increases to 24 months for the duration of 12 months following a remuneration report on pages 72 to 77, no director as at 31 December change of control in the company.
This is an historic arrangement 2007 had any other interests, beneficial or otherwise, in the share and it is not the companys intention to extend this provision to other capital of the company or any of its subsidiaries.
There were no other employees.
There are no other agreements with AMEC employees changes in the directors interests in the share capital of the company which contain terms which provide for compensation for loss of office between 31 December 2007 and 11 March 2008. or employment in the event of a takeover offer being made for AMEC.
No director was materially interested in any contract of significance Annual general meeting special business to AMECs businesses.
Resolutions are being proposed at the annual general meeting to authorise the company to make market purchases of shares in the As at the date of this report, individual indemnities have been provided company within prescribed limits, to authorise the directors to allot to the directors, under which the company has agreed to indemnify the shares in the company for a further period of one year and to allot directors to the extent permitted by law in respect of all liabilities to a proportion of those shares for cash.
third parties arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors of the company, any of A resolution is being proposed to amend the articles of association its associated companies or any other company that the director serves of the company to incorporate changes consequent upon the further as a director at the request of the company.
These indemnities are enactment of the Companies Act 2006.
The articles of association may Qualifying Third Party Indemnity Provisions as defined in Section 309A-B only be amended by a shareholders special resolution.
of the Companies Act 1985 and copies are available for inspection at the A resolution relating to the introduction of a new incentive scheme registered office of the company during business hours on any weekday for senior executives is also being proposed.
Further details of these proposals are outlined in the circular which Employees accompanies this annual report and accounts.
AMEC employed on average 20,442 people in continuing activities worldwide in 2007.
Details are given on page 53 of the financial review Corporate governance which reconciles the employee numbers in the business and financial The board is responsible to shareholders for the management of the review including agency staff to those in note 6 of the accounts.
company and for the protection of its assets.
As such, it is ultimately On average 5,549 people were employed by discontinued operations.
responsible for implementing AMECs systems of internal control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems are designed to The development of employees, to ensure that AMEC has the necessary manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business skills and behaviours to deliver its strategic business objectives and to objectives and consequently can provide reasonable, but not absolute, provide for management succession, is given high priority.
In addition, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
recognising the importance for the future of bringing new people into the group, all businesses have well established programmes for The board, through the committees described below and at its regular recruiting and developing graduates and other trainees.
meetings, has a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and 68 AMEC plc annual report 2007 AMEC plc annual report 2007 69 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
indd 68 2 4 08 11:09:50 Report of the directors continued managing significant risks faced by AMEC, including strategy, major meetings or events together with all material brokers research notes projects to be undertaken, significant acquisitions and disposals, as on the company.
well as entry to and exit from different markets.
Where appropriate, The board business decisions are reached following a structured and documented The board comprises the non-executive chairman, two executive review of potential opportunities and threats, taking steps designed to directors and four independent non-executive directors.
manage or mitigate any residual risk exposure.
Principal business risks are set out in the business and financial review on pages 16 to 57.
The company does not combine the role of Chairman and Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for the running of the board, AMEC uses a risk management process which is incorporated into with the Chief Executive being responsible for running the group and the AMEC Mandatory Procedures described below.
The process involves implementing board strategy and policy.
This ensures a clear division the identification of risks at the gross and current level by projects, of responsibilities at the head of the company, so that no individual has businesses and corporate functions.
The risks are recorded in risk unfettered powers of decision.
The independent non-executive directors registers to enable the net positions to be pro-actively managed.
review the relationship between the Chairman and Chief Executive each Following a review of this process in 2007, quarterly risk review year to ensure that the relationship is working effectively.
meetings comprising representatives from the businesses and The non-executive directors are all considered to be independent functions have been instigated.
These meetings discuss business and by the board.
They are not employed by the company in any capacity, functional risks: the highest risks in terms of probability and impact are nor have they been in the past.
Ms Airey has acted as the boards senior then elevated to the AMEC plc risk register.
The plans for mitigation of independent director since 21 January 2004. such risks are also reviewed.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that board The risk management and internal control processes are complemented procedures are followed and all directors have access to his advice by an annual control risk self-assessment exercise carried out by the and services.
This covers major risks, particularly safety, health and environment, legal, commercial and contractual, financial, The board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval covering information technology and human resources.
The results are reviewed areas such as company strategy, the appointment of key executives, by the board, through both the audit committee and the executive approval of accounts, approval of the business plan, budget and financial directors, and as part of the ongoing internal audit process.
For 2007, policies, review of operating results, risk management strategy, this self assessment exercise was undertaken for the continuing ensuring the effectiveness of governance practices, succession businesses: however discontinued businesses were subject to review planning and significant capital expenditure.
The board is supplied in a and audit until such time as their disposal was concluded.
timely manner with information which enables it to discharge its duties.
AMEC Mandatory Procedures and Delegated Authorities An external review of the effectiveness of the board and its committees AMECs businesses are managed on a decentralised basis.
Whilst the was carried out during the year by Spencer Stuart by way of interviews board has retained reserve powers, the day-to-day management has with individual directors.
Findings were considered by the board as been passed to the business leaders within defined authority limits.
part of its review of both collective and individual board member The management philosophy is to empower the business leaders performance.
No material changes were identified as being necessary to take the actions necessary to deliver the companys operational as a result of this exercise.
The independent non-executive directors business objectives within the defined Mandatory Procedures and also met privately both with and without the Chairman present and Delegated Authorities, which set out the standards AMEC employees also with both the Chairman and Chief Executive together to consider and contracting staff are expected to achieve.
management performance and succession issues.
A formal process exists for the directors to take independent professional advice and During 2007, AMECs Mandatory Procedures and Delegated Authorities receive appropriate training in the course of their duties, at the were reviewed and updated to reflect the continuing core businesses.
companys expense, organised by the Company Secretary.
This framework provides for an effective control structure and a clear link between the levels of risk associated with tenders and delegated Board committees authority limits.
Under AMECs Management and Policy Framework, the board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to various board AMEC has interests in a number of joint ventures, associates and joint committees, all of which have written terms of reference.
Controls within these entities may not be reviewed as part of AMECs formal corporate governance process because of the The remit of each committee is set out below.
The quorum is three joint management responsibilities but are reviewed by the joint venture directors, save for the audit and remuneration committees where the boards and as part of AMECs normal internal audit process.
Full details of the constitution and remit of the audit, nominations and remuneration committees can be found under Consequently, AMEC complied with the Combined Code on Corporate corporate governance on www.
com click on About AMEC and Governance throughout 2007. follow the links.
Dialogue with institutional shareholders The committees chaired by non-executive directors are as follows: Mr Green-Armytage, chairman, wrote to all major shareholders in n Audit committee Reviews the integrity, including the material April 2007 informing them that he and the senior independent director, financial reporting judgements, of the companys accounts, including Ms Airey, were available for meetings or telephone calls with them the preliminary and interim results, related report and accounts if required.
The chairman attends preliminary and interim results and Stock Exchange announcements and any other formal presentations.
Ms Airey is available to attend, if requested, one-on-one announcements in connection with the companys financial meetings with major shareholders.
The chairman had a number of performance, and recommends their approval to the board.
such meetings with major shareholders during 2007.
No meetings were requested with Ms Airey.
It also reviews the companys internal financial controls and, in conjunction with the risk review committee, the internal control An in-depth annual perception study of investors views, prepared by and risk management systems.
an independent third party, is presented to all board members, who also receive unexpurgated feedback reports following shareholder AMEC plc annual report 2007 69 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
indd 69 2 4 08 11:09:51 All additional KPMG fees were approved in accordance with AMECs Report of the directors continued policy covering non-audit services.
As a result of the application of this policy and additional discussions with the external auditor, the directors do not believe that KPMGs independence has been compromised as a result of their additional work on behalf of the company.
n Nominations committee Makes recommendations to the board concerning the appointment or termination of a director or the company secretary and, in the case of a non-executive director and the chairman, the extension of an existing appointment.
The committee also regularly reviews board succession planning, in conjunction with reports from the chief executive and group human resources director on senior management succession planning, so as to ensure that an appropriate balance of skills is maintained both within AMEC and on the board.
The committee has unrestricted access to company documents and meets with the internal and external auditors, and any other n Remuneration committee Sets, and reviews as necessary, the relevant member of staff, without the executive directors being overall contractual and remuneration framework for the chairman, present, as necessary.
The head of internal audit formally reports the executive directors and the company secretary, including pension to the committee chairman.
rights and annual bonus incentives.
It reviews the head of internal audits regular reports and carries out It considers and determines such other matters relating to the an annual assessment of the internal audit functions effectiveness.
engagement of the chief executive and other executive directors, In 2007, this exercise was carried out on behalf of the committee including matters relating to the enforcement of their service by the acting head of internal audit.
No material changes were contracts and payments on termination, as the chairman and chief identified as being necessary as a result of this exercise.
executive respectively refer to the committee.
The committee considers the appointment, re-appointment, It agrees the terms to be offered to a proposed new chairman removal, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external or executive director.
auditor and makes recommendations to the board.
It discusses the It reviews the salaries of executive directors annually and the scope and planning of the external audit and reviews the outcome of chairman biennially, or more frequently as is deemed necessary the external audit and any formal communications from the external by the committee chairman.
It agrees the performance targets of auditor, including internal control reports.
executive directors and the levels of bonus to be paid to them under The committee also formally reviews and monitors the external the annual bonus incentive scheme.
auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the It determines and agrees with the chief executive the remuneration audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and policy and structure, including annual bonus, for corporate regulatory requirements and makes recommendations to the board.
functional executives and senior operational executives immediately During 2007, a review, co-ordinated on behalf of the committee below board level.
by the acting head of internal audit, was carried out.
The audit committee also monitors the implementation of the policy on the It approves performance targets, participation and level of awards engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services.
for any executive share-based incentive scheme.
This policy follows the guidelines set out by the Institute of Chartered The following table is a record of the directors attendance at board Accountants in England and Wales and clearly defines what work can and principal board committee meetings during the year ended and cannot be performed by any group companys statutory auditor.
It also sets out the necessary approval process for those non-audit services that are acceptable.
AMEC plc Audit Nominations Remuneration board committee committee committee All non-statutory audit or non-compliance tax services provided Number of meetings 12 4 2 5 by the auditor are reported to the audit committee.
During 2007, J M Green-Armytage 12 2 2 the fees paid to the companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc and its S Y Brikho 12 2 associates, for non-audit work were 1.3 million 2006: 1.1 million, J D Early which comprised 0.7 million primarily relating to taxation and up to 31 July 7 0.6 million for other work 2006: 0.8 million and 0.3 million.
E P Airey 11 4 2 5 KPMG also received fees of 2.0 million 2006: 4.9 million in J A Dallas respect of corporate finance transactions as follows: up to 16 May 4 2 2007 2006 M O Hesse 11 4 2 2 million million S J Siddall 12 Divestment of the Built T W Faithfull 12 2 5 Environment businesses 2.0 P J Byrom 11 4 2 Sale of AMEC SPIE 3.3 Potential separation of the group 1.6 Joined remuneration committee on the departure of J A Dallas on 2.0 4.9 16 May 2007.
70 AMEC plc annual report 2007 AMEC plc annual report 2007 71 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
indd 70 2 4 08 11:09:51 Report of the directors continued n Charities committee Makes commitments and donations in support of charitable, educational and cultural causes n Compliance and ethics committee Considers and approves the codes of business conduct and related compliance arrangements and takes responsibility for management of investigations of violations, as necessary n Share transaction committee Provides clearance or denies permission to relevant employees to deal in AMEC shares The committees chaired by executive directors are as follows: n Banking committee n Corporate transactions committee n Pensions and retirement benefits committee n Risk review committee.
Going concern The directors, having made enquiries, consider that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and, therefore, it is appropriate to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Creditor payment policy Businesses are responsible for agreeing terms and conditions under which transactions with their suppliers are conducted.
It is group policy that payments to suppliers are generally made in accordance with these terms and conditions, provided that the supplier complies with all of its obligations in this regard.
The company had 35 days purchases outstanding as at 31 December 2007 2006: 31 days based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Donations Donations to UK charities amounted to 446,000 for the year ended 31 December 2007 2006: 186,000.
Disclosure of information to auditors The directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Auditors A resolution will be proposed at the annual general meeting for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the company.
By order of the board P J Holland Company Secretary 11 March 2008 Since the date of this report, as at 25 March 2008, the latest practicable date prior to publication of this document, AMEC had purchased a further 500,000 shares in the market for an aggregate cost of 3.6 million.
All the shares are held in treasury.
AMEC plc annual report 2007 71 1013 AMEC back 07 CS2.
