Business review continued Risks & uncertainties The final instrument is to sell u8 million at u1.4175: 1 between December 2008 and March 2009.
Were the exchange rate for the Euro to fall below u1.3625: 1 then the Group would be obliged to sell Euros at the Option Rate.
Over the course of the year, the Group has entered into currency borrowing arrangements to minimise its exposure to foreign exchange risk on trade receivables.
The currency borrowings can be offset against the matching Sterling deposits.
At 30 September 2007 the Group had borrowings of u16.2 million, and US$4.0 million.
The cash balance of 26.7 million at 30 September 2007 is presented net of these borrowings.
Interest rate risk The Group finances its operations through cash holdings and debt facilities.
The objective of the Group is to maximise investment income and minimise interest costs, bearing in mind its liquidity requirements.
For short-term debt, such as overdraft facilities or debt with a term of less than six months, fixed or floating rates of interest are used.
For debt with a term of greater than six months, it is policy that at least 75% must have fixed rates of interest so as to minimise the Groups exposure to interest rate movements.
It is Group policy that surplus cash is not invested in instruments that would put the capital value at risk.
All invested funds have a determinable rate of interest.
Liquidity risk The Group policy is to ensure continuity of funding for operational needs through cash deposits and debt facilities as appropriate.
The key requirement for the business is to maintain flexibility to allow the Group to take advantage of opportunities that could arise over the short term.
The needs of the business are determined on a rolling cash flow forecast basis, covering weekly, monthly and twelve monthly requirements.
Short-term flexibility is maintained by holding cash in current accounts and high liquidity money market funds.
The Group has overdraft facilities in place both to permit currency borrowing as part of its foreign exchange management and to allow flexibility in where it holds its cash balances.
ITE Group plc 24 Annual Report 2007 Business review Corporate and social responsibility Overview The Group aims to provide a high-quality service for all its ITE believes that corporate and social responsibility is an events in all its locations.
The Group operates to a strict important part of the Groups culture and, by adopting good minimum quality level to ensure our events are provided to practice in these areas, it will have a positive impact on exhibitors and visitors at international standards, irrespective profits and increasing the long-term value for shareholders.
The Board gives due consideration to risks arising from social, environmental and ethical issues as part of its ongoing risk The Group ensures that all advertising and public review process.
communications avoid untruths or overstatements.
ITE builds a relationship with suppliers based on mutual trust Social interaction and undertakes to pay suppliers on time and in accordance The Board of the Company is aware of both the benefits to with agreed terms of business.
All information regarding its business of engaging with its various constituencies in a the relationship between the Group and a supplier must socially-responsible manner and the risks of failing to do so.
an operator of  businesses in emerging markets, the Company ensures that it is culturally sensitive in its Environment dealings with the local community and that its employment and As a media services company, the Group acknowledges that its development policies are non-discriminatory and encourage business has an impact on the environment, albeit relatively the employment of local nationals at all levels in the Company.
minor, however it understands the importance of following Employees are selected and promoted on the basis of merit good environmental practice.
The Company is aware that this and ability, regardless of age, gender, race, religion, sexual is an area of increasing concern to employees, shareholders orientation or disability.
Employees are encouraged to and customers alike.
The Company does not manufacture participate in and support their respective communities.
or sell any tangible products and has identified the principal areas of environmental impact as energy use, waste recycling, The Company has a policy of encouraging employees, paper & printing and travel.
By identifying environmental especially those from the locations in emerging markets, improvements, we expect to see increased efficiencies and to move around the offices of the Group, thus providing with that, reduced costs and the management of environmental development opportunities for all staff.
In addition, employees issues is part of our business strategy to create long-term are assisted in their career development through an annual value for shareholders.
All staff are eligible for issues of share options or awards under the Employees Performance Share Plan The Group encourages the recycling of waste paper and office as the Board feels that it is important for them to take an active waste and plans to increase the recycling rates and materials part in the success of the Company and to share in the value recycled throughout the Group.
Computers and IT equipment are recycled where possible and redundant equipment is either sold to staff or given to We recognise the need to provide a safe working environment charitable organisations.
for employees and exhibitors and visitors at our events.
Each The Company has been reducing its printed materials over office is responsible for ensuring that their business operates in the last few years, with a greater reliance on electronic media compliance with Group policies and the relevant local health for its marketing materials.
However, catalogues and delegate and safety legislation.
packs are still printed and the Group is implementing a set of operating standards to be followed by suppliers to look at Ethics paper sourcing and use of materials.
The Company actively promotes integrity in its dealings with its The Company encourages staff to use public transport employees, shareholders, customers and suppliers and with the through offering season ticket loans.
authorities of the countries in which it operates and recognises that a reputation is a valuable and fragile asset gained over a The Company has a resolution at the Annual General Meeting substantial period.
The leadership position of its exhibitions to take advantage of e-communications legislation for and the continued growth of its core shows is evidence of the communicating with shareholders.
If adopted, this will reduce success of its practices.
the volume of printed materials produced with the publication of our Annual Report and Interim Statement.
The Company promotes high ethical standards in carrying out its business activities and has clear guidelines for dealing The Groups activities in staging exhibitions and conferences with gifts, hospitality, corruption, fraud and the use of inside do impact on the environment, through waste and natural information.
All ITE staff must comply with the laws and resources usage from materials used in assembling exhibition regulations of the country in which they operate.
It is the stands and participating in the exhibition and travel to responsibility of all staff to ensure that they are fully aware exhibitions and conferences for exhibitors, delegates and of all relevant laws and regulations.
Presently, practice in controlling waste at different exhibition centres varies widely through the different regions The Group is a member of UFI worldwide and the AEO UK in which the Group operates, however the Group follows and, through this, the attendance figures at our key exhibitions best practice in each of its markets and meets industry and are audited by independent services.
This helps to provide country legislation.
assurance to our exhibitors and visitors as to the standard of our exhibitions.
ITE Group plc 25 Annual Report 2007
