04 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Who we are ITV is one of the UKs most long-established television companies and best-known media brands The Companys roots are in the ITV regional broadcasting franchises first awarded over 50 years ago and ITV1 remains the UKs largest commercial channel in audience share terms by some margin.
But ITV today is much more than a single channel.
ITV is the UKs largest advertising funded broadcaster.
Indeed ITV is the largest advertising funded media owner in the UK across all media: television, radio, press, cinema, outdoor and the internet.
As a producer, ITV makes more hours of network television than any other UK commercial producer.
With the digital transformation of the media sector, ITV is developing new businesses across different platforms and media.
And ITV is one of the largest employers in the UK media sector with over 5,000 staff.
In 2007, ITV strengthened its senior executive team see below and, following a major strategic review, restructured into three business segments: Broadcasting, Global Content and Online.
Michael Grade John Cresswell Jeff Henry Simon Shaps Executive Chairman Chief Operating Officer Managing Director of ITV Consumer Director of Television and Finance Director Rupert Howell John Whiston Carolyn Fairbairn Managing Director of ITV Brand Dawn Airey Director of ITV Productions Director of Strategy and Development and Commercial Managing Director of Global Content Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 05 and what we are doing Entertaining the UK through... Broadcasting...
Global Content... Online ITV1 is the largest commercial Around half of ITV1 commissions As consumers spend more time television channel in the UK in 2007 were made by ITV and advertisers more money in terms of audience share Productions.
ITV also makes online, ITV is taking full and advertising revenues.
programmes for the BBC, commercial advantage through ITVs digital channels, including Channel 4, five, Sky and other its unique roster of online ITV2, ITV3, ITV4 and Citv, UK broadcasters.
com, generated over 200 million in programmes watched on screens itvlocal.
com, Friends Reunited and advertising revenues in 2007. from San Francisco to Sydney.
new broadband services, ITV is ITVs broadcast channels offer And a range of products related to well-positioned to leverage two advertisers a brand-building ITV programmes, from DVDs to key assets ITV programming and opportunity of unique power computer games are marketed channels: and its relationship with and effectiveness.
Commercial target: Commercial target: Commercial target: To ensure that 38.5% or more of To double annual Global Content To deliver 150 million in annual adverts watched on UK TV in 2012 revenues by 2012, increasing ITV, Online revenues by 2010. are on ITV channels.
other UK and international sales.
Return to top-line growth: 35% compound annual growth in revenues to 2010 5% plus revenue growth from 2010 to 2012
