Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 19 k Market context UK television platforms take up September 2007 % of UK homes ITV is a television company, 1 5 1 DTT 37% but competes in a wider 2 Sky 32% 3 Analogue Terrestrial 14% 4 4 Cable 13% market for content delivered 5 Freesat 4% across a number of media 3 platforms and drawing upon 2 multiple sources of funding.
Source: Ofcom Until relatively recently, programmes could only be delivered Although overall levels of viewing remain stable, commercial on a single medium television and, indeed, through a single viewing has increased as the BBC has lost share to commercial platform analogue terrestrial.
Today, over 85% of UK homes channels.
There were around 2.3 billion impacts viewings of view television programmes via digital platforms: digital terrestrial TV advertisements each day in 2007 in the UK, an average television DTT, digital satellite and digital cable.
That same of 40 adverts per day per person.
The increase in the volume of content may be delivered via, or repackaged for, the internet, impacts means that the cost of television advertising has reduced.
for mobile phones and other handheld devices, or downloaded In real terms, UK television advertising costs no more today than to television set-top boxes or computer hard drives.
It is a similar picture in terms of revenues.
For many years in the Television advertising remains the UKs major brand building UK market, the BBC provided competition for audiences, but display advertising medium with over 40% of the total display ITV faced no competition for commercial television revenue.
Following a decline in television advertising revenues in Today ITV competes with hundreds of channels, platforms and 2006, the market returned to growth in 2007.
Total television new media companies funded by advertising, subscription, advertising revenues grew around 3% in 2007, with strong transactional revenues or a combination of all three.
growth in the second half of the year offsetting a relatively With increasing competition comes increasing opportunity weak first half.
as commercial broadcasters, once solely funded by network With audiences fragmenting, only a small handful of broadcasters advertising, are able to exploit new sources of revenue and continue to deliver significant shares.
A long-tail of hundreds of consumer demand.
channels account for a large and growing share in aggregate, but The common thread running across this market and crucial each deliver relatively small audiences.
Experience in the UK and to any companys ability to compete successfully is content.
other markets has been that advertisers will pay a premium However long-established the media company and however to advertise on those channels still delivering a critical mass glittering its broadcasting heritage, sustained success will rely of viewers and rapid coverage of their target audience.
upon a continuing ability to create and control high-quality However over recent years a number of commentators believe content valued by advertisers, by viewers and by consumers.
that the UK market has been distorted by the presence of the Contract Rights Renewal mechanism discussed on page 21.
Broadcasting The driver of viewing fragmentation has been the transition to a There are currently over 200 channels broadcasting to UK viewers.
The Freeview The main channels are funded by three major sources of revenue: platform in particular has continued to grow rapidly and in 2007 the BBC licence fee, advertising and subscription.
UK subscription overtook Sky as the largest digital platform.
Over 9 million homes revenues now exceed 4 billion per annum: total television now use Freeview on their main set, compared to 8 million digital advertising revenues in the UK in 2007 were around 3.4 billion: satellite homes.
Digital cable remains fairly flat at around with the portion of the BBC licence fee dedicated to television 3 million homes.
Freeview is also becoming more and more around 2.2 billion.
common on second and third sets.
Freeview is the digital platform on which the established free to air broadcasters including ITV Free-to-air broadcasters the BBC and advertising funded perform most strongly.
channels together retain a very significant share of total UK television viewing.
In 2007, the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and five, together with their associated digital channels, secured around 75% of total viewing.
Notwithstanding increasing competition for attention, volumes of television viewing remain remarkably stable in the UK.
In 2007, the average UK adult watched nearly four hours of television per day, showing very little change on the level recorded a decade ago.
20 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Market context New market opportunities, 2010 bn 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 UK TV advertising 3.5 UK content 3.1 AFP & PP 0.1 Online classified advertising 1.0 Online video advertising 0.3 Online display advertising 0.7 International content 2.0 Online gaming 1.3 Total potential market 12 Old ITV market New ITV market Source: ITV estimates: O&O: Jupiter: Enders: IAB PwC: McKinsey: Datamonitor: ZenithOptimedia: GBGC: Ofcom AFP: Advertising funded programming PP: Product placement The minority around 15% of UK homes which remain The UK production sector has seen considerable growth and analogue-only will convert to digital reception over the next five corporate activity in recent years as regulatory changes have years as the analogue terrestrial transmission network is fully enabled producers to retain control of rights which previously upgraded to DTT.
In November 2007 this switchover process rested with broadcasters.
Although primary commissions still reached a critical milestone with the town of Whitehaven represent the lions share of producers revenues, there has been becoming the first place in the UK to switch fully to digital.
significant growth in secondary television and ancillary rights revenues.
Having historically been fragmented, there has been In 2008 the availability of free-to-air digital television will be consolidation of ownership in the production sector, with the extended with the launch of Freesat from the BBC and ITV.
creation of so-called super-indies such as All3Media and Shine.
Freesat is likely to be particularly attractive to households who cannot receive DTT pre-switchover and will incorporate a The production market has become increasingly global.
free-to-air high definition HD offering from the BBC and ITV.
Producers such as Endemol and Fremantle include production The BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and five have also announced a plan to companies across multiple countries.
Following the success of bring free-to-air HD channels to the Freeview platform over time.
programmes such as Who Wants to be a Millionaire and American Idol, the US market has become more open to formats with a proven track record in other territories, with major networks Global Content commissioning programmes from international producers, rather UK television channels invest around 4.8 billion in content.
than simply acquiring format rights.
For major UK producers, The BBC remains the largest funder of UK television international revenues now comprise sales of completed programming, representing some 45% of total investment.
programmes, DVD and video sales, plus overseas licensing of ITVs investment in programming is around 1 billion, around programme formats and production fees.
The most recent 30% of the market total.
There is then a significant drop to Government survey of UK television exports indicated a growth the third largest investor, Channel 4 with a contribution of around of around 20% in 2006 alone.
15%, with five coming in at under 5%.
Online Ofcom estimated in 2006 that over 90% of investment in Beyond television, over half of all UK households now have originated network production in the UK was undertaken by the broadband internet access.
Broadband speeds have also four main public service broadcasters: the BBC, ITV, Channel 4 and continued to rise.
By June 2007, Ofcom reported average five.
Subscription funded platforms and channels have focused broadband connection speeds across the UK of around 4.6Mbits their investment in content on sports, US movies and acquired per second, with headline speeds expected to rise further over programming, rather than original UK production.
A large proportion of commissioned programmes at both the Increased broadband penetration and speeds are changing the BBC and ITV are made in-house.
However, both are also significant nature of online content.
Alongside text-based content, online commissioners from external producers: between them the BBC users are increasingly seeking out more sophisticated video and ITV invest more in independent production than all other UK content, from clips to full-length programming and movies.
Going forward, the BBC has pledged Piracy and distribution of unlicensed content remain significant to increase opportunities for external producers, reducing issues.
However, with digital rights management solutions guaranteed in-house production to 50% of commissions.
emerging, established media rights holders are seeking ways of Channel 4 is prevented by statute from producing programmes making their content available for legal access online.
five relies on external production, but commissions ecology of online platforms carrying content syndicated from a some programmes from the producer Fremantle which is also variety of sources such as iTunes, YouTube and Joost and rights part of the RTL Group.
holders own sites offering exclusive content such as itv.
com or the BBC iplayer has started to emerge.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 21 k The key to success in the digital environment will be the ability to create and control high quality content.
Parallel changes are evident in internet funding.
Internet PSBs, including ITV1, are subject to additional tiers of content advertising continued to grow strongly in 2007.
Much of that regulation, including production quotas for independent, regional growth remains in search advertising, which is akin to classified and original production.
The PSBs are also subject to additional advertising off-line.
However, internet display advertising also quotas for particular genres of programming, such as news, grew rapidly in 2007, increasing by an estimated 30% and taking current affairs, and in the case of ITV1 regional programming.
its share of the display advertising market to 6.2% 2006: 4.9%.
Finally, the PSBs are required to take into account the opinion of Video advertising remains a small fraction of online display the regulator in the preparation of a statement of programme advertising, but is expected to grow rapidly as the volume of policy each year.
high quality video material online rises.
Ofcom is currently undertaking its second review of public service As revenues grow and online advertising sales techniques improve, broadcasting.
Following its first review, there were significant established media companies are shifting to online advertising changes to ITV1s programme requirements, including a reduction as a primary means of funding online content distribution.
For example, US broadcasters originally launching paid-for The volume and nature of television advertising are also regulated, download sites have now started to make available broadcast with the commercial public service broadcasters again subject to content online on an advertising-funded basis.
tighter restrictions than other channels.
In December 2007, the Mobile phone penetration has continued to rise.
There are now Audio Visual Media Services Directive was confirmed by the more UK households with mobiles than fixed lines.
A number of European Commission and is likely to lead to changes in UK mobile phone operators are making broadcast and video content rules for the placement and duration of advertising breaks.
available, via full broadcast simulcast for mobile phones, clip and The directive also permits product placement in certain exclusive content services.
Auction of spectrum in the UK over the programme categories at the discretion of member states.
next two years may allow the development of mobile television Ofcom has set out a timetable for consideration of these broadcasting for the first time.
For viewers and for advertisers, it is increasingly evident Media ownership restrictions continue to apply to the UK that such new platforms and new media will be complements television sector over and above the standard competition for commercial television, rather than full substitutes.
Following the acquisition in November 2006 of 17.9% Rapid penetration of such new platforms provides opportunities of the shares in ITV plc by British Sky Broadcasting plc BSkyB, for established media companies to develop new revenue the Secretary of State for Business Enterprise and Regulatory streams, building off the strength of their core broadcast content.
Reform referred the acquisition to the Competition Commission Again, the key to success in the digital environment will be the on competition and public interest grounds.
The Secretary of ability to create and control high quality content.
State confirmed in January 2008 that BSkyB would be required to reduce its holding to no more than 7.5%.
However, this decision is Regulation currently being appealed.
Audio-visual media and in particular television remain tightly As a condition of the approval of the merger between Carlton regulated in the UK.
All UK television channels must be licensed and Granada to form ITV plc in 2003, undertakings were given by the regulator, Ofcom, and abide by its Broadcasting Code.
including the Contract Rights Renewal CRR regime applying This code applies also to the conduct of premium rate services to the sale of advertising on ITV1.
CRR provides ITV1 customers and competitions, which were subject to a high level of regulatory with the option of renewing the previous years contract on the and public scrutiny over the course of 2007, as set out elsewhere same terms including discounts, but with their commitment in this report.
to ITV1 in terms of a share of their total spend on UK television advertising reduced in line with any reduction in ITV1s share of commercial impacts SOCI in the previous year.
The OFT opened a review of CRR in January 2008 following an application from ITV.
The review is being conducted in partnership with Ofcom and is expected to conclude in 2009.
Any change to CRR is unlikely to come into effect until contracts for 2010 are negotiated in late 2009.
