22 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Strategy In 2007 we announced our five year strategy to take us to full digital switchover in 2012.
It is a strategy which will position ITV to take full advantage of the developments shaping our industry, across Broadcasting, Global Content and Online.
Our vision is for ITV to be the UKs favourite source Strong broadcast channels of free entertainment, building on our heritage of For Broadcasting, our key objective is to remain providing high-quality, ad-funded UK programming.
the countrys leading commercial channel provider ITV will return to growth, with an over-arching target so that, in 2012, we plan to be delivering at least for the business as a whole to deliver compound a 38.5% share of commercial impacts across our annual revenue growth of 3%5% to 2010 rising to channels.
We will stabilise ITV1s performance 5% to 2012.
With increased revenues feeding through and build on the success of ITV2, seeking to turn to our earnings, we will aim to return dividend cover to it into the UKs third largest commercial channel 2 times to 2.5 times in the medium term and to retain for 1634 year olds.
The following initiatives will assist us in delivering these targets: The strategy is based on self-help, not regulatory The launch of a new ITV1 peak time schedule.
It is self funding, with any new investment ITV1 underwent its most significant transformation in a decade, in terms of schedule structure and new programming across the paid for out of efficiency gains, regional savings and full range of genres: the proceeds of continuing disposals.
Following investment for growth in 2008, the benefits of which Keep programme costs in check.
ITV has relaunched its schedule whilst working within an ongoing commitment to ensure the should start to be reaped in 2009 earnings, the full programme budget does not increase in real terms: growth plan will be in action in 2010.
Invest in ITV2 to become the third largest commercial channel Each of our major business segments has clear targets for 1634s.
ITV2 is already the UKs number one digital channel.
and an action plan for growth.
Win a greater share of marketing budgets.
We will be a market leader in offering advertisers more opportunities to fund content, via ad-funded programming and product placement: Future-proof Freeview and launch Freesat.
We will build on the success of Freeview with our partners and launch Freesat, working with the BBC to strengthen free-to-air digital television: Launch an ITV HD service in 2008.
We are seeking to bring HD to Freeview over time and will launch an ITV HD service on Freesat: Secure a new ITV1 PSB remit for the digital age.
ITVs PSB obligations cost over 200 million in 2007.
In the short term, we aim to save 40 million through a reorganisation of regional news: Work to replace CRR.
We will work closely with advertisers and the wider industry as the regulatory review process unfolds.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 23 k Content-led growth Online business of scale The key objective within our Global Content division In Online our primary target is to deliver 150 million is to create and own the UKs most popular and in annual revenues by 2010.
This will come from a valuable content, doubling our annual revenues in combination of advertising subscription and the UK and internationally by 2012 to 1.2 billion.
transactional revenues across a number of This target includes ITV commissions where we properties, including itv.
com, relaunched in 2007, aim to increase ITV Productions share but also and our proposed broadband archive service commissions from other UK and international working with BBC Worldwide and Channel 4. broadcasters, which we intend to expand By 2010, we aim to grow itv.
Key actions to help us meet these challenging targets are: Our key actions to achieve these targets are: The creation of an integrated Global Content division, bringing Grow viewing of ITV on-demand content.
com together our international production, sales and licensing site was relaunched in 2007 and traffic is up significantly since businesses with our UK production business: relaunch.
We will also selectively syndicate our content to generate ad revenues, earn licence fees and drive awareness An increased focus on high-value genres with 360 degree of ITV programming and of itv.
We will accelerate development and production of long running drama series, factual and entertainment formats Develop specialist sites around key programme brands and and comedy: communities, using these brands to open up a range of online and interactive revenue opportunities: Development spend increased by 50%, targeting the high value areas of drama, formats, quiz shows and features: Build our local community site, itvlocal.
com and grow Friends Reunited as part of our portfolio, with a greater emphasis on Launch a new talent strategy to make ITV a magnet for creative advertising: talent.
We are offering people a wide range of new and exciting ways to work with ITV: Build excellence in online ad sales.
com offering streamed channels, 30 day catch up and exclusive content, Continued expansion of global sales and production by better we are well placed to secure a substantial share of this fast exploiting programming from our UK and international growing market: production arms, and via targeted international acquisitions: Develop adjacent online businesses attractive to our audience Targeted acquisition of complementary UK and international and advertisers.
We have allocated up to 200 million for UK and international acquisitions.
For example, game show producer 12 Yard was acquired in December 2007.
