10 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Action Plan Global Content h Ich Bin Ein Star the German version of Im A Celebrity, ran for a third series in early 2008 on RTL and peaked with a 36.4% share.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 11 k in any language From Coronation Street to The Street, from Countdown to Dancing on Ice, from Tonight to This Morning, ITV Productions set the bar for ratings and quality.
The value of that content is deepening with opportunities for secondary exploitation from distribution to DVD sales and merchandising.
And it is widening as content becomes an international business.
Great formats like Im A Celebrity are hits across the world.
12 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Action Plan Global Content x Dancing On Ice won an audience of nearly 9 million viewers on ITV1 and is becoming a global hit.
We are maximising global exploitation of content Global Content is ITVs content division bringing together all of ITV Worldwide consists of Granada International, Granada ITVs UK and international production and distribution businesses.
Ventures and international production companies in America, Germany and Australia.
Granada International sells programming ITV Productions is one of Europes leading commercial production from ITV Productions and many other independent producers companies producing more than 3,000 hours of original worldwide.
Granada Ventures is a major distributor of DVD programming each year.
ITV-produced programmes include some entertainment in the UK and exploits merchandising and licensing of the most popular shows on UK television, such as Coronation in the UK and worldwide from both ITV-produced programmes Street, Emmerdale, Im a Celebrity and Dancing On Ice.
ITV also and other rights owners.
ITV has had considerable success in produces programming for other channels such as The Street for producing local versions of ITV and other UK programmes, the BBC, Brainiac for Sky and Countdown for Channel 4. including Hells Kitchen in the US, Dancing On Ice in Australia, and local versions of Im A Celebrity and Come Dine with ITV Productions is a significant producer across a wide range Me in Germany.
of programme genres, including drama, soaps, entertainment, factual, daytime, arts, current affairs, quiz and game shows.
In 2007 ITV took a 25% equity holding in independent producer Mammoth, a controlling 51% stake in US production company Jaffe Braunstein Entertainment and acquired entertainment quiz format producer 12 Yard.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 13 x x Headcases working title The Royal Today cutting edge comedy launched in the ITV1 new to ITV1 in 2008. daytime schedule in early 2008.
Objectives Actions Double Global Content annual revenues by 2012 New Global Content division Compete for a greater share of ITV1 commissions Focus on high value genres Development spend up by 50% New talent strategy International expansion Targeted acquisitions ITV1 Network programme spend vs. Commercial impact delivery Acquired programmes Sport News Weather 75% Other commissions of all programmes excluding Sport ITV on all UK channels achieving Productions 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% audiences over 10 million were % Commercial impacts delivered made by ITV Productions % Network budget spend Source: BARB ITV
