06 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Action Plan Broadcasting h Moving Wallpaper took viewers behind the scenes with Ben Miller as TV producer Jonathan Pope.
x Echo Beach was the soap he made earlier, completing a ground-breaking TV pairing.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 07 k Investment and innovation ITV invests 1 billion a year to bring UK viewers world-class programmes free of charge, funding more UK production than every other commercial channel combined.
That investment provides advertisers with a fantastic platform to reach consumers.
More than four out of ten television advertisements watched in the UK are broadcast on ITV channels.
But investment is only half the story.
Audiences and advertisers expect more from ITV.
The key to delivering sustainable growth is innovation.
08 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Action Plan Broadcasting x Formula 1 with Lewis Hamiltons debut season was a highlight in an action-packed year of sport on ITV1.
We are making sure that ITV offers something for everyone ITV1 is the UKs leading commercial channel attracting around ITV also offers advertisers the opportunity to sponsor or directly 18% of the total television audience.
ITV1 broadcasts the most fund programming consistent with regulatory rules.
Programming popular programmes on commercial television, including on ITV channels also generates revenue through viewer Coronation Street, Kingdom, Emmerdale, News at Ten, competitions and voting delivered via PRS.
This Morning, Im A Celebrity, The X Factor, Champions League ITV channels are broadcast on all the major broadcast platforms, football and Formula 1.
ITVs digital channels ITV2, ITV3, ITV4, including DTT, cable and satellite.
ITV is a shareholder in Freeview Citv and Men & Motors generated more than 200 million in and, with the BBC, plans to launch a Freesat service including a advertising revenue in 2007 and included two of the UKs top high definition ITV offering.
Via SDN, ITV also holds a multiplex three commercial digital channels.
licence, leasing out DTT spectrum to other broadcasters.
ITVs 1 billion investment in programming funds original ITV holds a 75% stake in GMTV, the Channel 3 breakfast time commissions from in-house, external and independent producers, licensee: a 40% stake in ITN, the national news provider for ITV plus programmes acquired from distributors and US studios, or and Channel 4: and a 5.6% interest in SMG plc, which holds the through negotiation with sporting bodies and other rights holders.
two regional Channel 3 licences in Scotland.
In 2007, ITV channels generated nearly 1.5 billion in advertising revenues.
As well as national advertising, ITV is uniquely able to offer companies the opportunity to advertise on television at a regional or local level.
Report and accounts 2007 ITV plc 09 x x News at Ten Harry Hills TV Burp returned to ITV1 now in its seventh featuring Mark Austin, series peaked with Julie Etchingham 7 million viewers.
and, of course Sir Trevor McDonald.
Objectives Actions Deliver ITV family SOCI above 38.5% in 2012 New ITV1 2008 peak-time strategy Invest in ITV2 to become No.
3 commercial Keep programme costs in check channel for 1634s Aim to secure new ITV1 PSB settlement Work to replace CRR Secure greater share of marketing budgets Future-proof Freeview: launch Freesat Launch ITV HD service in 2008 Share of commercial impacts, 2007 ITV C4 five 290 Sky ITV1 broadcast the 290 top rated Other programmes on commercial TV 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% in 2007 Main terrestrial channel Digital channels Source: BARB Infosys, Adult SOCI Sky includes all channels sold by Sky sales house
