48 ITV plc Report and accounts 2007 Business review Forward look This Business review has detailed how ITV is implementing its In Broadcasting, we estimate that for the first quarter of 2008 Turnaround strategy with the aim of delivering sustainable ITV plcs total television advertising revenue will be up 1.9% at growth in terms of revenues and earnings.
Over the next five 357 million, with ITV1 advertising down 0.5% at 290 million.
years, we aim to achieve stretching targets for each of our core The total television market we estimate will be down around business segments.
In Broadcasting, we are targeting a share of 0.7% over the same period.
For the first time in several years ITV commercial impacts across the ITV family of channels in excess is outperforming the total television market, reflecting our strong of 38.5% in 2012.
Over the same period, we are targeting Global performance on-screen last year and into 2008, together with the Content annual revenues growing to 1.2 billion.
We aim to increasing confidence of advertisers in ITV.
generate 150 million in annual revenues in Online by 2010.
Having been created in late 2007, ITVs new Global Content Across the Company as a whole, we are seeking to deliver annual segment has made promising early progress, both in the UK compound annual revenue growth of between 35% to 2010, market and internationally, with a high volume of exciting then rising to 5% to 2012. productions on-screen, in production or being developed.
2008 The strategy is ambitious, but we believe achievable in a will also see significant developments in terms of Online, notably rapidly changing market context.
2008 will see some critical the launch of the broadband archive service with BBC Worldwide developments for the UK media sector in general and for and Channel 4 and the development of Friends Reunited, building ITV in particular.
During the year, we also expect to take an active role in the launch of a Freesat service with the BBC and the The process of digital switchover will get fully underway later development of free-to-air high definition television services.
this year, following last years first pilot.
The ITV Border region will start the switch, completing the process in 2009.
Although In a rapidly changing market of tremendous challenge and digital switchover is upon us, the pace of digital take up is actually opportunity, control and exploitation of content across UK slowing, with over 85% of UK homes already having made the television, in other territories and via other media represents transition.
To this extent the digital fragmentation effect on ITV1 the key to the Companys turnaround.
viewing in particular should continue to ease.
The Ofcom second review of public service broadcasting will run throughout 2008.
ITV has set out its plans for modernising its regional news services in 2009, which Ofcom will consider.
But there are also much wider questions about sustaining commercial public service broadcasting across ITV and Channel4 in the digital age.
The Government has confirmed its own intention to review public service broadcasting, building on Ofcoms work, and it is possible that this could lead to further broadcasting legislation around the end of this decade.
A separate regulatory review of the CRR mechanism is being undertaken by the OFT, working with Ofcom.
The review process is expected to run into 2009, allowing any recommendations to take effect for the trading round for 2010.
The market has changed markedly since CRR was introduced in 2003.
There is more competition between TV and different media, but the value of the mass audience delivered by ITV1 is perhaps greater than ever.
ITV will participate actively in the review and looks forward to an outcome which maximises its ability to invest in programming to deliver UK advertisers the mass audiences that they demand.
