DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND ADVISERS Tim Martin Chairman, aged 52 Registered Office Wetherspoon House Tim founded the business in 1979, having previously studied law Central Park at Nottingham University and qualified as a barrister.
He became Reeds Crescent chairman in 1983.
Watford WD24 4QL John Hutson Chief Executive Officer, aged 42 John joined the company in 1991 and was appointed to the Company Number board in 1996.
He is a graduate of Exeter University and 1709784 previously worked with Allied Domecq.
Registrars Jim Clarke Finance Director and Company Secretary, aged 47 Computershare Investor Services plc PO Box 82 Jim joined the company and was appointed to the board The Pavilions in 1998, having previously worked for David Lloyd Leisure Bridgwater Road a division of Whitbread plc and HP Bulmer Holdings plc.
Bristol He is a graduate of Stirling University and qualified as BS99 7NH a chartered accountant in 1984.
Registered Auditors John Herring Senior Non-Executive Director, aged 49  LLP John was appointed to the board in 1997 and is chairman of the audit, remuneration and the nomination committees.
John is a Solicitors chartered accountant and was previously a director of Kleinwort Benson Securities Ltd.
He is a non-executive director of EAT plc Macfarlanes and a number of other private companies.
Bankers Elizabeth McMeikan Non-Executive Director, aged 45 Bank of Ireland Liz was appointed to the board in 2005 and is a member of the Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi audit, remuneration and the nomination committees.
Liz is a Bayerische Landesbank graduate of Cambridge University.
She is a non-executive director BNP Paribas of Direct Wines Ltd and a Civil Service commissioner.
Liz previously Crdit Industriel et Commercial worked for Tesco plc for 12 years in a wide variety of commercial Dresdner Bank AG and operational roles, both in the UK and overseas.
Landesbank Baden-Wrttemberg Lloyds TSB Bank plc Debra van Gene Non-Executive Director, aged 52 Mizuho Corporate Bank The Royal Bank of Scotland plc Debra was appointed to the board in March 2006 and is a member of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
Financial Advisers Debra is a graduate of Oxford University.
She spent 17 years in the advertising industry, ending as deputy managing director of Dresdner Kleinwort Butterfield Day Devito Hockney.
Since then, she has worked in the executive search industry.
She was a partner at Heidrick and Stockbrokers Struggles and now runs her own company, Debra van Gene Dresdner Kleinwort Associates Ltd, of which she is managing director.
Management board The management board comprises John Hutson, Jim Clarke and the following: Name Age Job title Length of service Su Cacioppo 40 Personnel & Legal Director 16 years David Capstick 46 IT & Property Director 9 years Julie Centracchio 41 Deputy Finance Director 4 years Martin Geoghegan 38 Operations Director 13 years Paul Harbottle 39 Chief Operating Officer 3 years Rebecca Payton 36 Marketing and Catering Director 9 years Nathan Wall 41 Operations Director 10 years 8 J D WETHERSPOON PLC
