DIRECTORS REPORT for the 52 weeks ended 29 July 2007 The directors present their report and audited accounts Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the for the 52 weeks ended 29 July 2007. annual report, the directors remuneration report and the financial statements Principal activities and business review The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, The principal activities of the company are the development and the directors remuneration report and the financial statements, management of public houses.
Details of progress and future in accordance with applicable law and International Financial developments are given on pages 2 to 7.
Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Results and dividends The directors are responsible for preparing financial statements The profit on ordinary activities for the year, after taxation, for each financial year which give a true and fair view, was 46,834,000. in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, of the state of affairs of the company and of the profit or loss of On 23 November 2007, the company proposes to pay a final the company for that period.
In preparing those financial dividend for the year ended 29 July 2007 of 8.0p per share to statements, the directors are required to: shareholders on the share register as at the close of business on 26 October 2007.
Together with the interim dividend of 4.0p per select suitable accounting policies and then apply share paid on 25 May 2007, this brings the total expected them consistently.
dividend for the year to 12.0p per share.
make judgements and estimates which are reasonable and prudent.
Return of capital state whether the financial statements comply with At the annual general meeting of the company, held on IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
8 November 2006, the company was given authority to make prepare the financial statements on the going-concern market purchases of up to 23,066,338 of its own shares.
During basis, unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company the year to 29 July 2007, a total of 13,184,049 shares including will continue in business.
7,294,049 purchased before the 2006 AGM were purchased at an average cost of 584p per share.
As at 29 July 2007, the The directors confirm that they have complied with the above authority given to the company at the last annual general meeting requirements in preparing the financial statements.
remained outstanding in relation to 17,176,338 shares.
As a result of the share buyback programme, the company expects The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting earnings per share to be enhanced, in both the current and records which disclose, with reasonable accuracy at any time, future years.
the financial position of the company, to enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the directors remuneration Directors report comply with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the The directors listed on page 8 served throughout the financial IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the year.
Mr Hutson, Mrs McMeikan and Mr Herring retire by rotation assets of the company and hence for taking reasonable steps for and offer themselves for re-election.
Details of the terms under the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
which the directors, who were in office during the year, serve and their remuneration, together with their interests in the shares of The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity the company, are given in the directors remuneration report on of the corporate and financial information included on the pages 12 to 17. companys Web site.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial No director has any material interest in any contractual statements may differ from that in other jurisdictions.
agreement, subsisting during or at the end of the year, which is or may be significant to the company.
The work carried out by the auditors does not involve consideration of these matters: accordingly, the auditors accept Insurance against the liabilities of directors and officers of the no responsibility for any changes which may have occurred to company was in place throughout the year, in respect of their the financial statements since they were initially presented on the duties as directors and officers of the company.
It is stated clearly on the Web site that information published on the Internet is accessible in many countries and Companys shareholders that legislation in the United Kingdom, governing the preparation Details of the companys shareholders, including those beneficial and dissemination of financial information, may differ from that in interests notified to the company as accounting for over 3% of other jurisdictions.
the issued share capital, are given on page 48.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2007 9 DIRECTORS REPORT Going concern All staff participate in incentive bonus schemes related to The directors have made enquiries into the adequacy of the profitability and or service standards.
companys financial resources, through a review of the company budget and medium-term financial plan, including capital Policy on payment of suppliers expenditure plans and cash flow forecasts: they have satisfied The company agrees on terms and conditions with all suppliers themselves that the company will continue in operational before business takes place and has a policy of paying agreed existence for the foreseeable future.
This is based on reviewing invoices in accordance with the terms of payment.
Trade creditors the detailed profit and cash flow plans for the relevant period.
at the year end represented 47 2006: 46 days purchases.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the companys financial statements.
Political and charitable contributions Contributions made by the company during the year, Auditors for charitable purposes, were 45,736 2006: 44,127.
The companys auditors,  LLP, No political contributions were made.
have indicated their willingness to continue in office, and a resolution that they be reappointed will be proposed at the Business at the annual general meeting annual general meeting.
On pages 49 and 50 is a notice convening the annual general meeting of the company for 7 November 2007, at which Statement of disclosure of information to auditors shareholders will be asked, as items of special business, to give In accordance with Section 234A of the Companies Act 1985, power to the directors to allot shares, to authorise the company the directors report that, so far as they are aware, all relevant to send or supply documents or information to members by audit information has been disclosed to the companys auditors.
making them available on a Web site or by other electronic The directors have taken all the steps which they ought to have means, to give power to the directors to disapply the pretaken as directors, in order to establish that the companys emption requirements of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 auditors are aware of that information.
and to give power to the directors to make market purchases of ordinary shares in the capital of the company, subject to certain Employment policies conditions.
The notice also sets out details of the ordinary Only through the skill and commitment of the companys business to be conducted at the annual general meeting.
employees will its objectives be met.
All staff are encouraged to make a real commitment to the companys success and to Approval of the directors remuneration report progress to more senior roles as they, themselves, develop.
Resolution 2 in the notice of annual general meeting, which will be proposed as an ordinary resolution, asks shareholders to A heavy emphasis is placed on training programmes for all levels approve the directors remuneration report, set out on pages of staff: this highlights the importance placed by the company on 12 to 17. providing a high level of service to its customers.
Re-election of Mr Hutson, Mrs McMeikan and Mr Herring In selecting, training and promoting staff, the company has to as directors take account of the physically demanding nature of much of its The companys Articles of Association require one-third of the work.
The company is committed to equality of opportunity and directors to retire from office at each annual general meeting.
In to the elimination of discrimination in employment.
The company addition, any director who has, at the annual general meeting, aims to create and maintain a working environment, terms and been in office for more than three years since his or her last conditions of employment and personnel and management appointment or re-appointment should also retire and may offer practices which ensure that no individual receives less favourable him or herself for re-election.
treatment on the grounds of his or her race, religion, nationality, ethnic origin, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation or marital Brief biographical details of each of the directors standing for status.
Employees who become disabled will be retained, where re-election may be found on page 8.
The re-election resolutions possible, and retrained, where necessary.
are set out as resolutions 4, 5 and 6 in the notice of annual general meeting.
The company has established a range of policies, covering issues such as diversity, employees well-being and equal Mr Hutson, Mrs McMeikan and Mr Herring all have extensive opportunities, aimed at ensuring that all employees are treated experience of the company, allowing them, subject to their fairly and consistently.
re-election to the board, to contribute to the companys development.
The board is therefore of the opinion that Internal communications seek to ensure that staff are well Mr Hutson, Mrs McMeikan and Mr Herring should be informed about the companys progress, through the use of re-elected at the annual general meeting.
regular newsletters, monthly videos and briefings at staff meetings, at which employees views are discussed and taken into account.
10 J D WETHERSPOON PLC DIRECTORS REPORT Re-appointment of  LLP as auditors The authority unless previously varied, revoked or renewed will Resolution 7, set out in the notice of annual general meeting, expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of passing the proposes that  LLP should be resolution or the conclusion of the annual general meeting held to reappointed as the companys auditors and authorises the approve the report and accounts for the year ending 27 July 2008. directors to determine their remuneration.
Purchase of ordinary shares Authority to allot In common with many other listed companies, the company The general authority previously given to the directors to allot proposes, once again, to seek an authority from shareholders to relevant securities will expire at the end of the annual general permit the company to purchase its own shares.
Accordingly, meeting, convened for 7 November 2007. resolution 11 will be proposed as a special resolution to authorise the company to make market purchases of up to just under 15% Accordingly, resolution 8, set out in the notice of annual general of the companys current issued ordinary share capital, at prices meeting, will be proposed as an ordinary resolution to authorise not less than the nominal value of an ordinary share and not the directors pursuant to section 80 of the Companies Act 1985 exceeding 105% of the average of the middle-market quotations to allot ordinary shares in the capital of the company, up to a for an ordinary share for the five business days before each maximum nominal amount of 940,000, being approximately purchase exclusive of expenses.
The authority will last until the 33% of the nominal value of the ordinary shares currently in earlier of 30 April 2009 or the conclusion of the next annual issue.
The company does not currently hold any shares in general meeting of the company.
The directors envisage that treasury.
The authority unless previously varied, revoked or purchases would be made only after considering the effects on renewed will expire on the earlier of 15 months from the date of earnings per share and the benefits for shareholders generally.
passing the resolution or the conclusion of the annual general meeting held to approve the report and accounts for the year As at 7 September 2007, there were outstanding options over ending 27 July 2008.
922,770 ordinary shares, representing 0.6% of the companys issued ordinary share capital.
If the authority under resolution The directors will exercise such authority to allot shares only 11 were to be exercised in full, this percentage would increase when satisfied that it is in the interests of the company to do so.
They have no present intention, however, of exercising the authority, except in connection with the issue of shares under the companys share option schemes.
By order of the board Electronic communication Communication by electronic means, resolution 9, set out in the Jim Clarke notice of annual general meeting, will be proposed as a special Company Secretary resolution to authorise the company to send or supply 7 September 2007 documents or information to members by making them available on a Web site or by other electronic means.
Disapplication of pre-emption rights The provisions of section 89 of the Companies Act 1985 which confer on shareholders rights of pre-emption in respect of the allotment of equity securities which are, or are to be, paid up in cash, other than by way of allotment to employees under an employees share scheme apply to the authorised, but unissued, ordinary shares of the company to the extent that they are not disapplied, pursuant to section 95 of the Companies Act 1985.
The existing disapplication of these statutory pre-emption rights will expire at the end of the annual general meeting convened by the notice of annual general meeting.
Accordingly, resolution 10, as set out in the notice of annual general meeting, will be proposed as a special resolution to permit directors to allot shares without the application of these statutory pre-emption rights, first, in relation to rights issues and, secondly, in relation to the issue of ordinary shares in the capital of the company for cash up to a maximum aggregate nominal amount of 142,000 representing approximately 5% of the nominal value of the ordinary shares of the company currently in issue.
