JJB Sports plc Directors report For the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 The Directors of JJB Sports plc the Group present their Annual report on the affairs of the Group, together with Financial statements and the Auditors report, for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007. Business review The section that follows should be read in conjunction with the Business and financial review on pages 4 to 7 of this Annual report.
The principal activity of the Group continues to be the retailing of sportswear and sporting equipment.
The Group also includes a separate Leisure Division, which operates health clubs and indoor soccer centres.
In May 2006 the Group acquired Golf TV Limited, a television broadcasting and marketing business which specialises in the marketing of golf products and fitness equipment through Sky Television.
The Group operates through 416 retail stores, 39 health clubs and 6 indoor soccer centres.
The Groups plans for store openings during the financial period of 52 weeks commencing 29 January 2007 are to open a further 8 combined health clubs superstores and 10 standalone superstores.
The Directors are not aware, at the date of this Annual report, of any likely major changes of the Groups activities in the financial year.
The Groups financial results are shown in the Consolidated income statement on page 31: the Groups revenue has increased by 8.7 per cent, over the comparative accounting period and operating profit has increased by 13.6 per cent.
The Consolidated balance sheet on page 33 shows that the Groups financial position at 28 January 2007 is slightly better both as regards net assets and net debt, than the position shown at 29 January 2006.
Risks and uncertainties The Board has a policy of continuous identification and review of key business risks and oversees the development of processes to ensure that these risks are managed appropriately.
Executive Directors and senior management, including the Associate Directors, are delegated with the task of implementing these processes: the Executive Directors are charged with reporting to the Board on their outcomes.
The key risks identified by the Board include: Economic conditions In common with most retailers, JJBs results can be affected by a number of economic conditions including interest rates, the availability of consumer credit, the level of inflation and movements in consumers disposable income.
All these factors affect the level of consumer confidence and can impact upon revenue achieved by both JJBs retail store chain and its health clubs.
Competition JJBs retail store chain operates in a particularly competitive part of the retail sector and therefore its degree of competitiveness is affected by the retail pricing policies of its competitors which in turn impacts upon JJBs margins and profitability.
Key personnel The success of JJB is partly dependent upon the continued service of its key management personnel and upon its ability to attract, motivate and retain suitably qualified employees.
Suppliers JJB is dependant upon its major suppliers continuing to design and produce quality product ranges for sale within its retail stores, at wholesale prices which will enable JJB to maintain its margins and to compete effectively within the retail sector.
IT systems and business continuity JJB is dependent upon the continued availability and integrity of its computer systems.
Its retail and health club operations must record and process a substantial volume of data and conduct inventory management accurately and quickly.
This can only be achieved on systems which benefit from continuous enhancements and ongoing investment in order to prevent obsolescence and maintain responsiveness to business needs.
JJB is also dependant upon the uninterrupted operation of its computer systems and therefore reliance needs to be placed upon a disaster recovery plan to replicate the data stored on its business critical computer systems.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 12 JJB Sports plc Directors report continued Risks and uncertainties continued Revenue dependence on key sporting events JJB derives some benefit in alternate years from the sale of replica kits as a result of the participation of the England national football team in the two major competitions the FIFA World Cup and the Euro Championships.
This benefit would be jeopardised if the England team failed to qualify for the finals of those competitions.
Logistics and distribution infrastructure An important part of JJBs business is to maintain a secure and efficient distribution centre in order to ensure prompt and frequent deliveries of inventory to its retail stores.
Any disruption to this supply chain could adversely affect the Groups revenue levels.
Property availability The continuing growth of the Group, particularly with regard to the combined health clubs superstores, is dependant upon the availability of new sites at competitive rentals and the timing of new openings is partly dependant upon the granting of full planning permission by local authorities.
Treasury and financial risks JJB is subject to treasury and financial risks arising from the security of its existing funds, the ongoing availability of new funds and fluctuations in interest and exchange rates.
Key performance indicators The Board monitors its performance by reference to a number of key performance indicators of which the most important are: Like-for-like changes in revenue Gross margin Number and size of retail stores and health clubs Number of members in its health clubs, and Net debt Environment The Group recognises the importance of its environmental responsibilities, monitors its impact on the environment and designs and implements policies to reduce any damage that might be caused by the Groups activities.
The Group operates in accordance with policies and initiatives designed to minimise the Groups impact on the environment including safe disposal of waste, recycling and reducing energy consumption.
These policies are referred to within the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 23 to 24 of this Annual report.
Employees Details of the number of employees and related costs can be found in note 6 in the Notes to the Financial statements on page 45.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind the aptitudes of the applicant concerned.
In the event of members of staff becoming disabled every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues and that the appropriate training is arranged.
It is the policy of the Group that the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons, should as far as possible, be identical of that of other employees.
The Group endeavours to keep employees informed on matters relevant to them, as employees, through regular meetings and newsletters.
Employee representatives are consulted regularly on a wide range of matters affecting their interest.
Three annual meetings are held, one for Associate Directors, one for retail store managers and one for health club managers at which current issues affecting these groups of employees are fully explained and discussed.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 13 JJB Sports plc Directors report continued Subsidiaries The subsidiary undertakings principally affecting the profits or net assets of the Group in the accounting period are listed in note 16 in the Notes to the Financial statements on page 52.
Results and dividends The Group profit after taxation for the accounting period attributable to equity holders of the Company is 25,825,000 2006: 30,237,000.
Dividends paid during the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 and deducted from the equity attributable to the equity holders of the Company comprise the final dividend for the previous accounting period of 7.0 pence net per ordinary share, amounting to 16,154,000 and the interim dividend for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 of 3.0 pence net per ordinary share amounting to 7,084,000.
The Directors recommend a final dividend of 7.0 pence net per ordinary share 2006: 7.0 pence which when added to the interim dividend of 3.0 pence 2006: 3.0 pence gives a total dividend paid or proposed for the accounting period of 10.0 pence net per ordinary share 2006: 10.0 pence.
If approved at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting AGM, the final dividend will be paid on 3 August 2007 to shareholders on the share register at the close of business on 18 May 2007.
A proposal will be made for approval at the AGM to offer a scrip dividend alternative to shareholders in respect of this final dividend.
Directors The current members of the Board of Directors are listed on page 11 of this Annual report.
All Directors served throughout the accounting period.
The Articles of Association require one third of Directors to retire by rotation at every AGM, in addition to the re-confirmation of Directors appointed during the year.
David Beever, Barry Dunn and Andrew Thomas are the Directors due to retire by rotation and resolutions will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM for their re-election.
Full details of the cost of the service contracts, remuneration and incentive packages provided for the Directors together with their interests in the share capital of the Company are given in the separate Directors remuneration report in this Annual report on pages 25 to 29.
Directors remuneration report In accordance with the Directors Remuneration Report Regulations 2002, the Directors remuneration report will be tabled for approval by the shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Declarable interests According to the Register of members, and notifications received from shareholders, the holders of material interests in 3.0 per cent or more of the Companys issued share capital at 6 June 2007 was as follows: Number of 5p Percentage ordinary shares of share capital David Whelan 37,808,908 15.87 Legal & General Investment Man.
Ltd 18,899,546 7.93 Standard Life Investments Ltd 16,893,551 7.09 Harris Associates L. P. 9,477,393 3.98 LSV Asset Management 10,480,617 4.40 Liontrust Asset Management 9,510,376 3.99 Morley Fund Management 7,404,418 3.11 Included in the number of shares held by David Whelan are both the beneficial and non-beneficial shareholdings of himself, his immediate family and family trusts.
The total interests of the Directors are detailed in the Directors remuneration report on page 29 of this Annual report.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 14 JJB Sports plc Directors report continued Close company status The Company is not a close company within the provisions of the Income and Corporation Taxes Act 1988.
Charitable contributions, corporate responsibility and political contributions Charitable donations of 2,000 2006: 26,000 were made by the Group during the accounting period.
The Group again participated in the Macmillan Cancer Relief football badge campaign.
JJB is pleased to report that for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007, total donations of approximately 31,000 were raised from purchases of football badges by its customers and staff.
The total now raised through the Groups stores since the beginning of this campaign in January 1999 is approximately 1.2 million.
In October 2005 the Leisure Division nominated the British Heart Foundation as its chosen charity partner and up to 28 January 2007, 47,000 has been raised for various initiatives.
Additionally, many employees with support from the Group, have taken part in various charitable fund-raising activities during the year.
No contributions were made to political parties.
Financial risks and treasury policies The key financial risks faced by the Group are the security of existing funds, the ongoing availability of new funds and fluctuations in interest and exchange rates.
The treasury policies approved by the Board of Directors which are used by the Group in order to effectively manage these risks are set out on note 39 of the Notes to the Financial statements on pages 63 to 65.
Supplier payment policy The Groups policy for the payment of suppliers is to agree terms of payment with suppliers at the time that orders are placed.
Payment is then made in accordance with the agreed terms.
At 28 January 2007, the number of days purchases included in the amounts owing to trade creditors, in the Group and Company, was 26 days 2006: 23 days, based on the ratio of trade creditors at the end of the accounting period to the amounts paid during the accounting period to trade creditors.
Disclosure of information to Auditors In accordance with the provisions of Section 234ZA of the Companies Audit, Investigation and Community Enterprise Act 2004, each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this Directors report confirms that: so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Auditors Deloitte & Touche LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and a resolution for their re-appointment as auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Employment issues The Group employs approximately 12,000 people throughout the United Kingdom and overseas and is proud of its record as a responsible and valued employer.
JJB Sports plc is an equal opportunities employer, and as such the following key values are respected throughout JJBs operations: All employees should be treated fairly and equally and the workplace should be free from discrimination, harassment and intimidation: Recruitment, retention and progression of employees is based solely on personal ability and competency for the work in question: and Disabled persons should enjoy equal opportunities within the workplace.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled during the course of their employment, the Group will make every effort to provide an opportunity for them to remain with the Group.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 15 JJB Sports plc Directors report continued Employee training The Group believes in encouraging employees to maximise their potential and so provides training which ensures that they are able to perform their duties to the best of their abilities.
A number of retail employees annually undertake courses for National Vocational Qualifications NVQ in customer service through the Groups principal training providers, Performance through People.
During the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007, a significant proportion of employees on this course achieved qualifications at various levels.
In addition, staff working within the health clubs are able to undertake various NVQ qualifications, relevant to their position, through the Training Pathway Programme.
The Group hopes that these schemes, along with other in-house initiatives, will help to further improve customer service levels at its operating units.
Driver training is provided to employees using fork lift trucks and other handling equipment, in order to improve safety in the Distribution centre.
The Group financially supports those employees wishing to obtain relevant professional qualifications whilst in its employment.
Professional staff are also encouraged to attend training courses and seminars as and when necessary, in order that they keep up to date with developments relevant to their work and areas of expertise.
Career progression is available to employees across the Group.
Employee consultation The Group places considerable value on the involvement of its employees in matters affecting them as employees.
JJB has continued the practice of keeping employees informed on such matters and on the various factors affecting the performance of the Group.
This is achieved through regular meetings involving Directors, managers and supervisory staff to convey information about the business as well as via notice boards and the Groups own intranet.
The GMB Union are accepted by the Company to negotiate collective bargaining on behalf of hourly paid staff within the Distribution centre.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of shareholders will be held at 12 noon on Tuesday 17 July 2007 at the JJB Stadium, Loire Drive, Wigan, Lancashire, WN5 0UH.
The Notice of the Meeting is included in a separate circular issued to shareholders with this Annual report and Financial statements.
Certain Special Business is to be proposed at the AGM, details of which are set out in a separate Notice of the Meeting circular.
Included in this Special Business is a resolution to approve the offer of a scrip dividend alternative to the final dividend for the 52 weeks to 28 January 2007 and to approve the adoption of a Save As You Earn option scheme.
Events after the balance sheet date Since the balance sheet date, the Board has proposed a final dividend of 7.0 pence per ordinary share the payment of which is subject to approval by shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
In addition JJB has had an action for damages lodged against it by The Consumers Association regarding the sale of football replica shirts in 2000 and 2001.
Full details of these matters are contained within note 41 of these Notes to the Financial statements on page 65.
By order of the Board J. D. Greenwood Company Secretary Martland Park, Challenge Way Wigan, Lancashire WN5 0LD 6 June 2007 JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 16
