JJB Sports plc Directors biographies Executive Directors Tom Knight Chief Executive Aged 54, Tom Knight joined JJB in October 2002 after a long and successful career at Blacks Leisure Group plc during which he held several positions culminating as Managing Director of their Sports and Fashion Division.
Prior to this he spent 7 years working for adidas before establishing his own successful chain of retail sports stores.
He was also a Non-executive Director of Ultimate Leisure plc until he resigned this position in March 2006.
He was appointed Operations Director of JJB in October 2002 and was subsequently appointed Chief Executive in November 2002 where his principal responsibility is the overall control of the running of the Groups business and the implementation of its strategy.
David Whelan Executive Director Aged 70, David Whelan was formerly a professional footballer, principally with Blackburn Rovers.
On his retirement from professional football, he acquired a single grocery store and built up a chain of 6 supermarkets called Whelans Discount Stores which he sold to Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc in 1978.
He had earlier formed JJB Sports in 1971 to acquire the business of a single sports store in Wigan, which had been trading since the early 1900s.
From 1978 until 31 January 2001, David Whelan was Executive Chairman during which time he was involved in a wide range of Group operations and has been a major influence in the success of the Group.
On 1 February 2001 he was appointed as Chairman, a position that he held until 6 July 2005.
On that date, he resigned his position as Chairman and was appointed as an Executive Director.
His responsibilities have included a range of executive duties involving cost control.
In addition, David Whelan holds a controlling interest in Whelco Holdings Limited which owns Wigan Athletic Football Club and Wigan Warriors Rugby League Club, together with the stadium in which both clubs play, which is known as the JJB Stadium.
David Greenwood, FCA Finance Director and Company Secretary Aged 63, David Greenwood spent 5 years with  before working a further 5 years as a financial controller in industry.
He joined Whelans Discount Stores as Financial Controller in 1976 and, after the sale of that company in 1978, he was appointed Finance Director of JJB.
David Greenwood has overall responsibility for all accounting, administrative and company secretarial functions.
Barry Dunn, MRICS Property Director Aged 50, Barry Dunn joined JJB Sports in 1986 as Estates Manager after 10 years in commercial and residential agency.
In 1992 he left to take up the position of Estates and Development Controller with Matalan plc, where he gained valuable experience in the development of out-of-town retailing.
Returning to JJB in 1995 as Property Director, Barry Dunn has full responsibility for the Groups existing properties and for identifying and negotiating the acquisition of new sites.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 9 JJB Sports plc Directors biographies continued Non-executive Directors Roger Lane-Smith Chairman Roger Lane-Smith, aged 61, was appointed as a Non-executive Director in November 1998.
He was Senior Partner and Chairman of DLA Piper UK LLP from 1998 to 2005 and was appointed a Senior Consultant to the practice in May 2005.
On 6 July 2005, he became Non-executive Chairman of JJB, responsible both for ensuring that the Board functions effectively and also for general strategic issues.
He is also a Non-executive Director of MS International plc, WH Ireland Group plc, Dolphin Capital Investors plc, Civica plc, Timpsons plc and a number of other non-quoted companies.
Andrew Thomas, FCA Andrew Thomas is the senior Non-executive Director.
He is aged 64 and was appointed as a Nonexecutive Director in October 1994.
He was Executive Chairman of The Greenalls Group plc until his retirement in February 2000 and is a Non-executive Director of The Restaurant Group plc and a number of non-quoted companies.
He is also a Partner in Moors Andrew Thomas Private Clients Limited, Chartered Accountants.
David Beever David Beever, aged 66, was appointed as a Non-executive Director in March 2000.
He is Deputy Chairman of London & Continental Railways Limited and is a Non-executive Director of The Paragon Group of Companies plc and Volex Group plc.
He was previously Chairman of KPMG Corporate Finance and a Vice Chairman of SG Warburg & Co Limited.
Roger Best Roger Best, aged 55, was appointed as a Non-executive Director in October 2005.
Since February 2006, he has been the Chief Executive of Radley & Co. Ltd, the UKs leading handbag and ladies accessories company.
He was formerly Non-executive Director and then Executive Chairman of The John David Group plc from 2002 to 2004.
Prior to this he held a number of appointments at Reebok International Limited over a period of 10 years, including the last 4 years as Senior Vice President for Europe, Africa and the Middle East.
Prior to this, he held a number of appointments as Director at several UK public companies.
Board Committees Board Committees Board Committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Andrew Thomas Committee Chairman Roger Lane-Smith Committee Chairman Roger Lane-Smith Committee Chairman David Beever Andrew Thomas Andrew Thomas Roger Best David Beever David Beever Roger Best Roger Best This committee consults with the external auditors on the Groups financial statements, This committee reviews the remuneration This committee reviews the appointment accounting policies, internal controls and of the Groups Executive Directors.
any other matters raised by the auditors.
JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs Serious about sport JJB Sports Retail stores Health clubs 10
