Directors Dr Paul Davies Bruce Burrows Chief Executive Officer 58 Finance Director 49 Dr Paul Davies joined the Board on 30 January 1998.
Bruce Burrows was appointed Finance Director on He has been active in the oil and gas industry since 31 December 1997.
He joined JKX from Ernst & Young 1976 and was the co-founder of the JP Kenny Group of where he held positions in the Wellington New Zealand Companies which traded internationally in oil and gas and London offices.
He holds a BSc Honours degree engineering, oil and gas exploration and production, from Canterbury University New Zealand, a Diploma subsea survey and inspection, and shipping.
He has in Accounting from Victoria University New Zealand extensive experience of business in the former Soviet and is a member of the Institute of Chartered Union and was a founder of J P Kenny Exploration & Accountants of New Zealand.
Bruce also holds the Production Ltd, the forerunner of JKX Oil & Gas plc.
He position of Company Secretary.
holds an Honours degree in Civil Engineering and PhD in structural mechanics from University College London.
Martin Miller Peter Dixon Technical Director 60 Commercial Director 53 Martin Miller joined JKX in 1994 as Chief Geologist and Peter Dixon joined the Board on 1 July 2007 with 27 has held a number of senior positions in the Company, years of broad experience in the upstream oil and gas including directing JKXs Georgian operations.
Most industry in the UK, Middle East, Africa and the former recently, he has assumed responsibility for JKXs Soviet Union.
Peter graduated in physics and geology ventures in Russia.
He has over 30 years of experience from Sunderland University and spent 15 years working in the oil and gas industry, including senior positions in varied geophysical and senior management roles with Mobil and BP.
within the SSL and Schlumberger groups of companies.
Since joining JKX in 1995, Peter has occupied a number of senior positions within the Group including Asset Manager Ukraine, Group Commercial Executive and General Director of PPC.
36 JKX Oil & Gas plc Annual report and accounts 2007 Rt Hon Lord Fraser of Carmyllie QC Viscount Asquith Non-executive Chairman 62 Non-executive Director 55 Lord Fraser was formerly Lord Advocate and Minister Viscount Asquith, considered by the Board to be the of State at the Department of Trade and Industry with senior independent Non-executive Director, joined the responsibility for export trade promotion and overseas Foreign Office in 1980 and was the Counsellor at the investment, with particular emphasis on the oil and gas British Embassy in Kiev from 1992 until his resignation industry.
He was then Minister of Energy until May 1997. in 1997 to pursue private business interests.
He is a He is a Director of the London Metal Exchange and ICE member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He is Chairman of the Statutory Committee of the Royal Pharmaceutical Society.
He is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Nigel Moore Non-executive Director 63 Nigel Moore is a former partner at Ernst & Young, where during the 1990s he was Regional Managing Partner for Eastern Europe and Russia and was responsible for the Ernst & Young offices throughout the region.
He also holds non-executive positions on the boards of FTSElisted Hochschild Mining plc and Vitec Group plc and the AIM-listed Ascent Resources plc and TEG Group plc.
Annual report and accounts 2007 JKX Oil & Gas plc 37
