12 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Highlights The Mirage topsides will be the Gulf of Mexico, USA lightest topsides ever built on a oating structure with full drilling capacity Mustang has an excellent reputation for its knowledge of deepwater.
This knowledge base, along with its performance on many of the most advanced deepwater projects, made it the ideal partner for delivering the cutting edge technology required for this unique project.
Robert Shivers, Vice President Projects, ATP Oil & Gas Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 13 Engineering & Production Facilities We offer a wide range of engineering services to the upstream, midstream, downstream and industrial sectors.
These include conceptual studies, engineering, project and construction management, control systems upgrades and enhancement.
We offer life of eld support to producing assets, through brown eld engineering and modi cations, production enhancement, operations management, maintenance management and abandonment services.
Mike Straughen, Group Director, Summary financial performance 2007 $m 2006 $m change Engineering Revenue 2,582.8 1,972.7 31% EBITA 214.5 141.9 51% EBITA margin 8.3% 7.2% Operating and financial highlights The growth in Engineering & Production Facilities was driven by strong demand for our services across the division.
The revenue split between engineering and production facilities continues to be approximately 45% to 55%.
Production Facilities was active in the North Les Thomas, Group Director, Sea, renewing major contracts and gaining a number of duty holder roles.
We have made Production Facilities good progress internationally, particularly in the markets where we have recently established signi cant businesses, including Algeria, Equatorial Guinea and Trinidad.
EBITA margin increased from 7.2% to 8.3%, due primarily to increases in the underlying margins for both our engineering and production facilities activities.
Engineering services and sectors We have market leading positions in Sector Services Areas of expertise Below: Melissa Meyer, A. J. Cortez and Doug Lang Deepwater and lightweight topsides, Upstream onshore processing facilities Engineering, project and construction management, Subsea engineering Subsea engineering, offshore and re nery upgrades onshore pipelines, gas storage and pipelines and operational enhancement Downstream, process Re neries, petrochemical plants, and industrial process and industrial facilities Engineering design for deepwater topsides Five year engineering and for ATP Oil & Gas Corporation in Gulf of Mexico project management agreement for BP worldwide We are providing detailed engineering The detailed design is expected to Global agreement to provide and procurement support for the be completed by early 2008, with the engineering and project management topsides production facilities on ATPs installation phase planned for later in 2008. services for offshore subsea first newbuild deepwater facility, development projects.
the Telemark Hub oating drilling Through this agreement with J P Kenny production facility, also known as we will jointly design the most up to date Mirage.
The facility will be located in 4,000 subsea facilities to meet the increasing feet of water at Block MC-941, offshore demands for more ef cient energy Louisiana, Gulf of Mexico.
designed as a lightweight, cost-effective David Clarkson, E&P Technology VP of deepwater facility supporting full drilling Projects & Engineering for BP aboard the oating offshore installation.
14 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Engineering & Production Facilities continued Upstream activities represent around 40% of engineering revenue.
In upstream we have a market leading position for conceptual studies through to detailed engineering for deepwater topsides and onshore processing facilities, principally serving customers from our Houston, Perth and London hubs.
We have been working on a wide range of deepwater upstream projects in the Gulf of Mexico, including Cascade, Mirage and Perdido.
We have also been working on offshore developments in Australia, China and West Africa: and onshore in Canada, India and the US.
In-situ heavy oil developments in Canada represent a signi cant long term growth market and we have secured a market leading capability in engineering, procurement and construction management EPCM through the acquisition of IMV Projects Inc, IMV.
IMV has performed well since acquisition, continuing to work on a range of projects in the Foster Creek area and winning new work, such as the award of a construction management Above: Keith White, Sharon Paul project for StatoilHydro.
and Dan Dutherage Subsea engineering, pipelines and midstream activities represent around 30% of engineering revenue.
We have built on our leading subsea engineering position through entering into an alliance with BP to become a preferred global provider.
We have been active in all major offshore provinces, including West Africa and the North West Shelf in Australia.
Our onshore Revenue pipeline engineering activities in the US delivered a strong performance, driven by the need to transport gas from unconventional gas developments to areas of demand.
We anticipate that there will be increased investment in midstream, driven by the desire to nd new routes up 31% to monetise gas.
We are continuing with our project to install our first LNG Smart Air Vaporization process at the LNG receiving terminal in Lake Charles, Louisiana.
Downstream, process and industrial activities represent around 30% of engineering revenue.
We have seen high demand for our downstream engineering services and have been active on a wide range of re nery upgrade, fide-bottlenecking, heavy oil and low sulphur diesel EBITA modi cation projects.
We have been busy on a broad range of automation projects, including a major re nery and chemical plant project in Singapore.
up 51% We have built on our leading subsea engineering position and have been active in all major offshore provinces, including West Africa and the North West Shelf in Australia.
Commissioning services Oil sands developments for Shell in Alaminos Canyon, for clients including CNRL, Encana, Husky, Nexen, Gulf Of Mexico Petro-Canada and StatoilHydro in Canada Our commissioning services business, We made a strategic move into the grass roots SAG-D projects.
IMV will work DSI, was selected to provide preCanadian oil sands market with the closely with other Wood Group engineering commissioning and commissioning acquisition of IMV.
companies, including Mustang and J P activities for the Perdido Regional Host Kenny, to help grow the Groups engineering Facility.
DSI will conduct final functional IMV, a market leader in EPCM services for activity in upgrading and pipeline projects, and dynamic testing prior to start up and in-situ oil sands developments, is working heavy oil and arctic experience.
Alliance Engineering, a Wood Group with major Canadian in-situ oil sands company, was responsible for conceptual producers to provide effective technical engineering through detailed design, solutions and project execution strategies procurement assistance and fabrication that meet rigorous schedule and cost support and sister company MSi, provided demands.
Current projects workload ow assurance services.
includes conceptual and pilot project developments, right through to 90,000 bopd Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 15 Highlights Canada holds the worlds second largest oil reserves 80% of production will come from in-situ extraction processes by 2015 IMV is a top 3 provider of EPCM for in-situ developments The acquisition of IMV is a signi cant strategic step in developing a strong position in EPCM services for the Canadian oil sands market.
IMVs strong management team and proven expertise for in-situ steam assisted heavy oil developments are an excellent complement to our existing engineering businesses.
Mike Straughen, Group Director Calgary, Canada 16 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Engineering & Production Facilities continued Production Facilities services and sectors We have continued We offer a broad range of life of eld production facilities support services to our clients around the world.
Our range of services across development, production, enhanced recovery and to expand our decommissioning include: international brown eld engineering and modi cations activities which now operations & maintenance represent around 35% human resources management consulting & technical services of production facilities supply chain management revenue.
Our activities in the North Sea, where we are the largest maintenance, modi cations and operations contractor for a broad range of clients, represent around 65% of Production Facilities revenue, a similar position to 2006.
We saw good growth in the North Sea, driven by a number of subsea tiebacks and our customers ongoing focus on integrity enhancements.
We were also active with our customers on a number of initiatives to reduce the overall cost of production.
We successfully renewed and extended long term contracts in the UK with Amerada Hess, BP, Shell, Talisman and Total.
Over the last three years we have invested in additional capability and relationships in order to provide services to new entrants, and we have been awarded the duty holder role for the Hummingbird vessel on the Chestnut eld.
We have continued to expand our international activities, which now represent around 35% of production facilities revenue.
In 2007, we focused on developing further our market positions where we have established a presence over recent years.
For example, we have seen growth in our maintenance outsourcing contract for BP in Trinidad and our engineering and construction support contracts for the Sonatrach, BP and Statoil operated In Amenas and In Salah projects in Algeria.
We have also continued to develop our commissioning and pre-operations support services, including a project supporting the commissioning of Shells Perdido development in the Gulf of Mexico.
We completed the acquisition of Producers Below: Stewart Wilken, Assistance Corporation PAC in January 2008, in order to extend our activities into the Derek Blackwood and Sharleen Taylor onshore US market.
Engineering & Production Facilities outlook In Engineering, a major focus going forward will be to grow our activities in the eastern hemisphere, particularly the Middle East and Asia Paci c, which will allow us to support local client needs and also to access skilled resources to augment our main hubs.
In other parts of the world, we continue to build up our project and construction management expertise and add further to our developing arctic engineering capabilities.
In Production Facilities we continue to develop our commissioning and pre-operations support services, which should help drive improvements in margin and also provide pull through opportunities for our core maintenance, modi cation and operations activities.
Geographically, we will look to build on our established markets, as well as make selected moves into new areas.
Maintenance and upgrading of Integrated maintenance services offshore facilities for BP in Trinidad and other international locations for Brunei Shell Petroleum The Wood Group led joint venture Wood Group continued its five The global best practice we have achieved serving Brunei Shell Petroleum is now year $250m contract to build up a for BP in Colombia has its roots in our work in in its fourth year.
In 2007, we delivered signi cant integrated maintenance maintenance, operations and modi cations in further increases in productivity and and modi cations capability for BP in the North Sea where, after 30 years, we are reduced costs.
Our work included nine Trinidad.
Our initial focus is on developing continuing to take steps to improve safety and shutdown programmes, which were additional competency and skills in the local technical integrity.
Transferring the learning completed ahead of schedule, achieving an workforce.
This will include improving the into multinational workforce situations requires approximate 14% saving in deferred lost safety, integrity and ef ciency of work on respecting, understanding and then engaging production for the client.
Wood Group has cultural differences.
Integrating as many as demonstrated its commitment to achieving eleven different nationalities at a time, we have these objectives for BP in Colombia during developed highly successful teams in Algeria, eleven years of work, which began with a Brazil, Brunei, Equatorial Guinea, Indonesia three year contract.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 17 Highlights Use of one supplier to achieve signi cant integrated maintenance and modi cations capability Develop additional competency and skills of local workforce Improve the safety, integrity and ef ciency of the production facilities In Trinidad we are now able to deliver BPs requirements by combining our latest generation of e-learning systems and independent competence accreditation arrangements with our experience in managing global workforces effectively.
Les Thomas, Group Director Newtown, Trinidad
