Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 21 Gas Turbine Services We are the world leading independent provider of integrated maintenance solutions, and repair and overhaul services for industrial gas turbines, used for power generation, compression and transmission in the oil & gas and power generation industries.
Summary financial performance 2007 $m 2006 $m change Revenue 955.7 713.7 34% Mark Papworth, Group Director, EBITA 64.3 38.0 69% Gas Turbine Services EBITA margin 6.7% 5.3% Operating and financial highlights The strong demand for gas turbine maintenance, repair and overhaul in the oil & gas industry, and the strengthening power markets worldwide, including growing demand for fast track Revenue power packages, led to the increase in Gas Turbine Services revenue.
The increase in our Gas Turbine Services margin from 5.3% to 6.7% includes the impact of our continuing focus on higher margin areas, our success in increasing our business under long term contracts and up 34% our ongoing cost reduction and ef ciency initiatives.
At the end of 2007, we took the dif cult, but necessary, decision to close our operations in Dundee.
We have sought to minimise redundancies and have offered alternative positions within the Group where possible.
Gas Turbine Services services and sectors EBITA Turbine types Oil & Gas Power & Industrial Light Industrial Turbines LIT up 69% generally less than 10MW Aero-derivative Turbines AD generally 10-50MW Below: Nick Blaskoski, Eddy Stitt Heavy Industrial Turbines HIT and Whitney Peck generally more than 50MW $200m fast track turnkey engineering, procurement and construction for AEP in Oklahoma Fast track turnkey engineering, dismantling, installing and commissioning procurement and construction industrial gas turbine equipment was contract for three peaking facilities to instrumental in helping us win this be constructed and commissioned.
AEP selected Wood Group as its EPC partner for the installation of 680MW This is a signi cant addition of generation of peaking capacity.
to help meet the growing energy needs of The contracts involved the sourcing, SWEPCO customers in the region.
relocation and installation of eight Venita McCellon-Allen, President and Chief combustion turbines at the three locations.
Wood Groups ability to quickly meet the Southwestern Electric Power Company SWEPCO clients requirement for additional power is part of the AEP system.
together with our proven track record in 22 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Gas Turbine Services continued Oil & gas We anticipate that the Our oil & gas activities provide support for turbines that are used for power generation, gas compression and transmission and now represent around one third of Gas Turbine Services oil & gas market will revenue.
The breadth of our offering and the link to our Production Facilities capability are the remain robust and that key areas of differentiation.
We are investing to maintain and enhance our market positioning and in the period increased the range of turbines for which we provide aftermarket services, we will see continued including the Solar Centaur 50 and Solar Taurus markets.
In the year we have worked on a strengthening of the number of turbine package refurbishment and compressor restaging projects, for a range of clients including Williams and PSI Midstream.
We continue to increase business under long power market worldwide.
term contract and have also entered into a global framework agreement to provide aftermarket services to turbines across a major international oil companys IOC global downstream operations.
In addition, Rolls Wood Group will perform the engine overhauls under a RollsRoyce eight year contract with BP for the maintenance of twenty eight RB211 turbines in Azerbaijan.
Power & industrial Our power & industrial activities provide support for turbines that are used for power generation and industrial applications, and represent around two thirds of Gas Turbine Services revenue.
The growth in the global demand for power is driving an increase in the running hours of installed gas turbine equipment and this, in turn, leads to an increasing demand for aftermarket services.
We have focused on increasing the proportion of our business under longer term contracts and been successful in winning a range of term maintenance agreements, including the maintenance of advanced technology turbines in the US with the New York Power Authority NYPA, with Air Liquide in the Netherlands, BASF in China and Zielona Gora in Poland.
Our activities delivering long term operations and maintenance services to the power sector have also grown strongly in the period, including recently securing a three year contract to provide operations and maintenance services to a green eld plant with four GE LMS100 gas turbines in California.
We now have more than 50 longer term contracts covering facilities with 12,000MW 2006: 8,000MW of power generation, broadly equivalent to the capacity required by 12 million homes in the US.
Below: Roland Vandervoort, Andy Williams and Dale Goehring The tightening of demand for power that we are seeing, particularly in developing economies, can lead to power shortages and a need for fast track power packages.
We have signi cant competitive advantage in our ability to locate, refurbish, install, operate, warrant and maintain equipment and have secured a number of contracts to provide fast track power packages in various locations, including Ghana, Pakistan and the US.
Gas Turbine Services outlook We anticipate that the market for oil & gas turbine maintenance, repair and overhaul requirements will remain robust and that we will see continued strengthening of the power market worldwide.
We aim to move more of our business to higher margin areas, including increasingly providing longer term solutions, from approximately 40% at present to around 60% by 2010, and continue our ongoing cost reduction and ef ciency initiatives.
A further key focus is international expansion, particularly into the eastern hemisphere where the fastest rates of increase in the demand for power are expected to occur.
Overall, we continue to have a clear objective to increase EBITA margin to 10% by 2010.
Global supply and services 16-year, $88m contract for parts supply, repairs, eld service and risk management for framework agreement for a major New York Power Authority NYPA in Queens, New York IOCs downstream facilities worldwide Global supply and services framework Term maintenance agreement with NYPA We awarded this contract to Wood Group agreement to provide parts, repairs, to provide parts, repairs, eld service after an extensive screening process that and eld services for Frame 5 and and risk management for two GE Frame included using the company to provide services Frame 6B gas turbines located at 7FA e advanced technology gas turbines during key outages this year.
Based on their downstream facilities worldwide.
at the clients 500MW combined cycle ability to get the job done safely, ahead of This agreement expands the provision power station.
This contract exempli es our schedule and in a exible manner, we chose of services provided and takes into continuing commitment to deliver world class to enter this long term arrangement and look consideration the optimisation of gas services to advanced technology, F-Class forward to many years of partnering with Wood turbine maintenance and parts supply turbine owners like NYPA, and brings the Group.
number of F-class advanced gas turbines John Hoff, Vice President of Procurement and under Wood Group operational or maintenance Real Estate, NYPA management to 24.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 23 Highlights Complete and highly competitive solution Wood Groups proven track record in supporting advanced technology gas turbines Our ability to provide exible, tailored solutions to help address our customers problems provides real differentiation from the competition.
Mark Papworth, Group Director New York, USA 38 5 N 76 5 W Location: Louisiana, Gulf of Mexico
