4 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 An overview of Wood Group Engineering & Production Facilities We offer a wide range of engineering services to the upstream, midstream, downstream and We operate three industrial sectors.
These include conceptual studies, front end engineering design FEED, divisions, Engineering & engineering, project and construction management EPCM, control systems upgrades and enhancement.
We offer life of eld support to producing assets, through brown eld Production Facilities, Well engineering and modi cations, production enhancement, operations management, maintenance Support and Gas Turbine management and abandonment services.
EPCM services for: Automation Our leading positions Deepwater and lightweight topsides engineering, speci cation and implementation of control, and experience provide including spars, tension leg platforms and oating automation and information systems.
production, storage and of oading vessels FPSOs.
Downstream, process and industrial debottlenecking a platform for continuing Onshore and offshore processing facilities and operational enhancements for re neries including growth.
including in-situ heavy oil facilities.
clean fuel modi cations, petrochemical plants, process and industrial facilities.
Marginal eld development solutions cost effective production platform designs.
Modi cations engineering and construction structural and process modi cations and tieback Subsea developments.
covering ow assurance, risers, owlines and umbilical design and installation, and integration with Operations and maintenance health and safety production facilities.
programme development, responsibility for the operation of a plant, facilities and maintenance management, shutdown Offshore pipelines and campaign maintenance, reliability studies and analysis.
export and in eld pipelines and systems.
Production enhancement water and gas injection and Onshore pipelines planning, procurement, fabrication, gas compression support.
commissioning and operations support services.
Start-up and commissioning services to bring new Pipeline integrity services materials integrity services facilities into production, e. g. operational documentation and ow assurance software and analysis.
and procedures and function testing.
Lique ed natural gas LNG regasi cation and other Supply chain management gas to liquid processes regasifying LNG technologies logistics and purchasing support.
installed onshore or on oating vessels and services for other regasi cation processes.
Human resources management training and competence programmes and national content development.
Revenue by region Key statistics North America Europe & FSU Middle East & Africa Asia Paci c Central & South America Share of Group revenue 58% People up 22% Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 5 Well Support Gas Turbine Services We provide solutions, products and services to enhance We are the world leading independent provider of integrated production rates and ef ciency from oil & gas reservoirs.
maintenance solutions for industrial gas turbines used for power See page 18. generation, compression and transmission in the oil & gas and power generation industries.
We repair and overhaul gas turbines, accessories and components and are uniquely positioned to provide power plants on a turnkey basis.
Electric submersible pumps ESPs developing high quality, cost effective Oil & Gas and Power Generation pumping systems for mature elds and service for submersible pumps from all Term maintenance scheduling, technical solutions and advice.
Repair and overhaul eld service, shop based repair and overhaul, parts Supply and service of surface wellheads and valves design and re-engineering and parts supply.
manufacture of wellhead systems that control formation pressures and ow rates.
Turbine system solutions retro ts and service for turbine control systems and fuel systems.
Cased hole electric line services electrical operations to gather information and perform operations in a development and a production well.
Equipment solutions provide gas turbine driven packages for power, compression and pumping.
Production testing testing services to gauge the wells performance potential before a permanent facility is developed.
Wireline slickline services mechanical operations to gather information Oil & Gas Power Generation and perform operations in a production well.
related services related services Rotating equipment repair and Power station operations & service for compressors, pumps and maintenance operations & other rotating equipment.
Reliability maintenance for fossil and bio-fuel and asset integrity.
Power plant engineering, procurement and construction management fast track power packages in the developed and developing world.
Revenue by region Revenue by region North America North America Europe & FSU Europe & FSU Middle East & Africa Middle East & Africa Asia Paci c Asia Paci c Central & South America Central & South America Share of Group revenue Share of Group revenue 20% 22% People People up 13% up 8% 6 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 2007 Highlights Engineering & Well Support Gas Turbine Production Facilities Services An active year across Our successful focus The strong requirement for all business areas led to on international growth, gas turbine services led to excellent revenue growth together with product and an increase in revenue.
Margin service improvements has continuing focus on higher improvement initiatives contributed to the increased margin areas contributed contributed to the increased EBITA margin.
to the EBITA margin EBITA margin.
increase increase increase 51% in EBITA 18% in EBITA 69% in EBITA 2007 Regional highlights 1 2 3 North America South & Central America Europe & FSU USA Mexico North Sea, UK 3 Alliance Engineering, a Wood Group Our Pressure Control business won We made signi cant progress in our role as company, was topsides engineering signi cant orders with Mexican national duty holder in the UK North Sea, winning contractor responsible for conceptual oil company, PEMEX.
Manufacturing and new contracts with several operators.
The engineering through detailed design, inspection of casing heads and gate valves Sevan Hummingbird, which we will operate procurement assistance and fabrication to support these orders will be carried out on behalf of Venture Production, was support for Shells Perdido regional host at our new 55,000 sq ft plant in Monterrey, installed and is being commissioned on the facility.
When installed it will be the worlds Mexico.
Chestnut eld, with first oil in 2008. deepest spar platform.
Colombia 2 Poland Canada 1 Since our initial entry in to Colombia with We signed a term maintenance agreement We made a strategic move into the a three year contract in 1996, we have with EC Zielona Gra SA of Poland to Canadian in-situ oil sands market with delivered eleven years of performance provide parts, repairs, eld services and the acquisition of IMV Projects Inc, IMV, registered as world class by BP.
Now risk management for their gas turbine a market leader in EPCM services for our broad client base and full range of plant in Zielona Gra.
This partnership in-situ oil sands developments.
Group services include engineering and represents Wood Groups first long term maintenance contracts for Ecopetrol at service agreement in Poland.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 7 In 2007 we were presented with the Queen's Award for Enterprise, for the second time, in recognition for our international trade performance.
This prestigious award re ects the wealth of talent and huge commitment of our people around the world.
4 5 Middle East & Africa Asia Paci c & India Ghana 4 India 5 We were awarded a contract to supply The We strengthened our resources in India Electricity Company of Ghana with 25MW to support both the local market and of emergency power.
The current contract international business growth.
Wood has recently been extended for a further Group Engineering India provides design 12 months and will also have additional and project management services for a generation capacity added.
range of local and international customers including Cairn, Essar, GAIL, Gujarat State Middle East & Africa Petroleum, ONGC and Reliance.
We set up a joint venture company in Saudi Arabia and are establishing a local Australia manufacturing facility to support our Mustangs Perth based operations signed five year contract for supply of wellhead an agreement with AMOG Consulting to assemblies and valves with Saudi Aramco.
jointly pursue oating production projects in Elsewhere in the Middle East and Africa, Asia Paci c. Together with J P Kenny, IONIK we won new contracts in Algeria, Egypt, Consulting and MSi, we have the capability Kuwait and Yemen.
to deliver projects in the region from eld development through commissioning.
