18 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Well Support We provide solutions, products and services to enhance production rates and ef ciency from oil & gas reservoirs.
Summary financial performance 2007 $m 2006 $m change Revenue 862.1 739.1 17% EBITA 87.1 73.6 18% EBITA margin 10.1% 10.0% Jim Renfroe, Group Director, Well Support Operating and financial highlights We achieved good revenue growth across all of the businesses, driven by robust drilling activity and growing demand for arti cial lift using ESPs.
We have continued to expand our Revenue business outside the US, which represents around one half of the divisions revenue.
The slight improvement in the EBITA margin to 10.1% from 10.0% was driven by the positive margin impact of increasing revenue in areas of activity where we have operational gearing, up 17% and the bene t of new higher margin services and products.
The improvement was offset by the cost of additions to our manufacturing and service capacity and some pricing pressure in certain of our US activities.
Going forward, we are con dent that our investment in lower cost manufacturing capacity will help us to deliver further ef ciency improvements.
We achieved good Well Support services and sectors revenue growth across all of the businesses, Development Production Enhanced Recovery driven by robust drilling Pressure Control activity and growing Logging Services demand for arti cial lift using ESPs.
Electric Submersible Pumps Below: Eduardo Cabezas, Linda Knight Electric Submersible Pumps and Greg Midkiff Our ESP activities represent around 45% of Well Support revenue.
We are a market leader in the sale, operation and service of ESPs used for production enhancement through arti cial lift.
Maturing oil elds require increased use of arti cial lift services to bring hydrocarbons to the surface and the reliability and ef ciency of ESPs should increase their share of the arti cial lift market.
We are achieving good growth in both the US and other international businesses and we have been active for a wide range of clients, including ConocoPhillips, ExxonMobil, Pan American, Pearl Oil, Petroleum Development Oman and TNK-BP.
We are focused on building our technology and know-how and are involved in developments in the offshore market and in steam assisted gravity drainage SAG-D pumps, primarily for the Canadian heavy oil market.
Wireline services Manufacturing capacity expansion in China, Mexico, for Murphy Exploration & Production in Saudi Arabia and USA the Gulf Of Mexico To address the growing need for Our Pressure Control business continued The Monterrey plant will be responsible for wireline services on deepwater wells its manufacturing capacity expansion the manufacturing and inspection of casing in the Gulf of Mexico, our wireline with the opening of new facilities in heads and gate valves to support signi cant services business formed a specialist Monterrey, Mexico and Suzhou, China, orders with PEMEX, the Mexican national heavy line shing division.
and preparation started for a new oil company and other regional customers.
The heavy line shing team successfully facility in Saudi Arabia.
The three new The Suzhou plant will manufacture and test carried out a number of deepwater facilities will improve access to regional an extensive range of wellheads, valves and completion projects and following the initial markets and drive manufacturing cost actuators for the worldwide market.
success on these wells, we are expanding ef ciencies.
We also completed the our deepwater services to include memory expansion of our facility in Shawnee, logging and electric line services.
Energy Supporting Energy Group overview Chief Executives report Corporate and Social Governance Financial statements and business review Responsibility 19 Highlights Increasing capacity and lowering cost of manufacturing Flexible, local solutions Training and development of local workforce Our additional US capacity will improve our ability to provide fast track, customised solutions for regional customers, while the new Saudi Arabian plant will support our growing order backlog with Saudi Aramco.
Jim Renfroe, Group Director Shawnee, Oklahoma USA 20 John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2007 Well Support continued We are also making good progress in the surface pumping application market where our equipment is used for a variety of uid handling applications.
Internationally, we have seen high levels of activity under our long term contracts in Chad, and in Russia where we have won a long term pay for performance contract, supporting Western manufactured pumps.
Pressure Control Our Pressure Control activities represent around 40% of Well Support revenue.
We provide surface valve and wellhead equipment that is used upstream to control pressures for oil & gas developments.
In the US market, we saw robust levels of drilling during the year, however additional drilling capacity coming into the market, in conjunction with some reduction in rig rates, contributed to a more dif cult pricing environment.
We have focused on extending our branch network to maintain our high service levels and position ourselves to maintain our strong market share as US drilling moves into the newer unconventional gas regions.
Our Above: Nereo Solano, Lis Ramirez and Grant Johnston ongoing internationalisation is progressing well.
We have set up a joint venture company in Saudi Arabia and are establishing a local manufacturing facility to support our five year contract with Saudi Aramco.
Elsewhere in the Middle East and Africa, we won new contracts in Algeria, Egypt, Kuwait and Yemen.
In Mexico, where we opened a new manufacturing plant in Monterrey, we won signi cant orders with PEMEX.
In Australia, we increased our activity on our contract with Santos and in the UK we had a number of successes in both product sales and eld service operations.
We are continuing to invest in lower cost manufacturing capacity in EBITA China, while retooling in our US plant to ensure that we can continue to maintain and pro tably grow our market share in the US and internationally.
up 18% Logging Services Our Logging Services activities represent around 15% of Well Support revenue.
Our production focused slickline operations and our development focused cased hole electric wireline services in the US both performed well.
In order to meet the demand from this market, we have continued to increase our capacity and opened up bases in the Rockies and Barnett Shale.
We have also extended our operations in pipe recovery to the offshore market.
Our activities in We will continue to Argentina performed well and continue to hold a signi cant market position.
extend our international Well Support outlook activities.
For Well Support we will continue to extend our international activities.
In ESP, we anticipate that we will deliver ongoing margin improvement in 2008, as we achieve critical mass in a number of our international locations, introduce new higher margin product lines and continue to improve the ef ciency of our operations.
In Pressure Control, our investments in lower cost manufacturing capacity will help us to improve margins over the longer term, maintain our strong market share in the US and penetrate new international markets.
In Logging Services, we anticipate that our investment in new bases in the US and our differentiated services in the onshore and offshore markets will deliver good growth.
10-year, $150m performance based contract to supply electric submersible pumps to ExxonMobil in the Southern Doba region of Chad Three years into our long term conditions and drilling programme.
performance based contract we are We are committed to building long term making excellent progress having relationships in the region and a major had additional scope added to the emphasis over the last three years has contract.
We provide a comprehensive been the continuing nationalisation of the maintenance solution for 375 wells, workforce.
with additional wells coming under our supervision in the next 12 months.
The local climate and environment has presented technical and operational challenges, however our specialised capabilities and exibility have enabled us to successfully adapt to the reservoir Energy Supporting Energy
