BOARD OF DIRECTORS From left to right: D W Morgan MA, ACA Sir John Banham Executive Director, Group Corporate Development, age 49: Chairman, age 66: joined Johnson Matthey as Chairman Designate joined Johnson Matthey in 1988 as a Division Finance Director.
in January 2006: appointed Chairman on 1st April 2006.
Currently Appointed an executive director in August 1999.
Responsible for Chairman of Spacelabs Healthcare Inc. and the Senior Independent the groups corporate development activities and legal and Director of Amvescap PLC and Cyclacel Pharmaceuticals Inc. secretarial affairs.
In addition, assumed board level responsibility He was previously a director at McKinsey & Company, the first for Colours & Coatings Division and the companys central Controller of the Audit Commission and is a former Director research activities in August 2002.
Following the restructuring of General of the Confederation of British Industry.
Previously a Colours & Coatings Division was responsible for Ceramics director of National Power and National Westminster Bank, and Division until its disposal.
Currently a member of the International Chairman of Tarmac plc, Kingfisher plc, Geest plc, Whitbread PLC Advisory Board of Conduit Ventures Limited.
M, N M B Dearden MA R J W Walvis Age 64: appointed a non-executive director in April 1999.
Age 60: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
Currently a non-executive director of The Weir Group Plc and Currently a non-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc and Travis Perkins plc.
Previously Chief Executive of Castrol Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Allianz Nederland Group International and a main board director of Burmah Castrol plc.
He was previously Chairman, Global Corporate Centre, Shell A, M, N International Limited and prior to that held a series of senior management positions within the Royal Dutch Shell Group.
A, M, N C D Mackay MBA, MA Age 67: appointed a non-executive director in January 1999.
N A P Carson BSc Currently Chairman of TDG plc, Chairman of the Board of Chief Executive, age 50: joined Johnson Matthey in 1980: appointed Trustees of Historic Royal Palaces, a member of the board of Division Director, Catalytic Systems in 1997 after having held INSEAD and Advisory Director to the House of Habib.
Previously senior management positions in the Precious Metals Division as Chairman of the Eurotunnel Group and Group Chief Executive well as Catalytic Systems in both the UK and the US.
Appointed and Deputy Chairman of Inchcape plc.
Has also served on a to the board as Managing Director, Catalysts & Chemicals in number of boards including those of HSBC Holdings plc, British August 1999 and additionally assumed board level responsibility Airways plc, Gucci Group NV and Thistle Hotels plc.
A, M, N for Precious Metals Division in August 2002.
Appointed Chief Executive in July 2004.
Currently Chairman, Business Taskforce J N Sheldrick MA, MSc, FCMA, FCT on Sustainable Consumption and Production.
Previously a Group Finance Director, age 57: joined Johnson Matthey as non-executive director of Avon Rubber plc.
Executive Director, Finance in September 1990 and assumed current job title in September 1995.
Previously Group Treasurer L C Pentz BS ChE, MBA of The BOC Group plc and a non-executive director of API Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, age 52: Group Plc.
Currently a non-executive director of GKN plc.
joined Johnson Matthey in 1984: appointed Division Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in 2001 after having held a series of senior management positions within Catalysts Division in the US.
Appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003 and to his current position in July 2004.
