Maintain strong relationships with our major customers, Strategy and Objectives suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group Johnson Mattheys strategic intent is to achieve consistent is well positioned for future market development.
growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of high added value products and services in areas where our Continue to invest in Johnson Mattheys employees to expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis, ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
to meet the challenges of the future.
The groups financial objectives are: To achieve consistent and above average growth in Review of Results 2006 07 earnings per share.
Over the ten years from 1996 97 to 2006 07 Johnson Matthey has increased its earnings per Johnson Matthey achieved very good results in 2006 07 with share before one-off items and goodwill amortisation at a sales, profit before tax and earnings per share all well ahead of compound annual growth rate of 9% p. a. last year.
Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products Division both achieved double digit growth in sales and To grow dividends in line with earnings while maintaining operating profit despite adverse exchange translation.
Sales dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure were boosted by the significant rise in the prices of platinum sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
Demand for catalysts was also very strong Over the last ten years Johnson Matthey has increased its with expanding sales of catalysed soot filters CSFs for light dividend at a compound annual growth rate of 8% p. a. duty diesel vehicles, the emergence of a new market for heavy Dividend cover for 2006 07 was 2.4 times.
duty diesel HDD catalysts to original equipment To deliver a return on investment above the groups cost manufacturers and increased sales of process catalysts.
We estimate Johnson Mattheys post tax cost of We sold our Ceramics Division on 28th February 2007 for capital is currently about 8%.
The groups post tax return 143.9 million giving a profit on sale of 33.3 million after tax.
The sale of Ceramics Division completes the process, announced in November 2003, of disposing of parts of the former We set a pre-tax target of 20% for return on assets ROA Colours & Coatings Division and focusing the group on its core for all of our divisions with a minimum threshold of being activities.
Under International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS ahead of our cost of capital 11.2% on a pre-tax basis.
the results of Ceramics Division are shown in discontinued Precious Metal Products achieved a return in excess of operations on a post tax basis.
Profit before tax in the income 20% in 2006 07.
Catalysts and Pharmaceutical Materials statement comprises the results for the continuing businesses ROAs were between the cost of capital and the 20% only.
The results for 2005 06 shown in the income statement target.
In 2006 07 the groups overall pre-tax return was have been restated accordingly.
Revenue increased by 34% to 6,152 million.
Precious metal prices grew strongly over the year which boosted sales in The boards strategies to achieve these financial objectives are: both Catalysts Division and Precious Metal Products Division.
Focus the business on the groups core skills in catalysis, Sales excluding the value of precious metals rose by 25% precious metals, fine chemicals and process technology.
reflecting good underlying volume growth and increased non precious metal material costs, some of which are a pass through Position the group in growth markets where our core skills for Johnson Matthey.
Catalysis is a key technology in many Operating profit before one-off items increased by 18% developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those to 252.4 million, despite adverse exchange translation of concerned with protecting the environment such as in 6.4 million.
There were no one-off items in operating profit in emission control, cleaner fuel, more efficient use of 2006 07 whereas in 2005 06 a 6.0 million impairment charge hydrocarbons and the hydrogen economy.
After one-off items growth in operating profit Environmental Technologies Division, which combines our was 22%.
skills in catalysts and process technology, is well positioned The groups interest charge rose by 11.1 million as a to serve these emerging markets.
Catalysis is also important result of higher average borrowings and higher interest rates.
in the manufacture of fine chemicals where Johnson Profit before tax and one-off items for the continuing Matthey has a number of strong niche market positions.
businesses rose by 15% to 226.5 million.
After one-off items Johnson Mattheys expertise and international strength in the rise was 18%.
If the operating results for discontinued precious metals, particularly platinum group metals, was the operations are included in the total, profit before tax was starting point for many of our businesses.
The market for 242.6 million which was 10% up on last years reported profit platinum has grown steadily for many decades and demand before tax and one-off items of 219.8 million.
is expected to grow significantly over the next ten years.
Total earnings per share, including the profit on disposal of Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
Ceramics, rose by 37% to 96.9 pence.
Earnings per share before We will continue to invest significantly in research and one-off items profit on sale of Ceramics Division and last years development to develop new products and manufacturing impairment charge were 12% up at 81.2 pence.
Technology is the key driver for most of our businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base with technical centres located in all our major markets.
