OTHER SENIOR MANAGEMENT Catalysts S M Christley Division Finance Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies P C Framp Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Europe A M Myers President, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, North America D W Prest Director, Heavy Duty Diesel, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies J F Walker Managing Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies, Asia N P H Garner Division Finance Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies M T Durney President, Catalysts and Chemicals A C Hurst Managing Director, Tracerco and Vertec B C Singelais Vice President, Research Chemicals D J Tomlinson President, Davy Process Technology N Whitley Managing Director, Ammonia, Methanol, Oil and Gas J C Frost Director, Fuel Cells Precious Metal Products W F Sandford Division Director B M OConnell Division Finance Director M Bedford Director, Precious Metals Marketing C C Howlett General Manager, Noble Metals, Europe J D Malanga General Manager, Noble Metals, North America A J McCullough General Manager, Gold, North America I C Strachan Age 64: appointed a non-executive director in January 2002.
J J W Murkens Managing Director, Colour Technologies Currently a non-executive director of Reuters Group plc, G P Otterman Managing Director, Pgm Refining Transocean Inc. Xstrata plc and Rolls Royce Group plc.
Previously Chairman of Instinet Group Inc. Chief Executive of BTR plc and Pharmaceutical Materials Deputy Chief Executive of Rio Tinto plc.
A, M, N F K Sheffy Division Director P N Hawker BSc, PhD, FRSC A J Caruso Division Finance Director Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies and J B Fowler Vice President and General Manager, Pharmaceutical Materials Pharmaceutical Materials, age 54: joined Johnson Matthey in 1985 as Research & Development Manager and was subsequently R M Kilburn Vice President, Pharma Services Managing Director, Autocatalysts Europe and Division Director, D S Mercer Managing Director, Macfarlan Smith Environmental Catalysts and Technologies.
Appointed Executive Director, Environmental Catalysts and Technologies in August 2003.
Corporate He was appointed Executive Director, Process Catalysts and Technologies in July 2004 and assumed additional responsibility G J Coates Group Treasurer for Pharmaceutical Materials Division in April 2006.
S Farrant Company Secretary and Senior Legal Adviser I D Godwin Director, Investor Relations and Corporate Communications A M Thomson MA, CA Age 60: appointed a non-executive director in September 2002.
V E Gough Group Reporting Controller Recently retired as Finance Director of Smiths Group plc.
He was T Hassan Group Business Development Director previously Finance Director of the Rugby Group PLC.
He is a I B C Huddart Group Taxation Manager non-executive director of Alstom S. A. France and of Cross B A Murrer Director, Technology Centre Match Technologies Inc. USA.
Mr Thomson is also Chairman of I F Stephenson Director, Group Systems, Environment, Health and Safety the Technical Policy Board and a Council member of the Institute and Human Resources of Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
A, M, N Committees of the Board A Audit Committee M Management Development and Remuneration Committee N Nomination Committee The composition of the board presented above reflects the position at 31st March 2007.
On 1st June 2007 Mr M J Roney joined the board.
His biographical details are as follows: M J Roney Age 52: appointed a non-executive director on 1st June 2007.
Job titles and divisional structure reflects the groups organisation at 31st March 2007.
Currently Chief Executive of Bunzl plc.
Joined Bunzl plc as a non-executive director in 2003.
Prior to joining Bunzl he was Chief Executive Officer of Goodyear Dunlop Tires Europe BV and had an extensive career with the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co holding a number of senior management positions with responsibilities in Latin America, Asia, Eastern Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
