a large number of families of patents to support our businesses.
Resources Equally important is know-how where the group has an extensive knowledge base, particularly in the areas of catalysis Johnson Matthey has significant resources to support its core and precious metals, which can be used to develop new businesses.
These have been built up over many years and products and services to meet customer needs.
support the groups competitive position in the key markets which the group serves.
Johnson Matthey continues to invest in Commercial Relationships all the areas listed below to maintain its leading market positions.
Many of our businesses provide products and services to other Employees companies and we have developed close working relationships with many of our customers and work in collaboration with Johnson Mattheys most important resource is its people.
We them to develop new products.
We also have a long standing have a highly qualified workforce with many of our employees relationship with Anglo Platinum, the worlds largest platinum having trained in science and technology.
We employ a high miner, which has lasted for many decades.
Through this proportion of PhDs not only in our research centres but also in relationship Johnson Matthey and Anglo Platinum have developed many different management positions throughout the company.
new markets for platinum group metals which have supported Johnson Matthey has a low staff turnover see page 30, with the expansion of the platinum industry over many years.
many employees staying with the company for their whole careers.
We place great emphasis on recruitment and training Manufacturing Technology and our policies in these areas are set out on pages 29 and 30.
Over the last decade the group has invested heavily in new Research & Development manufacturing capacity and technology.
Capital expenditure has run at a high multiple of depreciation see page 19.
As a result One of the groups strategies is to differentiate ourselves by of this investment the group has developed an infrastructure of using our world class technology.
We invest significantly in modern facilities located close to our major markets around research and development to develop new products and the world.
We have a group technology centre located at Sonning Common in the UK which is focused on Market Position and Reputation longer term research and has a worldwide reputation for excellence in catalysis and precious metals technology.
In Johnson Matthey is generally ranked number one or two in the addition we have major research centres at Royston, Billingham major markets in which it operates.
The group is a world leader and Stockton-on-Tees in the UK located close to some of our in catalysis and precious metals which provides a strong basis major businesses.
Worldwide we have technical centres in many for future development.
The company started in 1817 and has countries including the US, Japan, Sweden and the Netherlands.
a worldwide reputation in the precious metals industry for Johnson Mattheys R&D activities are described in more technical expertise and integrity.
Our semi-annual publication detail on pages 14 and 15.
Platinum is acknowledged to be the most comprehensive source of information on the platinum industry.
We also publish Patents and Know-how the Platinum Metals Review, a leading journal of scientific research on the platinum group metals.
Many of the inventions and intellectual property developed as a result of our investment in R&D are patented, and we maintain Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW Below: Platinum gauze catalyst for nitric acid manufacture and catalyst pellets for the abatement of nitrous oxide from nitric acid plants.
Left: Production facilities at the new catalyst manufacturing plant in South Korea.
Right: Membrane electrode assemblies MEAs for fuel cells.
