Specific responsibility for environmental issues has been trips, falls, manual handling and bumps.
All of these categories delegated to the Chief Financial Officer, who also chairs will be the subject of increased focus from our Health & Safety the Groups Carbon Footprint Taskforce.
Committees in 2008 through training and awareness programmes.
RIDDOR reportable accidents in our publishing Whilst recognising that the practices of recruitment, activities increased due to a number of incidents related to employment and training are the responsibility of all our newspaper delivery operations.
Unfortunately a number managers within the Group, responsibility for formulating, of these resulted in injuries associated with long term updating and ensuring adherence to Group policies and absences which increased the working days lost when relevant legislation has been delegated to the Director of compared to 2006.
Human Resources, who is responsible to the Chief Operating Officer.
Whilst there was an increase in total working days lost in 2007, we are still operating well below the national average.
Each local Managing Director has responsibility within their For 2007 we have also been able to include our first full year operation for relationships with customers, suppliers and of statistics for the Republic of Ireland.
These relationships are subject to review by the Chief Operating Officer.
Certain materials and The Group also has a rolling programme of independent audit services are sourced centrally such as newsprint and legal visits covering property and Health & Safety risks.
These visits and professional services and these arrangements are are targeted at the locations which have the highest risk profile subject to review by either the Chief Operating Officer or along with a sample of other sites.
Detailed reports and the Chief Financial Officer, depending on the nature of recommendations are produced after each visit which require the supply.
follow-up and implementation by local management.
This process is monitored by the Group Management Board.
As part of the main Board's review of Corporate Governance at its February 2008 meeting, the Directors Employee Involvement also reviewed the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy.
Employees Health & Safety We employ over 8,000 employees in the UK and Republic of As discussed in the Business Review, the Group has rigorous Ireland and this section is about how we manage, develop Health & Safety management and reporting processes in and reward all of our people.
Health & Safety is at the core of our operations, and is centralised approach, our aims are common we want to a specific item on all business agendas at the local, regional, attract, retain and engage the best people in a challenging Group and Board levels.
There are Health and Safety and supportive culture that drives business performance.
Committees in every Group Company and the Chief Operating Officer chairs the Group Health and Safety Committee, which Employment Policies undertakes audit visits, monitors compliance with Group It is important that all of our managers and employees policies and spreads best practice.
understand what is expected of them in terms of their behaviour and standards.
This is set out in our Value With our improved and consistent reporting processes now Statements, Personnel Policies & Procedures, Employee having been in place for more than 3 years it is possible to Handbook, Codes of Conduct and Contracts of Employment.
report some meaningful statistics and comparisons.
Our Our grievance and whistleblowing procedures also allow any reporting procedures ensure that every accident, including the employee to report behaviour that is contrary to our policies most minor laceration or abrasion, is reported, hence the high or is in any way concerning to them.
percentages recorded for our printing operations.
It should, however, be noted that the vast majority of these are not Employee Representation reportable under RIDDOR requirements.
All of our employees have the right to freedom of association and, in a number of cases, we recognise trade As can be seen to the left, we continue to make progress unions at a subsidiary level in both the UK and in the across the Group in reducing the number of accidents.
Recently we have entered into has been a reduction in the number of employees involved in preliminary discussions on the formation of a Group-wide accidents in both our printing and publishing operations when European Employee Works Council for an information and compared to 2006 and overall the percentage of employees consultation process.
Employee Forums already exist at a involved in accidents reduced to 5.3%.
With improved subsidiary level for the purposes of local communication categorisation of accident reporting in 2007, we know that and consultation.
70% of the total number of accidents recorded relate to slips, Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 33 Corporate Social Responsibility continued... Diversity developed a new Sales Compensation and Career Path The Group recognises that a diverse workforce adds clear which will be introduced Group-wide through 2008.
In 2007 value to our employees, our customers, our shareholders the Share Incentive Plan awarded 52 free shares to the and the communities we serve.
We fully support the value of 218 to each eligible full-time employee: part-time principle of equal opportunity for all and oppose all forms employees received a pro-rated award.
The total cost of the of illegal and unfair discrimination.
Our Group Diversity free shares delivered was 1.1 million.
Manager and Diversity Co-ordinators meet on a regular basis, with the aim of reviewing our workforce composition Disability Access and taking positive action to address any imbalance.
As part of our ongoing property and Health & Safety audits We continue to support a Bursary Scheme, which gives we continually review the provisions made at all of our financial support to those from ethnic minorities or deprived locations to ensure that we do not discriminate, in terms of backgrounds who wish to follow a career in journalism.
access, against disabled employees or customers.
Solutions All of our Personnel Policies & Procedures, practices and have been put in place involving modification, removal, training programmes are regularly reviewed to ensure that avoidance or circumvention of potential barriers at all of our they fully comply with the equality legislation in both the locations.
We also ensure that any refurbishment or UK and the Republic of Ireland.
upgrading to our premises, where practical, takes into account the need to enhance access for all of our disabled Employee Engagement stakeholders.
Reflecting the importance of our digital Understanding our employees and engaging them in publishing activities, the Group develops its core internet the achievement of our organisations objectives is of sites to WAI single A Standards.
All pages are created paramount importance.
In 2007 we piloted a confidential using XHTML and CSS 2.0: this method provides support for Engagement Survey in three subsidiary business units: the our users accessing our sites via screen readers.
All our pilot was successful and will be rolled out across the Group newspaper sites have a sitemap that enables easy in early 2008.
The survey allows us to benchmark levels of navigation on screen.
The Group also supports the employee engagement and identify areas for improvement.
Talking Newspapers charity as one of its nominated charities.
The Group has a Disability Access policy which is Learning & Development included in our policy and procedures manual.
The growth of our people remains a priority and we continue to deliver a wide range of learning and development Community Involvement programmes.
In 2007 we delivered 1,082 programmes and Green issues have been at the forefront of a number of in excess of 12,000 training days covering all aspects of our news stories and campaigns spearheaded by Johnston business including Advertising, Editorial, Digital Media, Press titles during 2007.
Newspaper Sales, Finance, Health & Safety, IT and HR.
In 2007 we invested heavily in editorial programmes in The Scotsmans masthead went green for a day to launch support of our multi-platform publishing strategy.
Lets Go Green Together a joint campaign with the Scottish Government aimed at persuading people to adopt Identifying, developing and succession planning leadership a more environmentally friendly lifestyle.
Scots are being talent at all levels will continue to be a priority.
In support of asked to sign up to one or more of ten pledges such as this we developed and delivered a wide range of managerial installing low energy light bulbs, driving and flying less often, and leadership development programmes.
recycling more and re-using carrier bags when shopping.
Among the campaign backers were celebrities including Workforce Statistics singer KT Tunstall, chef Nick Nairn and writer Alexander Our total workforce is represented by 55.4% male and McCall Smith.
44.6% female and our age profile is as follows: Former US Vice President Al Gore put his weight behind the Over 60 5.1% Peterborough Evening Telegraphs Go Green campaign.
He 50 59 17.4% was in nearby Cambridge for an environmental conference 40 49 22.0% and took the opportunity to support the papers initiative.
30 39 25.1% The paper, in partnership with the city council, highlighted Under 30 30.4% ways readers could change their lives and was in support of Peterboroughs campaign to become the UKs environment Reward & Recognition capital.
Our subsidiary businesses have differing pay structures based on the size of the organisation and local market The Northants Evening Telegraph ran a Green Army conditions.
Progression within these pay structures is based campaign aimed at helping readers reduce energy on competence and performance.
We also operate bonus consumption.
More than 2,500 people including schools, schemes for executive and sales staff.
In 2007 we businesses and public bodies signed up to a Big Switch 34 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Off day when people were encouraged to turn off The Sheffield Stars Gridlock campaign for a better roads computers, lights and other electrical equipment that network resulted in the formation of a Motorists Forum to wasnt in use.
Motorists refusing to wear seatbelts were targeted by police following a campaign in the Halifax The Sheffield Telegraph also ran environmental awards Evening Courier.
The Southern Reporter also ran a road culminating in a gala dinner.
As you would expect, the majority of Johnston Press Our three major Scottish newspapers all continued newspapers and websites have been involved in campaigns campaigns.
The Edinburgh Evening News opposed the plan to improve communities, raise cash for worthy causes or to close 22 schools and community centres and campaigned right wrongs during the year.
to save vital hospital cancer services: Scotland on Sunday campaigned and ran an online petition resulting in Edinburgh One of the most unusual campaigns resulted in the return to University withdrawing Robert Mugabes honourary the borough of the famous Portrush station clock, the doctorate, won support from Prime Minister Gordon Brown in largest free-standing grandfather clock in the world, thanks its call for organ donation laws to be changed and to the Coleraine Times and a local businessman.
The Derry spotlighted the rising number of teenage road deaths.
Journal played a major role in setting one of the weirdest The Scotsmans campaign for a new Forth Road Bridge world records for the number of Santas gathered in one culminated with the Scottish Government signing off the place.
A total of 13,000 were together for the event in 4.2 billion project.
It also campaigned for improvements to December.
Scotlands marine environment and against prescription charges for long term illnesses.
It also held roadshows and The Yorkshire Post continued its campaigning stance calling debates all over Scotland discussing the future of the for a Fair Deal for Farmers, pressurising the Government nation, marking the 300th anniversary of the Act of Union.
over the plight of rural communities and strengthening bonds at the same time.
A Road to Ruin campaign also The Limerick Leader led a drive to regenerate housing called for a better deal for transport in the county.
estates one of the biggest projects in Europe.
The Belfastbased Newsletter was at the centre of intense political The campaigning Portsmouth News continued its work activity which culminated in the historic power-sharing opposing the closure of the naval base, successfully called for agreement and the unique role of the paper was marked the reinstatement of the citys world famous bells peal which during Northern Irelands most memorable celebrations had fallen silent for five years because of structural problems, when Prime Minister Tony Blair and First Minister Ian Paisley opposed Post Office closures and encouraged readers to took time out to officially open the titles new offices.
donate toys for needy children at Christmas.
The paper celebrated its 270th anniversary in September The paper also hosted a series of community awards projects.
with a supplement looking back at some of the momentous events covered by the paper since 1737.
The Scotsmans masthead went green to launch Lets Go Green Together!
The new coronary care unit opens at the Royal Lancaster Infirmary.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 35
