Corporate Social Responsibility continued... Read on Wakefield was the title of a scheme launched by equally important stance, Sunderland Echo readers were the Wakefield Express after news broke that 1,600 adults in encouraged to carry donor cards.
the town could not read more than their own name.
It resulted in reading workshops and other initiatives.
A campaign by the Blackpool Gazette over the Governments siting of a supercasino was backed by MPs, Lords and Protests at post office closures were led by a number of 11,500 readers and resulted in a protest to Downing Street.
titles including the Northants Evening Telegraph, the The Prime Minister later blocked the plans.
Grantham Journal, Louth Leader and Harrogate Advertiser.
The Melton Times was also at Number Ten with a petition Campaigns against health service cuts were a continuing arguing for a bypass for the town.
A march by 15,000 people through the streets, led by Rolling Stone Keith Richards, was A Live in Hope campaign by the Lancashire Evening Post the highlight of the Chichester Observers campaign to save raised 15,000 along with awareness for the Preston the threatened St Richards Hospital, while the sister title Womens Refuge.
Youngsters will get improved football Worthing Herald fought the closure of its hospital with facilities thanks to a Pitch In For Kids spotlight by the protest marches, a 100,000 name petition and a human Shields Gazette.
The Burnley Express teamed up with chain protest around the grounds of the building.
There was Lancashire Police to launch Dont Do Damage - designed a similar campaign in Haywards Heath led by the Mid to fight juvenile crime - resulting in a 40% drop in nuisance Sussex Times to save the Queen Alexander Hospital.
crime in the 3 months after the launch.
The Tyrone Times The Eastbourne Herald campaigned to save a maternity unit ran a campaign against town centre vandals in Coalisland.
and the Hastings Observer ran a similar campaign.
The east coast resort of Hunstanton has a new lifeboat The Grantham Journals continuing campaign to save thanks to 150,000 raised during a campaign by the Lynn services at its hospital ended in success and the Lurgan News.
Mails Save Our Services campaign ended with two wards being closed, but an assurance being given that the towns The sad story of paratrooper Ben Parkinson, terribly injured hospital was secure in the long term.
in a landmine explosion in Afghanistan, prompted the Doncaster Free Press to launch an appeal to raise cash to There was a U-turn over plans for huge hospital cuts after buy his family a wheelchair-adapted people carrier.
And the a protest by the Scarborough Evening News and health plight of Kevin Connolly, from Pendle, who is going blind was officials in Derbyshire changed their minds and kept a highlighted by the Nelson Leader which spearheaded a maternity unit open after protests led by the Derbyshire 5,000 fund-raising campaign to train a guide dog for him.
It was a Happy Christmas after all for two housebound In Dublin, the Tallaght Echo spearheaded a campaign to residents who had not received postal gifts sent by far-off improve local hospital and health services.
In a smaller, but relatives, thanks to the Morpeth Herald.
36 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 hospital got presents thanks to readers of the St Helens money for two hospices in Leeds, celebrated its 25th Reporter.
anniversary by passing through the 2.5 million barrier.
And the Edinburgh Evening News raised 100,000 to equip A couple who have fostered hundreds of children got a a new Barnardos centre.
Meanwhile Scotland on Sundays reward thanks to the Bridlington Free Press and then went sightsavers campaign, including a bring 50p to work day, on to win a National Pride in Britain award.
raised 50,000 for a charity battling blindness in the Third World.
An incredible 200,000 was raised to send two-year-old Emma-Louise Clittie to America for pioneering brain tumour Staff at the Clitheroe Advertiser were at the heart of a cashtreatment after the case was highlighted by the Wigan raising effort to turn the towns museum into a 21st century Evening Post.
Another 30,000 was raised by the 3.2m visitor centre and the Leamington Courier supported Harborough Mail to build a cycle path in memory of a boy a swimathon which raised 11,000.
A Comic Relief stunt who was tragically killed in a lorry accident.
saw Rob Gibbard, editor of the Buckingham Advertiser, jailed behind bars in a supermarket, with customers being Cancer charities benefited in major ways from fund-raising asked to make donations to free him.
work supported by our titles.
The Burnley Express was the media partner for the towns Race for Life which raised The death of a 15-year-old in a road accident after he had 100,000 for Cancer Research: the Chorley Guardian set been drinking brought about a Falkirk Herald campaign to out to raise 8,000 for four local charities, but ended up highlight the dangers of alcohol.
It received backing at Prime after 9 months with the total smashing through the 50,000 Ministers Question Time.
The Lanarkshire Extra helped raise more than 2 million for a new cancer care centre.
The Grantham The Northampton Chronicle & Echo, Suffolk Free Press and Journal raised more than 20,000 for an appeal to give Milton Keynes Citizen all ran pride in their town campaigns.
bereavement counselling to children whose parents have The Wigan Observers Wigan We Love it campaign reached died of cancer.
a climax when Prime Minister Tony Blair visited the town and wore one of its promotional badges.
Isle of Man Newspapers Other health campaigns included the Lancaster Guardian ran awards for excellence.
And the Garstang Courier backed raising 580,000 to build a new coronary care unit at the the towns entry in Britain in Bloom.
The Leinster Express, Royal Lancaster Infirmary: the Donegal Democrat group honoured by Laois County Council with a civic reception to headed a 100,000 fundraiser for an x-ray scanner and mark its 175th anniversary, ran People of the Year awards, 600,000 for cancer services.
with thousands of votes from readers.
Achievers awards were also run by our English south coast titles in Five-year-old Lisburn girl Georgia Cocking, suffering a rare Eastbourne, Hastings and Bexhill.
form of leukaemia, got a life-saving transplant thanks to the Ulster Star highlighting the need for bone marrow donors.
The countrywide series of websites set up by Johnston The Yorkshire Posts Half and Half appeal, which raises Press to enable newspapers to break news around the clock 2.
The new lifeboat at Hunstanton - thanks to the readers of the Lynn News.
Edinburgh News readers helped the Barnardos Caern Project.
Emma-Louise Clittie who went to America for pioneering brain tumour treatment.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37 Corporate Social Responsibility continued... contributed significantly to the way major news stories were updates on the website, followed by comprehensive broken by our titles.
An air crash at the Shoreham airshow in which the pilot of a The Peterborough website broke the news of a helicopter WW2 Hurricane died was broken online and included video crash that claimed the lives of four people as they returned footage shot by a trainee reporter.
Sam Woodmans from a Champions League football match between Chelsea coverage included the explosion and the aftermath.
online a clear 30 minutes ahead of the story appearing on major TV networks and websites.
Good old-fashioned newspaper exclusives were also in abundance during the year.
Stories broken by the Yorkshire The Chichester Observer was responsible for breaking news Post included news that a childrens DVD glorifying suicide of TV star Billie Pipers wedding online.
bombing was on sale in Britain and that inmates at one Yorkshire prison, suffering from overcrowding and underA major fire at a Skegness seaside attraction was broken staffing, had been given their own cell keys.
online by the Groups Skegness reporters.
The Scotsman revealed that two Scottish Cabinet ministers Flooding which hit Sheffield and South Yorkshire was held substantial share portfolios in possible conflict with covered extensively in-paper and online.
As the waters rose their briefs and that a council chief executive was in line for the Sheffield website carried continual overnight updates.
voluntary redundancy on top of a retirement package.
Two weeks later a book was published about the disaster, The Wigan Observer ran an exclusive interview with the completing the multi-media package of coverage.
A similar family of a toddler who drowned in a pond while two police online service was provided by the Banbury Guardian when community support officers looked on.
Details of the police corruption raid on Portsmouth Football The first details of back from the dead canoeist John Club was revealed first by The News as was information that Darwin walking into a London police station were revealed Zurich Insurance was to quit the city with the relocation of on the Hartlepool Mails website.
The Nelson Leader carried the first news of a Pendle bin man threatened with the sack for wearing a St Reader pictures and videos also proved invaluable George cross bandanna at work because it was not deemed contributions.
The Eastbourne Heralds website was able to politically correct.
The Clitheroe Advertiser was responsible bring first news of a parachutist crash-landing at the towns for the breaking news that the nurse of the year was quitting Airbourne event thanks to video supplied by a reader.
because of disillusionment with the NHS.
The story of baby Graiden Eldred, born at 23 weeks and weighing just 1lb, was The Avian Bird flu outbreak prompted the Diss Express to an exclusive in the Peterborough Evening Telegraph.
The devote a whole section of its site to details about the Scarborough Evening News had first details of the countrys disease.
At the Suffolk Free Press, staff were able to help a first prosecution of a man for smoking in a pub.
man find his long-lost daughter thanks to a website appeal.
On a light-hearted note, the Sleaford Standard was first with Biggest scoop of the year for the Lancashire Evening Post the news that a 102-year-old woman had posed nude for a and its website www.
co. uk was the first interview with charity calendar.
the most senior officer ever charged with war crimes, secured through close links with the Queens Lancashire By way of a summary, the Group has facilitated fund raising Regiment.
campaigns that have raised 3.0 million in the last year, have given free space to community or environmental The murder of a teenage boy at a Halloween Party in campaigns to the value of 0.9 million and have given Horsham was broken by the County Times website discounts to charity advertisers of 0.2 million.
An online condolences message board attracted thousands of visitors with his girlfriend Johnston Press titles and staff won a number of awards leading the tributes.
The site also featured a unique video of during 2007. the dead boy.
Customer Services The murder of a police constable in Luton was broken on It is Group policy to provide the highest standard of the website at least 40 minutes ahead of other major service to all of our customers.
Each operating company broadcasters getting the story.
has staff appointed to respond to all customer enquiries.
There are strict procedures for resolving customer The Milton Keynes editorial team were also the first to cover complaints or queries regarding service and these are a visit from the Queen to the town with constant picture carefully monitored by management.
38 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Newspaper Society Campaigning Weekly Newspaper of the year Grantham Journal Best event Blackpool Gazette Best promotion Blackpool Gazette Best value added product Lytham St Annes Express Best free weekly in Northern Ireland Banbridge and District Weekender Free weekly newspaper sports photographer of the year Gemma Marriner, Whitely Bay News Guardian Best Single Copy sales initiative The Scotsman Best in-paper reader offer Scotland on Sunday Best multi media campaign Edinburgh Evening News Advertisement of the Year weekly Gold award Lancashire Publications Motors Advertisement of the year Gold award Yorkshire Post Regional Press Awards Photographer of the year weekly Steve Cobb, West Sussex County Times Sports Photographer of the year weekly Marie Caley, South Yorkshire Newspapers EDF Media Awards East of England feature writer of the year Gemma Walton, Peterborough Evening Telegraph Northern reporter of the year Sophie Hazan, Yorkshire Evening Post Scottish feature writer of the year Catherine Deveney, Scotland on Sunday Scottish Sports feature writer of the year Tom English, Scotland on Sunday South East reporter of the year Emily Pykett, Portsmouth News National Council for Training of Journalists Best newspaper practice paper Matt Gaw, Crawley Observer Yorkshire Press Awards Leader writer of the year John Furbisher, Halifax Courier Photographer of the year Doug Jackson, Yorkshire Regional Newspapers Weekly News reporter of the year Chris Walker, Doncaster Free Press Columnist of the year Rod McPhee, Yorkshire Evening Post News reporter of the year Charles Heslett, Yorkshire Evening Post Front page of the year Yorkshire Evening Post Photographer of the year Simon Hume, Yorkshire Post Campaign of the year Wakefield Express Other Racing Post Corals champion tipster Steve Simpson, Blackpool Gazette Private Eye Paul Foot award for investigative journalism Deborah Wain, Doncaster Free Press Scottish Investment Journalist Rosemary Gallagher, The Scotsman Johnson & Johnson New Beauty Writer Jessica Kiddle, The Scotsman Metro Eireann media and multicultural awards, Anne Sheridan, Limerick Leader best newspaper coverage Local management in each operation are responsible for The Group has also developed a series of customer ensuring that their companies and all their employees service related metrics which are in place across the comply with the requirements of all customer and organisation and subject to review by the Executive competition-related legislation.
It is Group policy that the Directors at the twice yearly business reviews undertaken interests of Johnston Press only ever require strict with every operation.
The improvement of these metrics compliance and no one in the Group has authority to give forms part of executives KPIs for bonus purposes.
any order or direction that would result in a violation of We have also commissioned independent audits of our this policy.
To monitor this and for training purposes, the customer services in an effort to drive continual Group undertakes mystery shopping exercises where improvement.
The Group Sales Charter introduced in independent organisations interact with our business to 2004 has become enshrined in our operations to ensure provide feedback on our processes and procedures.
that our customers and advertisers are always dealt with Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 39 Corporate Social Responsibility continued... in a fair and equitable manner and our terms of trade are In terms of energy management, 2007 saw increased focus published in the Group's newspapers as well as being for Johnston Press with initiatives put in place to engage linked to all of the Groups websites.
Equal attention is every employee.
paid to the service that we provide to our readers and viewers with each editor directly responsible for any Over the period of 2005 and early 2006 the Group grew complaints.
The Editorial Review Group, a body of senior significantly by acquisition and therefore the total energy Group editors, also meets regularly to discuss editorial consumption of the Group increased.
However, as the last of policy and issues related to content.
The Group also the significant acquisitions took place on 4 January 2006 we conforms to the Press Complaints Commission Code of can make direct comparisons between 2006 and 2007 but Practice.
any comparison with periods prior to 2006 needs to be adjusted to reflect the increase in the Groups level of activity.
Environmental Table 3 below summarises the consumption of energy.
The Group acknowledges that the protection of the environment is one of its key corporate responsibilities.
Starting with electricity, the Groups total consumption for We aim to comply with all relevant regulations and see the the year was 60.8m kWh, an increase of 2.1%.
This is not identification, management and control of environmental surprising as in 2007 we have had a full year of the new risks as being an implicit requirement for adherence to the press in Dinnington, South Yorkshire and the ramp up of the Corporate Governance Combined Code.
This is evidenced by the Groups throughput in terms of tonnes of newsprint increasing by Back in 2002, a scoring methodology and audit programme 22.4% to 175,515 tonnes.
The total electricity consumed by was developed by independent environmental risk consultants the print centres increased by 2.4m kWh to 32.3m kWh but to facilitate the ongoing monitoring and control of our policies the kWh per tonne of newsprint processed reduced by and procedures.
Extensive training was carried out and a 11.7% to 184.2 kWh tonne, a number still above the 2005 rolling programme of internal audits of environmental impacts levels due to the recent press investment programme.
The and risks was introduced.
Additionally audits by external energy consumption of our non-printing sites reduced by independent consultants have continued in order to verify the 4.0% despite the acquisition of Archants titles in Scotland findings of these internal reviews.
Detailed reports are in April 2007.
The consumption at the non-printing offices is produced after each visit and the implementation of all being targeted by the Carbon Footprint Taskforce see page recommendations is monitored by management.
42 with several initiatives currently being trialled.
The Group continues to benefit from its investment in more Total gas consumption for the enlarged Group increased by energy efficient equipment as well as the time and effort 1.1% with the majority of the increase related to the put into the monitoring and control of energy consumption.
acquisitions made in the year.
Reflecting a decision to The equipment introduced for this control has enabled the improve our performance we are reviewing several of the Group to continue to benefit from rebates against the Climate boiler installations at our older facilities to ensure they are Change Levy Tax with the new press in Dinnington qualifying for still fit for purpose and operating in an efficient manner.
CCLT rebate from the fourth quarter of 2007.
In an effort to The gas consumption in the print division for the year seek further savings, we are currently evaluating the potential decreased by only 0.6% but because of the significantly installation of voltage optimisers that will ensure equipment increased throughput the gas kWh per tonne reduced by and plant are not over supplied.
These optimisers project a 18.9% to 77.5 kWh tonne, an excellent result.
reduction in energy consumption of up to 13%.
This is the Energy consumption and waste generation within the Groups lowest consumption for the Group since we started to keep printing operation continued to be targeted throughout the year.
records in 2002, despite the fact that the Group is now The successful new press installation at Dinnington has been significantly larger.
The total consumption of water in the nonrepeated at Portsmouth with a similar new press line being printing activities increased by 13.7% and reflects both the commissioned in June.
As at Dinnington the new installation acquisitions in the year and a move to filtered mains water for allowed the Group to decommission two less efficient presses drinking purposes, away from previously bottled supplies during the year as well as relocating another to Northern which were not measured as part of this process.
Projects are Ireland to address capacity requirements in that market.
under evaluation such as dry urinals to seek to reduce this At Portsmouth, the latest energy reducing drive technology going forward and, if successful, will be rolled out across the has been employed and again the press has been housed in Group.
The water consumption in the printing division has a new building designed to maximise natural light and been significantly reduced by the recycling operations on the minimise power consumption.
An on-site chemistry re-cycling 3 new presses and has reduced by 28.0% to 56.7km.
This has plant is reducing the waste levels at the Portsmouth operation, 3 meant that the m tonne has reduced very significantly to and reusable newsprint reel cores have been introduced.
The installation of two additional printing units at Caledonian The Group continues to make excellent progress in achieving Offset in Edinburgh allowed the Group to decommission two the target set out in its Energy Management Policy, which was older less efficient sites in Scotland.
This consolidation has adopted in 2003, for a 7% reduction in consumption on a likealready had a positive effect on waste levels and energy for-like basis over the period to 2010.
In fact, allowing for consumption in this operation.
increased volumes in the business, electricity consumption is down 12.4%, gas is down 51.6% and water is down 51.5%.
Energy saving initiatives at the new site at Dinnington have Given that we have already achieved our original 2010 proved to be worthwhile with the plants energy consumption targets, a new target has been established seeking a further per tonne in its first year being 28% below the average of the 10% reduction of energy consumption between 2007 and Groups other centres.
Budgets for 2008 have been set encompassing a yearon-year improvement.
Newsprint Since 1991 the industry, through the Newspaper Society, has Following on from 2004 when we undertook the first review of agreed targets with the Government on the recycled content of our motors fleet, progress has continued to be made in 2007.
The target for the year 2000 was 40.0% The details of this are set out in Table 4 above.
and has been raised each year since to the current level of 70.0%.
The industry has consistently surpassed these targets The total fleet reduced during the year by 52 cars despite the and currently 80.6% of all newsprint in the UK comes from acquisition of the Archant titles in Scotland.
We have also recycled paper.
continued to make progress in terms of our fleet purchasing arrangements with the result that the average CO2 rating for The average recycled content of standard newsprint bought by our fleet dropped by 4 or 2.4%.
Over the last 4 years, which is Johnston Press in 2007 was 75%.
The reason that this the timescale during which our fleet will have been completely number is behind the industry average, while still well ahead renewed, we have on a like-for-like basis reduced our fleet by of the Government target, is that certain of our older press 82 cars and have reduced the average CO2 rating by 6.8%.
rooms run more effectively on virgin paper.
We have also, as mentioned later in this report, through the Newspapers cannot be recycled indefinitely due to the activities of the Carbon Footprint Taskforce switched Group process requiring some virgin fibre to maintain paper strength.
All virgin fibre comes from an environmentally sound, Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 41 Corporate Social Responsibility continued... renewable resource which is monitored and certificated, Pursuing our Energy Policy in which, as stated earlier, our mainly softwood coniferous forests, where, for every tree cut original aim was to reduce our consumption of energy on a down, two or more are planted.
Newspapers are not like-for-like basis by 7% between 2003 and 2010.
Between responsible for rainforest devastation as the hardwoods from 2003 and 2006 we achieved an 18% reduction in terms of such forests are not used for newsprint manufacture.
kwh and the Group is now seeking to reduce by a further 10% over 2007 to 2010.
Emissions to Air The Groups sole heatset press housed at Caledonian Offset Reducing the creation of waste by the adoption of improved continues to operate well within the emissions requirements operating practices and by the recycling of materials as stated in the Pollution Prevention and Control Act 1999. whenever practical.
The Katec Oxidiser used to remove pollutants from the ink drying process is independently measured each year.
In 2007 Ensuring all waste and effluent is disposed of in a safe and the unit had a 99.8% removal efficiency, and continues to be responsible manner.
The process was also inspected by the Scottish Environmental Protection Agency SEPA in 2007 Ensuring all emissions to air comply with relevant current and passed successfully.
and planned legislation and that at least 99.5% of all Volatile Organic Compounds are removed during the The company continues to have a good relationship with SEPA process.
and during the year began a new collaboration of continuous improvement to reduce the amount of volatile organic Complying with all environmental legislation.
compounds VOCs in the production process.
Johnston Press aims to foster among its staff, suppliers, Waste customers, shareholders, other stakeholders and Audits of the Groups printing waste management communities local to its operations an understanding of performance began this year, with the aim of implementing environmental issues in the context of its business.
Our greater segregation of the waste streams allowing for more collective task is to ensure that we continually improve the efficient disposal.
This initiative is expected to further improve environmental impact of our activities.
the Groups waste management in the coming year.
By this policy Johnston Press recognises its responsibility The Group is committed to ensure that its recycled newsprint towards the protection of the environment, and issues this goes into the production of new newsprint.
statement as a commitment of both management and employees to minimising the environmental impact of its Acquisitions operations.
Recent acquisitions have been audited for energy efficiency and waste management.
The necessary investment is Many of the Carbon Footprint Taskforce initiatives, which are underway to bring them into line with Group standards.
designed to reduce our impact on the environment, are implemented through the Employee Forums which operate at Carbon Footprint all of our publishing centres.
Reducing the environmental During the course of the year the Group launched its Carbon impact of our operations has been an initiative that has been Footprint Taskforce under the Chairmanship of Stuart embraced by the forums and has resulted in many local Paterson, our Chief Financial Officer.
the Groups environmental policy and is responsible for coordinating the Groups activities in this area.
The Groups The aims of the Carbon Footprint Taskforce are as follows: environmental policy is as follows: Establish Group Policy and objectives We will ensure that every aspect of our activities is conducted Promote the general aims of reduce, reuse, recycle in accordance with sound environmental practices.
We will Work through the established Employee Forums achieve this by: Co-ordinate Group wide initiatives Agree under the auspices of the Newspaper Society a Minimising the consumption of natural resources and standard method of measuring the Carbon Footprint Scope energy, whilst consuming material goods in moderation.
All 2 and seek to reduce this base year 2006 by 25% over newsprint consumed in the printing of our newspapers will the next 5 years either be from recycled sources or from sustainable Run an annual Group Environmental Award managed forests.
The objective is to have at least 75% of our consumption from recycled sources.
42 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The achievements of the Taskforce to date are as follows: Internally, 70% of our Employee Forums have environmental issues as a standard agenda item at their meetings and we A Group-wide survey of every publishing and printing centre aim for this to be 100% by the end of 2008.
57% of our sites has been carried out to determine current projects, level of display posters information on the key initiatives of reduce, engagement and status reuse, recycle, in fact 77% of our offices now have recycling All photocopier, fax and internal use paper has moved onto initiatives in place and again we aim to increase this in the recycled stock course of 2008.
All of our print centres have energy The Groups first environmental policy has been published monitoring systems in place along with reduction targets and With the Group Technical Committee we have worked to this is a practice now being more widely adopted by our establish best practice with regard to reducing power publishing centres with more than 80% of all our locations consumption of all IT equipment having energy saving procedures in place.
Group supplied fuel has been moved to bio-diesel Provided all our Employee Forums with a Top Ten Tips to Shareholders kick start the initiative Members of the Board Executive and Non-Executive have met a number of shareholders during the past year to discuss The Group-wide survey focused on our actions and reactions Corporate Social Responsibility matters and to address any both internally and in relation to the communities within which questions raised by them.
In terms of our involvement with the community, 84% of our publishing centres have actively promoted green issues in Extract by kind permission of TES their newspapers and 46% have also done this on their websites.
In fact, a fifth of our titles now run a regular column to support these initiatives.
Looking towards 2008, three quarters of our titles already have editorial campaigns planned and more than two thirds have advertising initiatives linked to these.
84% of our publishing centres have actively promoted green issues in their newspapers 80% of all our locations have energy saving procedures in place 77% of our offices now have recycling initiatives in place Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 43
