Business Review continued... significant rate.
Examples where this has occurred are the they fell by 2.8%.
Despite this, our newspapers achieve increasing reliance on websites for cinema advertising, high levels of market penetration and continue to provide the public sectors growing use of their own sites for job advertisers with a good response.
The principal concern advertising and motor dealers using websites to list their in this regard is that at some point advertisers might stock of vehicles for sale.
However, the extent to which this experience a weakening response from their advertisements has resulted in reduced print advertising is less than might and react accordingly.
There is currently no evidence of this be imagined, partly because the advertising we carry is and, whilst we continue to pursue a variety of initiatives to extremely local, for example, jobs of a general and combat these adverse circulation trends, we have also widespread nature are not easily targeted by searchers on launched a large number of targeted niche publications to the plethora of websites available.
And, of course, our own reach those parts of the community where newspaper sales Jobs Today website contains a large number of such jobs are lower than the norm.
By packaging these with our main of direct relevance to each of our local publishing areas.
paid-for titles we have extended local market reach, something which is further enhanced by utilising our It is also illustrative to note the strengths of print property websites.
advertising at a time of strong growth in property websites.
These websites are excellent for property listings and active Our principal input costs are staff related and newsprint.
searching but, unlike print, they do not provide estate We expect staff costs to broadly reflect the level of inflation agents with brand prominence, vital for new instructions, in the economy as has been the case for some time.
nor do they attract the important browser market and, Newsprint costs are more volatile and are primarily as mentioned earlier, market research makes clear that influenced by the balance of supply and demand.
After vendors typically want to see their houses advertised in several years of increases, 2008 pricing is reduced in the local paper.
comparison to the previous year.
Taking a longer term view, the expectation is for the producers to shut some of their However, there are other structural changes which together older and more inefficient capacity which may cause supply have had a greater effect on our business.
Motor dealership to tighten with consequent upward pressure on price in consolidation, in part triggered by tough trading conditions for 2009.
That said, additional capacity is planned including a that sector, has resulted in a concentration of ownership new UK mill in Kings Lynn built by Palm, a German producer.
which, in turn, has put downward pressure on advertising volumes and price.
Several years ago, public sector The recent turmoil in world financial markets has resulted in recruitment represented 25% of that advertising category, an increased cost of debt, although the direction of interest reflecting a high level of job creation by central and local rates now appears to be heading downwards.
More recently, that policy has changed markedly this regard is robust with the business operating well within with the result that public sector recruitment advertising now its banking covenants and having ample headroom within accounts for little more than 15% of the job advertising our existing facilities, none of which is due for renegotiation category.
We see little prospect of a recovery to the position for several years.
Coupled with the strong cash generative which existed several years ago.
But, of course, as indicated nature of the business our risk exposure in this regard is earlier, we are making strenuous efforts to build new regarded as being low.
advertising revenue streams in customer areas which have not historically been major advertisers in our medium.
The poor performance of our shares is disappointing and would clearly have adverse implications for any corporate Internet businesses are not the most challenging activity on a significant scale were anything of that nature competition which we face.
This is not to discount the planned.
In fact, merger and acquisition activity in the sector seriousness which we place on such competition and, of is subdued apart from a few transactions of modest size as course, the efforts we are devoting to building our own evidenced by the recent failed or partially failed auctions of online capability reflect this.
However, the threat from regional newspapers by DMGT and Trinity Mirror.
In part, this other print publishers remains the most potent source of reflects concerns about prospects for the sector, but it has competition we face.
This has been a feature of our markets not been helped by the tightening of debt markets.
However, for many years and, during 2007, we experienced such perhaps the biggest restraint on large scale deal-making competitive threats in a number of local markets.
at the present time is a mismatch between purchaser and vendor price expectations.
These businesses remain Some commentators express understandable concern at the profitable and cash generative to the extent that vendors are continuing decline in newspaper circulations.
The challenge unwilling to dispose of assets at the depressed valuations is greatest with our daily titles which have declined for a which the market is currently placing on them.
It may take number of years and by 5.4% in 2007.
The vast majority of some time for there to be an adjustment which results in our paid-for newspapers are weekly titles and circulation of relative expectations coming more closely into line, thereby these has grown in 7 of the last 10 years, although in 2007 causing a lull in the rate of corporate activity in the sector.
20 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Operational Review Developing existing and new platforms both online and in print has been a key focus of the Groups operational activities during 2007.
Our aim is to maximise our market position in print whilst at the same time reaching an increasing number of new users of our services through digital channels.
Fundamental to this strategy is the effective use of Our portfolio of lifestyle magazines increased during the year technology and to ensure that this is achieved, we with new launches in Sussex and Edinburgh, the latter undertook a strategic review of information technology providing a platform for entertainments and advertising systems during the year.
This involved meetings with targeted at the younger metropolitan reader.
These product vendors, publishing technology experts and other media launches and developments in print and online continue the organisations to understand fully the system architecture process of layering the market, improving opportunities to necessary for a fully integrated multi-media community reach a targeted audience and providing enhanced publishing operation.
As a result, the main Board approved a series of principles Another area of development during the year came through which will, over time, enable data to be captured in a variety the use of our strong local newspaper brands to grow new of ways, stored in a common format and used by all revenues.
Good examples are activities such as hosting platforms both print and digital.
This will be at the heart of business awards and exhibitions such as those successfully the Groups traditional and emerging workflows and is held on the Isle of Man and in Yorkshire.
With the sharing of central to our longer term development as a business and best practice across the Group, it is expected that this the achievement of our strategic objectives.
Print Publications Digital Publishing 2007 was a year of further progress and continued focus on Investment has continued in the Groups digital activities the Groups core strength of newspaper publishing.
New with total staffing in the central digital team reaching 63 publications provided further opportunities for our during the year, an increase of 66%, and with plans to advertisers to expand their audience in their local enlarge the team further during 2008.
An example is the launch of City Lite editions our digital operation amounted to 9 million, more than in Leeds and Sheffield.
These weekly newspapers contain a double the level in 2006.
Resources at the local publishing review of the weeks news together with comprehensive centre level have also been increased with additional entertainment information and are distributed free to city advertising and editorial staff dedicated to our digital centre apartments, targeting younger professional and publishing strategy.
Each subsidiary company is now able to affluent readers who are typically less likely to purchase a provide a regularly updated daily news service on its local daily newspaper.
We have also launched weekly newspapers website.
The newsroom of the future concept trialled in in towns such as Aylesbury and Peterborough, targeted at Preston, which places the digital platform as a news the large numbers of railway commuters in these medium alongside the traditional printed product, has now communities, again creating an opportunity for advertisers been rolled out across the Group.
Its impact is evident in to connect with different types of readers and a larger the 53% rise in website page views and the 24% increase in audience.
the number of viewers now reached by Group products.
Our programme of new launches and developing existing Extensive market research was undertaken during the year community newsletters is continuing, with these publications to ensure our editorial pages provide the best possible now covering a range of towns and villages.
Typical experience, and as a result further improvement of the sites examples include Lewes Today in East Sussex, Hampton is planned in 2008.
News, a monthly newsletter for a modern housing development near Peterborough, and Ashton News, covering Our Property and Jobs Today classified search engines, a rural community in Lancashire.
We now publish over 200 which were also subject to functionality improvements, were community newsletters, 35 lifestyle magazines and supported by extensive marketing campaigns.
The latter include our now well established advertising platforms such as Parent & Child, Food & Drink and The Good Life with common editorial, targeting new advertisers at both local and national level.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 21 Operational Review continued... We continue to work closely with the University of Central exceeded our expectations.
Our own national sales team Lancashire which has hosted the majority of our editors on a for Jobs Today, created in 2007, is now attracting new week-long training programme to give them a thorough advertisers to our Jobs Today portal.
understanding of the Internet, both as a means of reaching a new audience and as an investigative tool to support Jobs Today in particular benefited from a CV database of journalists.
The Group has also benefited from the research 23,000 active job seekers, an increase of 62% over 2006, undertaken by the Johnston Press sponsored Chair in Digital which in turn improved revenues from that service by 32%.
Journalism at the university, whose research into The Groups online business directory, Local Pages, also participants in online forums has given an insight into how performed strongly with revenues 38% up on 2006.
With local newspapers should engage with communities in online additional investments in functionality and content, this is activities.
An example of the growing trend in viewer expected to rise further in 2008.
The launch of iAnnounce, a engagement can be found at scotsman.
com, where on digital platform providing people with an interactive site for average over a thousand people comment online every day posting personal announcements such as births, deaths and about stories that have appeared in paper and on our marriages, has added a new dimension to newspapers website.
The Chair in Digital Journalism has been a positive traditional notices and has been well received by our readers association, helping to break new ground in these channels.
It allows them to share memories, pictures and By utilising digital channels, local centres have been able to messages relating to loved ones on happy family occasions break news ahead of other media: the tragic air show crash or in the event of bereavement.
Early indications are that in Sussex, freak weather conditions in Peterborough when a this will be a successful revenue stream for 2008. tornado hit part of the town and a chemical explosion beside the M6 which brought travel chaos to the Preston Advertising Performance area are examples.
In this section all references to Group businesses are on a like-for-like basis and exclude the former Archant Scottish Digital advertising revenue continued to grow rapidly, by 34% titles acquired in April 2007, Farm Week which was in the year, supported by further progress in added value disposed of in 2006 and Best Asian Media which was sold services for existing advertisers whilst also attracting new in August 2007. customers at the national level such as British Airways, Shell, Renault and Mercedes.
Mediaforce, our independently The table below shows the total like-for-like advertising owned national sales operation, has continued to invest in performance for 2007 compared with 2006 broken down their digital sales resource and revenue performance by category.
Advertising Revenue 2007 2006 % vs m m Last Year Employment 93.9 97.2 -3.3 Property 79.7 75.6 5.4 Motors 40.2 43.7 -8.2 Other Classified 70.6 71.4 -1.1 Display 117.1 122.0 -4.0 Total Ad revenue in print 401.5 409.9 -2.1 Digital 15.1 11.3 33.8 Total UK 416.6 421.2 -1.1 Republic of Ireland 20.7 19.8 4.5 Total Group Advertising 437.3 441.0 -0.8 A significant proportion of the Groups advertising revenue comparison as the year progressed.
This was largely as a is generated from the UK and the next table analyses UK result of weaker comparatives rather than any noticeable advertising revenue between the two half years.
This upward trend in revenues.
demonstrates an improving position in the year-on-year 22 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Advertising Revenue UK - January to June UK - July to December 2007 2006 % vs 2007 2006 % vs m m Last Year m m Last Year Employment 51.1 53.4 -4.3 42.8 43.8 -2.1 Property 43.0 40.2 6.8 36.7 35.4 3.9 Motors 21.4 23.3 -8.4 18.8 20.4 -8.0 Other Classified 36.2 37.0 -2.0 34.4 34.4 -0.1 Display 58.8 62.8 -6.4 58.3 59.2 -1.5 Total Ad revenue in print 210.5 216.7 -2.9 191.0 193.2 -1.1 Digital 7.3 5.5 33.5 7.8 5.8 34.5 Total UK advertising 217.8 222.2 -2.0 198.8 199.0 -0.1 This review of advertising performance reports on our more than 10 years of continued growth in the property businesses in the United Kingdom that traded throughout sector but it is evident that the market is becoming more 2006 and 2007 and comments separately on the Groups difficult.
We have therefore taken a number of steps to Republic of Ireland operation.
minimise the impact on our overall volumes in anticipation of the more challenging market conditions that may well lie Looking at the main individual categories, recruitment ahead.
That said, we expect our newspapers to continue to advertising was 3% down overall with a reduction in public be the main source of promotional and marketing activity for sector advertising particularly affecting the Groups Scottish the majority of estate agents, complementing our in print division.
The Scottish division was 16% down and accounted supplements with our Property Today online search engine.
for more than 80% of the total Group recruitment decline, partly because of higher comparatives in 2006 when titles Whilst the rate of decline in motors advertising slowed north of the border performed better than the English compared with that in 2006, advertising volumes continued divisions.
Recruitment advertising in Scotland was adversely to face pressure, not only as a result of poor car sales, but affected by the Scottish parliamentary elections, when no also due to industry consolidation with the consequence government advertising is allowed for a specified period, that more dealerships are covered by composite then subsequently by the Scottish Governments policy to advertisements and the consolidated organisations buying exercise tight control over spending and by the change in power strengthens.
In Scotland however, performance general economic market conditions.
In contrast Northern remained strong with new advertising platforms lifting Ireland successfully maintained its public sector recruitment revenues to 8% ahead of 2006.
In a number of divisions advertising and, in conjunction with more favourable trading initiatives to improve private cars for sale by offering conditions, this led to a 3% improvement in job advertising attractive geographical packages and combined in print and over 2006.
The South and Midlands divisions also enjoyed a online solutions with our Motors Today search engine have return to better employment markets and were 5% and 2% increased volumes but with a negative impact on yields.
The North of England experienced This can be seen in overall volume which is down 1% with more difficult market conditions, particularly in Yorkshire yield minus 7%.
where there was a reduction in higher salary vacancies: and both North and Northwest divisions traded at levels lower The other classified category, which covers family than previous years.
Typically, the Groups newspapers carry announcements, public notices, entertainments and trade local job advertising for the extensive blue and white-collar services advertising, was down 1%.
With a broad spectrum sectors and along with improvements to our online jobs site, of advertisers, the category remained stable with little Jobs Today, this provides some resilience against the market geographical variances although Scotland and Northern changes taking place.
Unique users and page impressions Ireland were the only two divisions to post positive results.
for Jobs Today grew by 62% and 55% respectively and there This was partly helped by election notices in Scotland and are now on average 14,000 jobs on the site every day.
good public sector advertising in Northern Ireland.
Towards the end of 2007, we took deliberate steps to curtail the Property advertising remained the one category where advertising of personal services by saunas and massage growth was achieved in every division despite high parlours and this will inevitably result in reduced revenues in comparatives against 2006 and the fact that the market the coming year.
Whilst this form of advertising was carried slowed towards the year end.
The overall increase of 5% in only a proportion of our titles and made a relatively was broadly consistent across all divisions except in modest contribution to revenues, we considered it to be Northern Ireland where new initiatives based on our Property inappropriate content for our newspapers.
Today online and in print branding led to a 47% increase in revenue, albeit from a small base.
The Group has enjoyed Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 23 Operational Review continued...
Display advertising suffered a 4% decline, with local websites, has required improvements to the Wide Area advertising falling at a greater rate than national, which Network.
benefited from increased activity in the grocery sector.
National display also benefited from the formation of a new During the year, we restructured our Group IT resources to digital sales team which attracted new advertising revenue enable all subsidiary companies needs to be managed from brand advertisers in the travel, technology and financial centrally through an electronic helpdesk.
In recognition of the sectors, businesses which would not typically be users of a continued nuisance and threat of unsolicited email and virus local advertising medium.
Local display continued to be attacks, improvements were made to network security.
We challenging, although the development of our community now deal with over 1.6 million emails every day.
newsletter strategy has helped to attract new smaller advertisers interested in reaching customers in highly The deployment of a single newspaper sales system and the targeted local communities.
The performance of this category introduction of a voice over internet protocol VOIP telephone improved in the second half of the year.
system across the Group were largely completed in 2007.
Both projects improve the management of resource and The impact of increased property advertising and the launch information whilst providing operating efficiencies.
As part of of the growing number of targeted publications, both tending the agreed IT strategy, plans are being developed for the to be low yielding, has resulted in an overall decline in the eventual consolidation of data storage in two large databases.
These databases will have direct internet access and will enable our readers and viewers to interact with each of our The Republic of Ireland advertising marketplace became more companies in a timely and efficient way, improving the user challenging as the year progressed, with evidence of the experience and creating overall efficiencies.
previously strong property market slowing in the second half of the year.
This had the effect of reducing related Acquisition Integration advertisers expenditure in the display category which was Successful integration of the companies acquired at the end marginally below last year.
Overall, the year was positive with of 2005 Score Press Limited and The Leinster Leader revenues 5% greater than 2006.
This performance was Limited and at the beginning of 2006 The Scotsman supported by strong revenue growth in recruitment Publications Limited has been accomplished with system advertising, up 42% on the previous year, and full year installations and consolidation of backroom activities.
In improvements in property up 12% and motors up 25%.
difficult trading conditions, each company has achieved its synergy and operational plan ahead of the objectives set prior During 2007, significant improvements were made to the to acquisition.
systems and reporting procedures for our newspaper businesses in the Republic of Ireland.
Installation of these In April 2007, the Group completed the acquisition of eight systems had a negative impact on short-term performance titles, 3 weekly paid-for and 5 free, from Archant Scotland.
but long-term will considerably improve management controls, These newspapers, which complement our established titles client services and the Republic of Ireland websites.
at Johnston Falkirk Limited and Angus County Press Limited, have been fully integrated and are now part of advertising IT Systems packages offered by these companies.
Total synergies During the year, we invested in new common systems for anticipated at the time of acquisition have been exceeded.
those companies acquired since 2005 in Northern Ireland, The commercial printing company, P. Scrogie Limited, which Scotland and the Republic of Ireland.
Work was also formed part of the acquisition was viewed by the Group as a undertaken to ensure that all advertising and accounting non-core business and was sold to ScottasPress in August systems across the Group adopted the same standard 2007. software, classification listings and customer interfaces.
This will simplify the introduction of new services which will Printing improve the customer experience when contacting our 2007 saw further investment in the Printing Division with the publishing centres and provide an efficient and timely way of completion of the new triple-width press installation at deploying new features and platforms, particularly in the area Portsmouth, an extension of the Caledonian Offset plant in of digital publishing.
Edinburgh, commencement of a new press hall in Northern Ireland, and additional colour capacity for the Goss Two further benefits of a common system strategy are the Community press at Kilkenny in the Republic of Ireland.
introduction of an electronic advertising voucher system, replacing the outdated practice of providing advertisers with a The new 50 million press installation at Portsmouth is the newspaper cutting for each advertisement printed: and the second stage of the investment in triple-width technology.
opportunity to capture our customers details on a central Completion ahead of schedule and on budget follows the database, which is the foundation for creating a number of successful opening in 2006 of a similar but slightly larger new revenue opportunities.
press hall in Dinnington, South Yorkshire.
Each of the folders, there are five in total between the two sites, can print a In conjunction with the digital newsroom of the future project, minimum of 120 tabloid pages in full colour at over 80,000 the central IT team has played a pivotal role in ensuring the copies per hour, with paginations reaching over 200 pages in availability of user-friendly video and audio equipment, full colour when required.
It is possible to print a combination appropriately supported.
The growing use of video and audio of newspapers on each press line at any one time at these content, coupled with increased viewings of the Groups 323 industry leading speeds.
The Portsmouth installation includes 24 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 modern inserting, stitching and trimming facilities similar to The research confirms the importance of our local Dinnington.
These two press halls account for 45% of Group newspapers to their communities and the strength of our local printing capacity and, under long-term contracts, also print The newspaper brands, while highlighting areas of opportunity Sun and the News of the World for News International as well such as whats on, more in depth sport and entertainments as work for other contract print customers.
coverage, as well as design improvements which make it easier for readers to locate key story points.
Additional Caledonian Offset, acquired with The Scotsman Publications research resource has been added to the central Limited in 2006, completed an investment programme marketing team.
inherited as part of the acquisition.
The publishing area has been refurbished and re-equipped to improve efficiency and Perhaps the most encouraging sign with regard to our total additional units have been added to the existing press to audience is the complementary nature and interactivity increase colour capacity from 96 to 160 pages.
The between online and in print.
There are numerous examples of refurbishment of the publishing area included inserting, stories being followed across media, with increased stitching and trimming and the ability to add gloss produced comments and participation from the community.
The former Archant Scotland titles have been integrated into the press schedule.
Customer Relationship Management CRM In order to meet our stated objective of using customer data As a result of the improvements at Caledonian Offset, the to improve the delivery of our services and create new Falkirk press hall was closed.
In June 2007, planning revenue opportunities, during 2007 we undertook a permission was granted for a press hall extension at Carn, significant rebuild of our CRM database.
This involved where our Northern Ireland print operation is based.
The engaging with experts from the data management sector and building will accommodate a six unit full colour single-width a year-long project to re-create our CRM system in order that press capable of printing 96 pages, in addition to the current data can be collected and maintained across all areas of our press which is undergoing a major refurbishment to increase organisation.
This information, which is now in a consistent its colour capacity from 24 to 56 pages.
This project has format because of the common systems strategy, is being helped secure a long-term contract to print the Berliner format used for both internal and external purposes such as alerting Guardian newspaper for Northern Ireland.
In the Republic of individuals to stories relating to their particular interests, Ireland, an extension to the existing press at Kilkenny has engaging potential customers with added-value incentives, and increased colour capacity from 32 to 40 pages.
using the data to create sales opportunities for specific advertisers.
Audience Delivery Group audience reach of combined online and in print readers Staff Development and Welfare and viewers increased by 23% over the previous year.
This A review of potential staff development needs within each excludes The Scotsman where scotsman.
com, a longer discipline has been undertaken in order to ensure the Group established site, grew by 5.5% and reached over 3.1 million has the capability and competence to deliver our strategy and viewers in its own right.
On average, the Group reaches over vision.
As a result, we have revised our training programmes, 13 million readers each week and 8.2 million unique users increased the number of trainers both centrally and locally, view our websites every month.
This reflects the strength of and, where appropriate, partnered with other knowledge our existing portfolio of newspapers and niche publications, providers such as the University of Central Lancashire the growing attraction of our local websites, and the overall UCLan.
This has ensured our training meets the needs of position of the Group as a community media company.
In addition to those run at UCLan, 1,082 different courses were delivered, covering all aspects of our Of central importance to our portfolio mix is the strength of business.
This amounted to over 12,000 training days.
our paid-for newspapers, and we continue to place a high priority on their development and circulation performance.
Work continued to strengthen our relationship with our Sales continue to be challenging, particularly for our daily employees, with staff engagement surveys being successfully titles where the trend of readers moving away from six days a trialled in three centres and plans to roll these out across the week purchase to a casual buying pattern continues to have Group in 2008.
Staff retention also improved with advertising an adverse effect.
However, the performance of our daily sales staff turnover, the area where this has historically titles is in line with the industry and, as a result of modest presented the greatest challenge, improving by 2% to 31%.
cover price increases, year-on-year revenues remain marginally This has been helped by the introduction of career ahead.
Weekly newspapers continue to be more resilient and development plans, improved incentive schemes and changes examples of strong sales increases include the Wakefield to selection and interview techniques.
Express, the Doncaster Free Press and the Boston Standard.
We continue to invest in the provision of our own home The Group continues to place the highest possible priority on delivered copy service, one of the best ways of retaining health and safety.
This has resulted in a further reduction in readers, with the total number of copies delivered to readers the number of accidents across the Group, the statistics for homes increasing over last year as we approached the year which are reported on page 32.
A number of initiatives have end.
been instigated during the year to improve our employees awareness of health and safety, particularly in the area of Investment in market research also increased with 5 major trips, slips and falls which account for 70% of all accidents.
projects undertaken around the Group to give a better insight This work, which has continued into 2008, is expected to into the behaviour and expectations of readers and viewers.
reduce further accidents of this type.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25 Performance Review 2007 has been a challenging year, with difficult advertising conditions as well as inflationary cost pressures.
What has been pleasing is the business ability to respond to these challenges with the result that there has only been a very modest reduction in margins.
In order to assess the underlying like-for-like financial results of the Group in the UK and Republic of Ireland, the table below summarises the performance of the businesses operating at both the beginning and end of 2007.
The businesses acquired in 2007 or disposed of during the course of either year are shown separately.
These columns then add to the total reported figure for the year.
The middle columns in the border show a like-for-like summary of 2007 compared to 2006.
2007 2006 Republic Acquisitions UK UK Acquisitions Republic Total of Ireland Disposals Like-for-like Like-for-like Disposals of Ireland Total m m m m m m m m Print advertising 425.8 20.7 3.6 401.5 409.9 0.8 19.8 430.5 Newspaper sales 102.4 6.1 0.2 96.1 95.6 0.4 6.2 102.2 Digital 15.1 15.1 11.3 11.3 Printing 35.0 3.9 0.7 30.4 22.2 5.1 27.3 Other 29.2 0.3 0.5 28.4 30.7 0.2 30.9 Total revenues 607.5 31.0 5.0 571.5 569.7 1.2 31.3 602.2 Costs 429.4 22.9 3.9 402.6 391.9 0.9 22.6 415.4 Operating profit 178.1 8.1 1.1 168.9 177.8 0.3 8.7 186.8 Operating margin 29.3% 26.1% 22.0% 29.6% 31.2% 25.0% 27.8% 31.0% Pre non-recurring items In terms of like-for-like performance, the existing Johnston b A reduction in production costs of 2.5 million was Press businesses, when the higher production costs related achieved despite an overall increase in advertising to contract revenues, depreciation on the new presses and volumes.
As mentioned previously, the strength of property the increased digital investment which totalled 10.7 million advertising in the year contributed to the increase in are adjusted for, achieved an underlying flat cost base during volume but has resulted in a reduction in the overall yield the year.
This was despite cost of living increases to all as this tends to be the lowest priced advertising category.
staff, increased power costs and an increase in the price of The reduction in production costs was made possible by newsprint over twice the rate of inflation.
There were modest the further consolidation of pre-press operations into cost savings associated with reduced head count in response regional centres where greater efficiencies are possible.
to lower trading volumes and cost reductions of a structural The other benefits are those referred to previously being nature which will deliver permanent benefits in coming years.
associated with the full year effect of the closure of several Within the structural cost savings was the full year effect of older inefficient presses in 2006. the presses closed in 2006, made possible by our investment in the new press at Dinnington in South Yorkshire.
Specific c Overhead costs, excluding depreciation, increased by 7.8 points to note are as follows: million, with savings in the administration category being more than offset by inflationary pressures on power, a Despite increased newsprint prices, the Groups newsprint editorial costs and distribution and transport, together with costs were essentially flat year-on-year.
This has been the additional 5m expenditure on the digital activities of achieved through the closure of less efficient older presses the Group.
and the benefits of the new presses which tend to produce lower wastage.
26 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The overall operating margin in the existing businesses b Our success in growing new revenue streams in our decreased by 1.6% to 29.6%.
The most significant are those associated with our digital and internet presence but these Those businesses acquired since 2005 delivered varying also include new print and related initiatives through results dependent on their geographic location.
As mentioned building on the position of our well established and trusted previously, the advertising environment in Scotland proved brands in local markets.
difficult in part as a result of the parliamentary election in May 2007.
However, the acquisitions of The Scotsman c The extent to which we are able to secure further Publications Limited and the ex-Scottish Radio Holdings acquisition opportunities within and around our current Limited titles have allowed us to build a much greater areas of operation and whether they can be suitably presence in the Scottish market, with the result that we have financed thereby creating long term shareholder value.
achieved significant cost savings across the enlarged division, as well as providing the Group with sufficient additional d Our ability to continually improve the efficient operation of printing capacity to allow the closure of the old press at our business through appropriate investment in technology, Falkirk.
The creation of this larger division enabled the Archant which improves both customer service and our methods of titles in Scotland to be integrated very quickly once their operation.
purchase was completed in April 2007 and resulted in the acquisition being earnings accretive for the 8 months of e Our success in adapting to our customers requirements in Johnston Press ownership during the year.
terms of the ways in which they wish to access and address their local media information needs in such a way The market conditions in Northern Ireland were more that we continue to offer our advertisers high levels of favourable than those experienced in Scotland and work local market penetration.
continued to integrate these titles into the larger Johnston Press family.
This process will essentially be completed in Non-Recurring Items 2008 with the installation of the ex-Portsmouth refurbished The Groups results include a non-recurring profit in the year single-width press at Carn.
This press was originally of 15.0 million.
It is easiest to break this down into two purchased in 2002. major components.
The first of these relates to the change in the UK corporation tax rate from 30% to 28%.
Including the In the Republic of Ireland, as mentioned previously, the goodwill adjustment of 5.9 million associated with this advertising environment changed significantly through the year change in tax rate, the net impact was a profit of and our planned introduction of new systems together with a 20.3 million.
This 20.3 million is, in turn, made up of re-structuring and re-organisation was later than originally two elements.
The first element relates to the deferred tax planned, eventually taking place in quarter 4 of 2007.
This balance created under the transitional arrangements in place work was, however, completed prior to year end and we expect during the implementation of IFRS and IAS 12 in particular.
to see the operational and financial benefits of this in 2008.
This required that deferred tax be provided against the carrying value of our publishing titles as at 1 January 2005, In addition to the acquisition of the Archant titles in Scotland with the offset being against retained earnings.
As the tax mentioned above, we disposed of several small non-core rate has been reduced by 2% to 28%, this notional deferred operations in August 2007.
These included Best Asian Media, tax liability, for which the Board cannot foresee any the commercial printing activities of the ex-Archant Scottish circumstance under which it might become payable, requires titles and the commercial printing operation at Naas in the to be adjusted.
The impact of this represents a credit to the Republic of Ireland.
There was a net loss of 0.8 million on tax charge of 20.3 million.
Although the original adjustment the disposal of these activities.
in relation to publishing titles was taken against reserves, IAS 12 requires this reversal to flow through the Income For the first time last year, we reported those factors which Statement.
are most likely to influence the Groups future performance.
As expected, these have not changed significantly in the last The second element relates to the deferred tax booked on year.
The key influence of the economic cycle on our business acquisitions made after 1 January 2005.
Under the IFRS was evidenced, as mentioned earlier, by work performed on rules, the equal and opposite offset to the notional deferred our behalf by the London Business School.
This demonstrated tax was to create an intangible goodwill asset.
As stated in the historic link between advertising revenues and four key the interim accounts, all logic and base accounting principles macro economic indicators, which in declining level of would dictate that any reduction in the deferred tax balance influence were: growth in Gross Domestic Product: change in because of the tax rate change should be mirrored in a the unemployment rate: change in interest rates and the reduction of the associated goodwill.
However, the rules of number of property transactions.
We would expect these IAS 12 require that this release is also flowed through the factors to remain an important influence over our Income Statement, the impact being a credit of 5.9 million.
In addition, there are a number of This leaves the Group with an unmatched goodwill balance, other factors worthy of mention which are unchanged from which was only created by the booking of the deferred tax, those detailed last year and are summarised below.
and we have no option but to write this off as a 5.9 million charge against operating profit.
Although this might appear to a Our ability to ensure that we maintain market leadership be inconsistent with accepted accounting principles and at a local level at all stages of the advertising cycle whilst practice, we had no alternative but to book the entries noted recognising the influence of the economic indicators above in strict compliance with the rules based standard.
27 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Performance Review continued... Non-Recurring Items continued reflecting the continuing difficult market environment The balance of the non-recurring items is a net cost after tax experienced by the sector during 2007.
Subject to approval at of 5.3 million and relates to either fundamental re-structuring the Annual General Meeting on 25 April 2008, the total within the business or disposal of certain non-core operations.
dividend for the year will be 10.0p, an increase of 7.5%.
This As mentioned above, there were three operations disposed of increase reflects the strength of cash flows within the Group during the course of the year, with a net loss on disposal of and the Boards continued desire to reduce the dividend cover 0.8 million.
There were also costs totalling 7.9 million from its current levels.
relating to the actions we have taken to fundamentally restructure the business for the future and include the closure Investment Strategy of old presses in Falkirk, Peterhead and Portsmouth, and the As discussed in last years report, the Board has clearly pre-press departments in Falkirk, Chesterfield and defined criteria when evaluating investments.
There was also a significant cost arising from considering returns both in terms of earnings per share and the fundamental re-organisation which took place in the cost of capital, the Board takes into account the alternative Republic of Ireland in the last quarter of the year.
Offsetting opportunities available when making any investment, including these costs were gains of 1.9 million on the disposal of the potential buy back of our own shares.
When looking at surplus properties.
The tax credit in relation to these items capital investment proposals in excess of 250k, with the amounted to 1.5 million.
exception of those that represent replacement or maintenance capital, the Board consistently examines If the current proposals for changes to capital allowances on alternatives including subcontracting and the pay back period, industrial buildings are enacted, we anticipate another nonas well as the earnings impact and cash flows.
All such recurring tax adjustment in 2008.
This adjustment would be a investments are routinely re-appraised 1 year after the tax charge of 10 million if the legislation is progressed in completion, both locally and at a Board level to ensure that line with current proposals.
the expected outcomes have been delivered.
Finance Income Costs Finance Strategy Net Debt Net finance income on pension assets liabilities was 4.5 Due to the strong levels of cash generation within the million as the expected return on our pension fund assets business, Group policy has been historically, and continues to exceeded the interest cost on our pension liabilities by that be, to finance all investments through debt.
Over the last year, amount.
The level of expected return in 2007, as detailed in we have re-examined lease versus buy options, especially note 24, was greater than actual returns for the first time in where these have associated tax related benefits to the last 3 years.
With actual returns being 4.9 million lower, determine whether there might be any sustainable advantage these are recognised in the Group Statement of Recognised to be gained without compromising the Groups overall tax Income and Expense.
Finance costs for the year were 45.9 position.
million with a blended effective interest rate of 6.4%.
These costs were higher than anticipated due to the abnormally high As has been the case in prior years, our policy continues to margin between LIBOR London Inter Bank Offer Rate, on be for borrowings to be arranged at the lowest possible cost, which the Groups borrowing costs are based, and base rate and with covenants within which the Group can comfortably in the second half of 2007.
This is discussed further later in operate.
The policy requires that a minimum of 50% of the this review.
debt should be hedged against potential movements in interest rates whilst the balance is kept under constant Tax Rate review.
This policy helped to protect us during the last quarter The Group tax rate for the year, excluding non-recurring items, of 2007 when there was a significant divergence between was 28.3%, with the UK tax rate of 30% being reduced LIBOR and base rates.
The balance of debt that was not proportionately by the businesses in the Republic of Ireland hedged was exposed to the increased LIBOR rates and, in an and the Isle of Man where the Corporation Tax rates are effort to minimise the cost of this, over the last quarter of considerably lower at 12.5% and zero respectively.
A 2007 and into the first quarter of 2008 we have been rolling significant element of this tax charge is in deferred tax as the over that element of our debt on a weekly basis.
This has capital allowances on our recent press investment programme enabled us to mitigate a portion of the costs, because the are in excess of depreciation.
divergence between weekly LIBOR rates and base rates was less than the divergence on monthly rates.
It is estimated that Earnings Per Share Dividends the increase in LIBOR rates from the norm has cost the Group Basic earnings per share at 39.36p was well up on 2006 0.5 million in 2007.
At 31 December 2007, 350 million of because of the non-recurring tax adjustments as detailed the debt was hedged or fixed for an average period of above.
Excluding those non-recurring items, earnings per 3.5 years.
share at the basic level was 34.15p, down 6.8% on 2006, 28 Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The only other financial risk the Group faces is in relation to Pensions its investments in the Republic of Ireland which are Euro Despite the volatile market conditions, the pension trustees denominated.
The debt drawn down to finance the acquisition investment strategy and the Groups efforts in recent years to of the Leinster Leader Group in December 2005 was made in address the pension fund deficit continue to bear fruit and Euros which provides a hedge against foreign currency this has seen a reduction in the overall pension deficit of fluctuations in the net investment in the foreign operations, 32.3 million in the year.
whilst at the same time minimising our borrowing costs.
The Groups borrowings at 31 December were impacted by the Control Processes sterling euro exchange rate.
The average exchange rate for As discussed in the Corporate Governance Statement, the the whole of 2007 was 1.46206 but the rate fell sharply in Group operates rigorous internal control processes that assist the last quarter to 1.3571 at the year end.
This unexpected in the efficient operation of our business.
The general ledgers, movement increased borrowings by 10 million.
fixed asset registers, expenses, payables system and payroll are controlled through our shared service centre in From the date of the acquisition of the Groups Irish Peterborough so that we can ensure a consistently high level businesses up to the end of September 2007, the exchange of control right across our geographically spread operations.
rate had not moved in any material way.
However, the sharp Our recent move to consolidate credit control into our larger fall in the last quarter has resulted in the retranslation of the regional centres and all cash processing into a single centre Groups valuation of publishing titles and goodwill in the in Leeds should further improve performance and control in Republic of Ireland at 31 December 2007 as seen in note 15. these areas.
This has also resulted in an adjustment to deferred tax at the Irish rate of 20%.
The increase in borrowings of 10 million is offset by increases in goodwill and publishing titles with the balances recorded in the hedging and translation reserve.
The Executive Directors At 31 December 2007, the Groups largest investment in 5 March 2008 working capital was in trade debtors.
Levels of inventory were run down at the year end in anticipation of the reduction in newsprint prices in 2008.
The management of trade debtors is therefore seen as a key task and is subject both to Executive and local management reviews.
Local incentive arrangements are also in place to ensure timely collection of all debts.
Net debt at the end of the year, reflecting the fixed rate of our currency hedges and the 10 million adverse impact of the sterling euro exchange rate, was 692 million, a reduction of 54 million over the course of the year.
This reduction was achieved in a year when capital expenditure was still well above depreciation.
Capital expenditure payments in the year totalled 31.0 million, this was 6.0 million lower than we had anticipated as some of the final payments on the Portsmouth press project were not made until early 2008.
The Group continues to be financed through 5 year bank facilities put in place during 2005 and private placement loan notes which have outstanding terms between 5 and 9 years.
Financial Reporting The only significant change in the financial reporting regulations to have impacted this report is the introduction of IFRS 7.
The disclosures relating to this standard are significant and are shown in the accounting policies, notes 21, 22 and especially note 35.
Johnston Press plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 29 Operational Review - feature revenue Our main source of income is advertising from providers of local goods and services wanting to reach our audiences.
Johnston Press offers such advertisers an extremely effective means of reaching local consumers through our print and digital publications, a combination which is capable of delivering high levels of household penetration and advertiser response.
In a fragmenting media world our strategy of focussing on content to drive traffic to deliver revenues has borne fruit.
In a challenging market for many sectors of the media, total advertising revenues for the Group were only down by 1% in 2007 with revenues from our digital platforms growing by 34%.
The depth of content and audience penetration in our local markets that we can offer our advertisers is the key to future revenues.
Advertising Revenue by Division Advertising Revenue by Category Republic of Ireland Northern Ireland 5% Employment 5% Scotland 23% Display 14% 29% South 10% North 34% Property Midlands 20% 22% Motors Northwest Other Classified 10% 10% 18% 30 Johnston Pr Johnston Press plc ess plc Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2007 t and Accounts 2007 The today story Building on our original classified portals of Jobs Today, Property Today and Motors Today, we are continuing to develop new platforms to support activities in our local communities.
Local Pages Today, Buy and Sell Today and Whats On are the latest additions to be rolled out across the entire Group during 2008.
Johnston Pr Johnston Press plc ess plc Annual Repor Annual Report and Accounts 2007 t and Accounts 2007 31
