Business Review 10 Strategy Our Company Our Markets See from inside front See pages 18 and 19 cover to page 3 and pages 125 to 143 Our strategic objectives Optimise performance of existing assets Delivery of growth and expansion projects Acquisition of natural resource assets in our region Delivering on Managing Measuring strategy Group risk performance See pages 12 and 13 See pages 14 and 15 See pages 16 and 17 KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS CHIEF EXECUTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE CORPORATE STATEMENT REVIEW STRATEGY RISK FACTORS INDICATORS MARKET OVERVIEW OPERATING REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY 11 OPERATING ENVIRONMENT STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES Kazakhstan and its neighbouring states have The Groups strategy can be broken down into three signi cant potential for the development of natural main elements: resources.
The area is comparable with Southern Africa, Australia or Brazil in terms of the diversity OPTIMISATION OF EXISTING ASSETS and quality of its mineral wealth.
The stable political The Group is developing management tools and economic climate of Kazakhstan make it an to improve the performance of existing assets, ideal base in the region, with a well-educated and but also create opportunities to add value motivated workforce and a rapidly developing legal to acquisitions.
Particular objectives will and business framework.
The region is also well be controlling costs, improving yields and placed logistically to serve two of the worlds most increasing productivity.
important resource markets, China and Europe, giving exibility to changes in supply demand and GROWTH AND EXPANSION cost factors in these end markets.
The Group will pursue output growth by actively investing in small scale expansion and new GROUP STRENGTHS projects.
This includes mine developments, The strong position that the Group already has in new concentrators and concentrator upgrades.
copper in Kazakhstan is supported by a powerful balance sheet, outstanding local business contacts The Group will bring into operation, over a and good relationships with national authorities.
number of years, the major growth projects in The Groups reputation facilitates access to new its portfolio.
These projects will partly serve to projects and encourages the recruitment and replace existing production from mines where ore retention of high calibre people.
reserves are depleting, and partly to increase our copper output.
The Groups primary focus will be on growing through acquisition and major projects and DIVERSIFICATION AND ACQUISITIONS on organic growth through optimising the The Group will actively seek out and acquire performance of existing assets, all within the attractive, undeveloped natural resource assets in context of continuous improvement in the the region.
This will be achieved partly through an protection and safety of its staff and others in-house exploration programme, partly through affected by its operations.
exploration partnerships with other companies, and partly by seeking to acquire discovered but undeveloped deposits from existing owners.
The Group will seek to acquire interests in existing regional natural resource businesses with attractive internal and external growth potential.
The Board will continue to formally review its strategy during 2008, to keep pace with the changes in the region and the markets the Group serves.
This will include updating the Groups objectives and the ranking of the targets it wishes to pursue.
Our strategy KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Business Review 12 Optimising existing Delivery of growth and expansion projects assets In an environment of cost in ation A series of smaller growth projects the optimisation of existing assets will help to maintain near term is a key priority: output at current levels: In 2007 a new concentrator and Seven copper mine extensions two concentrator upgrades and developments are due to were completed be launched over the next In 2008 upgrades to four three years concentrators and construction There are also several substantial of new concentrators will projects in all our divisions: be progressed Two major copper projects at In 2008 the new acid plant at Boschekul and Aktogay, currently Balkhash will be commissioned at the pre-feasibility stage, will In 2007 management of the add signi cantly to copper railway system was outsourced production from 2012 2008 will see further signi cant Three major precious metal investment in transportation projects at Bozymchak, Mizek and logistics sulphides and Akjilga within our Kazakhmys Gold division Petroleum exploration block at East Akzhar in western Kazakhstan Our strategic KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CHAIRMANS CHIEF EXECUTIVES KEY PERFORMANCE CORPORATE STATEMENT REVIEW STRATEGY RISK FACTORS INDICATORS MARKET OVERVIEW OPERATING REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW RESPONSIBILITY 13 Acquisition of natural resource assets From the start of 2007 we have The Group believes that the region diversi ed our business with continues to offer signi cant acquisitions amounting to over opportunities in a wide range $3 billion: of resources at different stages of development from exploration East Akzhar petroleum through to fully producing assets exploration block for $450 million in April 2007 Eurasia Gold Inc. for $270 million in July 2007 ENRC PLC, a 14.6% holding for $806 million in October 2007 Ekibastuz Power Plant and Maikuben West coal mine, for up to $1.5 billion, announced in February 2008 delivery KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
