CORPORATE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 51 Directors Report SHARE CAPITAL The Directors have pleasure in presenting their Annual Report, together with the audited Financial Statements, for the year The Companys authorised share capital as at 31 December 2007 was 150 million comprising 750 million ordinary shares of ended 31 December 2007.
The Companys issued share capital as at that date was 460,123,288 ordinary shares of 20 pence, each credited as fully A perspective of the Group is given on pages 1 to 3, and details of the Companys subsidiary undertakings principally affecting paid.
Further details of the Companys authorised and issued share capital are shown in note 25 on pages 104 and 105. the pro ts or net assets of the Group are indicated in note 48 on page 123.
Analyses of revenues, gross pro t and financial PURCHASE OF OWN SHARES performance of the Group are shown in note 5 on pages 81 to 90.
These pages, together with the sections of the Annual Report The Company was authorised by shareholders at the 2007 Annual General Meeting to purchase its own shares in the market up to referred to below under Business Review and Other Information, form part of this Directors Report.
a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
After taking into account the pro tability of the business and underlying growth The Corporate Governance Report on pages 54 to 57 is submitted in earnings of the Group, together with its cash ows and growth requirements, the Company announced on 4 September 2007 a by the Board, and the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 58 to 62 to shareholders by the Remuneration Committee on share buy-back programme of up to $400 million.
During the year ended 31 December 2007, 9,910,577 ordinary shares of 20 pence behalf of the Board.
A statement of the responsibilities of the Directors for the preparation of the financial statements is given each of the Company representing 2.12% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 January 2007 were purchased and cancelled for a on page 63. consideration of 130,590,341 $270.3 million including expenses.
A further 5,169,000 ordinary shares of 20 pence each representing BUSINESS REVIEW The review of the Groups principal activities, future 1.12% of the ordinary shares in issue on 1 January 2008 have been purchased for a consideration of 61,708,631 $119.8 million, developments, post balance sheet events and financial performance during the year, details of key performance including expenses, and cancelled since the end of the financial period to the date of this report.
This authority will expire at the indicators and the description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group, comprises pages 1 to 3 conclusion of the 2008 Annual General Meeting and a resolution to renew it for a further year will be proposed.
and the Business Review of this Annual Report.
MAJOR SHAREHOLDINGS OTHER INFORMATION Other information relevant to the Directors Report may be found As at 4 March 2008, the Company had been noti ed under Rule 5 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the FSA of the in the following sections of this Annual Report and Accounts: following interests in its ordinary share capital: Location in Annual Report Percentage Information and Accounts Number of total of ordinary ordinary share Amendment of memorandum shares of capital held 20 pence as at 4 March and articles of association Shareholder Information Name of holder each held 2008 Combined Code compliance statement Corporate Governance Cuprum Holding B. V. 135,944,325 29.88 Report Tobermory Holding Europe B. V. 50,735,450 11.15 Directors appointment and powers Sh areholder Information AXA S. A.
35,932,548 7.90 Directors interests in shares Dir ectors Remuneration Harper Finance Limited 29,706,901 6.53 Report Perry Partners S. A.
21,503,813 4.73 Names of Directors Board of Directors Standard Life Investments Limited 13,901,006 3.06 Share capital structure, voting and other rights Sh areholder Information 1 Vladimir Kim holds a 100% interest in Cuprum Holding B. V. Tobermory Holding Statement of Directors Responsibilities Page 63 Europe B. V. and Perry Partners S. A.
2 Oleg Novachuk holds a 100% interest in Harper Finance Limited.
DIVIDEND The Board recommends the payment of a final dividend of RELATIONSHIP AGREEMENT 27.4 US cents per ordinary share 2006: 25.7 US cents.
If approved, In September 2005, Cuprum Holding B. V. Perry Partners S. A. the dividend will be paid on 8 May 2008 to shareholders on the Harper Finance Limited together the Major Shareholders, register at the close of business on 4 April 2008.
An interim Vladimir Kim, Yong Keu Cha and Oleg Novachuk together the dividend of 13.6 US cents per share and a special dividend Bene cial Owners and the Company entered into a relationship of 50.0 US cents per share were paid on 5 October 2007. agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship between them.
Shareholders may elect to receive their dividends in UK pounds The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure sterling by completing a currency election form available from that the Group is capable of carrying on its business for the the Companys registrar.
bene t of the shareholders of the Company as a whole.
Under the terms of the agreement, it shall terminate in respect of a Bene cial Owner if such Bene cial Owner ceases to control at least a shareholding of 10% of the Company.
As of 14 December 2006 and 2 April 2007, Yong Keu Cha and Oleg Novachuk, respectively, ceased to be bound by the terms of the relationship agreement, their holdings having fallen below 10%.
KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 Corporate Governance 52 Directors Report continued ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Each operating company has responsibility for designing human The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 12.15 pm resources policies appropriate to their country of origin which on Wednesday 30 April 2008 at Claridges the Ballroom entrance, attract, retain and motivate the highest quality of staff.
To this Brook Street, Mayfair, London W1K 4HR.
Details of the meeting end, Kazakhmys Corporation LLC and Kazakhmys Gold employees venue and the resolutions to be proposed, together with have individual employment agreements which cover, among explanatory notes, are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting other matters, base remuneration.
These businesses also which accompanies this Annual Report and Accounts.
negotiate collective employment agreements, which primarily cover social bene ts, with representatives of its union that The total votes cast on a poll by shareholders for or against represent substantially all of the employees.
In Germany, or withheld will be published on the Companys website employees are represented by a works council and approximately www.
com shortly after the conclusion of the 56% of employees are members of the IG Metall union.
The Group Annual General Meeting.
attaches considerable importance to keeping its employees informed on matters affecting their jobs and the progress of the DIRECTORS business.
Although there are various information channels the The Directors of the Company during the year were as shown on primary one is face-to-face communication between managers pages 48 and 49.
Details of Directors interests in shares can be and their staff.
found in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 62.
The Group contributes to fide ned contribution pension schemes Apart from Vladimir Kims interest in a call option given to the in Germany and the UK and the Groups pension scheme in Company in March 2006 over a 25% stake in ENRC Kazakhstan Kazakhstan is utilised by its employees to contribute the required Holding B. V. representing an 18.8% economic interest in ENRC amounts under Kazakhstan law.
During the year, the Company PLC, held by a company wholly owned by him, which the Company introduced two new share plans for below Board senior exercised in October 2007 see note 35 on page 118, during the executives, details of which are set out on page 59. year no Director had any interest in any shares or debentures of the Companys subsidiaries, or any material interests in any Kazakhmys is committed to promoting diversity across the contract with the Company or a subsidiary being a contract of Group, both in recognition of the inherent value of diversity signi cance in relation to the Companys business.
and to ensure Kazakhmys businesses re ect the diversity of the local population.
To this end, Kazakhmys is committed to In accordance with the Companys articles of association, Vladimir providing equal opportunity in recruitment, promotion, career Kim, Oleg Novachuk, Vladimir Ni and Lord Renwick will retire as development, training and reward to all employees without Directors at the Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will discrimination and continues to be supportive of the employment offer themselves for re-election.
As explained in the service of disabled persons in accordance with their abilities and agreement paragraph on page 60, Vladimir Kim and Oleg aptitudes, provided that they can be employed in a safe Novachuk have service agreements terminable by the Company working environment.
or the Director on three months notice.
Neither Vladimir Ni nor Lord Renwick have a service agreement.
Further comment on employment issues is set out on page 47.
DIRECTORS INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE CREDITOR PAYMENT POLICY Kazakhmys maintains liability insurance for its Directors and It is the Companys policy that payments to suppliers are made of cers.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed between the of the Directors, Matthew Hird Chief Financial Of cer and Company and its suppliers, provided that all relevant trading the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law.
These terms and conditions have been complied with.
indemnities are uncapped in amount, in relation to certain losses and liabilities which they may incur to third parties in the course of The average creditor payment period for the year ended acting as a director or of cer or company secretary as the case 31 December 2007 for the Company was 9.4 days 2006: 6.4 days.
may be of the Company or any of its associated companies.
MARKET VALUE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS The indemnity is categorised as a qualifying third-party Land is carried in the balance sheet at deemed cost resulting from indemnity for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and will a revaluation, which was undertaken as at 1 January 2002 as part continue in force for the bene t of Directors on an ongoing basis.
of the Groups transition to reporting under IFRS.
Land and buildings acquired since 1 January 2002 are recorded at cost.
It is EMPLOYEES not practical to estimate the market value of land, buildings and The Group continues to develop and maintain policies for all mineral reserves and resources at each balance sheet date.
aspects of employment, the overall objective being to optimise performance through recruitment and retention of effective, well motivated people in every sector of its business.
KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007 CORPORATE DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITIES BOARD OF DIRECTORS DIRECTORS REPORT GOVERNANCE REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS 53 POLITICAL AND CHARITABLE DONATIONS AUDIT INFORMATION The Group did not give any money for political purposes in the The Directors who held of ce at the date of approval of this United Kingdom nor did it make any donations to EU political Directors Report con rm that, so far as they are each aware, there organisations or incur any EU political expenditure during the is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors year.
The Group made charitable donations of $4.8 million during are unaware, and that each Director has taken all steps that they the year 2006: $4.4 million.
Further details of payments for ought to have reasonably taken as a Director to make themselves charitable purposes made during the year are given on page 47. aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
POLICY ON DERIVATIVES AND FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The Groups objectives and policies on financial risk management, AUDITORS and information on the Groups exposures to foreign currency, Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the credit, commodity, price, liquidity and interest rate risks can be auditors, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board found in note 33 on page 110. that the existing auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, be reappointed.
Ernst & Young LLP have indicated their willingness to continue GOING CONCERN in of ce and ordinary resolutions reappointing them as auditors After reviewing the Groups financial resources, including and authorising the Directors to set their remuneration will be borrowing facilities, and projected cash ows, particularly those proposed at the 2008 Annual General Meeting.
relating to major investments, including capital projects and acquisitions, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the By order of the Board Group has suf cient resources to continue in operation for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Board has adopted the ROBERT WELCH going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
COMPANY SECRETARY 5 March 2008 KAZAKHMYS PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2007
