Equal opportunities Technological innovation Business review Age is certainly no barrier to employment Technology is at the heart of Yorkshire at Yorkshire Water.
Waters plans to repair bursts and leaks Yorkshire Water without ever having to shut off customers At the age of 61, Keith Wood from water supplies.
Huddersfield shunned all thoughts of taking retirement and became a Yorkshire Pictured are Dr Steve Joseph, Dr Toby Buxall Water leakage detector instead.
and Ian Robinson, trialling a new bag system developed by the University of Keith, who has spent most of his working Sheffield which can seal leaks without the life in a timber yard, now spends his need to dig disruptive holes in the highway.
days patrolling the streets of Yorkshire proactively searching for bursts and leaks.
Such innovation has seen a 40% reduction in the number of customers whose supplies are interrupted each year.
Regulatory performance This has been an excellent year for delivering Key performance indicators Regulated turnover increased by 6.8% to 741.1m water supply security and further improving 2006: 693.8m and operating profit increased by our customers confidence in the companys TARGET CURRENT YEAR 6.4% to 332.7m 2006: 312.7m.
This year on management of water resources.
The company Overall customer year improved performance reflects tariff increases continued to achieve leakage reduction targets.
satisfaction and the delivery of further efficiencies.
Yorkshire Overall customer 100% 85% satisfaction Water will still out-perform Ofwats operating A number of significant initiatives in both the clean Prior year: 85% cost targets by 2m even after absorbing and waste water businesses are already delivering considerable increases in energy prices.
2007 08 improvements in service and efficiencies.
Drinking water electricity has now been purchased at a cost compliance Overall drinking 100% 99.94% significantly higher than that allowed in the The biggest technology project within the company water quality Prior year: 99.94% determination, but at a lower level than that in the last five years was successfully delivered in seen in 2006 07.
The company is implementing November 2006.
A new, more customer focused, Waste water treatment initiatives to reduce the impact of the continuing billing system replaced a 25 year old system and works WWTW high energy costs.
This area of technological compliance change has been notoriously difficult for other 100% 99.99% WWTW compliance Regulated capital investment for the year was utility companies and we are pleased to report with sanitary consents Prior year: 98.97% 362.7m 2006: 330.6m.
The investment that our project was delivered on time, on continues to be directed at the upgrading of the budget and with no customer impact.
Accidents regions clean and waste water infrastructure.
Riddor reports The capital programme continues to go well, Environmental performance Major and over 17 35 with all regulatory outputs delivered on or ahead All suppliers working with Yorkshire Water are now 3 days accidents Prior year: 31 of schedule, and we are on track to achieve our assessed using the companys own Environmental All 85 180 planned 7.5% out-performance of Ofwats Vendor Evaluation System, which contributed accidents Prior year: 179 expenditure targets.
towards the company achieving ISO14001 accreditation for every aspect of its operations.
For more details on these measures see page 29 Ofwat again confirmed Yorkshire Water as the most efficient water and sewerage company in Good progress was also made towards improving the UK.
The company was awarded four A ratings the condition of Sites of Special Scientific Interest for the efficient way it runs its water and waste SSSIs on Yorkshire Water land.
In addition, 7 Blue water operations.
Flags were awarded to the regions beaches, a best ever performance.
We also achieved 100% waste Customer service water treatment works compliance.
The total Yorkshire Water continued to improve levels number of pollution incidents reduced year on of operational and customer service in Ofwats year.
We will be investing further capital and Overall Performance Assessment OPA, with an resource in 2007 to reduce the stubborn but increase in score for the ninth consecutive year.
small number of more serious pollution incidents.
The report confirmed that the company achieved the highest grades available in all categories of service indicators.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 9 Social impact Employees Recreational opportunities We achieved platinum status in the Sunday The progress and momentum generated over Well-known celebrities have been Times Top 100 Companies that Count 2007 report, recent years is directly attributable to the talent, supporting a high profile campaign to based on Business in the Communitys Corporate commitment and enthusiasm of Yorkshire Waters promote the recreational opportunities Responsibility Index.
The report benchmarks people and particularly their response to change.
available at Yorkshire Waters reservoirs.
companies performance against a range of social, New technology and ways of working have been ethical and environmental issues.
The company, carefully introduced and adopted over recent years Customers can take part in a range of which achieved its highest ever score of 97%, and today, innovation is seen at work throughout activities at the companys sites, including achieved outstanding performance in the areas the business, improving customer service and sailing, fishing, rambling, bird-watching, of community, environmental, workplace and job satisfaction.
Yorkshire Waters commitment to creating a Yorkshire poet Ian McMillan encouraged During the year Yorkshire Water increased skilled and motivated workforce is seen in its customers to put pen to paper and write the percentage of its people being involved in investment in training, with over 250 managers about their favourite reservoir site.
Our volunteers and service partner representatives taking part were involved in a range of activities including in extensive leadership development programmes Countryfile and former Newsround Cares initiatives, right to read and Numbers during the year.
presenter John Craven returned to his Partners, often being supported by colleagues home town of Leeds to launch a new from our service partners.
promotional TV campaign on the banks of Eccup Reservoir.
The Cool Schools campaign has concluded successfully.
At the end of the initiative, more than For further information visit 1,400 coolers have been installed in 750 schools.
com recreation A new schools campaign is being planned for the near future.
Yorkshire Water continued to be recognised for its environmental efforts, collecting two Green Apple environment awards and a Big Tick re-accreditation for its Environmental Management System.
Kelda Group plc 10 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
