Directors report The directors present their report for the year to 31 March 2007.
Results and dividends contract operations business in the US.
However, Disclosure of information to the auditor The profit attributable to shareholders for the year the group intends to sell this in the near future.
As at the date of this report, as far as each director was 151.3m.
After dividends totalling 109.7m, The groups other businesses are the UK nonis aware, there is no relevant audit information of 41.6m was transferred to the groups reserves.
regulated water and waste water services business which the companys auditor is unaware and each and KeyLand Developments Limited, a company director has taken such steps as he or she should The directors recommend a final dividend of 23.0p which primarily develops surplus property assets of have taken as a director in order to make him or per share to be paid on 31 August 2007 to those Yorkshire Water.
herself aware of any relevant audit information, shareholders on the register at the close of and to establish that the companys auditor is business on 15 June 2007.
The record date Acquisitions and disposals aware of that information.
of 15 June 2007 is earlier than usual so that On 1 May 2007 the company announced the sales it falls before the share consolidation associated of Aquarion Company to Macquarie, Utilities Inc, Corporate social responsibility with the B share scheme referred to in the Aquarion Water Company of New York to United There are group policies for the environment, Chairmans statement.
The final dividend will Waterworks Inc and Aquarion Water Company of health and safety and human resources, as well therefore be paid by reference to shares held Sea Cliff to Aqua New York Inc. as a code of ethics.
An interim dividend The sales do not include the small businesses of of 9.25p per share was paid on 5 January 2007.
Aquarion Services and Aquarion Operating Services, The internal control processes described on which comprise the contract operations business page 32 take account of social, environmental The total dividend for the year will amount of Aquarion.
In addition, the board receives to 32.25p per share 2006: 30.35p.
information as part of the normal reporting Directors process to identify and assess such significant Business review The following directors held office throughout risks where they are relevant to the nature of the A review of the development and performance of the year: John Napier, chairman: Kevin Whiteman, companys business.
Further details are included the business of the group, including the financial chief executive: Martin Towers, group finance in the following sections of this report and in the performance during the year, key performance director: Kate Avery, Ed Anderson, Christopher corporate social responsibility section of the report indicators and a description of the principal risks Fisher, David Salkeld and Richard Schmidt, nonon pages 18 to 24. and uncertainties facing the group, forward-looking executive directors.
statements, and treasury policy are set out in the Employees and employment policies business review section of this Annual Report on Biographical details of each director are set out The group strives to create a positive working pages 13 to 17.
The purpose of the Annual Report on page 25 of this Annual Report.
environment for all colleagues and places great is to provide information to the members of the emphasis on open two way communications.
The Annual Report contains certain In accordance with article 105 of the companys It values involvement at all levels, recognising that forward-looking statements with respect to the articles of association, David Salkeld and Richard everyone in the business is a potential source of operations, performance and financial condition Schmidt will retire at the forthcoming annual innovation and change.
Internal consultation and of the group.
By their nature, these statements general meeting and David Salkeld will offer communication processes provide the key to this involve uncertainty since future events and himself for re-election.
The evaluation of the board, involvement, and play a large part in achieving our circumstances can cause results to differ from as described on page 30, concluded that any vision to be a great place to work.
Nothing in this Annual Report director offering him or herself for re-election should be construed as a profit forecast.
continues to demonstrate commitment to The company promotes freedom of association, their particular roles, and perform effectively.
principally through its diversity strategy and Principal activities The re-election is recommended by the board.
through collective bargaining arrangements with The principal activities of the group are the supply Details of the terms of his appointment, and of its recognised trade unions.
In those parts of the of clean water and the treatment and disposal his service agreement appear on page 34. group where union representation is low, wider of waste water.
Yorkshire Water Services Limited franchise is achieved through involving workforce Yorkshire Water, the groups regulated utility Details of the terms of all the directors service representatives on joint working parties or works business in the UK, is responsible for both water agreements and letters of appointment appear in council type arrangements.
Following completion the remuneration report on page 34.
Additional on 30 April 2007 of the sale of the groups information relating to directors who served during regulated water supply businesses in the states the year, including remuneration and interests in of Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts and the companys shares, is contained on pages 35 New Hampshire, the group continues to operate to 37.
The details of directors interests in the the small non-regulated water and waste water companys shares form part of this report.
Kelda Group plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 The company communications strategy is based The group has established a framework of policy Environment and community on a face to face first approach and all messages procedural requirements by which all subsidiaries The environmental policy of the company are delivered through two way channels, including must have in place appropriate health and safety recognises that a sustainable water and waste regular talk back sessions with senior management.
policies and procedures and provide necessary water business is dependent on environmentally The company magazine Connections is distributed information, instruction, training and supervision.
It is, therefore, committed throughout the business and aims to provide In addition, the company provides occupational to integrating environmental best practice and business news through the eyes of the health, safety and welfare advisory services continuous improvement in environmental companys employees.
performance through the efficient, effective and proper conduct of its business.
Regular employee satisfaction surveys are Specific health and safety goals are also set by undertaken across the group, using a variety individual businesses.
These goals differ depending Environmental performance is reported through of survey tools including telephone-based, on the business and include a combination of the companys web based environment and online and paper-based surveys.
reductions of accidents and working time lost as community report which is regularly updated a result of accidents, training delivery, internal and independently verified.
This can be viewed A total reward approach is taken to salary and safety audits and health promotion and at http: csr.
benefits which are designed to be competitive.
The groups sharesave scheme, which has a high The company contributes actively to the level of participation at all levels in the business, Senior management awareness and active communities which it serves.
It encourages and and pay for performance arrangements, provide employee involvement in health and safety is supports colleagues in volunteering, charitable an opportunity for all employees to share in the fundamental to company success.
A new Think giving and community involvement.
One in five success of the business.
Safety First programme was launched in Yorkshire employees is active in a wide range of company Water during 2006.
This programme included supported community activities.
These include The groups equality and diversity, open to all, projects for sharing personal accident experiences, a Speakers Panel and support to local education policy covers gender, marital status, parental status, promoting key safety messages, managers leading ranging from right to read in junior schools sexual orientation, race, colour, ethnic or national by example, rewarding and recognising colleagues through to coaching at senior schools, and origin, disability, age, religion or belief and trade and implementing a behavioural safety coaching mentoring university students from diverse union membership.
Elements of this programme are being ethnic backgrounds.
received the Yorkshire and Humberside Age Positive shared with other group companies to improve Employer Award in recognition of its approach to safety awareness and ensure all colleagues Charitable and political contributions age diversity, and its diverse recruitment project Think Safety First.
Charitable contributions totalling 0.6m Clearly the Best People was featured as a case study 2006: 0.5m were made during the year.
The groups Consultation with all employees via area and commitment to positive action towards applicants functional health and safety forum groups and No political donations were made.
with disabilities has been recognised with the safety committees is actively encouraged.
double tick accreditation from the UK Where possible, the intent is for local health and Research and development Employment Service.
safety issues to be discussed and resolved with During the year 4.6m 2006: 4.0m was line management.
In Yorkshire Water there are committed to research and development including The group provides a wide range of development health and safety champions who work alongside 3.7m 2006: 3.1m on fixed assets.
Research and opportunities, including in-house and accredited the Trade Union safety representatives and line development activities were primarily directed programmes to help employees develop the management.
This ensures that health and safety towards improving the performance and efficiency necessary skills, knowledge, values and experience issues are regularly discussed within each team of Yorkshire Waters assets and operations.
to realise their performance potential.
in the Water and Environmental business units.
Health and safety By the nature of accidents, there can be no The company is committed to achieving high guarantee that they will never occur.
However, health and safety standards throughout its the measures taken by the company are intended businesses.
The management of health and safety to place emphasis on prevention and continuing issues operates in the context of the health and vigilance.
Yorkshire Water has again been awarded safety policy adopted by the board and the system a National Safety Award from the British Safety of internal control.
Council and a Gold Award for Occupational Safety from the Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents for its health and safety performance during 2006 07.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 27 Directors report Purchase of own shares Major shareholdings At the forthcoming annual general meeting, the As at 13 June 2007 the company had been company will be seeking to renew the authority notified of the following interests amounting to to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares which 3% or more of the companys issued ordinary was conditionally renewed at the extraordinary share capital: general meeting held on 1 June 2007.
Authority was previously granted at the annual general meeting in Threadneedle Asset Management 7.49% 2006 in respect of 10% of the companys issued Pictet Asset Management 7.29% ordinary share capital.
The authority expires at the Barclays Plc 4.05% close of the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Zurich Financial Services 3.14% During 2006 07 the company purchased for Legal & General Group Plc 3.55% cancellation 7,845,000 ordinary shares at a cost of 59.3m, amounting to approximately 2.1% of its Subsequent events ordinary shares.
At the end of the period under The sale of Aquarion and the companys return review, the authority granted at the annual general of cash to shareholders through a B share scheme meeting in 2006 remained valid in respect of as approved by shareholders on 1 June 2007 29,721,039 ordinary shares.
are referred to in the Chairmans statement.
Auditor Annual general meeting A resolution to appoint  The notice convening the companys 2007 annual LLP as the companys auditor and to authorise general meeting to be held at the Leeds Marriott the directors to determine their remuneration Hotel on 1 August 2007 at 11.00am, is set out in a will be proposed at the forthcoming annual separate document issued to shareholders.
The provision of audit services to the company was offered for tender in 2007.
By order of the board The audit committee conducted the tender Stuart McFarlane process and recommended to the board that Group Company Secretary a change of auditor from Ernst & Young LLP to  was appropriate.
14 June 2007 The proposal is supported by the board.
Details of the group policy designed to safeguard the Registered office: independence and objectivity of the external Western House auditor are included in the corporate governance Halifax Road section of this report on page 31.
Bradford BD6 2SZ Payment terms to suppliers Registered in England The companys normal terms are to make No.
2366627 payment in accordance with suppliers terms of trade or within 30 days from the receipt of services or invoices subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier.
Kelda Group plc is a holding company and, at 31 March 2007, had no trade creditors outstanding.
The payment terms of individual operating subsidiaries are disclosed in their accounts.
Kelda Group plc 28 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
