Our strategy Our focus remains on improving the efficiency and performance of our core businesses, using our experience in water and waste water services to develop sustainable, non-regulated income streams which add shareholder value.
Our shareholders Society We are committed to creating enduring Our aim is to make a difference to society, opening shareholder value by a focus on efficiency up land for public enjoyment and promoting the in everything we do.
Our goal is to deliver value of water and health in schools.
Around 38% consistently good financial results by outof our colleagues are involved in community performing regulatory and other financial volunteering and external leadership roles and targets and delivering efficiencies across the in influencing matters relating to water.
We will achieve this by sharing best practice, employing world-class technology Service partners and growing our non-regulated activities.
Kelda has created a new level of partnership, understanding and transparency with its key service Our customers providers.
Our aim is to achieve win-win-win, which Our aim is to provide a quality of service which means better customer service, lower costs and is significantly better than any other utility and at healthy profits for all.
To make this happen, we are a price which represents good value for money.
looking to set clear expectations and encourage To achieve this we will design our service from the new ideas and innovation.
outside-in, considering the customers point of view and eliminating service failures.
This will lead to improved financial and operational performance and an enjoyable customer experience.
Our Our people customers Kelda employs over 3,800 people.
Our aim is to Service create a great place to work, with zero accidents, partners a good work-life balance and the opportunity to make a real difference.
We want to attract and retain the best people, with performance and Our contribution recognised and rewarded and shareholders success celebrated as part of our culture.
Environmental leadership Environmental Kelda deals with environmental issues as diverse leadership as catchment management, sustainable water management, and river water and bathing water Our standards.
Our performance affects all customers people and everyone who lives in the regions we serve.
Our aim is to achieve 100% compliance with legal Society and regulatory obligations and to go beyond compliance where the benefits exceed the cost.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 3
