Board of directors John Napier 64 MA Econ Kevin Whiteman 50 BSc, CEng, MIME Martin Towers 54 FCA BA Econ Chairman B, D Chief Executive D Group Finance Director Joined the board in June 1999.
Appointed Appointed to the board in September 2000 and Appointed to the board in March 2003.
Executive Chairman in April 2000, moving to appointed Chief executive in September 2002.
Formerly Finance Director of Boots The Chairman in September 2002.
Chairman of Joined Yorkshire Water Services Limited in 1997 Chemists, McCarthy & Stone plc, The Spring Yorkshire Water Services Limited and Chairman as Business Director, Waste Water.
Formerly Chief Ram Corporation plc, Allied Textiles Group plc of Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Group plc.
He Executive and Accounting Officer of the National and Yorkshire Group plc, and a former nonhas formerly held senior posts as Chairman of Rivers Authority and Regional Director of the executive director of Homestyle Group plc.
Booker plc, Group Managing Director of Hays plc Environment Agency.
Previously held senior and was formerly a non-executive director of positions with British Coal.
He is a non-executive Waste Recycling Group plc.
He is also Chairman director of UK Coal plc and a trustee of WaterAid.
of Yorkshire and Humber Rural Affairs Forum and a member of the Yorkshire Forward board.
Ed Anderson 56 BSc Econ, CPFA Kate Avery 47 ACIB, FCIM, MBA, FSI Christopher Fisher 53 BA MPP non-executive director A, B non-executive director A, B, C non-executive director A, B, C Appointed to the board in June 2005.
Managing Appointed to the board in June 2005.
Group Joined the board in June 2003 and became a Director of Leeds Bradford International Airport.
Executive Director Wealth Management non-executive director of Yorkshire Water in Currently chairman of Yorkshire Building Society, at Legal and General.
He is a partner in Penfida, a new Leeds Chamber of Commerce and a nonthe ABI Distribution and Regulation Committee firm which provides financial advice to pension executive director of St Gemmas Hospice.
and held several positions with Barclays Plc.
fund trustees, and is also a non-executive Formerly held several positions with Leeds City director of Southern Cross Healthcare Group PLC, Council, West Yorkshire Metropolitan Council a trustee of the Imperial War Museum and a and Bradford Council.
member of the Council of Reading University.
Formerly a managing director of Lazard and a vice chairman, corporate finance, at KPMG.
David Salkeld 51 BSc Econ, Dip PM, FIGD Richard Schmidt 63 BSc, MSc, PhD, MBA Denotes Senior non-executive director B, C non-executive director A Member of the audit committee Joined the board in October 2000.
Formerly Appointed to the board in September 2002.
B Member of the nomination committee Group Chief Executive of the Grampian Country Joined Aquarion Company in 1995.
Formerly C Member of the remuneration committee Food Group and Chief Executive of Arla Foods plc President and Chief Executive Officer of Aquarion D Member of the corporate social and held senior posts in Grand Metropolitan plc until September 2003, President and Chief responsibility committee and Northern Dairies.
Operating Officer of Mechanical Technology Inc, President and Chief Executive Officer of Gundle Environmental Systems and held senior positions in Ecodyn Corporation.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 25
