Business review Looking forward Keldas strategy is to focus on improving the efficiency and performance of our core businesses in the UK to provide benefits for all.
Yorkshire Water Setting the pace for value UK Service Operations Keeping the right balance for all of Yorkshire In 2007 08 the aim remains to out-perform Waters stakeholders is fundamental to achieving key financial targets and to be Ofwats frontier Kelda Water Services KWS the companys vision of being clearly the best company for efficiency.
By being operationally The KWS vision is to be the best in UK water water company in the UK.
and financially efficient, shareholders and contract operations and the company is totally customers will benefit.
focused on providing the best in water and waste The companys plans are therefore aligned water solutions on behalf of its clients in England, with making progress in six key areas service, In this, the third year of the investment period Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland.
compliance, value, people, partners and society.
2005 2010, Yorkshire Water will be delivering its largest annual capital programme for 2007 08 will be an important year for delivering A great customer service the period.
new treatment works and pipeline infrastructure A key aspiration is to develop innovative thinking for Water Services Northern Ireland.
The stateand employ new technologies to deliver an A great place to work of-the-art treatment works, expected to be improved level of operational and customer Yorkshire Water plans further significant completed by October 2008, will provide service.
By reducing the number of customer investment in leadership and people development significant water quality benefits to people interruptions and the invasive nature of repair over the next year with over 250 managers, in Northern Ireland.
and maintenance work, the company will including service partners, joining its Leading deliver better service for lower cost.
In its third year of operation in Wales, KWS will be working closely with Welsh Water Dwr Cymru Environmental leadership The bigger team in preparation for the new investment period.
KWS During 2007 08, Yorkshire Water will continue to Successful service partners share Yorkshire Waters will also be expanding its PFI contract in Scotland.
invest in improving waste water treatment works philosophy of improved service and lower costs.
compliance, with a particular focus on sewage Next year, some service partners will be integrated The company is also actively pursuing pumping stations.
The companys aim is to onto the companys IT systems to deliver much opportunities for further growth in the UK market achieve zero serious pollution incidents.
for outsourced clean and waste water services.
The company is also investing over 20m in Making a difference in Yorkshire Loop renewable energy.
2007 08 will be a key year for the next price review In 2007 08 Loop will make a further significant and the company will be setting out its position on investment in people to achieve industry leading a number of key issues for stakeholder consultation levels of customer service in the contact centre.
as part of a Strategic Direction Statement to be published in late 2007.
KeyLand In 2007 08 KeyLand will continue its successful The company will also be making further partnership approach in order to maximise investment in improving customer enjoyment shareholder value from surplus Yorkshire of its landholdings and launching a major new Water assets.
Kelda Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2007 5
