Our business Kelda is well placed to continue to build on the successful progress of previous years.
4 3 2 1 Yorkshire Water is Keldas principal UK subsidiary, Yorkshire Water has been voted Utility Company 1.
Yorkshire Water providing water and waste water services to more of the Year at the Utility Industry Achievement than 4.7m people and 140,000 businesses.
Awards for the past three consecutive years.
Turnover: 741.1m up 6.8% Operating profit: 332.7m Every day the company supplies more than Business strategy Employees: 2,198 1.3bn litres of water to homes and businesses To be clearly the best water company in the UK.
Through the efficient operation of Focus on striking the right balance between its extensive waste water network and treatment service, compliance, value, people, partners facilities, it also ensures that the regions domestic and society.
and industrial waste is returned safely to the environment.
UK Service Operations Kelda Water Services contract is to provide customer service support Kelda Water Services Limited KWS manages to Yorkshire Water.
the groups non-regulated water and waste water Turnover: 130.9m up 5.9% contract operations in the UK.
It is now the second Safe-Move Operating profit: 10.7m biggest player in the UK contract operations Safe-Move is a non-regulated business which Employees: 1,055 market, with operations in England, Scotland, provides search information to solicitors and Wales and Northern Ireland.
conveyancers including information covering drainage and water services.
The results of the UK service operations include the results of associates and joint ventures.
Business strategy To be the best in UK water contract operations.
Loop Customer Management Ltd Maximise value from existing operations.
Loop specialises in cost effective customer Be alert to potential growth opportunities.
KeyLand Developments KeyLand Developments Limited KeyLand is 4.
Aquarion responsible for managing, developing and disposing of the groups surplus property assets, Turnover: 6.9m Aquarion has been disclosed as a either on its own or in partnership with outside Operating profit: 4.3m discontinued operation in the results organisations.
Employees: 6 for the year ended 31 March 2007 The results of KeyLand include the results of On 1 May 2007 we announced the completion associates and joint ventures.
of the sale of our US business Aquarion to a consortium led by Macquarie Bank.
Business strategy To maximise the value of the groups surplus property portfolio.
Kelda Group plc 2 Annual Report and Accounts 2007
