Directors Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2007 The Directors present their report for the year to 31 March 2007.
Financial results for the year Profit on ordinary activities was 147.2m 2006 151.9m.
Share capital There has been no change during the year to the companys issued share capital of 775 million in shares of 1 each fully paid, all of which is held by Kelda Group plc.
Business review A review of the development and performance of the business of the company, including strategy, the financial performance during the year, key performance indicators, forward-looking statements and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the company are set out in the business review on pages 1 to 9.
The purpose of this annual report is to provide information to members of the company and contains certain forward-looking statements with respect to the operations, performance and financial condition of the group.
By their nature, these statements involve uncertainty since future events and circumstances can cause results to differ from those anticipated.
Nothing in this report should be construed as a profit forecast.
Principal activities The directors report should be read in conjunction with the business review.
The principal activities of the company are the supply of clean water and the treatment and disposal of waste water in Yorkshire, for which the company is the water and sewerage undertaker.
The majority of the companys operations are regulated by Ofwat.
Directors The directors who served during the year, including any changes, are shown below.
John Napier Chairman Kevin Whiteman Managing Director Richard Ackroyd Allison Bainbridge Richard Flint Graham Dixon Alan Harrison Michael Smith Non executive Directors Elizabeth Kerry Christopher Fisher Roger Hyde 10 Directors Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2007 All the directors held office at 1 April 2006 and throughout the year.
Additional information relating to directors who served during the year, including interests in shares and share options, is disclosed in Notes 4 and 5 of the accounts.
The company has directors and officers insurance in place.
Dividends The total dividend for the year payable to the parent company, Kelda Group plc, of 826.9m comprises the following: m Interim dividend 31.9 Special interim dividend 717.0 Prior year final dividend 78.0 Total dividend for the year 826.9 A final regulated dividend of 82.0m and non-regulated dividend of 0.9m for the year have been proposed and authorised after the year end and accordingly have not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
The special interim dividends have been paid to Kelda associated with their proposed return of capital to shareholders.
The companys dividend policy is to:- - deliver real growth in dividends recognising the management of economic risks, the continuing need for investment of profits in the business and to pay additional dividends which reflect efficiency improvement, and particularly improvements beyond those assumed in the determination of price limits: - to pay dividends in respect of the non-appointed business reflecting the profitability of those activities: and - where it is foreseeable that the company will have sufficient profits available for distribution to continue to pay annual dividends consistent with this policy, the company can also pay special dividends as part of any capital reorganisation which the board concludes to be in the best interests of the company and complies with its obligations under its licence.
The directors believe that the dividends payable for the year are in accordance with these principles.
Reserves An amount of 147.2m has been transferred from reserves, bringing the balance held in reserve to 174.5m after dividends in the year of 826.9m.
Research and development The company undertakes a major programme of research in pursuit of improvements in service and operating efficiency.
In 2006 07, 4.6m was committed to research and development including 3.7m on fixed assets.
11 Directors Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2007 Fixed assets The directors are aware that the value of certain land and buildings in the balance sheet may not be representative of their market value.
However, a substantial proportion of land and buildings comprises specialised operational properties and structures for which there is no ready market and it is not, therefore, practicable to provide a full valuation.
Movements in fixed assets are shown in Note 11 to the accounts and include transfers to KeyLand Developments Limited, which have all been made on the basis of independent external valuations obtained specifically for the purpose and approved by the Water Services Regulation Authority formerly the Office of Water Services.
With effect from 1 April 1996, only those transfers with a value of over 500,000 have been subject to approval by the Water Services Regulation Authority.
Capital and infrastructure renewals expenditure Total expenditure on regulated activities during the year amounted to 362.7m 2006: 330.6m.
Payment of suppliers The companys policy on the payment of suppliers is to ensure that all payments are made in accordance with the terms and conditions agreed with suppliers.
For construction contracts, payment terms are covered by the appropriate Conditions of Contract, such as NEC Form of Contract, ICE 6th Edition and Model Form of Conditions of Contract for Process Plants IChemEng.
The payment day ratio the figure, expressed in days, which bears the same proportion to the number of days in the year as the amount owed to trade creditors at the year end bears to the amounts invoiced by suppliers during the year is 39 days.
Instrument of Appointment Condition F of the companys Instrument of Appointment as a water and sewerage undertaker requires the company to publish regulatory accounting information in a prescribed format in addition to that required for the statutory accounts.
This additional information is included on pages 43 to 68.
Further copies of these statements can be obtained, free of charge, by writing to Kelda Group plc, Company Secretary's Department, Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford, BD6 2SZ.
Employees and employment policies The company strives to create a positive working environment for all colleagues and places great emphasis on open two way communications.
It values involvement at all levels, recognising that everyone in the business is a potential source of innovation and change.
Internal consultation and communication processes provide the key to this involvement and play a major part in achieving our vision to be a great place to work.
The company promotes freedom of association, principally through its diversity strategy and through collective bargaining arrangements with its recognised trade unions.
In those parts of the company where union representation is low, wider franchise is achieved through involving workforce representatives on joint working parties or works council type arrangements.
12 Directors Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2007 The company communications strategy is based on a face to face first approach and all messages are delivered through 2 way channels, including regular Talk Back sessions with senior management.
The company magazine Connections is distributed throughout the business and aims to provide business news through the eyes of the companys employees.
Regular employee satisfaction surveys are undertaken throughout the group, using a variety of survey tools including telephone based, online and paper based surveys.
A total reward approach is taken to salary and benefits which are designed to be competitive.
The groups sharesave scheme, which has a high level of participation at all levels in the business, and pay for performance arrangements, provides an opportunity for all employees to share in the success of the business.
The companys equality and diversity, open to all, policy covers gender, marital status, parental status, sexual orientation, race, colour, ethnic or national origin, disability, age, religion or belief and trade union membership.
In 2006 Yorkshire Water received the Yorkshire and Humberside Age Positive Employer Award in recognition of its approach to age diversity and its diverse recruitment project, Clearly the Best People, was featured as a case study in Equal Opportunities Review.
The companys commitment to positive action towards applicants with disabilities has been recognised with the double tick accreditation from the UK Employment Service.
The company provides a wide range of development opportunities, including in-house and accredited programmes to help employees develop the necessary skills, knowledge, values and experience to realise their performance potential Environment and community The environmental policy of the company recognises that a sustainable water and waste water business is dependent on environmentally sustainable operations.
It is therefore committed to integrating environmental best practice and continuous improvement in environmental performance through the efficient, effective and proper conduct of its business.
Environmental performance is reported through the companys web based environment and community report which is regularly updated and independently verified.
com kel csr ourenv oehighlights.
The company contributes actively to the communities which it serves.
It encourages and supports colleagues in volunteering, charitable giving and community involvement.
One in five employees is active in a wide range of supported community activities.
These include a Speakers Panel and support to local education ranging from Right to Read in junior schools through to coaching at senior schools and mentoring university students from diverse ethnic backgrounds.
Going concern After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation, given the nature of the regulated water services business, that the company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
13 Directors Report for the Year Ended 31 March 2007 Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the companys auditor is unaware and each director has taken steps as he or she should have taken as a director in order to make him or herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the companys auditor is aware of that information.
Subsequent events Since 31 March 2007 the companys subsidiary undertaking, Yorkshire Water Services Finance plc, has issued 600m of bonds guaranteed by the company.
Auditor A resolution to appoint  LLP as the company's auditor and to authorise the directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The provision of audit services to the company was offered for tender in 2007.
The audit committee conducted the tender process and recommended to the board that a change of auditor from Ernst & Young LLP to  was appropriate.
The proposal is supported by the board.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD STUART McFARLANE, COMPANY SECRETARY, 27 JUNE 2007 REGISTERED OFFICE: Western House, Halifax Road, Bradford BD6 2SZ REGISTERED IN ENGLAND NO 2366682 14 STATUTORY ACCOUNTS 15
