L Lo oc ca all F Fo oc cu us s L Lo oc ca all f fo oc cu us s e ex xc ce elllle en nt t s se er rv viic ce e Our regional structure means that we can respond quickly to our customers needs and to changes in our marketplace.
M Mo oc ck kiin ng gb biir rd d C Ca an ny yo on n, R Riiv five er rs siid fide e, C Ca alliif fo or rn niia a, U US S Hayward Baker is installing soil mix columns to strengthen the soft, liquefiable ground on one side of the Mockingbird Canyon.
This will provide support for the abutments to a new bridge.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w continued Justin Atkinson 3 3 O Op pe er ra at tiio on ns s U US S O Ou ur r g gr ro ow wt th h c co om mp pa ar re ed d w wiit th h t th he e g gr ro ow wt th h S St ta af ff f t tu ur rn no ov five er r R Re es su ullt ts s s su um mm ma ar ry y a an nd d K KP PIIs s:: o of f o ou ur r m ma ar rk ke et ts s R Re ev five en nu ue e 2007 473.2m 2007 8% 2% 2007 11% 2006 476.9m 2006 20% 5% 2006 12% Definition and method of calculation Definition and method of calculation Year-on-year sales growth in local currency compared The number of managerial, professional and technical O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g p pr ro of fiit t with growth in the total US construction market staff leaving the division in the period, expressed as a 1 2007 61.6m in brackets.
percentage of employees in this category.
2006 64.1m 1 R Re et tu ur rn n o on n n ne et t o op pe er ra at tiin ng g a as ss se et ts s Data published by the US Census Bureau of the Department of Commerce on 1 February 2008 O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g m ma ar rg giin n 2007 40% 2 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, 2006 47% 2007 13.0% deferred consideration and net defined benefit pension 2006 13.4% liabilities Definition and method of calculation 3 The 2007 staff turnover rate comprises a rate of 7% Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net 2 for the US foundation contracting businesses and a rate operating assets including goodwill acquired through of 26% for Suncoast acquisitions.
U Un niit te ed d S St ta at te es s Our US operations as a whole had During the year, new offices were Dry soil mixing and the vibro piers system, another good year with total US established in Houston, Kansas City, which were introduced to the market in revenue and operating profit ahead Minneapolis and San Diego, bringing the 2005 and 2006 respectively, both made of last year by 8% and 4% respectively total network up to 22 offices, from which good contributions in 2007, as interest in on a constant currency basis, despite we worked in every state in the US.
these products continues to grow.
Dry soil a significant reduction in both revenue mixing proved to be an effective solution for Product and process development and profit at Suncoast.
Translated into providing load support at a biofuel storage continued to have a strong focus, as sterling, overall revenue was 1% down, tank site in Galena Park, Texas.
Having illustrated by the introduction to the US whilst operating profit was down by previously been used for oil storage, the site of a special trench remixing tool TRD, 4%, reflecting the significant weakening was contaminated which would usually incorporating a large, chainsaw-like mixing of the US dollar.
mean expensive pre-drilling and spoil blade.
Hayward Baker is now using TRD removal before its reuse.
As dry soil mixing on a small test section of the dyke at Lake Hayward Baker uses the existing soil as part of the Okeechobee in Florida.
As one of three 2007 was another extremely busy year structural element and thereby eliminates contractors selected to compete for for Hayward Baker, the largest of our US the need to remove contaminated spoil, additional sections of the dyke as they are foundation businesses.
By strengthening the client, with whom Hayward Baker had released, and with the advantage of TRD, the business infrastructure and refining its worked on other projects, was offered this we are well-positioned to participate further risk management and operating as a cost-effective alternative solution.
in this potential long-term project.
procedures, management delivered further improvement in contract performance, at a Case, McKinney, Anderson and HJ time of continued business expansion.
In Our US piling businesses also had a very addition, they capitalised on the opportunities good year, with two familiar themes to their offered by a thriving marketplace to report success: a pooling of their expertise and record revenue and margins.
resources on contracts which call for timecritical delivery or the use of several different techniques: and investment in efficient, powerful and durable equipment to increase their capacity and capability for bigger and technically more demanding jobs.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w Keller Group plc 1 11 1
