D fide ee ep p E Ex xp pe er riie en nc ce e D fide ee ep p e ex xp pe er riie en nc ce e h hu ug ge e k kn no ow wlle ed dg ge e b ba as se e Our culture helps us to attract and retain the best people, allowing us to accumulate a wealth of knowledge and experience.
C Ch hiic ca ag go o S Sp piir re e, C Ch hiic ca ag go o, IIlllliin no oiis s, U US S Case and Hayward Baker are building the foundations for the 610-metre Chicago Spire, which is expected to be the tallest building in the US.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w continued Justin Atkinson T Th he e a ab biilliit ty y o of f o ou ur r U US S f fo ou un nd da at tiio on n c co om mp pa an niie es s t to o p po oo oll t th he eiir r e ex xp pe er rt tiis se e a an nd d r re es so ou ur rc ce es s h he ellp ps s t to o m ma ak ke e u us s t th he e c co on nt tr ra ac ct to or r o of f c ch ho oiic ce e o on n lla ar rg ge e- -s sc ca alle e d fide ev five ello op pm me en nt t p pr ro ojje ec ct ts s, r re eq qu uiir riin ng g c co om mp plle ex x f fo ou un nd da at tiio on n s so ollu ut tiio on ns s Bob Rubright, Managing Director, US U Un niit te ed d S St ta at te es s continued One of the years most notable piling Once again, McKinney worked with Case Suncoast contracts in the US was for the foundations on several large projects during the year Suncoasts performance was impacted by of The Chicago Spire a 150-storey, a sign of the valuable relationship which the continuing decline in the US residential 610-metre high residential tower which is has developed between these businesses.
This was reflected in reduced expected to be the tallest building in the McKinney is also currently working in joint revenue from both its slab-on-grade and US.
Case is installing 34 steel-reinforced venture with Anderson at the site of a new high rise markets, although the reduction in concrete caissons, 36 metres in length, power plant for Formosa Plastics in Port slab-on-grade revenue, most of which drilled into bedrock, whilst Hayward Baker Comfort, Texas, where their combined comes from single family homes, was less 3 is constructing a 32-metre diameter sheetresources have secured the first two than the market decline, indicating a further piled wall to create a dry environment and phases of the foundations work, with gain in market share.
to serve as the foundation for the core a potential for further awards as the Inevitably, this situation has led to pricing of the building.
The contract, which is project develops.
However, Suncoasts management proceeding to plan and to budget, will In the last quarter of the year we acquired has taken a very proactive approach to complete in the first half of 2008. the business and assets of HJ, the market cost control, with production costs tightly leader in Florida in Continuous Flight Auger Anderson, the West Coast business which controlled and headcount reduced by CFA piling, for an initial cash consideration we acquired in 2006, had an excellent first around 40% from its peak level in 2006. of US$47.3m 23.6m.
The acquisition full year under Kellers ownership and is These actions, together with Suncoasts gives Keller much better access to the now well integrated into the Group, as is leading market position, mean that margin piling market in Florida, as well as enabling illustrated by the knowledge-sharing and erosion has been partly contained and the the Group to accelerate the introduction co-operation on projects with our other business is better placed to weather a of CFA piling in its other US businesses.
For example, Case and continued period of reduced demand.
A contract in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, to Anderson worked together on the install 1,700 CFA piles for the new Majestic foundation system for the replacement 3 As indicated by single family home permits: data Star Casino, is currently being undertaken of the I-35 road bridge in Minneapolis, published by US Census Bureau of the Department jointly by HJ and Case, marking the first Minnesota, following the structural failure of Commerce teaming up of HJs CFA expertise with the of the original bridge in August 2007.
This resources of another Keller business.
high profile job needed to be completed within a very short timescale, which the two businesses were able to achieve by pooling their resources.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w Keller Group plc 1 13 3
