Directors Report The Directors present their report, together with the audited Share capital and substantial shareholdings accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007.
The structure of the Companys share capital, including the rights and obligations attaching to shares, is given in note 24 to the Business review and principal activities consolidated financial statements.
The Groups principal activity is specialist ground engineering.
Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year appear A review of the Groups progress and future prospects may be in note 24 to the consolidated financial statements.
A summary of the Groups markets and competitive environment is given on page 7.
At 28 February 2008, the Company had been notied in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Principal risks and uncertainties and key performance Financial Services Authority of the following interests in its issued indicators ordinary share capital: The key business risks and uncertainties affecting the Group Percentage relate to market cycles, acquisitions, technical risk and people.
Number of issued These are explained more fully in the Operating Review, where of shares share the key performance indicators, measuring success in managing held capital these risks, are also shown.
J P Morgan Chase & Co. 6,606,758 10.0% Barclays Global Investors 3,983,452 6.0% Results and dividends GTCEISU Construccin, S. A.
3,691,985 5.6% The results for the year, showing a profit before taxation of Legal & General Investment 103.2m 2006: 83.7m, are set out on page 48.
Management 3,406,5415.1% The Directors recommend a final dividend of 12.0p per share to Research and development be paid on 30 May 2008, to members on the register at the close The Group continues to have in-house design, development and of business on 2 May 2008.
An interim dividend of 6.0p per share manufacturing facilities, where staff work closely with site was paid on 1 November 2007.
The total dividend for the year engineers to develop new and more effective methods of solving of 18.0p 2006: 15.6p will amount to 11.9m 2006: 10.3m.
Much of the specialised equipment we use is designed and built by us and, where applicable, the Directors development costs are included in the cost of the equipment.
The rules governing the election and re-election of directors are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 43.
Corporate governance The powers of directors of the Company are as set out in the This is the subject of a separate report on pages 42 to 45 which Companys articles of association.
details the Companys compliance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance as appended to the Listing Rules of the The names and biographical details of the Directors who hold UK Listing Authority.
The Remuneration Report is set out on ofce at the date of this report are given on pages 30 and 31. pages 35 to 41.
All served throughout the year, with the exception of Mr Franklin who was appointed on 19 July 2007.
In addition, Mr Keith Management of financial risks Payne, served on the Board throughout the year, retiring on The Groups financial risk management objectives and policies 31 January 2008.
The interests of the Directors in the share are discussed in the Financial Review on page 24. capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on page 40.
Going concern The accounts have been prepared on the going concern basis The Companys articles of association indemnify the Directors as the Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider out of the assets of the Company in the event that they that the Group has adequate resources to continue in suffer any loss or liability in the execution of their duties as operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Directors, subject to the provisions of the Companies Act 1985 as amended.
Payments to suppliers The Groups policy, in relation to all of its suppliers, is to settle Retirement and re-election terms of payment when agreeing the terms of the transaction Mr Atkinson, Mr Brown and Mr Scholes will retire by rotation and to abide by those terms, providing that it is satisfied that the at the Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves for supplier has provided the goods or services in accordance with re-election.
In addition, Dr West, who has served on the Board as the agreed terms and conditions.
The Group does not follow any a Non-executive Director for ten years, and Mr Franklin, who has code or statement on payment practice.
been appointed since the last Annual General Meeting, will retire and offer themselves for re-election and election respectively.
At 31 December 2007 the Group had 58 days 2006: 59 days purchases outstanding.
Directors Report Keller Group plc 33 Directors Report continued Political and charitable contributions Auditors No contributions were made to any political party during the year.
In accordance with Section 384 of the Companies Act 1985, a Donations made by the Group in the UK for charitable purposes resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors were 9,000 2006: 7,000 with charitable donations of 88,000 to the Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual made by the Group as a whole.
Social responsibility On behalf of the Board The Groups approach to social responsibility is discussed in the Social Responsibility Report on pages 25 to 29.
Jackie Holman Secretary Annual General Meeting 28 February 2008 The full wording of the resolutions to be tabled at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting on page 79.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
34 Keller Group plc Directors Report
