G Gllo ob ba all S Sc ca alle e G Gllo ob ba all s sc ca alle e c cr re ea at te es s o op pp po or rt tu un niit ty y We have the financial strength, the know-how and the global reach to tackle some of the largest and most demanding projects around the world.
P Pa allm m D fide eiir ra a, D Du ub ba aii, U UA AE E Keller is using sand compaction techniques at the third of the palmshaped, man-made islands being built off the coast of Dubai.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w continued Justin Atkinson T Th hiis s g gr ro ow wt th h r re ef flle ec ct ts s t th he e m me ea as su ur re es s w we e h ha av five e t ta ak ke en n t to o iim mp pr ro ov five e t th he e g ge eo og gr ra ap ph hiic c b ba alla an nc ce e o of f t th he e G Gr ro ou up p:: b by y t ta ar rg ge et tiin ng g, a an nd d iin nv five es st tiin ng g iin n E Ea as st te er rn n E Eu ur ro op pe e a an nd d t th he e M Miid dd dlle e E Ea as st t Wolfgang Sondermann, Managing Director, Continental Europe, Middle East & Asia C Co on nt tiin ne en nt ta all E Eu ur ro op pe e, M Miid dd dlle e E Ea as st t & & A As siia a continued Middle East Asia S Su us st ta aiin niin ng g o ou ur r g gr ro ow wt th h The growth of our business in the Middle In Asia, we have recently added deep soil Our success in taking full advantage of the East, where revenue has more than trebled mixing technology to our offering of ground widespread strong demand for our products over since 2004, was an important feature of improvement projects and one of the recent years has been due to our ongoing investment the Groups overall performance in 2007. contracts which we secured as a result was in the Group.
We have long since recognised the need to sustain and grow our business by investing time Here, we worked on a number of major at Sentosa Island, Singapore, where we are and money in people, equipment and acquisitions.
contracts, several of which have been for working on the site of a resort which is This means recruiting people with great potential, the provision of piling services, justifying being created partly on reclaimed land.
providing training, motivation and a safe work our increased strategic focus in this area.
Because of a shortage of sand in the environment for our employees and reinforcing our strong relationships with industry partners.
It means These include contracts at the new Saudi region, the project is using excavated spoil ongoing modernisation of our equipment fleets and Kayan petrochemical complex in Saudi and we have developed a ground treatment updating our methods of work.
It also means Arabia and the Al Salaam Resort in Bahrain.
solution which treats this fill in situ, using identifying businesses which are good strategic fits, At Palm Deira, the third of the palm-shaped, deep mixing methods.
acquiring them at sensible prices and ensuring that man-made islands being built off the coast we deliver value from their integration into the Group.
In both the Middle East and Asia, we have We will continue to invest in all these aspects of of Dubai, our contract performance was considerable experience in providing our business which we see as being crucial to helped by the deployment of our latest foundation solutions for complex industrial our continued success.
generation twin-paddled S700 vibrators, installations, such as petrochemical and which we build for our exclusive use and power plants.
Many more such which are an important factor in achieving developments are in prospect over the next high levels of productivity.
few years and, as in the past, we expect our high quality execution and strong health and safety record to give us a significant advantage in competing for such work.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w Keller Group plc 1 17 7
