B Br ro oa ad d M Ma ar rk ke et ts s B Br ro oa ad d m ma ar rk ke et ts s a an nd d c cu us st to om me er r b ba as se e r re ed du uc ce ed d r riis sk k Our high proportion of small to medium-sized contracts and the split of market sectors we serve make for a well-balanced business.
Q Qu ue ee en ns sh hiit th he e W Wh ha ar rf f, L Lo on nd do on n, U UK K Systems Geotechnique is installing mini piles to stabilise the Thames River wall, using low headroom equipment to manoeuvre on this restricted access site.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w continued Justin Atkinson O Op pe er ra at tiio on ns s U Un niit te ed d K Kiin ng gd do om m O Ou ur r g gr ro ow wt th h c co om mp pa ar re ed d w wiit th h t th he e g gr ro ow wt th h S St ta af ff f t tu ur rn no ov five er r R Re es su ullt ts s s su um mm ma ar ry y a an nd d K KP PIIs s o of f o ou ur r m ma ar rk ke et ts s c co on nt tiin nu uiin ng g o op pe er ra at tiio on ns s :: R Re ev five en nu ue e 2007 8% 2007 78.0m 2007 28% 7% 2006 7% 2006 60.7m 2006 40% 4% Definition and method of calculation Definition and method of calculation The number of managerial, professional and technical Year-on-year sales growth compared with absolute O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g p pr ro of fiit t staff leaving the division in the period, expressed as a growth defined as real growth plus estimated price percentage of employees in this category.
1 2007 3.8m inflation in the total UK construction market in brackets.
2006 3.4m 1 Estimates of real annual growth plus estimated change R Re et tu ur rn n o on n n ne et t o op pe er ra at tiin ng g a as ss se et ts s in construction prices published by Euroconstruct in O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g m ma ar rg giin n November 2007 2007 16% 2 Net operating assets excludes net debt, tax balances, 2006 24% 2007 4.9% deferred consideration and net defined benefit pension 2006 5.6% Definition and method of calculation liabilities Operating profit expressed as a percentage of net 2 operating assets including goodwill acquired through acquisitions.
U Un niit te ed d K Kiin ng gd do om m The UK results benefited from a good 2007 marked the start of what we Makers contribution from Phi, which we anticipate will be a steady stream of work Following a strategic review of our structural acquired in 2006 and whose retaining related to Londons 2012 Olympics.
refurbishment business in the first half of wall systems have proved to be very We carried out ground improvement works the year, we announced at the time of our complementary to the other solutions for the construction of warehouses which interim results that the various divisions of offered by our UK business.
were then used to relocate businesses Makers would be sold or discontinued, as from Stratford Park, the main site for the appropriate.
As we anticipated, this has At a development of industrial units at Olympics.
In addition, we installed anchors been a difficult process, but it is now Hemel Hempstead, where differing soil to retain the new Prescott Lock, which will substantially complete, with all four conditions and very uneven ground limited create a green gateway for barges divisions sold for a nominal consideration the amount of usable space, Phis retaining entering the Olympic Park, helping to and with the vast majority of employees walls were used in conjunction with vibro eliminate up to 1,000 lorry journeys a week jobs preserved.
stone columns and CFA piling.
innovative design solution, using these three The pre-tax one-off charge in the second In April, we completed the acquisition of techniques, is thought to have extended half of the year was 8.9m, which is in line Systems Geotechnique for an initial the usable ground by around 20%.
with the guidance we gave with our interim consideration of 9.1m, which now gives results announcement in August and results As in previous years, foundations for us a lead in the drilling and grouting sector.
in a total loss before tax for the full year of distribution centres featured within KGEs We have been impressed with the strengths 14.2m.
diverse contract portfolio and one of these, of the business in terms of its people, for Amazon in Swansea, used a equipment and design-and-construct combination of vibro stone column and know-how and it is encouraging to see the J Ju us st tiin n A At tk kiin ns so on n dynamic compaction ground improvement good co-operation which has developed 28 February 2008 techniques to deliver a cost-effective between Systems and the rest of our solution within an extremely tight deadline.
Despite June and July being the wettest months in the region since records began, causing many logistical problems across the site, our work was completed well within schedule and the facility was operational by October, as planned.
O Op pe er ra at tiin ng g R Re ev viie ew w Keller Group plc 2 21 1
