Operating and financial review Business risks Core to our continued success is our The housing market: Our ability to sell ability to identify and effectively manage houses depends on the demand for the risks to our business.
Accordingly the housing which, in turn, is linked to Group has well defined, rigorous policies consumer sentiment.
We manage the and processes designed to identify, mitigate exposure by ensuring that we closely and control risk.
Risks are specific to each control levels of work in progress to of our businesses and are controlled match the level of demand.
Prices and through the Groups risk management incentives are reviewed regularly and processes.
The primary risks that have adjusted as appropriate.
the potential to adversely impact on our business over the next twelve months are Property development risk: Similar to considered to be as follows: housing land acquisition, acquiring the right property at the right price is Contract and build risk: We carry out fundamental to the profitability of the several hundred contracts annually and Property division.
The division controls The Trade City development undertaken by Kier the risks to which the Group is exposed its development risk by commencing Property in Weybridge is already 90% pre-sold or are dependent upon the nature of the construction generally when it has either pre-let.
There is also another Trade City development work, the duration of the contract and pre-sold or pre-let the development.
nearing completion in Hemel Hempstead, where Kier Property has recently acquired another property the legal form of the contract.
The Board approvals are required depending for development.
Groups appetite for very long-term, upon the value and nature of the 2 large, competitively tendered development.
construction contracts is limited, driven Investment risk: The Group is selective by the desire to manage risk.
Tenders in the PFI projects for which it bids, for contracts are subject to approval by primarily concentrating on the sectors the Board, chief executive and finance where we have established construction director or divisional directors depending expertise.
on the value and nature of the contract.
Contracts in progress are controlled and People are the key to this business and managed through the Groups operating good people are a scarce resource.
It is structure and procedures including important that we attract the best, look rigorous and regular review of forecast after them and retain them.
Health & revenue and costs to complete.
Safety is a key feature and we have Land acquisition risk: The cost and rigorous health and safety policies aimed quality of land is fundamental to the at minimising health and safety incidents profitability of a housing development that may affect any staff, subcontractors United Utilities new, three-stage Ridgaling Water business.
Site evaluation is a key process and members of the public coming into Treatment Works were officially opened in July.
and site appraisals are carried out in contact with our business activities.
The event signified the completion of the 19.5m project undertaken by KMI Plus a joint venture detail including external advice where that includes Kier Construction and included the Pension scheme deficit: The pension appropriate.
Land acquisitions are donation of 2,000 by KMI framework director, scheme liabilities and assets are subject subject to approval by the Board, Kevin Cottam, to Pendleside Hospice, Diabetes to market movements and, although a chief executive and finance director UK and Cancer Help.
long-term issue, regulations require us or divisional directors depending on to respond to these long-term issues the value and nature of the contract.
Steps have been Developments in progress are controlled taken to eradicate our calculated deficit and managed through the Groups over a timeframe agreed with the operating structure and procedures Scheme Trustees.
including rigorous and regular review of forecast revenue and costs to complete.
25 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
