Directors report The directors present their annual report and audited financial development of disabled people and the retention of those who statements for the year ended 30 June 2007. become disabled during the course of their employment and who can be employed in a safe working environment.
The Group Principal activities and business review operates a sharesave scheme for all eligible employees and makes The Groups principal activities are construction, support services, available a dealing service to enable employees to buy and sell its residential and commercial development and infrastructure shares with a minimum of formality and on attractive commission project investment.
The Group also operates an AESOP scheme for all employees which comprises a share matching element.
A review of the Groups business and progress is given within the operating and financial review on pages 6 to 31.
Combined Code A statement on corporate governance is set out on pages 36 to 38.
Results and dividends The Group profit for the year after taxation was 56.3m Going concern basis 2006: 42.9m.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational An interim dividend of 9.6p per share 2006: 8.2p amounting existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they continue to to 3.5m 2006: 2.9m was paid on 18 May 2007.
The directors adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
propose a final dividend of 40.4p per share 2006: 17.8p per share amounting to 14.6m 2006: 6.3m payable on 4 December 2007 Donations to shareholders on the Register of Members at the close of business Group donations to charity in the United Kingdom were 71,000 on 28 September 2007.
In addition, the Group spends considerable time and effort contributing to charitable events in the community.
Share capital No political donations were made 2006: nil.
Details of shares allotted by the Company during the year appear in note 21 of the consolidated financial statements.
Policy on payment of creditors The Group agrees payments with its suppliers and subcontractors Directors on an individual contract basis rather than following a standard code.
The directors of the Company during the year are shown on The policy is to abide by these agreed terms whenever it is satisfied pages 32 and 33.
Mr P F Berry retired on 30 June 2007 and that the suppliers or subcontractors have provided the goods or Mr C V Geoghegan was appointed a director on 1 July 2007. services in accordance with the contract terms and conditions.
The aggregate amount owed to trade creditors by the Company at At the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, resolutions will be the end of the year was nil 2006: nil.
proposed for the re-election of Mr I M Lawson, Miss D E Mattar, Mr M P Sheffield and Mr R W Side.
Mr C V Geoghegan will be Subsidiary trading companies within the Group, acting in accordance proposed for election for the first time.
At that date, the unexpired with the above policy, exhibit creditor days averaging 32 2006: 37 term of the contract of employment with the Company of each of in respect of suppliers of invoiced goods and services and 20 the executive directors will be 12 months.
2006: 20 in respect of certified amounts due to subcontractors.
These figures exclude amounts not currently due for payment but Details of directors interests are disclosed in the directors included within trade creditors.
remuneration report on pages 42 and 43.
Financial instruments The Articles of Association of the Company provide for the Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of indemnification of its directors out of the assets of the Company the Group along with its exposure to material financial risks are set in the event that they suffer any loss or liability in the execution out in notes 1 and 25 of the consolidated financial statements.
of their duties as directors and the Company has entered into deeds of indemnity with its directors entitling them to be Auditors indemnified to the extent permitted by statute.
A resolution for the reappointment of the auditors, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
The The Company has insurance in favour of its directors and officers directors who held office at the date of approval of this directors in respect of certain losses or liabilities to which they may be report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no exposed due to their office.
relevant audit information of which the auditors are unaware: and each director has taken all the steps that they ought to have Substantial voting rights taken as a director to make themselves aware of any relevant audit At 12 September 2007, the Company had been notified of the information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware following interests in the Ordinary Share Capital of the Company: of that information.
J P Morgan Chase & Co 4.73% Signed on behalf of the Board.
Barclays PLC 3.42% Legal & General plc 3.29% M D Barton Lloyds TSB Group plc 3.07% Secretary Employees 12 September 2007 The companies in the Group are equal opportunity employers.
Tempsford Hall The Group provides relevant information on matters of concern Sandy to employees through newsletters and formal and informal Bedfordshire meetings with local management.
The Group encourages and SG19 2BD assists, whenever practicable, the recruitment, training, and career 35 Kier Group plc Annual report and accounts 2007
