More choice better value Twin-track strategy on course Castorama added more contemporary ranges of kitchens, bathrooms, paint and lighting during the year.
Over a third of Castoramas selling space has now been converted to the new, modern format and a further six revamps are planned for the current year.
Brico Dpt, which is aimed at heavy DIY buyers and trade professionals, opened 10 more stores in the year, taking its total to 81.
A new IT system was implemented during the year, as was a new supply chain network.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 25 Operating review France Philippe Tible Patrick Langlade Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Castorama Brico Dpt In France, Kingfishers total sales grew Castorama Brico Dpt 9.0% 2.0% LFL.
Twelve new stores Castorama grew total reported sales by Sales increased 16.5% to 1.3 billion, were opened in the year and seven 3.6% to 1.6 billion up 1.3% LFL, up 5% benefiting from new stores and more relocated, adding 5% new space.
Banque excluding the six transfers to Brico Dpt widely-distributed product catalogues.
fide France data shows that growth in during the year.
Further progress was LFL sales growth was 2.8% against comparable DIY store sales was around made improving price competitiveness, strong comparatives 2005 06: 7.3% LFL: 3% for the full year, with Kingfishers product ranges, store environment and 2004 05: 17.7% LFL reflecting the size business outperforming the market by cost productivity.
of the business, internal cannibalisation of delivering comparable stores sales growth More contemporary ranges of around 3% and focus in the year on the of 3.4%.
However, the market became bathrooms and kitchens, indoor lighting, successful implementation of new systems more price competitive as the year paint and textiles were introduced as and logistics infrastructure.
Sales were progressed, compressing Kingfishers part of an ongoing range development strong in building categories, supported overall French gross margin by around programme.
The participation of own-brand by new ranges of insulation products and 100 basis points in the second half.
product sales as a proportion of overall aluminium windows.
This pressure is expected to continue sales grew to 19% 2005 06: 16%.
Ten new stores opened in the year into 2007 08.
Castorama continued its store taking the total to 81, including the Banque fide France data including relocated and modernisation programme, with two opening of three of the six stores extended stores new stores opened and seven older, transferred from Castorama.
In 2007 08 existing stores relocated to new sites.
store expansion will continue with eight Retail profit of 206.3 million was lower Six stores not suitable for revamping new store openings planned seven in than last year with retail profit of both were closed prior to conversion to the the first half including the three remaining businesses declining by around 10%.
This reflected gross margin compression Thirty-six per cent of total selling space A major new information technology and 14 million of development costs for is now in the new format and these stores platform to improve store replenishment the transfer to Brico Dpt of six smaller continue to outperform comparable stores.
and stock availability was implemented Castorama stores and the implementation Results from store development have during the year.
This was the biggest of a major new technology platform at improved as the new format has evolved, transformation project in Brico Dpts Brico Dpt.
With a high level of freehold with stores relocated during the year on history and required significant stores and strong cost control, Kingfishers track to deliver sales density uplifts of over management focus to ensure successful net cost inflation in France is running at 20% on top of a 25% increase in space.
Two-thirds of stores are now around 2%.
A further six revamps are planned for operating on the new technology platform 2007 08, five scheduled to begin in with the remainder joining during the first the first quarter.
Approximately half of half of 2007 08.
In addition, Brico Dpt the remaining Castorama stores will be opened a second central distribution revamped over the next four years, with centre in southern France during the fourth the balance relocated to new sites as quarter.
Around half of all deliveries to these are secured and approved by stores are now centrally controlled.
All percentage movements above are in constant currencies.
