16 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Innovation anticipating customer needs In retail it is often said that the only thing that never changes is the need to keep changing.
The most successful retailers understand that customer needs and wants are constantly evolving, and anticipate and capitalise on these trends.
Kingfishers businesses have a long history easy-to-fit, split-unit air conditioning at In China, where the populations of innovation, adapting their product breakthrough prices.
And last autumn, knowledge of home improvement ranges, store environments and customer B&Q became the first high street retailer in techniques is developing, staff training services to better serve their customers the UK to stock domestic wind turbines as and customer advice is of critical and keep ahead of the competition.
part of a wider range of energy efficiency importance.
Store staff typically receive an However, the need to innovate is products which also includes solar panels average of 36 training hours per year.
And accelerating as customers increasingly and more stylish energy efficient lightbulbs.
the stores own staff are supplemented by have alternative ways to research and buy vendor representatives, who are employed products and more international travel has Stores by product manufacturers to give raised awareness.
Operating in 11 different countries, specialist advice.
Kingfisher is uniquely placed to benefit Kingfisher has developed a strong record from this trend.
As the largest and most of store format innovation, adapting stores Services international home improvement retailer in to their local environment.
In Taiwan, a As more consumers in many of Kingfishers Europe and Asia, with operations in 11 densely populated island, B&Q developed markets become increasingly cash-rich countries, there is a large pool of talent and a more compact format, often multi-storey, and time-poor the offer of installation new ideas from which all the businesses to minimise the impact of space restrictions.
services becomes more and more can draw.
Today, capitalising on Kingfishers Merchandising techniques from these important for shoppers who may not have international scale and diversity is one of stores have been used in other Kingfisher the time or knowledge to tackle certain the Groups four key strategic priorities see businesses and this will again be evident home improvement projects.
In the UK, Strategy at a glance on page 2 and Progress in the format used to enter the densely B&Q has offered a kitchen and bathroom in 2006 07 on page 3.
As a result, the rate populated Hong Kong market in 2007. installation service for some time and at which each business is changing and In the UK, Screwfix Direct has typically installs around 25,000 kitchens sharing ideas with its sister companies in developed a trade counter store format and bathrooms a year.
More recently, the the Group has accelerated in recent years, to complement its catalogue and online business has been trialling a handyman examples of which can be seen below and channels.
Trade counters offer immediate service where customers are quoted a fixed throughout the Annual Report.
order collection and feature a small price for household jobs such as putting up customer ordering area at the front, with shelves or hanging doors.
Products a warehouse area at the back.
In China, where home buyers typically Backed by its significant buying strength buy completely new apartments as empty and international sourcing network, Customer service concrete shells, B&Q offers a full Kingfisher has made many products Although large-scale home improvement apartment installation service, including accessible to a much wider market, stores have typically been mainly selfpainting the walls and laying the flooring.
enabling more people to improve their service operations, rising customer Over 30,000 apartments were fitted out homes at affordable prices.
expectations mean that good quality in this way last year.
A similar service is For example, working with suppliers, customer service by knowledgeable staff offered by B&Q Taiwan.
wood-effect laminate flooring became is a growing priority.
In the UK, B&Q has both affordable and within the capabilities introduced Service Squads, store staff of many DIYers in the 1990s.
More recently, wholly dedicated to customer service, higher specification ranges of engineered using radio communications to speed up wood and real wood have been added to service levels.
B&Q has also introduced an meet customer demand for more upmarket enhanced service model where more flooring products.
specialist, trained staff are deployed at peak In 2005 B&Q UK and Castorama times in areas such as tiling and flooring, France became the first retailers to launch where customers need more advice.
Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening Energetic thinking Energy efficiency, at breakthrough prices B&Q UK launched a new range of energy efficiency products last year, with the aim of helping customers reduce energy bills whilst also making their homes more environmentally friendly.
The range included domestic wind turbines priced at less than 1,500.
Other products included solar panels and energy efficient lightbulbs with improved designs.
A new handyman trial was also launched during the year and is being extended to 25 stores.
