34 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Board of Directors Peter Jackson Gerry Murphy Duncan Tatton-Brown Ian Cheshire Daniel Bernard Chairman Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive, B&Q UK Deputy Chairman and Peter Jackson joined the Board Appointed Group Chief Executive Appointed Group Finance Director Appointed executive director in Non-Executive Director as a non-executive director with and joined the Board in February and a Director of the company in June 2000 and Chief Executive, Appointed non-executive Deputy effect from 3 January 2006 and 2003.
Previously he was Chief February 2004.
He was Finance B&Q UK in June 2005.
He took on the role of Chairman on Executive Officer of media group Director of B&Q UK from January appointed Chief Executive was Chairman and Chief Executive the retirement of Sir Francis Carlton Communications plc, global 2001.
Previously he was Chief International and Development in of Carrefour, the Paris-based retail Mackay at the AGM on 24 May logistics firm Exel plc and food Financial Officer at Virgin September 2002, Chief Executive group and worlds second largest 2006.
He retired as Chief Executive manufacturer Greencore Group plc.
Entertainment Group and has of e-Kingfisher in May 2000 and retailer, from 1992 to 2005.
Prior of international food and retail Earlier in his career, he held various held various finance positions at was Group Director of Strategy to Carrefour, he was Chief group Associated British Foods plc senior positions with food and drink fashion retailer Burton Group plc.
Before joining Operating Officer of METRO, ABF in April 2005, after six years group Grand Metropolitan plc now He is also a non-executive director Kingfisher he worked for Germanys leading international in that role.
He joined the Board of Diageo plc in Ireland, the UK and of Rentokil Initial plc.
Guinness plc and a number retailer.
He is President of ABF in 1992 following its USA.
He is also a non-executive of retail businesses including Provestis, his own investment acquisition of British Sugar plc.
He director of Reckitt Benckiser plc.
Member of the Executive and Sears plc where he was Group company and a non-executive is also Senior Independent Director Age 51.
He is also director of Alcatel and Cap Gemini.
of Smiths Group, the international a non-executive director of He was previously non-executive engineering group.
Chairman of the Executive Bradford & Bingley plc.
Age 47. director of Compagnie fide St Gobain Committee and Member of the until June 2006.
Chairman of the Nomination and Disclosure Member of the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Audit and Nomination Committees.
Senior management Philippe Tible Patrick Langlade George Adams Steve Gilman Ian Harding Terry Hartwell Chief Executive, Chief Executive, Managing Director, Chief Executive, Group Communications Group Property Director Castorama France Brico Dpt European Development B&Q Asia Director Responsible for all Group Joined Castorama as Chief Head of Brico Dpt since George Adams is Managing Steve Gilman is Chief Responsible for investor Property matters and also Executive in February 2003.
He joined Director, European Executive of B&Q Asia.
He is relations, media relations and a director of B&Q UK and He began his career at the Castorama in 1984 as a Development.
He is responsible currently Chairman of B&Q internal communications.
a member of the Pension hypermarket group store manager, then became for the performance and China, and is responsible for He has worked for Kingfisher Trustee Board.
He has over Euromarch before joining regional director in 1987.
He development of Poland, B&Q Taiwan, B&Q Home for 10 years including senior 25 years experience in retail DIY chain Leroy Merlin where started his commercial career Italy and Russia.
He is also Korea and is a director of financial roles at operating property development.
he was Operations Director in 1967 with Thomson CSF, Chief Executive of Kingfishers B&Q UK.
Prior to his current company and Group level Joined the Group in 1981. for France and later then joined Citron.
UK Trade Division, which role, he was International before his current role.
comprises Screwfix Direct Director at B&Q UK.
He has He is a Chartered Accountant He was also Asia Pacific and Trade Depot.
Previously 28 years service with B&Q and spent eight years with Director of furniture retail he was Group Commercial and Kingfisher.
 LLP group Conforama, part of Director, Commercial Director before joining Kingfisher.
of B&Q, and a director of Age 42.
He is a nonexecutive director of Frontier Economics Ltd. Age 50.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 35 John Nelson Phil Bentley Hartmut Krmer Janis Kong Michael Hepher Deputy Chairman and Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Senior Independent Appointed to the Board in October Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Appointed to the Board in Non-Executive Director 2002.
He is also Managing November 2002 having been December 2006.
He is nonAppointed non-executive Deputy Director of British Gas, and has Chief Executive Officer of the executive director of The Royal executive director of Catlin Group Chairman in January 2002.
He is been on the Board of Centrica plc retail clothing group, Peek & Bank of Scotland Group Plc, Ltd, Canada Life U. K. Ltd and Chairman of European real estate since 2000, which he joined as Cloppenburg, and subsequently Portmeirion Group PLC and Great West Life Assurance group Hammerson plc and a Group Finance Director.
He of Groupe Redcats, the home VisitBritain, as well as being Company.
His former roles include non-executive director of BT previously spent five years at shopping division of PinaultChairman of the trustees of Forum non-executive Chairman of Lane, Group plc.
He retired as Chairman Diageo plc and 15 years in Printemps-Redoute PPR.
She was, until her Clark and Peacock, non-executive of Credit Suisse First Boston international finance roles at BP also a non-executive director of retirement in March 2006, a Chairman of TeleCity plc, in 2002 and was formerly Vice plc.
GSE SAS, Toupargel-Agrigel S. A. director of BAA plc and Chairman Chairman and Chief Executive Chairman of Lazard Brothers and Alfesca Ltd. Age 60. of Heathrow Airport Ltd for five of Charterhouse plc, Group and non-executive director of Chairman of the Audit years as well as Chairman of Managing Director of BT plc and Woolwich plc.
Committee and Member of the Member of the Heathrow Express.
Prior to that non-executive director of Diageo Nomination Committee.
she was Managing Director of plc and Lloyds Bank plc.
Chairman of the Remuneration Gatwick Airport and held a number Committee and Member of the of operational roles within BAA Member of the Audit, Audit and Nomination Committees.
during her 33 year career with the Remuneration and Nomination company.
Member of the Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Helen Jones Paul Mir Tony Williams Claude Acquart Giulio Maleci Mariusz Gliwinski Director of Governance Group Commercial Group Human Resources Chief Executive, Chief Executive, President, B&Q China and Corporate Services Director Director Castorama Poland Castorama Italy Mariusz Gliwinski joined B&Q Responsible for Company Paul Mir became Group Joined Kingfisher in June Claude Acquart has been Giulio Maleci was appointed China as President in Secretarial, Legal and Commercial Director in 2005.
He spent his early head of Castorama Poland Chief Executive of Castorama November 2006.
He began Legislative Affairs, Corporate January 2007, when he career at GEC and News since he established the Italy in May 2006.
He has his retail career working for a Governance matters and joined Kingfisher.
Previously International before joining business in 1994.
He joined held a number of senior roles Polish food retailer in 1993.
Group Corporate he was Group Purchasing WH Smith Retail as Human Castorama France in 1978 in international businesses From 1996 to 2003, he Responsibility.
She is also Director and then Commercial Resources Director in 1994. and was store manager at including Olivetti and worked for DIY chain Nomi a member of the Pension Director of Fnac, Frances Prior to joining Kingfisher he Montpellier Lattes in France Electrolux, working in the in Poland which grew from Trustee Board.
She has spent leading consumer electrical was Group Human Resources for 10 years.
Most three to 40 stores during this 20 years at Kingfisher.
and entertainment retailer, Director of Carlton recently, he was General period.
He was then appointed Age 51. part of  plc.
Manager of fashion retailer as Managing Director of B&Q Redoute PPR.
Previously he UPIM in Italy, part of the Taiwan in 2004.
Age 36. spent 19 years at Promodes La Rinascente group.
Age 53. and Carrefour in operations, logistics and purchasing in Europe and Asia.
