New products fresh ideas New ranges from around the world B&Q UK is currently rolling out improved wall and window decoration ranges to its larger stores, with a wider selection of wallpaper, curtains and blinds.
B&Q worked with Kingfishers sourcing offices in Hong Kong, India and Poland to secure new, innovative ranges, with product display ideas coming from Castorama France.
The photo shows Lisa Blackmore, left, B&Qs window dcor buyer, with some of the new ranges in the Cribbs Causeway store near Bristol.
Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 15 Suppliers and Kingfisher working together Powering up own-brands Kingfisher continued to add new products to its successful MacAllister range of power tools and garden products.
The brand is now sold in most of the Groups key markets.
Paul Mir Group Commercial Director As the worlds third largest home Direct Sourcing Own-brand development improvement retailer, with over 700 stores Direct sourcing is a major source of The development of Kingfishers crossin 11 countries, Kingfisher has the scale competitive advantage for Kingfisher as it Group own-brand continued during the and international reach to source the best enables the Group to buy goods direct year.
Both B&Q UK and Castorama France range of products for its customers, at from the factories of the best and lowesthave developed a common, integrated the best possible prices.
Kingfisher has five approach to decorative products, with the together with its joint ventures and strategic overseas sourcing offices in Shanghai, ranges being grouped together in four partner Hornbach, has total sales of around Hong Kong, Poland, India and Thailand, distinct style themes.
The B&Q styles are 10 billion, and, with the Hornbach group of each specialising in particular product Contemporary, Country, Heritage and Fun, companies also participating in the Groups areas.
Last year, direct shipments rose by making it easier for customers to match sourcing programmes, a combined buying 23% to US$702 million at factory prices.
their choices to the style of their home.
Growth was particularly strong in areas The same approach is now being extended This buying strength and international such as own-brand power tools: the to other Kingfisher operating companies.
breadth is a major asset, and, over the Magnusson hand tool range for Brico The development of the Colours years, Kingfisher has developed long-term, Dpt France and B&Q UK: and mobile decorative range continued, with Colours mutually beneficial relationships with many air conditioning units which were produced paint launched in Castorama Poland of the worlds leading suppliers of home for B&Q UK, Castorama France, Italy and during the year.
In own-brand power improvement products.
With quality goods Poland, and the Hornbach companies.
tools, the Group started a programme to sourced on favourable terms, Kingfisher is In addition, innovative designer bathroom co-ordinate the development of the able to pass on these savings to its suites were sourced for Castorama France, Performance Power and MacAllister power customers around the world in the form of and new ranges of wallpaper and window tool range more effectively.
An additional lower prices in its stores.
dcor curtains and blinds for B&Q UK.
innovation during the year was the launch In addition to price and quality, the key The development and sourcing of new of MacAllister laser levels.
In France, priorities of Kingfishers Group sourcing wall and window dcor ranges for B&Q Brico Dpt successfully launched its programmes are product innovation and UK in the past year are good examples Magnusson hand tool range.
exclusivity, own-brand development, of Kingfisher companies working together Paul Mir was appointed Group speed to market, and the continued and using direct sourcing to produce Commercial Director in January 2007 extension of direct sourcing, which is innovative new ranges for customers.
to lead the next phase of the Groups co-ordinated through Kingfishers Building on ideas already tested in the international commercial programme.
well-established international network of new format Castorama stores in France, He has over 20 years experience in sourcing offices.
B&Q UK last year completely overhauled international supply management at its range of wallpaper and curtains using Fnac and Carrefour.
Kingfishers sourcing offices in Hong Kong, India and Poland.
The in-store product displays were also modelled on the successful merchandising used in the Castorama France stores.
