10 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Customers understanding their needs Kingfisher is a mass market, international retailer serving six million diverse customers each week in its stores and many more via the internet and telephone.
Whilst customers vary by nationality, gender, age, wealth, aptitude and culture, it is possible to consider three broad groups of customers for whom stores, products, pricing and services need to be adapted.
A selection of customers quotes are shown below.
Everyday DIYer Project initiator Trade professional Typically this customer is a young male These customers are increasingly For these customers time is money.
carrying out basic maintenance on his important as rising wealth levels and busy home and garden and expanding his lives mean more people will pay others to Having one of everything in stock is no good.
collection of tools and equipment to do the complete major home makeovers for them I need a pallet load job well.
However, women are increasingly Do-it-for-me DFM, rather than DIY.
playing a more significant part, reflecting They spend more than average on major I cant down tools on the job so I need somewhere greater female home ownership and home improvement projects but they shop thats open on my way to work independence.
Importantly, around 75% of home project initiators are women.
I dont get paid until the job is finished so Im often in to pick up bits and pieces.
I want good I need credit prices all the time and not just when theres a sale I need someone to take the time to help me design what I want and tell me how much it will all cost Im a big, loyal customer so I want a discount My leisure time is too precious to go from shop to shop at the weekend.
I want to find all my DIY Wandering around a dusty old store isnt very I use professional brands which I know will do needs under one roof inspiring.
I like to browse in a bright, modern a good job environment I want to get what I need quickly and get on with Somewhere to load the van is a big help the job.
I get frustrated if I cant find it in the store I like to look and touch real displays, photos are or its out of stock never enough Helpful staff make all the difference.
Its great If Im spending good money on a new kitchen when they know exactly where things are or can I dont want to end up with a cowboy out of the give tips and advice local classifieds fitting it.
I want the retailer to take responsibility for installation I enjoy browsing for tools and gadgets that will help me do a better job I cant afford to do big improvements regularly.
When I do something big I want a deal and some help financing it Capitalising Establishing Expanding Strengthening
