36 Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 Directors report The directors are pleased to present their ranges.
Eleven larger stores were in the Chairman on 24 May 2006 following the report for the financial year ended new format as at the end of 2006 07.
The retirement of Sir Francis Mackay, and 3 February 2007.
Screwfix Trade Counters concept has on the same date Daniel Bernard was continued to perform well and 31 sites appointed non-executive Deputy Principal activities and developments were opened in the year.
Margaret Salmon retired from in the year trial of a new format focused on UK trade the Board on 8 December 2006 and on Kingfisher is an international home customers, opened two more trial the same date Janis Kong was appointed improvement business operating in branches during the year, taking the total as a non-executive director.
markets that fit strategic criteria of to four.
attractive scale, structure and economics.
Re-election of directors Operating principally through its main retail Results and dividends The Articles of Association require one brands B&Q, Castorama, Brico Dpt and The profit before taxation of the Group third of the directors who are subject to Screwfix Direct, Kingfisher operates in amounted to 450.5m 2006: 231.8m retirement by rotation to retire and submit 11 countries across Europe and Asia and with a profit after taxation of 338.4m themselves for re-election at the Annual is market leader in six countries.
General Meeting AGM each year and, in continues to give the Group an excellent During the year, the market value of any event, at least once every three years.
platform for growth in all of its markets.
In the Groups land and buildings increased Accordingly, Phil Bentley and John Nelson addition, Kingfisher has property interests to 3,136.5m: 850.2m above their net retire by rotation and are offering themselves in the countries in which it operates, which carrying amount.
The market value of the for re-election.
Having served for nine are primarily managed through the relevant Groups investment properties increased years as a non-executive director and in retail business.
to 38.7m: 9.3m above their net carrying accordance with the Combined Code, A review of the business, providing amount.
Michael Hepher is also retiring and offers a comprehensive analysis of the main Kingfisher paid an interim dividend himself for re-election.
Daniel Bernard and trends and factors likely to affect the of 3.85p 2006: 3.85p per ordinary share Janis Kong, having both been appointed development, performance and position amounting to 89.9m 2006: 89.5m since the last AGM, also retire in accordance of the business, including environmental, on 10 November 2006.
The directors with the Companys Articles of Association, employee, social and community issues, recommend a final dividend of 6.8p 2006: and resolutions for their election will be together with the Groups Key 6.8p per ordinary share, amounting to proposed.
The Board continues to believe Performance Indicators KPIs, and a 161.8m 2006: 158.5m, to be paid on that all the non-executive directors standing description of the principal risks and 8 June 2007 to those shareholders whose for election or re-election are independent, uncertainties facing the business is names are on the register of members at and that they make an effective and detailed on pages 2 to 33 as follows: the close of business on 10 April 2007, valuable contribution to the Board.
Strategy at a glance page 2, KPIs making a total for the year of 10.65p None of the non-executive directors pages 4 and 5, review of the business 2006: 10.65p per ordinary share standing for election or re-election has a and progress, including an overview of amounting to 251.7m 2006: 248.0m.
service contract with the Company.
markets, customers, stores, people and The ex-dividend date will be 4 April 2007. their development, suppliers, innovation Dividend cheques and tax vouchers will be Directors interests and corporate responsibility pages 6 to 19, posted on 6 June 2007.
The directors who held office at 3 February Operating review pages 20 to 29, The Dividend Reinvestment Plan DRIP, 2007 had the following interests, all of Finance review pages 30 to 32 and risks introduced in June 2005, is available to all which were beneficial, in the shares pages 32 and 33. shareholders who would prefer to invest of the Company: In June 2006, the first Brico Dpt their dividends in the shares of the Shares Ordinary shares Ordinary shares store in Warsaw, Poland was opened.
If shareholders wish to elect for 3 February 2007 28 January 2006 Three Castorama stores are now open the DRIP for the final dividend and have or, if later, on appointment in Russia and have been well received.
not already done so, a letter or completed Phil Bentley 18,097 18,097 In Turkey, Kingfishers Koctas joint venture DRIP mandate form must be received by 5 5 Daniel Bernard 10,000 10,000 is now the market leader.
The integration the Companys Registrars by 17 May Ian Cheshire 22,879 16,860 Michael Hepher 1,599 1,599 programme of the OBI China stores, 2007.
Certificates for shareholders electing Peter Jackson 60,000 60,000 acquired in June 2005, to the B&Q China for the DRIP will be posted by no later Janis Kong 24,000 10,000 format was completed during the year.
Further details of the Hartmut Krmer - - Gerry Murphy 359,151 242,167 Kingfishers 700th store was opened DRIP and an application form are available John Nelson 43,750 43,750 in 2006. from the Companys Registrars.
Duncan Tatton-Brown 57,688 31,117 In July 2006, Kingfisher announced an agreement to sell seven B&Q large format Directors The directors interests in options over stores to The British Land Company PLC.
Details of the directors of the Company shares of the Company as at 3 February B&Q developed a new store format for are shown on pages 34 and 35, and in the 2007 are shown within the Remuneration implementation in all larger stores with Corporate Governance report on page 39. report on pages 43 to 51. improved in-store service and product Peter Jackson was appointed as As they are potential beneficiaries of Kingfisher plc Annual Report and Accounts 2006 07 37 the Kingfisher Employee Share Ownership employees throughout the Group and to Implement measures to ensure a level Plan Trust, the executive directors were distribute information about other important of customer service for disabled people also technically interested in 20,963,550 business developments.
equivalent to that offered to non-disabled shares at the year end.
Directors and senior management people: and No director has any interest in any regularly visit stores and discuss with Maintain a mechanism which customers shares or loan stock of any other Group employees matters of current interest and employees can use to give feedback company, other than a small number of and concern.
on performance and ensure that all customer shares held by certain directors in French To supplement existing communication comments are analysed, responded to subsidiaries of the Company as a result of within each business, the Kingfisher and acted upon.
the French company law requirement that European Forum was established in 2003. directors hold qualifying shares.
The Forum provides information and Kingfisher sets specific standards on On 28 March 2007 the number of consultation with employee representatives diversity across the Group through its social shares in the Kingfisher Employee Share from Kingfishers businesses in EU countries and environmental management system, Ownership Plan Trust in which the on specified trans-national business issues Steps to Responsible Growth, which can directors were technically interested was affecting those countries.
Other than this change, since We are committed to and focused monitors the diversity profile of employees the year end there have been no changes on the development of our people and including gender, age, disability and to the directors interests in the shares of have identified a talent population across ethnicity.
Diversity data is published in the the Company.
the organisation in whom we will invest Corporate responsibility report, available significantly to further the capability of our on the website www.
Deeds of indemnity leaders, both now and in the future.
We As at the date of this report, indemnities are committed with passion and energy to Charitable donations are in force under which the Company has the challenges we face across our business Kingfisher and its subsidiaries made agreed to indemnify the directors, to the and strive for excellence in our leadership.
contributions to charity community projects extent permitted by law and the Companys The use of in-house and specialist worth an estimated 1.3m in the financial Articles of Association, in respect of all training programmes as well as links with year ended 3 February 2007 equivalent losses arising out of, or in connection with, the general educational sector, reinforces to 0.3% of pre-tax profits.
This included the execution of their powers, duties and Kingfishers commitment to employee cash donations 0.5m and gifts-in-kind responsibilities, as directors of the involvement and development.
Support was also given through Company or any of its subsidiaries.
are also represented on the trustee board the donation of time by employees 0.2m.
of Kingfishers UK pension arrangements.
Going concern All UK employees as well as those Supplier payment policy The directors confirm that, after reviewing in Ireland and Hong Kong are entitled The Company does not impose standard expenditure commitments, expected cash to participate in Kingfishers long-standing payment terms on its suppliers but agrees flows and borrowing facilities, they have a Savings-Related Share Option Scheme specific terms with each of them, and then reasonable expectation that Kingfisher has ShareSave, regardless of numbers of pays in accordance with those terms.
The adequate resources to continue in hours worked, provided they meet certain Company is a holding company and operational existence for the foreseeable service conditions.
In addition, save-astherefore has no trade creditors.
For this reason they continue to you-earn plans, not linked directly to the adopt the going concern basis in purchase of Kingfisher shares, operate Purchase of own shares preparing these accounts.
in other countries along similar lines to the At the AGM on 24 May 2006 shareholders UK scheme, taking account of local tax approved a resolution for the Company Employee involvement and legal requirements.
to make purchases of its own shares The Board continues to emphasise high to a maximum number of 235,442,883 standards of customer care and service in Respect for the diversity of people ordinary shares.
This resolution remains each operating company.
The commitment Kingfisher is committed to treating its valid until the conclusion of this years of employees to this principle is vital, and employees and customers with dignity and AGM.
As at 3 February 2007 the directors each operating company has developed respect, and to valuing diversity.
Kingfisher had not used this authority.
It is Kingfishers channels of communication to help people strives to create an environment that present intention to cancel any shares to expand their knowledge of, and respects, welcomes and enables our acquired under such authority, unless involvement with, Kingfisher.
employees to reach their full potential for purchased to satisfy outstanding awards These channels include attitude surveys, the benefit of the Company and themselves.
under employee share incentive plans.
briefing groups, internal magazines and newsletters that report on business It is Kingfishers policy to: performance and objectives, community Ensure that there is no discrimination in involvement and other issues.
Kingfishers employment on grounds of race, gender, intranet systems are also used to age, disability, marital status, sexual communicate results announcements to orientation, or religious belief:
