Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid 19 3 08 11:53 Page 36 DIRECTORS REPORT The directors have pleasure in submitting their report Share capital The risks and opportunities relating to CR in 2007 for the year ended 31 December 2007.
On 9 August 2007 the Board announced the primarily revolved around the reputation of the Group implementation of a share buyback programme and the quality of its brands.
Of particular importance Business review pursuant to an authority granted by shareholders was the promotion of responsible gambling and the A review of the Groups activities and future at the Companys Annual General Meeting held on protection of children and the vulnerable.
CR also developments, which fulfils the requirements of the 18 May 2007.
It was intended that over time, the impacted i the performance of the Groups employees business review, including the financial performance Company would purchase shares in order to move on whom the Group relies for the provision of high during the year, key performance indicators and a towards its target range of 3.5 to 3.75 times net debt quality services to customers and ii the health description of the principal risks and uncertainties to historic EBITDA excluding Telephone High Rollers and safety of these employees and the customers facing the Group is included in the business reviews, ratio.
The purchase of shares would be dependent they serve.
the financial review and the key performance indicators on market conditions and would also take into on pages 10 to 27 and pages 30 to 32 which form part Performance indicators continued to be developed account the cash generated in the business and of this report.
The description of the Groups corporate in accordance with group-wide CR.
No breaches other investment opportunities that might arise over governance arrangements on pages 33 to 35 also of CR policies and procedures material to the Group time.
During the period from 10 August 2007 to 27 forms part of this report.
A description of the Groups were identified by the Board in 2007.
February 2008, the Company made market purchases financial risk management objectives and policies and 1 The identification and management of CR issues, of 30,184,095 of its own shares of 28 3p for a total its exposure to price, credit liquidity and cash flow risk the CR reporting framework and accuracy of any consideration, including transaction costs, of 100.6 is contained in note 26 to the consolidated accounts associated data has been verified by the Companys million and the shares are held as treasury shares.
Other matters material to the appreciation CR adviser, Acona Group AS.
of the Groups position are contained in the Chairmans At 27 February 2008, the Company had been notified Employee policies statement on pages 6 and 7 and the Chief Executives of the following holdings of voting rights attaching The Board values two-way communication between statement on pages 8 and 9. to the Companys shares in accordance with the senior management and employees on all matters Disclosure and Transparency Rules: Citigroup Global Results affecting the welfare of the business.
As well as regular Markets UK Equity Limited 6.66 per cent, Eminence, The results for the year are shown in the consolidated management visits to operating units, conferences LLC 3.90 per cent, Legal and General Investment income statement on page 50. and meetings, communication is by video, intranet Management Limited 4.08 per cent, MFS Investment Dividends and audio programmes.
Management 5.04 per cent and Morgan Stanley The directors recommend the payment of a final Investment Management Limited 5.79 per cent.
Throughout the Group via staff councils, employees dividend of 9.05 pence on each of the ordinary shares are encouraged to be involved in the running of the Further details in respect of the share capital and entitled thereto, making a total of 13.90 pence per share business and opinion surveys are undertaken.
The purchases by the Company of its own shares are for the year.
Subject to shareholders approval at the Companys Annual Report is made available to staff shown on pages 85 and 86, note 29 which forms Annual General Meeting to be held on 16 May 2008, and, together with regular staff magazines, provides part of this report.
the final dividend is expected to be paid on 2 June 2008 employees with a greater awareness of the Groups to shareholders registered on 7 March 2008.
Significant agreements that take effect, performance as well as the financial and economic alter or terminate upon a change of control Annual General Meeting factors that affect it.
following a takeover bid This years Annual General Meeting will be held at the In addition, those employees who are eligible are The agreements between Ladbrokes Group Finance Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre on 16 May 2008 also encouraged to become involved in the Groups plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and at 11.00am.
performance through participation in share schemes.
12 separate banks for the provision by the banks Directors of revolving credit facilities of up to 725 million on During 2007, the Company offered free shares for a The directors during the year were those listed a committed basis provide that the banks may value of up to 250 to employees as they completed on pages 28 and 29 together with Ms R P Thorne give notice of cancellation if a change of control one years service with the Group.
who resigned on 12 March 2007 and Mr L P Lupo occurs.
On cancellation the amounts drawn would Throughout the Group, the principles of equal who resigned on 18 May 2007. be immediately repayable.
In the context of a opportunities are recognised in the formulation takeover bid, the acquirer would normally Biographical details of all the directors are on pages and development of employment policies.
It is the Companys policy to give full and fair Corporate responsibility Details of directors service contracts, their share consideration to applications from people with A report on Corporate responsibility CR is on interests and other details of their remuneration disabilities, having regard to their particular aptitudes the Companys website www.
com by the Company are contained in the Directors and abilities.
If an employee becomes disabled, the and highlights are given on pages 22 to 27.
Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 48.
Companys objective is the continued provision The processes described in the section Internal Auditor and disclosure of information of suitable employment, either in the same or an control on pages 34 and 35 applied to CR, as did to the auditor alternative position, with appropriate training being the practices described on page 33 for assisting the Each of the directors in office as of the date of approval given if necessary.
Employees with disabilities share directors to update their knowledge.
In addition to of this report confirms that so far as he she is aware, in the opportunities for training, career development business presentations regularly made to the Board there is no relevant audit information being information and promotion.
at which CR was considered as appropriate, the Board needed by the auditor in connection with preparing its conducts an annual CR review and Board members report of which the auditor is unaware and that he she regularly receive CR updates.
CR performance is has taken the steps that he she ought to have taken included in divisional accountability systems and as a director in order to make himself herself aware remuneration arrangements.
The remuneration of any relevant audit information and to establish that committee in determining executive remuneration the auditor is aware of that information.
takes into account CR matters as described in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38.
36 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid:Ladbrokes R&A 07 Mid 19 3 08 11:53 Page 37 Directors indemnities and insurance The Company continues to maintain Directors and Officers liability insurance.
In accordance with the Companys articles of association, the Company entered into a deed of indemnity to the extent permitted by law with each of the directors on 22 January 2008.
Charitable donations During 2007, in addition to donations made to overseas charities, Group companies donated 720,000 to UK charitable organisations.
Supplier payment policy The Company agrees payment terms for its business transactions when goods and services are ordered.
It ensures that suppliers are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are included in contracts where appropriate.
Subject to satisfactory performance by the supplier, arrangements are adhered to when making payments.
At the year-end, the Company had no trade creditors.
Going concern The directors consider that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future and that it is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing its financial statements.
By order of the Board M J Noble Secretary 28 February 2008 Annual Report and Accounts 2007 37
