Directors report for the year ended 31 December 2007 The Laird Group Public Limited Company is a holding company.
The principal activities of its subsidiary undertakings subsidiaries during the year were the design, manufacture and supply of products and services to the electronics industry and, for the first four months of the year, to the residential building industry.
The Chairmans statement, Chief Executives review and Finance Directors report should be read in conjunction with this report.
An analysis of revenue, profit, assets and liabilities by segment is shown in note 3 on pages 63 and 64. Business review A review of the development and performance of the Group during the year, and its position at the year end, is given in the Chairmans statement on page 3, the Chief Executives review on pages 4 and 5, the Finance Directors report on pages 28 to 31, the Operating Review on pages 6 to 27, and note 14 to the financial statements.
Information on environmental matters is contained in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 41 to 44.
These pages, and the Key Performance Indicators contained therein, are incorporated into this report by reference.
Definitions of the KPIs are given on page 112.
Risks and uncertainties The management and control of risks within the Group is embedded within basic operating procedures.
These procedures comprise a range of measures including Group Operating Rules, monthly reporting, internal and external audits, the risk management framework comprising a strategic level Risk Management Group, and self-assessment and continuous monitoring by Group and operating management.
The Group operates globally in varied markets and the principal risks and uncertainties that are or may be faced by the Group are set out below.
In addition, information on the Laird risk management framework is given on page 40.
Overall growth and demand for products The overall demand for products is influenced by the level of customers commercial activity, which in turn is affected by the general economic climate, market conditions and consumer confidence generally.
This demand can be volatile and is dependent on a number of factors including the macroeconomic climate, the rate of change in the regulatory environment and in industry consolidation, the adoption of new technologies and customer spending patterns.
Lairds markets are highly competitive and the Group must be able to respond to technological change The Group operates in market sectors which are characterised by a high level of competition between suppliers, and which are driven by technological change.
The Group must continue to respond promptly and effectively to technological change and customers and competitors innovations in order to be successful.
The markets for some products are characterised by continual technological development and innovation, often involving joint collaboration and close working relationships with customers around the world.
This requires Laird to put together multi-national, multi-functional teams which are essential to the development of new products in high growth markets.
The ability of the Group to meet the demands of the market and to compete effectively is, to a large extent, dependent on the skills, experience and performance of its employees and their relationships with customers.
Political, economic and regulatory factors Having a global reach does involve certain risks for the Group.
The Group is exposed to political risk and to the effects of possible terrorist action and natural catastrophe.
Changes in regulatory requirements, tariffs and other trade barriers, price or exchange controls, composition or changes in taxation or other governmental policies could limit its operations and make the repatriation of profits difficult.
In addition, the uncertainty of the legal environment in some regions could limit the Groups ability to enforce its rights.
Dependence on a small number of large customers The loss of a major contract or customer could adversely affect the Groups financial condition and prospects.
It may also have wider profit and cash flow implications if Laird has sited its manufacturing plants in close proximity to theirs.
Reliance on a limited number of suppliers The Groups ability to deliver according to market demands depends in large part on obtaining timely and adequate supplies of components and raw materials on competitive terms and in line with product quality and safety standards.
Failure could interrupt its product supply, limit sales and increase costs, as well as affecting the Groups reputation and brand value.
Operational risks In common with all manufacturing industries, the Group faces the usual range of operational risks including potential business interruption from loss of a major facility or IT system, the consequences of a health and safety environmental incident and product risks arising from failure of operational controls in its own or supplier facilities.
Risks Relating to Intellectual Property Rights Our products and solutions include technologies in which we hold the intellectual property rights.
Third parties may infringe our intellectual property or commence actions seeking to establish the invalidity of the intellectual property rights of these technologies, either of which could have a material adverse effect on our results.
Additionally, recognising that our products incorporate a wide variety of technologies, claims could be asserted against the Group that we have infringed the intellectual property owned by others.
Such claims might require us to incur legal costs, to enter into settlement or licence agreements, or to face legal restrictions on selling certain products.
Environmental Risks The environmental laws of the jurisdictions in which we operate impose actual and potential obligations on the Group to comply with increasingly stringent environmental regulation, changes to which could result in unforeseen cost increases.
Additionally, the Group could be liable for remediation of contaminated sites, including some sites no longer owned by it.
The Group makes provision for the expected cost of remediation based on independent professional advice.
However, there is a risk that remediation could prove more costly than expected or that new contamination could be discovered.
34 The Laird Group PLC Exposure to increases in the prices of commodities and raw materials The raw materials used in the business include commodities such as copper and beryllium copper, steel, aluminium and zinc.
These commodities experience price volatility caused by changes in supply and demand, market fluctuations and governmental attitudes.
Loss of key management or personnel The Group is highly reliant on the continued services of its senior management, including executive directors, and other key personnel, who have skills critical to the continued successful operation of the business.
Failure to retain such individuals, or to attract and retain strong management and technical staff in the future, could have an adverse affect upon the business and the results of its operations.
Financial risks The Group is subject to various financial and fiscal risks by virtue of its global operations and customer base.
Further information on Taxation, Currency Exposures and Credit Risk are given in notes 11 and 28 to the financial statements.
Information on the Groups defined benefit pension schemes is given in note 36 to the financial statements.
Post balance sheet event On 11 February 2008, the Group announced the acquisition of Ezurio Limited, a privately owned UK company for a cash consideration of 12.5 million on a debt free basis.
Results and dividend The Group profit for the year after taxation was 127.7 million 2006, 50.7 million.
Underlying profit before tax was 76.8 million 2006, 73.3 million and is analysed in note 14 on page 71.
The Company paid a special dividend of 50p per ordinary share on 22 June 2007 following the sale of Laird Security Systems Division.
The recommended final dividend is 7.88p per ordinary share to be paid on 6 June 2008 to ordinary shareholders registered as members of the Company at the close of business on 2 May 2008, making a total dividend for the year of 61.5p per ordinary share.
Share Capital The Company has only one class of share and the rights attaching to each share are identical.
Details of the rights and obligations attaching to the shares are set out in the Companys Articles of Association which are available on its website.
The Company may refuse to register any transfer of any share which is not a fully paid share.
At a general meeting of the Company, every member has one vote on a show of hands and on a poll one vote for each share held.
Details of the voting procedure are set out in the notice of meeting.
In the year to 31 December 2007 the issued share capital was increased by the issue of 1,245,176 ordinary shares following the exercise of options under the Companys 1994 and 2003 executive share options schemes.
8 ordinary shares were issued to balance the 8 for 9 share consolidation which was announced in the Circular to Shareholders dated 19 March 2007 and which became effective on 11 June 2007.
Following this share consolidation, and as at 31 December 2007, the issued share capital of the Company was 177,262,248 ordinary shares of 28.125p each.
Details of share capital and options outstanding as at 31 December 2007 are shown in note 29 on page 84.
At the Annual General Meeting to be held on 9 May 2008, the shareholders will be requested to renew the directors power to allot shares in the Company and to renew the disapplication of pre-emption rights.
Details are set out in the notice of meeting.
At the Annual General Meeting held on 11 May 2007 a Special Resolution was passed to authorise the Company to make purchases of up to 10% of its ordinary shares on the London Stock Exchange.
As at 11 March 2008 no shares have been purchased.
Shareholders will be requested to renew this authority at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Re-election of directors The directors as shown on pages 32 and 33 were all directors throughout the year to 31 December 2007.
The Companys Articles of Association which require shareholder approval for any amendments, set out the powers of the directors and the regulations for their appointment and removal.
In accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance which requires any non-executive director serving longer than nine years on the Board to be subject to annual re-election, Mr N J Keen will offer himself for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Mr Keen fulfilled the criteria for independence as set out in the Combined Code at the time of his appointment and the Board is satisfied that Mr Keen remains free from any relationship with the executive management of the Company which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgement.
The Board believes that Mr Keen makes a valuable contribution to the Group.
During his Chairmanship, Mr Keen has overseen the restructuring of The Laird Group PLC, in particular the successful disposal of Laird Security Systems Division in April 2007 which has resulted in Laird becoming a focused electronics and technology company.
He has also overseen the strengthening and development of the Board.
The Board wishes him to continue as Chairman because of his wide experience of business, particularly in the high technology area and his long-standing financial experience.
Mr P J Hill, Mr M L Rapp and Mr A M Robb will retire by rotation and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
Mr Hill was appointed Chief Executive in 2002.
Mr Rapp was appointed Chief Executive of Laird Technologies, Inc in 2001 and was appointed as an executive director in January 2005.
Mr Robb was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director in 2004.
His comprehensive knowledge of finance and extensive international experience are a great asset to the Company.
None of the non-executive directors offering themselves for re-election has a service contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Mr Hill has a service contract with the Company and Mr Rapp has a service contract with Laird Technologies, Inc. both of which are terminable on twelve months notice.
Directors interests No director had, in the year to 31 December 2007, a material interest in any third party contract of significance with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
Directors shareholdings at 31 December 2007 are shown overleaf.
These interests were unchanged at 11 March 2008.
Details of share options are shown in the Directors remuneration report on pages 45 to 51.
The Laird Group PLC 35 Directors report continued for the year ended 31 December 2007 Ordinary Shares at 31.12.07 N J Keen 117,927 P J Hill 149,986 J C Silver 159,999 M L Rapp 46,535 Sir Christopher Hum 1,488 Professor M J Kelly 1,500 A J Reading 12,000 A M Robb 15,000 Dr W R Spivey 5,489 Employment policy The Group is organised on a decentralised basis with managers of subsidiary companies responsible for developing employment policies appropriate to the size, organisation and location of their businesses.
Various methods are used through the Group as appropriate in each location for tracking morale, motivation, retention rates and training, which are reported regularly to local management teams.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities in terms of recruitment, training and career development for all employees, including those with disabilities.
Subsidiaries are encouraged to make all employees aware of the financial and economic factors affecting the performance of their companies.
A copy of the Groups Employment and Human Rights policy statement is available on the Companys website.
Employee participation The Board recognises that the success of the business relies on the skill and dedication of its employees and therefore encourages two-way communication.
Operating subsidiaries encourage consultation at local level and performance and development reviews reinforce the link between business goals, an employees contribution and his her remuneration.
The Groups principal operating business, Laird Technologies, communicates regularly with its employees, including information on key events within the Group, charity and community involvement and employee achievements.
Corporate social responsibility In recognition that the Groups businesses and its activities involve a wide community of stakeholders including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and local communities, the Board reviews the significance of social, environmental and ethical matters which may affect the Group.
A Corporate social responsibility report providing further detail can be found on pages 41 to 44.
Health and safety at work The Group is committed to providing a safe working environment for its employees and continuous improvement is sought by the setting of objectives and targets based on relevant national and international health and safety standards and monitoring performance against these.
In addition the Group maintains a proactive communications strategy amongst all employees to promote and develop good health and safety practices.
Further information is shown in the Corporate social responsibility report on pages 41 to 44.
Research and development In recognition of the importance of investing in research and development programmes to foster product innovation and manufacturing improvements in the Group, expenditure in 2007 on research and development amounted to 25.1 million 2006, 20.9 million, of which 3.9 million has been capitalised 2006, 3.8 million.
Laird Technologies continues to develop its technology capabilities, with research and development expenditure during the year running at 4.5% of sales 2006, 5.4%.
Basis of preparation of the accounts As set out in the statement of directors responsibilities on page 52, the accounts have been prepared on a going concern basis.
A statement on going concern relating to a business requires judgement at a point in time about future events which by their nature are inherently uncertain.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
Financial assets and liabilities An analysis of Group debt is given in note 22 to the financial statements.
An analysis of financial instruments at carrying value and fair value is given in note 28 to the financial statements.
Financial instruments and related disclosures together with a discussion of derivative financial instruments and disclosure about market risk are in accordance with IFRS 7.
Supplier payment policy The Group requires its subsidiaries to negotiate clear and satisfactory arrangements for the payment of suppliers, as part of the overall terms and conditions of the supply, and to make payment accordingly.
At the year end the Group had no operating UK subsidiaries.
Directors Indemnities As permitted by the Companies Act 2006, the Company has indemnified the directors in respect of proceedings brought by third parties.
In 2005 two of the Laird Groups final salary pension schemes were merged and the trustees of the schemes, including Mr Keen who is Chairman of the trustees of one of the schemes merged, received an indemnity from the Company against any claim or other liability arising out of or in connection with the pension schemes and their agreement to the merger.
36 The Laird Group PLC Auditors It is recommended that Ernst & Young LLP be reappointed as auditors.
Shareholders At 31 December 2007 there were 3,766 shareholders.
Substantial equity interests With effect from 20 January 2007, section 198 of the Companies Act 1985, which required the notification of interests in shares, was replaced by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs issued by the Financial Services Authority, whereby notifications relate to control over exercising voting rights attached to shares.
Categories of notifiable interests include direct interests holdings of shares with voting rights attached, indirect interests those with access to voting rights and financial instruments which give the holder the formal entitlement to acquire shares with voting rights attached.
Notification must be made of each category, and also the aggregate of combined holdings, which exceed or fall below the notifiable threshold.
The requirements of the DTRs specify that notifications of holdings of over 3% only have to be made when a full percentage point increase or decrease occurs.
The Company has only one class of shares, and does not hold treasury shares, so the total number of voting rights under the DTRs is equivalent to the number of shares in issue.
As at 10 March 2008 the Company had received the notifications of control of 3% or more over the Companys total voting rights and capital in issue as set out below.
Number of Percentage Shares of voting rights Standard Life Investments Ltd 33,616,738 18.96% Aviva Plc and its subsidiaries 14,359,625 8.10% Fidelity International Limited and its subsidiaries 8,749,585 4.93% Schroders plc and its subsidiaries 13,701,565 7.73% Legal & General Group Plc 7,210,886 4.06% Lloyds TSB Group PLC 5,342,672 3.01% Charitable donations In the year to 31 December 2007, the Group gave 35,000 for charitable purposes 2006, 15,000.
Disclosure of information to the Auditors As at the date of this report, as far as each director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware.
Each director has taken such steps as he should have taken as a director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
By Order of the Board D J L HUDSON Secretary 11 March 2008 Registered office 100 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5NQ Registered in England No.
