Board of Directors Nigel Keen Peter Hill, CBE Chairman.
BSc, MBA, Chartered non-executive director in 1993 and Engineer.
Appointed Managing Director Chairman in 2000.
Chairman of the in 2001 and Chief Executive in 2002.
Nominations Committee and a member Previously held senior management of the Remuneration Committee.
positions with Invensys plc and BTR Non-executive director of Bioquell PLC.
Non-executive director of Meggitt Chairman of Axis-Shield plc, Oxford plc and a non-executive Board Member Instruments plc and Deltex Medical of United Kingdom Trade & Investment.
Andrew Robb Anthony Reading, MBE Non-executive director.
Chairman of the Appointed in 2004.
Senior independent Audit Committee and a member of the non-executive director.
Previously the Remuneration Committee and a Finance Director of Pilkington plc member of the Audit and Nominations and P&O Steam Navigation Co.
Previously an executive Non-executive director of Tata Steel director of Tomkins plc and Chairman Limited.
Non-executive director and and Chief Executive of Tomkins Corp. Chairman of the Audit Committee USA.
Non-executive director of of Tata Steel UK Limited, Kesa Taylor Wimpey Plc, Spectris plc Electricals plc and PayPoint plc.
3 The Laird Group PLC Jonathan Silver Martin Rapp Finance Director.
in 1986 and appointed to the Board Joined Laird in 1996 as General as Finance Director in 1994.
Previously Manager of the Groups EMI shielding Group Treasurer and Corporate business, becoming President of APM, Development Manager.
Appointed Chief Executive director of INVESCO Income Growth of Laird Technologies, Inc in 2001.
Previously held management positions with Monsanto.
Non-executive director of Kionix, Inc.
Professor Michael Kelly, FRS FREng Dr William Spivey Sir Christopher Hum, KCMG Non-executive director.
BSc, MSc, PhD, Non-executive director.
A member of the Remuneration the Remuneration Committee.
Currently Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Master of Prince Philip Professor of Technology Formerly President and CEO of Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge.
at the University of Cambridge, and Luminent, Inc. having previously held HM Diplomatic Service, retired.
Formerly part-time Chief Scientific Advisor to senior management positions with AT&T HM Ambassador to the Peoples the Department for Communities Corporation and Lucent Technologies.
Republic of China, having previously and Local Government.
Formerly Non-executive director of the Raytheon served as HM Ambassador, Warsaw, Cambridge Executive Director for the Company, Novellus Systems, ADC as Assistant Under Secretary of State Cambridge-MIT Institute, and previously Telecommunications and Cascade for North Asia and the Pacific, and Head of the School of Electronics, Microtech Inc.
earlier as Head of the Hong Kong Computing and Mathematics at the Department of the Foreign and University of Surrey.
