Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Board of Directors He is also a member of the CBI Presidents Andy Green Committee and a Companion of the Chief Executive Officer, 52 Chartered Management Institute.
He holds Andy was appointed Chief Executive Officer a degree in Chemical Engineering from and a member of the Board on 1 January Leeds University.
He is a member of the Nominations Committee and the Executive Committee.
Seamus Keating Previously, Andy was a Board member Chief Financial Officer, 44 at BT plc and CEO of Group Strategy and Operations.
Until April 2007, Andy was CEO Seamus has been Chief Financial Officer and of BT Global Services.
During his 21 years a member of the Board since February 2002, at BT, Andy held several senior positions, having been its Director of Group Finance Left: Seamus Keating.
Right: Andy Green including that of CEO, BT Openworld.
He began his career with Shell and He came to Logica from Getronics, where subsequently joined Deloitte Haskins & Sells.
he had been Finance Director of its Olivetti He is a Non-Executive Director of Navteq Solutions business.
Prior to that, he had been Inc, and a Board member of e-skills UK, the Finance Director of Olivettis UK operations, Sector Skills Council for IT and Telecoms.
having joined its finance function in 1989.
David brings extensive financial and general Grard Philippot management experience to the Board, having Non-Executive Director, 66 worked in the FMCG, finance, services and retail sectors.
He has an MA in Economics Grard was appointed a Non-Executive from Cambridge, is a Fellow of the Chartered Director of the Board in October 2005.
Institute of Management Accountants and a He had been President of Unilog since Member of the ACT.
During his 13-year tenure there he oversaw rapid growth.
Unilog rose from being the 23rd largest IT services company Nol Harwerth in France to its fourth largest.
Non-Executive Director, 60 Graduating from Ecole Polytechnique in Chairman, Remuneration Committee 1962, Grard began his career as an engineer Left to right: David Tyler: Nol Harwerth: Nol joined the Board as a Non-Executive with the consultancy CGO Compagnie Grard Philippot Director in January 2007, is Chairman of Gnrale dOrganisation.
In 1968, he teamed the Boards Remuneration Committee and up with four former colleagues to establish a member of the Nominations Committee.
Grard was appointed a David Tyler She is currently a Non-Executive Director member of the Management Board of Unilog Non-Executive Chairman, 55 and Deputy Chair of Sumitomo Mitsui in 1983 and president of Unilog Industrie and Banking Corporation Europe, a NonUnilog Multi-Systmes in 1987.
In February David joined Logica as a Non-Executive Director and Joint Deputy Chairman in July Executive Director of Royal Sun Alliance 2006 he was appointed to the supervisory 2007 and became Non-Executive Chairman Insurance Company, Corporate Services board of Amboise Investissement SCA.
Group and Anglo Irish Bank Corporation plc.
He is the Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Board.
From 1998 to 2003, Nol was Chief Operating David held senior financial and general Officer of Citibank International plc in London, where she created a governance model management positions with Unilever plc from 1974-1986, County NatWest Limited from that permitted rapid growth and expansion 1986-1989 and Christies International plc throughout Europe.
Nol has extensive experience in corporate governance, from 1989-1996.
From 1997 to 2006 he was the Group Finance Director of GUS plc.
He including the UK Combined Code and is currently Chairman of 3i Quoted Private Sarbanes-Oxley, international finance and risk management.
She was educated at the Equity Ltd, and a Non-Executive Director of Reckitt Benckiser plc, Experian Group Ltd University of Texas in Austin and holds a and Burberry Group plc where he chairs the Jurisdoctor degree from the University of Texas Law School.
36 also members of Group Executive Committee Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information charge of marketing and information.
He was Crister Stjernfelt appointed President and CEO of the WM-data Executive Director and Executive Vice Group in April 2001.
President Nordic Region, 64 Crister was appointed to the Board with Jim McKenna responsibility for the Nordic Region in Chief Operating Officer, 52 October 2006.
The former WM-data CEO has over three decades experience of IT services Jim was appointed Chief Operating Officer in in the region.
He joined the Board in February Crister joined WM-data in 1977 as 1998 as Chief Executive for Logica in the UK Managing Director of its Danish operations.
He was previously responsible He became Sales Director for application for Logica in continental Europe and the software in Sweden before being appointed Middle East.
Previously Jim worked for GECLeft: Jim McKenna.
Right: Crister Stjernfelt Managing Director for application software Marconi and Plessey Company plc and was operations.
He became a member of the a Non-Executive Director of AWG plc.
He is Executive Board of WM-data in 1990 and in Chairman of Azzurri Communications.
1995 was appointed Senior Vice President in Wolfhart Hauser Angela Knight CBE Non-Executive Director, 58 Non-Executive Director, 57 Wolfhart joined the Board as a Non-Executive Angela joined the Board in July 1999.
She is a member of the Audit and Remuneration Director in January 2007.
He is a member of Committees.
the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
He is currently Chief Executive Officer of She is currently Chief Executive of the British Bankers Association, and a NonIntertek Group plc, having been appointed Executive Director of International Financial to their Board as a Non-Executive Director in 2002.
Services London IFSL and Brewin Dolphin Holdings plc.
She is also a trust member vice Wolfhart started his career as a scientist in pharmacology and ergonomics before chairman of the Port of London Authority.
establishing and leading a broad range of From September 1997 to December 2006 Left: Wolfhart Hauser.
Right: Angela Knight CBE Angela was Chief Executive of the Association successful international service industry businesses in the testing industry.
For of Private Client Investment Managers and of Parliament for Erewash from 1992 to 1997 10 years he was CEO of TV Product Service Stockbrokers APCIMS.
She was also and Economic Secretary to HM Treasury Deputy Chairman of Scottish Widows and between 1995 and 1997.
GmbH and for four years CEO of TV Sd AG, the largest testing, inspection and a Non-Executive Director of Lloyds TSB plc certification company in Germany.
Angela was the Member Roger Payne Wim Dik Non-Executive Director, 59 Deputy Chairman, 69 Chairman, Audit Committee Wim joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in December 2002, having been a Roger joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director in September 2004.
An FCCA-certified non-executive director of CMG since May chartered accountant, he is Chairman of 2001.
He is the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director and a member of the Audit the Audit Committee and a member of the Nominations Committee.
In September 2005, he retired from his A professor in the Technology and Management Faculty of the Delft Technical position as Finance Director of Rentokil Initial plc, a UK-listed FTSE-100 company.
In University, he was previously Chairman and August 2006, Roger was appointed the Senior CEO of Koninklijke KPN NV, Royal Dutch Left: Roger Payne.
Prior to that, he was Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director of Biffa plc and Chairman of its Audit Committee.
He is and CEO of Royal PTT Nederland telecom holds non-executive positions with Unilever also a Non-Executive Director with Nelson and and post, Chairman of Unilevers Dutch NV, Unilever plc, AVIVA plc, Tele Atlas NV operations and Minister for Foreign Trade and Zesko Holding BV and is an adviser to Russell Holdings Limited and an independent member of the Remuneration Committee of the in the Dutch Government 198182.
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants.
