Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Report of the Directors The Directors present their report together The Directors have proposed a final dividend of 3.5 pence per share 2006: 3.4 pence per share which, when taken with the with the Financial statements of the interim dividend of 2.3 pence 2006: 2.2 pence per share paid to Company and its subsidiaries for the year shareholders on 19 October 2007 will amount to a dividend for the ended 31 December 2007.
These will be laid year of 5.8 pence 2006: 5.6 pence per share.
If approved, the final before shareholders at the Annual General dividend will be paid on 15 May 2008 to eligible shareholders on the register at close of business on 18 April 2008.
Meeting AGM to be held on 14 May 2008.
The Boards dividend policy is to ensure that shareholders benefit directly from the successful growth of the business, while continuing Business review to provide sufficient funds to invest in future growth.
The Business review can be found in the following sections of the Annual Report and Accounts: Dividend waiver details are set P P 1 13 30 0 out in note 31 on page 130 A review of the development, performance and P P 2 29 9 position of the business as well as an analysis of Share Capital Key Performance Indicators KPIs on pages 29 The share capital of the Company, issued and unissued, consists entirely of one class of ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
Each Our future direction strategic objectives P P 3 31 1 share ranks equally and carries the same rights to vote and receive for the business on page 31 dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid by the Company.
No restrictions exist on the transfer or holding of securities Chairmans statement on page 34 P P 3 34 4 in the Company under the Articles of Association.
At the AGM held on 24 May 2007, the shareholders approved a Chief Executive Officers statement on page 35 P P 3 35 5 resolution giving the Company authority to purchase up to 153,701,812 of its ordinary shares.
Following the sale of the Groups Telecom Risk Factors are on pages 54 to 55 P P 5 54 4 Products business for 265 million, the Board determined that 130 million should be returned to shareholders in the form of a A glossary of KPIs on pages 74 to 75 P P 7 74 4 share buy back programme.
The Company repurchased 83,591,195 of its ordinary shares representing 5.73% of the issued share capital These sections are incorporated into this Report by reference.
The repurchased shares were cancelled.
KPIs are identified by the symbol throughout this Report.
The share buy back programme ran from June to November 2007.
The Directors will be seeking to renew the authority to make market Principal Activities purchases up to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital of the Throughout the year, the Group was in the business of providing Company at the AGM on 14 May 2008 when the current authority will information technology services, concentrating on: expire.
At the present time the Company has no plans to exercise this the marketing, design, production, integration and maintenance of authority.
custom-built software and associated hardware systems integration The issued ordinary share capital was increased by 5,538,792 ordinary shares during the year as a result of the exercise of consultancy, applications management and project management in options under the Sharesave, Executive Share Option Scheme and the field of information technology Management Incentive Arrangement.
However, due to the share the design, development, implementation and marketing of buy back programme the overall share capital decreased and software products and the reusable elements of applications at 31 December 2007 the issued ordinary share capital totalled software, called systems kernels 1,457,646,079 shares.
the outsourcing of information technology and business services Details of shareholders with a significant P P 4 42 2 and disclosable holding are set out in the Results and Dividends substantial shareholding note on page 42 Consolidated revenue amounted to 3,073.2 million, compared with 2,420.7 million restated for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The The Company offers a number of share plans for its employees.
profit before tax was 84.1 million compared with 116.6 million restated The rights attached to ordinary shares which are the subject of awards for the year ended 31 December 2006.
The profit attributable to within any of the Companys share plans are not available until any equity holders of the parent company was 169.9 million compared share award or option granted is exercised and the shares are allotted with 82.0 million for the previous year.
Basic earnings per share or transferred to that awardee.
from total operations were 11.4 pence 2006: 6.7 pence restated.
The Trustee of each of the Companys employee benefit trusts is Adjusted basic earnings per share from continuing operations were obliged to act in the best interests of the share plans beneficiaries.
Net debt at 31 December At General Meetings, the Trustee may exercise discretion and vote 2007 stood at 483.2 million 2006: 557.1 million.
in respect of shares held in the Trust although they may not always choose to do so.
Where shares are beneficially held by an employee Restated: 2006 reported figures have been restated to reflect the disposal of the within a share plan they may direct the Trustee to vote on their behalf.
See notes to the accounts for details.
40 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Restrictions on Voting Rights Financial Instruments All shareholders entitled to attend and vote may appoint a proxy or The exposure of the Group to financial risks including the use of proxies to attend, speak and vote in their place at General Meetings.
A financial instruments and policies for hedging and the exposure to member may appoint more than one proxy provided that each proxy is price, credit, cash flow and liquidity risk can be found in Note 26 to appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares the Financial statements.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Proxy forms must be received by the Companys Registrars Amendment to the Articles of Association of the Company at least 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting as A Special Resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 14 May 2008 set out in any Notices concerning a General Meeting or in any form or to adopt new Articles of Association.
The amendments to the Articles proxy sent by or on behalf of the Company in relation to the Meeting.
are primarily to reflect the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 which The appointment of a proxy does not preclude a shareholder from are already in force, or which will come into effect during 2008.
Under attending and voting in person at a General Meeting.
Further details the Companies Act 1985 a company may only amend its Articles of may be found in the Notice of Meeting and the proxy card.
Association if the members pass a Special Resolution to that effect.
A Special Resolution is passed if more than 75% of the votes cast, Issue of New Share Capital in person or by proxy, are in favour of the resolution.
In order to allot equity securities the Directors require express authorisation from shareholders.
The authority can be granted for a Agreements period of five years.
However, the Company follows best practice and There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a party seeks shareholder approval annually to allot the Companys equity that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the securities.
Under the Companies Act 1985, the Board may not allot Company following a takeover bid.
shares for cash, except pursuant to employee share plans, without There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors first making an offer to existing shareholders to allot such shares to or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or them on the same or more favourable terms in proportion to their employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
respective shareholdings, unless this requirement is waived by a Special Resolution of the shareholders.
Directors At the AGM held on 24 May 2007 the Directors were granted the In accordance with the Articles of Association the appointment of authority to allot the Companys unissued shares up to an aggregate new Directors must be ratified by the shareholders at the Annual nominal amount of 50,721,597.
This amount represented one third General Meeting following their appointment.
In addition, one-third of the Companys issued Ordinary Share capital as at 29 March 2007. of the Directors of the Company not including any newly appointed Shareholders will be asked to renew this authority at the AGM on Directors must retire by rotation and seek re-election by the 14 May 2008. shareholders at each AGM.
Every Director should seek re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
Creditor Payment Policy and Practice The Companies Act 1985 Directors Report Regulations 1997 Further details of the election and re-election P P 4 45 5 Statement of Payment Practice require the Company to make a of the Directors can be found in the Corporate statement of its policy and practice on the payment of creditors.
governance section on page 45 The Company and its subsidiaries seek the best possible terms from suppliers appropriate to their businesses and, in placing The following changes to the Board were made during the year: orders, give consideration to quality, delivery, price and the terms 24 May 2007 Helmut Mamsch retired as Deputy Chairman and of payment which will be agreed with suppliers when the details of Senior Independent Director SID each transaction are agreed.
The Company and its subsidiaries will Wim Dik appointed as Deputy Chairman and SID continue to honour their contractual and other legal obligations and 18 July 2007 David Tyler appointed as Deputy Chairman to pay creditors on the dates agreed in contract and purchase orders.
24 July 2007 Didier Herrmann removed as an Executive Director At 31 December 2007, the number of days of annual purchases 21 Sept 2007 Martin Read retired as Chief Executive Officer represented by year-end trade creditors for the Group amounted to Jim McKenna appointed to act as Interim Chief 55 days 2006: 53 days and for the Company amounted to nil days Executive Officer 2006: 13 days.
1 Nov 2007 Cor Stutterheim retired as Chairman George Loudon retired as a Non-Executive Director Research and Development David Tyler appointed as Chairman During the year the Group invested 21.7 million 2006: 40.2 million 1 Jan 2008 Andy Green appointed as Chief Executive Officer in research and development on software products, of which 6.7 million 2006: 11.3 million was capitalised.
The biographical details of the current P P 3 36 6 Directors are listed on pages 36 and 37 The current governance structure of P P 4 44 4 the Board is illustrated on page 44 41 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Report of the Directors Directors Interests The Group continued its policy of informing and involving employees in matters which concern them through the use of Directors Interests in the shares of the regular meetings between management and employees, corporate P P 6 67 7 Company on 31 December 2007 are shown in the news magazines, intranets, the issue of bulletins and briefings.
To Remuneration Committee Report on page 67 encourage feedback and suggestions from employees, an annual staff survey is undertaken.
The results of the survey are provided to The Register of Directors Interests is available for inspection during the Board, HR and all employees.
business hours at the Groups head office and will be available for inspection at the 2008 AGM.
Further details on our Employment policies P P 7 78 8 and employee involvement are included in the Directors and Officers Insurance Corporate responsibility report on pages 78 to 81 The Company maintains insurance cover for all Directors and Officers of Group companies against liabilities which may be incurred by them Equal Opportunities while acting as Directors and Officers.
The Group is committed to providing equal opportunities to all As at the date of this report, indemnities are in force under which employees irrespective of their gender, sexual orientation, marital the Company has agreed to indemnify the Directors, to the extent status, age, religion, race or disability.
It is the Groups policy to permitted by law and the Companys Articles of Association, against give full and fair consideration to disabled persons with respect to all costs, charges, losses and liabilities that they may incur in the applications for employment, continued employment, training, career execution of their duties, powers, authorities and discretions as development and promotion, having regard to each individuals Directors of the Company, or any other company of which, at the particular aptitudes and abilities.
request of the Company, they are Directors or Officers.
Copies of these indemnities are kept at the Companys registered office and Branches are open for inspection by any member of the Company.
However, The Group continues to operate a number of overseas branches.
these indemnities do not cover the Directors or Officers for fraudulent activity.
Events after the Balance Sheet Date See page 95 and note 42, page 145 of the Financial statements.
Substantial Shareholdings At 20 March 2008 the Company had been notified that the following Remuneration Committee Report had an interest in 3% or more of the Companys share capital.
The percentages below have been calculated on the current share The Remuneration Committee report P P 5 56 6 in issue figure.
is set out on pages 56 to 73 Name Number of Shares % Auditors Schroders Investment Management Ltd 179,834,325 12.33 After due and careful consideration, the Directors have recommended Aviva Plc 134,354,731 9.21 the reappointment of  LLP as the Companys UBS Global Asset Management 101,455,905 6.95 auditors.
 LLP has expressed its willingness Fidelity International Ltd 76,334,203 5.23 to continue in office and therefore a resolution for their reappointment Legal & General Group Plc 75,534,172 5.18 will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Axa Investment Managers 72,043,934 4.94 Newton Investment Management Ltd 57,498,721 3.94 Auditors Right to Information Each person who is a Director of the Company at the date of approval Employment Policies of this report confirms that: The Group operates in a number of countries and its employment a so far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit practices vary to meet local conditions and requirements.
In all cases, information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: they are established on the basis of best practice in that country.
There is no discrimination against people with disabilities who apply b each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to to join the Group and anyone within the Group with a disability is have taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any awarded the same opportunities for promotion, training and career relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys development as other staff.
auditors are aware of that information.
Employee Involvement The Company is committed to ensuring that employees share in the success of the Company.
Employees are encouraged to participate in share option and share purchase plans.
42 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Annual General Meeting This is only a summary of the business to be conducted at the The Companys Annual General Meeting AGM will be held on AGM, the full details of the resolutions can be found in the Notice 14 May 2008 at 3.00pm at the Radisson Edwardian Grafton Hotel, of Meeting, a copy of which is available on the Companys website 130 Tottenham Court Road, London W1T 5AY.
com or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
resolutions being proposed at the 2008 AGM is set out below: llo og giic ca a.. c co om m iin nv five es stto orrs s Ordinary Resolutions Charity To receive the Directors and Auditors reports and the Audited Our staff continue to be generous in their support for charitable Accounts for the year ended 31 December 2007 causes.
The Company supports give as you earn schemes to To approve the final dividend of 3.5 pence for each ordinary share facilitate financial donations by staff via the payroll.
In addition, the for the year ended 31 December 2007 Company encourages staff to support charities and participate in local charitable events and, where possible, donates surplus computers to To approve the Remuneration Report for the year ended local good causes.
31 December 2007 When making charitable donations, the Companys aim is to To reappoint  LLP as auditors of the develop partnerships with national charities and non-governmental Company and to fix their remuneration organisations in the countries in which it operates.
To elect David Tyler as a Non-Executive Director Our community and charity policy is aimed at developing people To elect Andy Green as an Executive Director in need to help them release their potential.
Given Logicas role in the knowledge economy we have chosen the education of people, To re-elect Jim McKenna as an Executive Director particularly children, as our priority area of community work.
We To re-elect Roger Payne as a Non-Executive Director support projects that actively involve our employees and, where possible, make use of their technical knowledge and expertise.
We To re-elect Wim Dik as a Non-Executive Director also encourage our employees to raise money for causes that support To renew the authority to incur political expenditure the objective of our community policy.
To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities Political Donations and Contributions The Companys policy is not to make any donations or contributions Special Resolutions to political parties or organisations and no such payments were made Under the terms of the Companies Act 2006 the following approvals during the year.
However, the UK Political Parties, Elections and must be sought as Special Resolutions, such resolutions will be Referendums Act 2000 the Act, defines political donations and passed if 75% or more of the votes cast are in favour: political expenditure so broadly that some of our activities may fall within the definitions in the legislation.
To ensure that the requirements To change the Company name to Logica plc of the Act, along with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, To renew the authority given to the Directors to allot securities for are met, we will seek shareholder authority at the AGM for such cash other than on a pro-rata basis to shareholders expenditure.
To renew the Companys authority to purchase its own shares Future Developments This will allow the Company to repurchase the Companys Ordinary Further information on the future developments can be found on Shares up to a maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
page 31 of the Business review pages and the Chief Executives report Further information can be found in the Chairmans circular on page 35.
To adopt new Articles of Association By order of the Board P Weaver FCIS Company Secretary 20 March 2008 43
