Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Group key performance indicators 2007 T Tiit tlle e D fide efi fin niit tiio on n R Ra at tiio onal nale e Balanced business profile Percentage of Group adjusted operating profit attributable to Strengthening our position in Europe means that we have with four significant each of our major European profit centres UK, the Netherlands, now four significant profit generators.
A balanced business in European profit generators France and the Nordics.
A major profit centre is deemed which each of the four profit generators account for at least significant when it exceeds 15% of adjusted operating profit.
15% of the Groups adjusted operating profit, ensures less risk associated with negative developments in any single market.
Balanced market sector profile Revenue for each market sector within IT and business services A balanced market sector profile with no sector accounting for Financial Services, Energy and Utilities, Telecoms and Media, less than 10% or more than 30% ensures that Group revenue Industry, Distribution and Transport IDT, Public Sector as a is less susceptible in any one segment.
It also ensures profit percentage of Group IT and business services revenue.
is less volatile, by ensuring that a sufficient level of revenue is delivered from continued investment in domain expertise.
Book-to-bill Orders booked in a period divided by revenues in the period.
Provides visibility of future revenue.
A book-to-bill above one Book-to-bill is currently reported for the UK, NL, and means that the Company continues to build good order pipeline International businesses as we harmonise the reporting for future delivery.
of orders in the acquired businesses.
Organic revenue growth Percentage growth in IT and business services revenue in the Provides a measure of our ability to grow revenue within in IT and business services current year compared to revenues on a like-for-like basis in the IT and business services.
This demonstrates our ability to previous year, for example, taking into account the impact of take advantage of market growth, to use scale to generate acquisitions, divestments and currency movements.
market share and to leverage our global delivery capability to expand revenue despite price deflation caused by increased competition from offshore players in some of our geographies.
Percentage of revenue Revenue from outsourcing contracts as a percentage of IT outsourcing including applications management and from outsourcing Group revenue.
business process outsourcing are predicted to be the fastest growing segments within IT professional services in Western Europe from 2007 to 2010, with compound annual growth rates of 8.0% and 9.3% respectively source: Gartner.
Longer term value-added outsourcing contracts represent a more predictable revenue stream, assuming good project and risk management.
Our performance against these P P 2 29 9 KPIs is set out on page 29 74 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information KPIs T Tiit tlle e D fide efi fin niit tiio on n R Ra at tiio onal nale e Adjusted operating margin Adjusted operating profit as a percentage of revenue.
Adjusted This measure is used to compare quality of earnings with operating profit is operating profit excluding the results of those of our peers and to determine performance against discontinued operations, exceptional items and amortisation of our medium-term strategic objectives of delivering adjusted intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business operating margin of grater than 10% in our major geographies combination, whenever such items occur.
UK, the Netherlands, France, and the Nordics.
Adjusted earnings per Net earnings attributable to equity holders of the parent Directors annual bonuses, LTIP and the Executive Equity share EPS Company excluding, whenever such items occur, the result of Participation Plan are linked to EPS, which serves as a measure discontinued operations, exceptional items, mark-to-market of profitability in the business.
EPS growth over the relevant gains and losses on financial assets and financial liabilities three-year performance period is expected to exceed growth in designated at fair value through profit or loss, and amortisation the UK Retail Price Index by at least 3% per annum for ExEPP of intangible assets initially recognised at fair value in a business and LTIP bonus is only for one year.
combination, net of tax where applicable, divided by the weighted average number of shares outstanding in the period.
Cash conversion The net cash inflow from trading operations divided by adjusted A measure of the ability to generate cash from operations.
operating profit see adjusted operating margin KPI.
The ability to convert profit to cash is based on an internal discipline of focus on cash and the strength of the internal collections mechanism, and is a proxy for strength of relationships with customers.
Employee attrition Annualised voluntary attrition measured by number of Retention of employees, alongside ongoing training and voluntary leavers as a percentage of the total employee development, allows us to ensure that we are maintaining population.
There will always be a natural level of voluntary and upgrading the domain expertise which is a key differentiator attrition due to people retiring, decisions to change careers for Logica.
It is also a measure of our managers ability to retain and a competitive marketplace.
their employees in a market where there is significant movement of employees, particularly when the market is buoyant.
Employee satisfaction A weighted mean score for key questions in the annual Logica Assuming the response rate remains unchanged, the weighted employee survey.
Following the acquisition of Unilog and WMmean score is a measure of overall staff engagement with data, we are refining our employee satisfaction survey to ensure Logica and the change in satisfaction from year to year.
We will report on this measure in 2008.
75 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 3 76
