Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Executive Committee John Coleman Patrick Guimbal Chief Executive, International, 60 Chief Executive, Management Consulting: President, Logica in France, 52 John was appointed Chief Executive International and a member of the Executive Patrick was appointed Chief Executive of Committee of Logica in June 2003, having Logica in France in September 2007 and previously been Managing Director of the UK a member of the Executive Committee Telecoms Division.
He joined Logica in 1982, of Logica, in charge of Management and holding a variety of sales, line management Consulting in January 2006.
Patrick joined and senior positions, before moving to the Unilog in 1997 in order to design and USA to run the West Coast operation.
John implement a new strategy for Consulting.
briefly managed the UK government team Prior to this, he rose through the ranks Left to right: John Coleman: Serge Dubrana: in 1993, before then moving into Telecoms, with Bossard, a European management Patrick Guimbal including two years as Telecoms International consulting company to become an line of business director from 2000 to 2002.
Serge Dubrana General Manager, Systems Integration and Outsourcing, France, 49 Serge was appointed General Manager of the Systems Integration and Outsourcing business in France and a member of the Executive Committee of Logica in October 2007, having joined Logica upon the acquisition of Unilog in October 2005.
Serge joined Unilog in 1985 as a consultant, and from 1994 was in charge of their Industry Business Unit.
In 2002 he was appointed CEO of Unilog Germany and became a member of Unilogs Executive Committee.
Serge joined the Board of Unilog in 2005.
38 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Joe Hemming Paul Schuyt Chief Executive, UK, 45 Chief Executive, The Netherlands, 50 Joe was appointed Chief Executive of Logica Paul was appointed Chief Executive, The in the UK and a member of the Executive Netherlands in February 2003 and a member Committee in January 2007, having been of the Executive Committee in April 2004. managing director of Logicas Space and Having worked for PTT Post now TPG Paul Defence business since January 2004. joined CMG as a management consultant in Joe gained his early experience in the 1987.
He held various management positions defence industry at Thorn EMI Electronics in in the Telecoms and Public Sector markets Middlesex, UK before joining Easams, the IT prior to his being appointed country director business of the GEC-Marconi group in 1984.
Joe moved to Logica in 1995 as commercial Left: Joe Hemming.
Right: Paul Schuyt director for the Public Sector business and was subsequently appointed chief operations officer of Logica North America in 1998, where he remained until 2001, when he was appointed commercial director of Logica UK and a member of the UK management board.
Nigel Perks Nick Caplan Chief Marketing Officer, 48 Group Human Resources Director, 49 Nigel was appointed Group HR Director and Nick was appointed a member of the Executive Committee of Logica in January a member of the Executive Committee of Logica in March 2004, having been corporate 2005.
He joined Logica in May 2003 as HR Director since September 2001.
Prior Managing Director International Financial Services.
Previous experience has included to joining the Company, Nigel was a board member and European HR Director of Equifax interim Chief Executive of two software houses where he was responsible for turning plc.
Nigel previously held a variety of senior the businesses around.
Prior to this, Nick international HR roles with Prudential and Digital Equipment Co. DEC. was head of CSCs European financial services consultancy, systems integration Left: Nick Caplan.
Right: Nigel Perks and outsourcing business and prior to that as operations director of JIB, an organisation providing insurance and risk advisory services to businesses around the world.
