Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Our markets by industry We have deep Numbers rounded to nearest million Revenue knowledge across Total revenue five industry sectors.
Each sector accounts Percentage revenue growth in 2007 pro forma for between 8% and 00m 30% of Group revenue.
Revenue split by geography 0% and pro forma growth UK U nited Kingdom Nor Nordics NL Netherlands FR France fide Germany Int International Revenue Top five clients Industry, Int Apoteket UK Distribution 50m fide 89m Carrefour 41% 72m -35% 5% Deutsche Post World Net and Transport EADS Ford FR 921m 221m Nor 4% 7% 383m 14% NL 106m 3% 30% of total Group revenue Revenue Top five clients Public Sector Int 33m fide 7% 6m UK Crown Prosecution Service FR -50% 64m UK Ministry of Defence 5% Swedish Ministry of Defence NL Dutch Social Economic Domain UK 146m 372m UK NHS 19% 873m 10% 8% Nor 252m 2% 28% of total Group revenue 1 12 2 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Principal services Highlights of 2007 Looking ahead Key services we provide to our Some of the most important Key anticipated trends customers within this sector projects within this sector within this sector in the last 12 months Principal services Highlights of 2007 Looking ahead Intelligent transport systems Smart card ticketing services Transport and logistics companies ITS including road pricing, smart for Scottish Executive and continue to require sustainable card ticketing services, traffic Centro in the UK.
In the transport management and smart logistics area, ticketing and traffic Mobile ticketing on trains management applications using Manufacturing IT including and platforms for French Near Field Communications NFC manufacturing executive national carrier SNCF.
and Galileo-based location services systems MES and product will become increasingly important.
Application Management life cycle management PLM Services AMS for road pricing In the retail sector, multi-channel IT excellence and business and back office systems at convergence solutions and in transformation Transurban, Australia.
manufacturing, large-scale international consolidation, Enterprise resource planning Road pricing back office system for together with MES and PLM ERP implementations with Movenience in the Netherlands.
projects, will be our focus.
a strong focus on SAP Principal services Highlights of 2007 Looking ahead Case Management, Information Transforming Health and Safety There is a growing emphasis on Management and Data Sharing and delivering secure military delivering better services more satellite communications across efficiently to businesses and citizens, Shared Services the UK Ministry of Defence.
based on information sharing, shared services and e-services.
e-Services Applications services for the UK Home Office and web We are committed to providing Security platform for the UK Foreign applications services and Business Intelligence and Commonwealth Office.
innovative solutions to our customers to meet their needs, Training Outsourced applications deliver transformation and achieve services for the Dutch Center tangible business benefits.
Enhancing Social Care and improving health services with electronic patient record management in Sweden.
Continues 1 13 3 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Our markets by industry continued Revenue Top five clients Financial Int ABN AMRO UK Services 47m 61m Barclays Bank fide 2% -29% 53m BNP Paribas Nor 59% 87m ING 14% Rabobank 565m 5% FR 161m NL 11% 156m 5% 18% of total Group revenue Revenue Top five clients Energy Shell and Utilities Energias fide Portugal UK 105m Int Electricite fide France 165m Total -1% E. ON 482m Nor 50m 4% -1% NL fide 51m 25m FR 2% 2% 86m 29% 16% of total Group revenue Revenue Top five clients Telecoms BT Int and Media UK 27m France Telecom 36m -46% -34% fide Telefonica 22m Teliasonera -11% Vodafone 232m Nor -19% 65m FR -19% 55m 11% NL 27m 3% 8% of total Group revenue 1 14 4 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Principal services Highlights of 2007 Looking ahead Payments Processing A web-portal for tunemoney.
com, We will support our customers costs, compliance, SEPA, the first no-frills online financial to respond to rapidly changing shared service models.
This includes the necessity to meet Business transformation Centralising SEPA-compliant payments solution new complex regulatory and information platforms, distributing Logica All Payments Solution and compliance requirements.
products and processes, developing associated integration services new models for customer interaction.
delivered to a major global bank.
Management of liquidity and payments capabilities will Risk and compliance Implementing Migrated two international banks increasingly be a focus and we change programmes that meet from legacy bespoke systems will bring innovative solutions to regulatory requirements and capture to Logicas CLS solution.
meet these needs and to exploit measurable business benefits.
Piloted a mobile phone payment Insurance Insurance core scheme in the Netherlands.
systems, BPO services, hosting, fraud detection, consultancy.
Principal services Highlights of 2007 Looking ahead Operational excellence Designed and delivered the first We will continue to deploy Enterprise asset management phase of a wind farm management advanced information technology EAM, including mobile system for Energias fide Portugal, to help produce and deliver workforce management.
covering over 1,000 wind generators energy more efficiently and on 48 farms in Portugal and Spain.
Competitive markets Advanced metering, central markets, trading Completed a four-year business Specific areas of focus include and risk, billing and customer care.
transformation and migration renewable energy management, programme for RWE npowers automated meter infrastructure, Oil and Gas upstream and retail business in the UK, smart grids, emissions downstream EAM, supply chain migrating 4 million customers management and registration.
optimisation, commercial, retail on time and on budget.
Environment and regulatory compliance Emissions management, energy efficiency, Sarbanes-Oxley.
Principal services Highlights of 2007 Looking ahead Operational and business support A 40 million HR outsourcing We are continually developing our systems OSS and BSS contract with KPN, the leading portfolio of services and solutions Dutch telco see page 25. to meet the growing needs of Service fulfilment, service full-service communications assurance, network inventory Delivery of a complete MVNO providers and the convergence management solutions solution for Swisscom and of telco media markets.
Billing Particular focus will be on enabling Design, development and operation telcos to meet the demanding Managed Virtual Network of a complete IT, BSS and VAS requirements of differentiation Operators MVNO value added services environment whilst reducing costs of delivery.
for a new operator in Malaysia.
Customer relationship management CRM and business intelligence BI Content, media and nextgeneration services 1 15 5
