Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Our presence We integrate our leading European presence... Finland Employees: 2,700 Offices: 26 Sweden Norway Employees: 5,400 Employees: 500 Offices: 46 Offices: 8 UK Employees: 5,600 Denmark Offices: 31 Employees: 700 Offices: 8 Netherlands Other Europe: 100 employees Employees: 6,000 Germany Luxembourg Offices: 13 Russia Employees: 2,100 Switzerland Offices: 26 Ukraine International locations: Australia Brazil Belgium Canada Egypt CEE Employees: 500 Hong Kong India Czech Republic, Offices: 1 Indonesia Hungary, Poland, Kuwait Slovakia, Estonia Malaysia Morocco Employees: 300 Philippines France Offices: 9 Saudi Arabia Singapore Employees: 9,100 Taiwan Offices: 24 United Arab Emirates USA Spain & Portugal Figures are rounded to the nearest 100 and Employees: 1,400 include Outsourcing Offices: 8 Services employees Many of our European-based customers have International competencies are shared across operations around the globe.
We have offices the Group.
We have in-depth knowledge in five in 36 countries.
We have a leading position in market segments, which are international in Europe and significant international operations scope, and in functional areas common to all in the United States, Brazil, the Middle East, Asia industries, such as finance and accounting and and Australia.
Our global presence allows us to human resources.
We act as global partners with deliver uniform, high-quality services wherever our customers, offering a full-spectrum service our customers do business.
including consultancy, systems integration and IT and business process outsourcing.
1 16 6 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information...... w wiit th h a a s st tr ro on ng g iin nt te er rn na at tiio on na al l d fide elliiv five er ry y c ca ap pa ab biilliit ty y Onshore delivery centres Employees: 5,000 see below India Employees: 2,500 Countries served: India, UK, Netherlands, Germany, France, Nordics, USA, Morocco Australia, Malaysia Key skills: Applications Employees: 250 Development, Applications Countries served: Management, Product France, Morocco Engineering, ERP Philippines Key skills: Applications Services, Testing Services, Development, Employees: 200 Infrastructure Management, Applications Countries served: Service Desk, BPO CEE including Estonia Management, Testing UK, Netherlands, Services, ERP Services Employees: 300 Sweden, Belgium, Countries served: Czech USA Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Key skills: BPO, Ukraine, Russia, Croatia, ERP Services, Serbia, Montenegro, Applications Romania, Bulgaria, USA Development Key skills: Applications Development, Applications Malaysia Management, Product Employees: 200 Engineering, Testing Countries served: Malaysia, Services, ERP Services Singapore, Hong Kong, India, Sri Lanka, Indonesia, Thailand, Taiwan, UK Key skills: Application Development, Applications Management, ERP Services, Testing Services, Infrastructure Onshore Management, Offshore Services Offshore Our Outsourcing Services division, established in Our integrated approach to outsourced service January 2008, incorporates our previous global delivery provides maximum flexibility in meeting the service delivery organisation.
It includes around differing needs of our European customers, allowing 9,000 Logica employees working in our onshore us to meet each ones prescribed criteria for quality, and offshore centres across the globe see chart performance, security and risk.
Our onshore delivery centres in the UK, processes and technology to deliver integrated, Netherlands, Nordics, France, Portugal and uniform services that mirror each customers Australia work closely with our offshore centres requirements.
to deliver the optimal services to our clients.
1 17 7 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review Multinational organisations want IT partners that Where we are active can deliver an effective service, reduce risk, manage Our balanced geographic footprint is helping cost and support them in multiple territories in a us to create a platform for sustained growth.
allows us to intimately understand the needs The Groups services and solutions address of our customers and their local markets.
distinct customer priorities in different geographies.
In France, for example, there is considerable demand for our consultancy services, especially in the Our recent acquisitions bring us Customer Relationship Management CRM, Business closer to more customers in Europe Intelligence and Service-orientated Architecture SOA arenas.
End-to-end service has always been an Unilog and WM-data complemented Logicas important strength in the Nordics: we have a market strengths to create one of Europes leading IT and leading infrastructure management capability and business services organisations.
are acknowledged experts in Microsoft solutions in We are proud of our European heritage.
UK, Dutch, French and Nordic businesses grew in The UKs transformational government programme their respective territories over three decades.
Few plays to our strength as a systems integrator we competitors can match this depth of knowledge and work closely with public sector agencies and are one experience in Europe.
of the leading IT and business services suppliers to Cultural distinctiveness helps our business by the Space and Defence sector.
Our market leading keeping us close to our customers.
Different markets testing capability is attracting customers, not just have different dynamics, use different languages and in the Netherlands where we initially developed this have different ways of approaching complex business expertise, but across all our geographies.
About the Q&As What does the Western European IT and Q business services market look like?
Research and consulting group IDC, a specialist in IT and business services, was commissioned to provide The combined services market in Western an input to the Logica 2007 Annual report and accounts A Europe was worth $240 billion in 2007: to share with our investors an external view of the IT and 80% of demand was for IT services, the business services market in 2007 and future prospects.
remaining 20% was for business services.
This appears as a series of Q&As through this report.
Project services contracts such as system The answers represent the views of IDC.
integration, application development, The Q&As can be found as follows through the report: and IT and business consulting make up 35% of the total, outsourcing contracts p18 What does the Western European IT and account for 45% and support services the business services market look like?
p20 Do buying patterns in outsourcing differ by IDC predicts that outsourcing will account geography and customer type?
for 50% of the market by 2012, with BPO p22 What will drive demand growth in IT and contracts and payroll processing driving business services?
There will be marked geographical variations in that timeframe: p23 Which are the hot areas of end-user demand?
the UK will remain easily the most p24 What are the implications of the offshore outsourcing-oriented market.
Source: IDC p26 Are issues like corporate responsibility and climate change relevant to the IT industry?
See page 86 of the Financial P P 8 86 6 p27 How rapidly are IT and business services growing?
review for further details on our financial performance p29 What margins are achievable in outsourcing?
p30 How cyclical is the IT and business services industry and where are we in the cycle?
18 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Strong local operations in four key regions of Europe also make the business more resilient: we are less The UK business vulnerable to a downturn in a particular market.
Our more balanced geographic profile meant that a weaker performance in the UK in 2007 was partly Our overall performance in 2007 demonstrated offset by strong revenue growth and good operational the benefit of a balanced geographic profile.
performance in the Nordics and France.
Areas of strength across the Group partly Our International business, which includes our offset a weaker performance elsewhere, such operations in the United States, Brazil, Portugal, as that of our UK commercial sectors in 2007.
CEE, the Middle East, Asia and Australia, enables us While the UK Public Sector business remained to deliver to European customers in the international strong, the loss of a transport contract at the territories where they do business and brings further end of 2006 created a gap in UK commercial knowledge and skills to the Group.
revenue which was difficult to replace.
The UK commercial market, an early adopter Our acquisitions are of outsourcing and offshoring, remained delivering benefits today competitive in 2007 and we under-performed the market.
We are working to reinvigorate our Cost reductions sales effort in the UK commercial sectors and We are realising the anticipated cost benefits of saw an improvement in Energy and Utilities in integrating Unilog and WM-data into the Group.
In the second half of 2007. the French and German businesses the expected cost savings in 2007 have been realised.
Our Nordic Profit was also impacted by the weakness in operation in 2007 achieved 5 million in annualised the commercial sectors, cost provisions taken cost savings.
It is expected to deliver an incremental on a number of contracts and the resolution of 8 million in 2008 and annualised cost savings of a customer dispute.
See page 89 of the Financial P P 8 89 9 Integrating Unilog review for further information 2007 was a year of good progress for the former Unilog about the UK operation business.
In 2006 the emphasis was on combining the Unilog and Logica businesses, primarily in France and Germany.
With this achieved, the emphasis changed during 2007 and throughout 2008.
We are now focusing on introducing common processes and We strengthened our relationship with leading French systems which will result in economies of scale and utility company EDF Energy and signed several ensuring we market propositions effectively across the major contracts with them during the year, which Group to boost revenue.
demonstrate the breadth of our capabilities.
We won a We continue to achieve profitable growth in significant deal with Natixis Assurance: a 15 million Germany, with revenue up 9% to 180 million in 2007 18-month consultancy-led project to set up new claims and margins of 4.5% compared to a loss in 2006.
have been actively recruiting in the German market to Frances traditional strengths in application meet demand.
management are now supplemented by a global The French operation performed strongly during delivery capability.
We have invested in our operation in 2007.
It achieved double-digit organic revenue growth, Morocco which handles language-specific functions to demonstrating both the benefits from cross-selling service our French outsourcing clients.
and that the senior management changes in the Outsourcing wins in 2007 include, among others, second half of the year did not affect performance.
contracts with Lafarge, Air Liquide and Carrefour.
We ran an effective recruitment campaign in 2007 to For EADS we are managing applications in the UK, meet the growth in demand in France, exceeding our Germany, Italy and France.
We are implementing recruitment targets.
systems for France Telecom in Poland and the UK.
Logicas international credibility is paying dividends For Suez we are working in Belgium as well as France.
For instance, Carrefour had been an important Unilog client for many years at national level, but only now, as part of Logica, is the former Unilog client able to discuss its use of Logicas wider international capability, resulting in significant new business.
Logicas international profile and willingness to invest in future growth have been pivotal to the growth in this account.
19 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review Nordic cost savings in 2007 Do buying patterns in outsourcing differ Q by geography and customer type?
Europe is currently split between A an outsourcing fast track in Northern and Western Europe, and a slower track elsewhere.
5 m UK organisations are Europes most enthusiastic outsourcers.
Outsourcing accounts for 56% of their combined Integrating WM-data external IT and business services We are growing market share in the Nordics.
Organic spending and there is much less revenue growth exceeded the market, reaching insourced activity.
Quarter by quarter, there has been a also reasonably high in the Nordics and substantial increase in the deal pipeline since the Benelux.
The picture is more mixed in acquisition.
As a Group we are bidding for, and Germany, Spain and France.
Some of the winning, larger deals which would not have been reluctance to outsource in continental available to WM-data on its own.
European countries has traditionally Our Nordics operation has undoubtedly benefited come from labour-market regulations from Logicas international profile and broader that make outsourcing expensive and capabilities.
International reach was instrumental in cumbersome, but these regulations are project wins at Ericsson, Nokia Siemens Networks, being relaxed as enterprises put pressure DHL and IKEA.
The Groups SAP strengths helped on their governments to allow them to close deals at Sandvik, YIT and the Swedish Social adopt structures similar to competitors Insurance Agency.
based in less regulated countries.
Our leading Manufacturing Execution Systems Source: IDC MES position has allowed us to close projects with Nokia, Mlnlycke and Nutreco.
Several projects also include development and testing components to be delivered out of India.
In February 2008, Swedbank awarded Logica a five-year contract for IT development and applications management.
Under the agreement, Logica will set up a development and applications As a Group we are management centre for Swedbank as part of its operations in Bangalore, India.
bidding for, and The early stages of the integration are complete.
Our focus now is on further streamlining our systems and processes to ensure we gain economies of scale and winning, larger deals leveraging the strengths of the Nordic business, such as its leading approach to infrastructure management, which would not have as well as the strong capabilities and references it can bring to the rest of the Group, such as the project at Vattenfall see opposite page.
been available to See pages 88 to 92 of the P P 8 88 8 WM-data on its own Financial review for further information on our Nordic, French and German businesses 20 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information How our international competencies Vattenfall case are helping us to grow our company study: rethinking Consultancy and professional services utilities metering The Groups Management Consulting practice works closely with functional teams and domain specialists to deliver services tailored to clients particular needs.
Vattenfall Group supplies energy to five million Some are embedded in domain-specific teams and customers in Germany, the Nordics and Poland.
contribute expertise to systems integration and It is Europes largest heat generator and its fourth development projects.
Others work in specialist largest electricity supplier.
When Swedish legislators decreed that all energy We are a recognised market leader in the provision meters would have to be read at least monthly of high-level consultancy in architecture and systems and set a deadline of July 2009, Vattenfall faced a design.
This strength has been built on a structure that major replacement programme.
It chose to meet its aligns specialist teams around specific client needs.
obligations with an ambitious automated metering Unlike many of our domain-specific competitors programme, which would deliver additional customer our industry-specific teams also include specialists benefits.
in particular functional areas, such as finance and accounting, human resources or CRM.
Logica then WM-data played a pivotal role in Our business teams work with our customers to the consortium-led programme which provided a deliver vertical industry sector expertise, dedicated complete turnkey solution.
At its heart: WM-datas business processes, efficient solutions and emerging AM Connect, which collects meter data over the and innovative technologies.
GPRS network and forwards it to a data management In France, Logicas management consultancy system to be fed directly into billing systems.
With over 1,000 By the end of the two-year project, Vattenfall had consultants operating across all the main market equipped 150,000 meters for automated reading.
segments we are a top five consultancy in this market.
Despite very high volumes of data the system has We have established management consultancy exceeded its reliability targets.
It has boosted practices in the UK, the Netherlands, Germany and customer satisfaction and reduced the number the Nordics and are applying a common consultancy of customers querying bills.
With all of its meters framework across the whole organisation to grow our delivering daily values, the Swedish business can international consulting capability.
We have launched respond much more quickly if problems occur.
Logica Management Consulting as a distinct subbrand and are developing a range of consultancy-led Similar systems will be implemented across Europe international business propositions.
in the coming years as national governments set tough targets for more frequent metering, leading to Systems integration and development increased costs.
Vattenfall is one of the first major Logica is a renowned vendor-independent systems energy suppliers to incorporate smart metering developer and integrator.
We act as partners to into its business model.
Its automated metering software houses and infrastructure providers.
We infrastructure is providing it with up-to-date also work with our customers to help them develop information about energy flows and allowing it to bespoke systems or integrate existing systems.
predict and plan for its energy needs with far more We pay close attention to technology trends and certainty and at lower costs.
monitor how they impact our clients business.
llo og giic ca a.. c co om m casestudies casestudies Globalisation, industrialisation of technological processes, and security concerns in an era of pervasive internet connectivity are front of mind for our customers.
We understand the market so we are well placed to anticipate these trends.
We are thought leaders and innovators in a number of key domains.
We invest selectively to ensure we have the right technologies and know-how in place to help our clients navigate the changing landscape by developing new value-creating business models, defending their competitive position and maximising the efficiency of their IT estate.
21 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review SAP We are a major international force in SAP services, We are a major one of the few companies with global partner status, and support more than 100,000 SAP end-users international force in worldwide.
We are a top five provider in Europe.
Our SAP professionals, based in over 20 countries, serve a global client base of blue-chip organisations.
SAP services, one of Our consultants have extensive experience of SAP implementations.
They have the knowledge and the few companies expertise to integrate SAP software on many different systems.
We have been building closer partnerships with SAP with global partner and co-developing industry-specific solutions.
For instance, increased competition and consolidation in status, and support the gas market is generating demand for an integrated Enterprise Resource Planning ERP platform, covering elements from both the Utilities and the Oil and Gas more than 100,000 SAP industries.
Logica worked with SAP to combine its separate end-users worldwide Industry Solutions into a composite solution.
An international team worked closely with SAPs product development centre to design and build an integrated Oil and Gas and Utilities application.
This was launched in May 2007: the two companies are What will drive demand growth in IT and co-marketing the new solution and have established a Q business services?
Following this success, Logica and SAP are exploring other areas for co-innovation in From 2001-2005, enterprise spending A on IT BPO services was mainly about emerging vertical markets, notably Financial Services and the Public Sector.
Key service lines were Our strength as an innovator gained formal outsourcing, offshoring and IT and recognition during the year when Logica won SAPs process consulting.
Innovation Award in the Netherlands.
The award cited More recently, enterprises have used our Enterprise SOA work for the Traffic and Water IT and BPO as ways to grow their Ministry in the Netherlands.
The system, the first of revenues.
Both private and public sector its kind for the Ministry, allows citizens to get permits organisations are using technology to across the internet and manages real-time data flows create online services, improve service between multiple parties.
The product is suitable for quality and stimulate transformational any permit granting authority and we are exploring a programmes.
The key services number of promising opportunities.
remain unchanged but they are now supplemented by niche technology Microsoft deployment such as business intelligence We develop innovative solutions on the Microsoft and customer relationship management.
We have Gold Partner status in nine separate categories and more software Although cost will remain the decisive development licences than any other Microsoft partner.
factor, larger suppliers Logica Six thousand Logica employees work in this area, included need a wide portfolio of 1,900 of whom have earned Microsoft certifications.
services, including business consulting, During 2007, we gained high profile project wins in IT consulting, systems integration each of our territories.
For example, our security and outsourcing services, to meet solution for USB sticks, developed in Denmark, won the changing demands of their major Microsofts Global Security Solution of the Year award customers as they increasingly look to at its Denver, Colorado, partner conference in June.
their IT services suppliers to help them We also implemented a highly refined, Microsoft deliver business value.
Dynamics-based CRM system for La Poste in France Source: IDC for use by its customers.
Not only is the system designed by Logica, it is also managed by us on an outsourced basis.
22 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Our Sharepoint-based document management system Which are the hot areas of end-user is currently being deployed by NATO.
countries will be able to share information seamlessly, greatly improving international coordination and Areas driving new investments include Western security.
Another document management A wireless technologies and fixed wireless solution, a case management system for the UK convergence, business intelligence Justice system, is accelerating case processing for technologies, customer relationship the Crown Prosecution Service.
management technologies, new media and Web 2.0 technologies, on-demand Oracle and utility IT services, and the software Logica has been a certified advantage partner to as service concept.
With a dedicated Oracle practice Organisations are abandoning customin Europe including 1,400 Oracle applications built systems in favour of cheaper, off-the staff, we have been responsible for hundreds of shelf solutions, such as the big enterprise implementations worldwide.
We are the number one software packages from SAP, Microsoft Oracle applications outsourcing provider in France and Oracle.
They are looking for fulland have twice gained the prestigious title of Oracle range services suppliers that combine European Partner of the year.
We have practical advisory capabilities with practical expertise in all of the key business and technical implementation skills as well as the ability disciplines.
We offer full coverage of Oracle activities to run major processes and applications and expertise in eBusiness Suite, Siebel, Peoplesoft under an outsourcing model.
They also and JD Edwards related activities.
expect suppliers to collaborate effectively We work closely with Oracle on product with other vendors who may often be development and are active participants in the Oracle competitors to deliver complex solutions.
Our global alliance with Oracle pays Source: IDC dividends for our customers.
This year, for instance, we signed an agreement for Logicas human resources and payroll customers to get pay-as-you-go access to Oracle Human Capital Management Software, obviating the need for them to pay upfront for Oracle licences.
Oracle awarded us Innovation Partner of the We have been industrialising our remote infrastructure Year for the work.
We were also awarded Joint Partner management services to package up these services of the Year with IBM for developing an on-demand and increase the effectiveness of our blended delivery infrastructure service that is ideal for outsourcing system.
Our Oracle-based Remote Infrastructure Management RIM system provides pay-as-you-go IT and Business Process Outsourcing flexibility and we are helping to facilitate business Todays businesses see outsourcing in strategic terms transformation programmes at major international it is not simply about reducing costs.
As an IT and businesses like InBev.
business services company which focuses on the In business process outsourcing BPO we are use of technology for business transformation this strong in value-added services.
Our combination of has always been our approach.
We can draw on our sector knowledge, functional expertise and global experience of leading thousands of successful projects resources allow us to work in partnership with our to optimise business processes and to implement clients.
We are building on these relationships.
innovative solutions for our customers.
We work closely For instance in April 2007, in a significant contract with our customers to deliver cost-effective outsourced extension for fund manager Threadneedle, we services that also meet their strategic priorities.
successfully transitioned its employees to a fully We provide outsourced application management managed, SAP-based payroll processing system.
Our infrastructure Logicas strong HR outsourcing capabilities are management capability was highly commended by supported by shared service centres and offshore Forrester Research in its 2007 global survey.
We design, develop and deliver e-learning highlighted our client-centric approach and strong across Europe, where we are the third largest service European focus as particular strengths.
The Learning and Skills Council recognised Logicas strength in the sector when it awarded us a major contract to deliver the national educational infrastructure under the UK Governments Managing Information Across Partners MIAP programme.
23 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review Process industrialisation How we deliver our services We have been steadily industrialising our processes to Our blended service model combines the best enhance our ability to add value for our customers.
We competencies from around the world in the most are assembling value propositions based around costcost effective and efficient way.
The creation of our competitiveness, homogeneity and process innovation.
Outsourcing Services division in January 2008 will Ensuring cost-effectiveness is a prerequisite in build on this model and extend it further through the way we deploy resources for our customers, but the business.
increasingly, as our customers become more global it is also important to be able to operate uniform Logicas scale and international presence gives the services in multiple territories.
Homogeneity across Group the capacity to deliver world-class IT and borders is a key driver as we develop our service business services to its customers.
We are committed to continued process providing value-added services to meet the particular innovation.
For example, increased automation allows needs of our customers rather than pure relocation us to reduce costs, accelerate speed-to-market and to more cost-effective locations.
For Carrefour, for improve services for our customers, creating value for instance, we have negotiated year-on-year reductions their business.
in infrastructure management costs into the three-year contract, reflecting our confidence that we can generate Offshore service centres additional savings through process improvements.
Our largest offshore centre is in Bangalore.
During We take the view that, while cost savings are often an 2007 we opened an additional offshore centre in important driver for outsourcing activities, customers the Philippines and around 200 people are already gain greater long-term efficiencies when offshoring is employed there.
We have doubled our staffing levels combined with process innovation.
We now occupy state-of-the-art facilities in Casablanca and Rabat, which focus on supporting our French language-based activities.
The Morocco service centre acquired Capability Maturity Model Integration CMMI level 3 status during the year.
In What are the implications of the early 2008 we established an Outsourcing Services Q offshore challenge from India?
division to further develop our outsourcing model.
Indian vendors have won market This division will take end-to-end responsibility A share, particularly in the applicationfor outsourcing services, ensuring that customers development and  have access to the most efficient and cost effective markets, in part by offering services at blend of onshore, nearshore and offshore support.
This division will incorporate around 9,000 Logica employees working in our onshore, nearshore and This has forced Western-based players offshore centres.
to move some of their own workforces to lower-cost locations, both offshore and Bringing our services together nearshore.
From our onshore, nearshore and offshore centres Customers now expect their vendors we are able to deploy world-class service streams to distribute workloads across several that meet local cultural and language requirements.
centres, not just in India, to reduce risk.
We bring these services together by collaborating However, they still expect innovation, across borders.
Our approach allows us to combine added value and sometimes face-to-face multiple service streams from a range of different interaction.
Success in this market is as locations into a single, seamless service configured much about combining onshore such as around each customers requirements.
business consulting, project management and sales, nearshore and offshore such as application management and systems integration resources to good effect as it is to do with providing the lowest cost offering.
Source: IDC 24 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information How we go to market KPN case study: Because of our strong domain skills and local streamlining vital expertise, we have an excellent understanding of our HR services customers business issues.
We are also technology innovators, often first to market with new ideas to add value and transform our customers business.
Our Logicas relationship with KPN has evolved over more consultancy work often leads on to further systems than a decade.
Over the years Logica has developed, integration and consulting work.
tested and integrated mission-critical systems and provided consultancy services for the Netherlands Our value propositions include: largest telecommunications services provider.
Over the past eight years KPN has progressively Security streamlined its HR support and payroll processing.
As organisations automate and integrate their processes, the consequences of confidential In 2005, KPN decided to consolidate its HR support information falling into the wrong hands become more services at a single HR Shared Service Centre SSC in severe.
Delivering information cost-effectively and the city of Voorburg.
Its HR personnel were centralised reliably while protecting restricted data presents a big in Voorburg from 15 separate locations.
It is an especially sensitive issue for banks KPN has always considered its HR SSC in Voorburg and the public sector.
to be a stepping stone towards a fully outsourced HR Logica has one of Europes largest security support service.
In 2007, KPN took the next step: it practices.
Our international security group has granted Logica a 40m seven-year contract to take over 250 staff in nine territories in Europe and Asia.
over this centre and administer the personnel and We helped to develop many of todays security payment records for KPNs 17,000 employees.
standards and we are the UK leader in information security management.
We are involved in all areas, Under the terms of the contract, 58 HR professionals from designing security architecture to vulnerability from KPN have joined Logica.
Our HR expertise and experience of KPN processes ensures quality and assessments to biometrics.
Our clients include leading names like HP, Oracle continuity.
The Logica HR SSC for KPN now operates and NatWest.
We are developing systems for the an identical service from its Rijswijk office near European Space Agency which will ensure the security Voorburg.
of Galileo, Europes satellite navigation system and In future we will optimise processes, organisation security features for the NHS Spine, the worlds and IT at the SSC.
We will develop generic biggest civil IT programme.
In the Financial Services functionality and upscale its services to develop a arena we coordinate user access management on multi-client SSC.
KPN will see increasing benefits a worldwide basis for Royal Bank of Scotland.
We completed a successful proof-of-concept trial of facial recognition software in a live airport location llo og giic ca a.. c co om m casestudies casestudies during 2007.
Electronic payments Logica has been providing international electronic payments solutions for over 35 years.
Payments is an economies of scale business and we are leveraging our activities to reduce costs and increase the quality of our offering for Financial Services clients.
We work with leading financial institutions across Europe: in France, Germany, the UK, the Netherlands, Belgium and the Nordics.
We are assisting the European Payments Council, the bank-owned organisation which manages compliance with changing regulatory conditions, in developing the rules and the framework for the Single European Payments Area SEPA.
During 2007 we reviewed the rules for testability.
25 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review Testing Are issues like corporate responsibility Logica has always had a highly effective testing Q and climate change relevant to the resource.
We have over 3,150 International Software IT industry?
Testing Qualifications Board ISTQB certified career Very much so.
As well as tailored testing services for specific A pressure from shareholders, customers business situations like SEPA, they conduct largeand other stakeholders to prove that they scale managed testing programmes and environments.
offer environmentally friendly products We are growing our ability to offer outsourced testing and services.
They demand similarly high environments.
During 2007 we set up a testing factory standards from their suppliers.
in India and recruited 400 testers to staff it.
For customers, integrating testing into the The IT industry is developing offerings development process allows them to reduce time to that address power efficiency particularly market and improve quality.
Our applications testing in data centres, recycling and other service is helping Royal Bank of Scotland to reduce green issues.
costs and to integrate its testing procedures.
We have This is only part of a broader agenda conducted embedded testing of automotive navigation based around social responsibility: systems for Pioneer.
For ING, we took on 350 full-time how an organisation interacts with its employees, around half of whom work in testing roles.
customers, employees, the community We are transforming its testing from a resource-based and the environment.
to an outsourced, results-based service.
For Vodafone, we operate a managed staging and test environment Source: IDC allowing full end-to-end testing of new products and services prior to network launch.
See Corporate responsibility P P 7 78 8 report on page 78 Smart metering The environmental agenda is now a significant business driver.
Smart metering technology is widely cited as a key tool for raising energy awareness.
Smart meters allow utilities, major business users Our own applications meet stringent criteria for and potentially consumers to monitor their energy reliability and performance.
By understanding how Association EBA Clearing, the leading private provider energy costs vary over time, consumers can reduce of euro clearing services, has certified Logicas All energy and utilities can iron out peaks and troughs in Payments Solution LAPS for supporting its Credit consumption patterns.
Logica, with its long history of delivering meter SEPA projects call for a combination of skills.
Our solutions, is at the forefront of the industry.
Our Instant teams consult while also providing systems integration Energy data retrieval solution couples our prepayment and development capabilities.
We advise and assist technology with the ability to take remote meter banks on exploiting structural changes in the market readings in real time.
to transform their business models and derive RWE npower is one of several UK suppliers piloting competitive advantage.
For suppliers, there are clear early SEPA will in future be the sole platform for payment benefits, including prompt payment and simplified processing for all euro denominated economies.
For customers, it means greater Ultimately, every company transacting business in certainty about their energy spend.
euros will need to conform to SEPA standards.
In the longer term, smart metering could have wider implications.
Real-time billing makes it possible, for instance, for utilities to transform themselves into energy services providers, buying small-scale energy generation from homes and delivering combined energy packages.
26 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Intelligent Transport Systems ITS With transport responsible for 28% of European As Logica, we are emissions and with freight traffic expected to grow by at least 50% over the next five years, Europes one of the leading IT businesses realise that emissions control is becoming a key competitive differentiator.
Increasingly they are looking not only at saving time and money, but also at and business services ways to minimise energy usage.
We are working with them to re-engineer their value chains to meet these suppliers in Europe new priorities.
We are a market leader in the ITS arena.
Our work spans road pricing, traffic management, smart with great local ticketing systems, real-time traffic and information systems, asset management, mobile workforce strengths combined solutions, safety and security, and emission management systems.
with great local delivery We are building Group-wide processes to pursue operational excellence, reduce costs and function as one Logica How rapidly are IT and business Q services growing?
Common systems, common processes, common values Although IT services is by now a relatively The adoption of the Logica name across the Group A mature industry in Western Europe, it allows us to build a consistent brand image and still generally outperforms GDP growth.
identity with our customers in all the geographies Overall, the market grew by over 6% in in which we operate.
As Logica, we are one of the 2007: IDC forecasts around 5% CAGR leading IT and business services suppliers in Europe between 2007 and 2012. with great local strengths combined with great Among the fastest-growing IT services local delivery.
We have the scale, capabilities and are application outsourcing 8.0% CAGR reach to enable us to compete effectively for major and network and desktop outsourcing opportunities and larger customers.
identity shows our clients that they will receive the same high quality service from us, wherever they are Demand growth between vertical markets in the world.
varies from some 4.5% in manufacturing In order to help us work better as one company to 5.7% in Public Sector.
Financial we have built a strong platform to support the Services and Transport are also amongst sharing of knowledge and skills.
Sharing knowledge the faster-growing sectors.
across the organisation is a key part of improving In business services, IDC predicts 7.6% our service to our customers.
We encourage CAGR between 2007 and 2012, mostly international collaboration with shared applications fuelled by increased business process and browser-based software.
close international collaboration and multi-disciplinary Source: IDC teams: so for instance, Dutch, UK and Middle East staff shared expertise in biometrics, smart cards and systems integration when developing a national ID system for a major government.
During 2007, we started to bring universality to our business systems.
Our knowledge management platform, Cortex, has been introduced across the Group.
The Groups Agresso-based finance system is now in use in France and being adopted for use in the Nordics.
We have developed a common sales and marketing application and have unified our communications systems.
27 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review Knowledge management KM Taylor Wimpey case We recognise the importance of having effective processes in place to facilitate the sharing of study: delivering the knowledge and experience across the Group.
We benefits of outsourcing invest continuously in our KM infrastructure.
We have updated the knowledge store by incorporating new content from the French and Nordic businesses Taylor Wimpey plc was created in July 2007 when ensuring that these are held in both the original Taylor Woodrow and George Wimpey merged.
We continue to improve the It is now the UKs largest home builder.
KM platform to make it more accessible and relevant Following the merger, integrating the two companies to our people, for example, with more comprehensive legacy systems became a strategic priority for the search tools.
Our knowledge management combined organisation.
Taylor Wimpey chose to infrastructure and content management activities outsource all of its IT systems to Logica.
are all managed offshore from Bangalore.
We will continue to embed Cortex in our French and Logicas 30 million five-year contract will provide Nordic operations during 2008.
We are continuing to a consistent IT service across the enlarged UK evolve Cortex to meet the changing requirements of business.
We will be working closely with Taylor the business and anticipate a new development Wimpey to transform the organisations IT systems, Cortex 2.
We anticipate the incremental adoption of which will include hosting and project services.
Cortex 2, which will align our systems and processes Under the terms of the new contract we will provide even more closely to business objectives.
Cortex 2 will core IT services, like infrastructure management be specifically designed to support growth in software and an improved service delivery model leveraging development and applications management carried shared services which we anticipate will result in at out in our offshore centres.
least 20% in net savings over the life of the contract.
Internal systems Importantly, Logica has also joined Taylor Wimpeys An efficient back office and business support function IT leadership team.
This unique partnership approach, based on the established and trusted is vital if we are to compete effectively.
We will utilise our blended delivery model to transfer back office relationship, will see Logica work with Taylor Wimpey processes, especially for non-language critical to address their current IT issues.
We are building a llo og giic ca a.. c co om m casestudies casestudies shared service facility for our finance and accounting F&A processes based on standard systems and processes.
The programme has begun with the transfer of our UK finance administration to Bangalore.
We also relocated our UK HR services to our Manila shared service centre in the Philippines in 2007.
HR services We will utilise our in other parts of the Group will also move their activity offshore in 2008, providing an essential core reference blended delivery model site for clients considering an outsourced solution for their HR needs.
to transfer back office processes, especially for non-language critical activities, to offshore locations 28 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information How we manage and What margins are achievable Q in outsourcing?
measure our performance While hardware-centred infrastructure Our performance A outsourcing for example, running We continue to monitor performance against the KPIs datacentres can be lower-margin, areas set out in our 2006 Annual report listed here in bold.
such as application outsourcing and Our geographic profile continued to give us an business-process outsourcing BPO element of balance in what was a challenging year for are less commoditised.
This made it difficult to grow revenue faster operating margins are achievable in than the market, which we estimated to be growing at these areas.
Overall, the Group generated organic revenue growth in IT and business services of 3% to There are also strategic considerations.
Outsourcing generates stable and We sharpened our focus on core activities in 2007, predictable revenues it provides a with two notable disposals.
In early 2007, we announced ready-made customer base for crossthe sale of the Telecoms Products business to a private selling and outsourcing contracts can equity consortium.
In June 2007 we disposed of embed suppliers more deeply into their WM-datas industrial design and product development customers businesses.
This allows us to be focused on IT Theres a good operational fit between and business services across five sectors.
BPO, consulting and IT services.
IT The path to being a more mature IT services providers that combine consulting organisation, with a significant proportion of revenue capabilities with deep technology from outsourcing, also continued in 2007.
In the expertise are well placed to deliver Netherlands, our revenue from outsourcing increased value-added services.
from 13% to 18% and outsourcing now accounts for Source: IDC more than 30% of revenues in three key territories the UK, France and the Nordics.
At Group level, revenue from outsourcing was 31% in 2007.
Our balance among market sectors is further detailed on pages 12 to 15.
IDT and Public Sector Our people continued to be strong components of total Group Throughout the business our success depends on revenue at 30% and 28% respectively while Energy recruiting, developing and motivating highly skilled and Utilities represented around half that.
We aim to attract smart technical people Services revenues represented 18% in 2007.
With and develop them on the job and through formal the disposal of the Telecoms Products business, the training.
We work with them to design suitable career Telecoms and Media segment fell to less than 10% paths.
We run courses to promote virtual team working of Group revenue.
Employee satisfaction is a key metric.
Logicas A See page 12 for our P P 1 12 2 great place to work initiative is developing a clear set markets by industry of Group-wide employee policies that will strengthen the business by attracting the brightest and the best in With one of our four main profit generating geographies our industry to join the business and remain with us.
the UK disappointing in 2007, adjusted operating We assess employee satisfaction with a basket margin fell short of expectations at 6.8% 2006 pro of key questions from our annual survey, which we forma: 8.5%.
We have taken actions to redress this conducted across the wider Group for the first time in situation.
As part of our review of the business, focus 2007.
The mean overall employee satisfaction rate for will be placed on returning the UK commercial sectors Logica employees was up from 3.33 to 3.44, based on to growth.
The weaker 2007 operating performance an improved and very healthy response rate of 70%.
was somewhat offset by a lower tax rate, giving For more details, see the Corporate responsibility adjusted EPS of 10.2 pence.
We were also pleased to see staff Cash conversion, a measure of the businesss attrition held at 16% for the second year in a row ability to convert profit to cash, remained very healthy, and we exceeded recruitment targets in a number rising to 126% 2006 pro forma: 119%.
This helped us to increase our net headcount after the impact of disposals by 1,000 See page 86 of the Financial P P 8 86 6 people during 2007. review for further details on our financial performance 29 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 Business review In early 2008, we defined common values for Logica Overall employee satisfaction Attrition which we believe will be crucial in helping us to accelerate the integration of the Group and to utilise better our skills from around the world to help our customers succeed.
These values are: Committed, Innovative and Open.
3.44 1 6 % See Corporate responsibility P P 7 78 8 report on page 78 Overall staff satisfaction Group mean 2006: 16% score out of 5 for a basket of 9 questions Two key appointments during 2007 strengthened the 2006: 3.33 management team.
Andy Green took up his post as CEO at the start of 2008.
He joins David Tyler who became Chairman in November 2007.
Their arrival marks the start of a new chapter in the Logica story.
How cyclical is the IT and business The Logica brand has been adopted across the Q services industry and where are we Company from the end of February 2008 and will in the cycle?
The move to one Logica is an important step in the integration of the Group.
As Todays IT and business services industry previously communicated, we will incur an incremental A remains cyclical, but is far removed from the cost of around 5 million in 2008 to implement this.
rollercoaster cycle of the 1980s and 1990s.
There are two main reasons for this.
Outlook Firstly, most major organisations Our outlook for 2008 is set against an uncertain market have now implemented must-have environment.
Although we have seen a few incidences technologies, such as ERP and of slower spending, market activity levels generally e-commerce applications.
buying we saw with the Millennium Bug We remain alert to changes in customer sentiment and the Internet land-grab of the 1990s is and are carefully monitoring utilisation levels and a thing of the past.
We are planning more flexible resourcing now accounts for a larger slice of the through the use of subcontractors and our blended overall market than it did during the delivery capability.
Outsourcing contracts We expect the recently-announced Outsourcing are usually long-term.
They cannot easily Services division to lead to further growth in revenue be terminated at short notice and supply from outsourcing and in the percentage of work services which are crucial to the day-todelivered from offshore locations.
day running of the customers business, at Based upon our order backlog and the pipeline of lower cost than when provided in-house.
opportunities in our major markets, we currently expect 2008 constant currency revenue growth will be around The IT business cycle now mirrors the a similar level to 2007. economic cycle and reduced growth is likely in the short-term.
However, downturns also bring opportunities to grow market share for those industry players that are ready for them, for example, suppliers with strong outsourcing businesses and attractive cost-cutting propositions to sell to clients.
Source: IDC 30 Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Measuring our performance Organic revenue growth Revenue from outsourcing Cash conversion Throughout this report, Key Performance Indicators KPIs are denoted by the symbol P P 7 74 4 3.1 % 31 % 1 26 % 2006 pro forma : 2,981m 2006: 27% 2006 pro forma : 119% See pages 74 and 75 for a glossary of our KPIs F or definition of pro forma, Adjusted operating margin Dividend Adjusted earnings per share see page 86 6.
8 p 1 0.2 p 2006 pro forma : 8.5% 2006: 5.6p 2006 restated: 10.4p Recent contract wins Our future direction Order momentum improved over the last few months of 2007 and into the first months of 2008.
Andy Green joined the business as CEO in January Outsourcing wins in the UK include a new 2008 and has been spending time with customers, applications management contract with airport employees and other stakeholders.
authority BAA and an IT outsourcing contract win with the UK housing division of Taylor Wimpey.
In He has been conducting a review of the business and the Netherlands, we have signed a 40 million deal has identified some areas that need to be addressed.
with KPN to outsource its best in class HR shared Priority areas are increasing customer focus, service centre and we are developing an integrated accelerating integration across the Group, building on back office solution for travel and toll services provider the current global delivery capability and establishing Movenience.
In France, we have signed a 15 million a more competitive cost structure.
applications management outsourcing contract with The detailed conclusions of our review of the a major French bank.
business will be published by the beginning of May Order momentum has been particularly strong in 2008.
These will position Logica with a clear direction the Nordics, where we have signed our first major for the future and a clear sense of the metrics we cross-selling project involving a significant offshore will use to demonstrate to shareholders how we are component with Swedbank.
We have seen a number delivering value going forward.
of new wins in the Public Sector, which include IT outsourcing contracts with the Norwegian Department of Labour, the Oslo Department of Education, the Finnish pensions agency and several Finnish government agencies in the transport sector.
We have also signed a 10 million IT cooperation agreement with Bankgirocentralen, Swedens clearing services provider, and an applications management contract with the City of Gothenburg.
We continue to consolidate current partnerships and develop new ones.
Ford of Europe has selected Logica in the UK as a preferred supplier for IT resources, extending the relationship into its 25th year.
In the Netherlands, DSM has extended its 2005 manufacturing IT contract and we continue to build on the work we are doing with EDF in France.
We have also put a 10 million framework agreement in place with the European Patent Office.
31 Logica Annual report and accounts 2007 2 32
