Business review Governance Responsibility Financial statements Shareholder information Logica key metrics 2007 Revenue Operating profit Adjusted operating profit 3.
1bn 1 10m 2 08m 2006 restated: 2.4 billion 2006 restated: 142 million 2006 restated: 203 million Revenue by market sector pro forma growth Employees IDT Industry, Distribution T 232m and Transport 19% PS Public Sector IDT E&U 921m FS Financial Services 482m 4% 39,000 4% E&U Energy and Utilities T Telecoms and Media 3,073m 2006 continuing operations: 39,000 3% FS 565m Throughout this report, Key Performance 5% Indicators KPIs are denoted by the symbol PS 873m 8% S ee pages 74 and 75 for a P P 7 74 4 glossary of our KPIs A definition of adjusted IT and business process outsourcing This is Logica operating profit is set out on Logica offers a full range of IT outsourcing and page 111 Note 8 business process solutions and services.
We combine Who are our customers onsite, onshore, nearshore and offshore resources They are mainly European headquartered companies, through our blended sourcing model to deliver high with reach beyond the European market.
We also have quality services cost effectively and efficiently.
a strong presence in the public sector across Europe.
We focus on five industry sectors Our principal services We are deeply embedded in our chosen markets and Consultancy and professional services share skills across them.
For example, we develop Logicas management consulting practice is part of our and manage billing systems in each of our key full-service proposition for IT and business services.
In Energy and Utilities we are furthering We pinpoint specific requirements and develop the environmental and business agenda with smart pragmatic solutions.
Our international teams act as a metering and emissions management solutions.
In catalyst for change through the delivery of end-to-end Financial Services we are leading the transition to transformational programmes.
We also provide our SEPA payments processing and MiFID, while our customers with dedicated technology consultants with shared service centres are managing complex global specialist industry knowledge across all major market IT systems for banks and insurance companies.
In sectors to address their specific IT requirements.
the Industry, Distribution and Transport sector we are transforming supply chains for global businesses Systems integration and development primarily in the transport, retail and manufacturing Logica is highly regarded as a vendor-independent sectors.
We are active partners with Public Sector systems integrator.
We are an effective partner for agencies across Europe.
In Telecoms and Media our leading software providers, such as Microsoft, Oracle projects are enabling our customers to respond better and SAP, contributing excellent technical skills and to convergence.
comprehensive industry knowledge to customers looking to utilise these core business software See pages 12 to 15 for more detail P P 1 12 2 packages.
We develop bespoke systems or integrate on our markets by industry existing systems as needed to meet customer objectives.
