36 Report of the Directors Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors For the year ended 1 March 2007 The Directors present their report for the year DIRECTORS Details of all Directors service contracts or ended 1 March 2007.
The current Board of Directors is shown on letters of appointment are set out in the pages 22 and 23 of this Report.
All other PRINCIPAL ACTIVITY Directors have been elected by the shareholders The principal activity of the Group during the As mentioned elsewhere in this Report, Keith at one of the last two AGMs.
The Board year was as owner, developer and operator of Hamill left the Board on 5 December 2006.
The confirms that, following a review of the skills and themed bars and nightclubs.
Board wishes to record its thanks to him for his experience of the Directors, and of their contribution as Chairman of the Group since personal positions and commitments, it is BUSINESS REVIEW December 2001. satisfied that Richard Brooke, Debbie Hewitt and A review of the business and future Brendan McLoughlin left the Board on John Jackson remain independent of the developments are included in the Chairmans 30 November 2006 and David Longbottom left management of the Group and continue to Statement and the Business Review set out on the Board on 13 April 2007.
These Directors make a substantive contribution to the work of pages 4 to 19 of this Report.
made a significant contribution to the Groups the Board.
Alan Jacksons position is referred to The Groups exposure to financial risk and affairs and the Board is grateful to them for their in the Corporate Governance Statement on policies for financial risk management are efforts.
page 24. included within the Principal Accounting Policies Debbie Hewitt and John Jackson joined the During the year, the Group maintained liability set out on pages 47 to 51 of this Report.
Board as Non-Executive Directors on insurance for its Directors and Officers.
PROFIT AND DIVIDENDS 14 February 2007 and 1 March 2007 Other than in respect of the disposal of the The Directors declared an interim dividend respectively.
Entertainment Division to The 3D Entertainment payment of 4.88p per ordinary share, which was The Articles of Association require that oneGroup Limited of which Stephen Thomas is paid to shareholders on 5 January 2007.
The third of the continuing Directors retire by Chairman and Nick Beighton is a Director, no Board recommends the payment of a final rotation at the Annual General Meeting.
Richard Director had a material interest in any contract dividend of 12.32p per ordinary share to the Brooke is therefore retiring by rotation and is or arrangement to which the Group or any shareholders: subject to approval at the AGM, offering himself for re-election by the subsidiary was a party.
this will be paid on 24 July 2007 to shareholders shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
The interests of the Directors in the ordinary The Board is proposing the re-election as shares of the Group at 1 March 2007 and The results of the Group are summarised on Director of Alan Jackson, who has served as 2 March 2006 were as follows: page 43.
Chairman of the Group since his appointment by the Board on 5 December 2006.
Debbie Hewitt and John Jackson were appointed by the Board during the year ended 1 March 2007 and are therefore obliged under the Articles of Association to seek re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Under Article 94, these Directors are not to be taken into account in determining the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation.
Keith Hamill 32,577 Alan Jackson 5,000 n a Stephen Thomas 243,905 243,904 Nick Beighton Brendan McLoughlin 21,730 Debbie Hewitt n a John Jackson n a Martin Gatto 3,623 2,536 Richard Brooke 3,962 2,861 David Longbottom 2,400 Linda Wilding n a 20,329 Luminar plc 37 Report of the Directors Annual Report 2007 After the year end, the Group acquired further shares for Nick Beighton and the Non-Executive Directors as part of the contractual remuneration of those Directors.
The shares acquired were as follows: Total interests Date shares Number of as at acquired shares acquired 16 May 2007 Debbie Hewitt 13 March 2007 375 375 John Jackson 13 March 2007 373 373 Nick Beighton 15 March 2007 47,900 47,900 indirect shareholding these shares are currently held by the Luminar plc Employee Trust These shares were acquired pursuant to a long-term retention arrangement for Nick Beighton which is disclosed in the Remuneration Report found on pages 28 to 35.
The shares are currently held by the Luminar plc Employee Trust.
The first tranche does not vest until 31 July 2007 and the second tranche on 31 July 2008.
Other than these acquisitions and the shares SHARE CAPITAL The Board has exercised this power during the listed above, there have been no changes in the In view of the strong trading performance and year ended 1 March 2007, and in the period interests of the Directors in the share capital of resulting cash generation of the Group during between then and the signing of this report on the Group between 1 March 2007 and the date the year, the Company commenced a share buy- 16 May 2007.
The details of shares acquired by of the signing of this Report on 16 May 2007. back programme.
At the 2006 Annual General the Company are set out below.
The share buyMeeting, the shareholders gave the Company back programme is administered by the No Director had any interest in the shares of any authority to purchase up to a maximum of 10% Companys Brokers and all shares purchased of the Groups subsidiaries during the year ended of its own shares.
This authority will expire at the pursuant to this programme were cancelled.
1 March 2007. conclusion of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, at which a Special Resolution The interests of the Directors in share options will be proposed to renew the authority for a and other long-term incentive plans are set out further year.
in the Remuneration Report on page 34.
A further 1.5m of share buy-backs were committed to at the year end and were therefore accrued for, but were not paid until after the year end.
38 Report of the Directors Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Report of the Directors continued Since the year end, the Company has acquired the following number of shares: Number of Price of Date on which shares 25p ordinary shares on were acquired by the Company shares acquired acquisition Period from 2 March 2007 to 16 May 2007 5 March 2007 137,000 7.27 6 March 2007 83,597 7.35 28 March 2007 27,465 7.45 SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS At 2 May 2007 the last practical date before the approval of this Report, the Group had been notified of the following interests in the shares of the Group, pursuant to Section 793 of the Companies Act 2006: Number % Name of shareholder of shares shareholding Hermes Pensions Management 8,342,482 11.99 Schroder Investment Management 5,630,278 8.09 F&C Asset Management 5,442,048 7.82 Scottish Widows 3,352,918 4.82 Morley Fund Management 3,318,153 4.77 EMPLOYMENT POLICIES ethnic origin, national origin, religion, religious period subject to terms and conditions being The Group believes in the premise of adding beliefs, sexual orientation or age.
Creditor days for the Group at value through people and that the way in which is given to all applicants for employment from the year end amounted to 26 days 2006: 28 it attracts, retains and develops its employees will candidates with disabilities where the days of total supplies for the year.
Since the determine its ability to provide high levels of requirements of the job can be covered.
If Company does not trade, creditor days have customer service and satisfaction.
employees become disabled, every effort is not been disclosed.
made to ensure their employment continues Great emphasis is placed on training and RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT with appropriate training and reasonable development, and last year the Group launched All businesses within the Group continue to be adjustments being made.
a foundation degree in leadership and active in developing new ways of working for the management late night entertainment.
This is a The key features of the Groups Human benefit of the business and its customers.
market leading proposition which ensures that Resources HR strategy are: CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL DONATIONS unit management are professionally qualified.
It I Board approval of the HR Strategy: The Group has established a charitable trust, the also confirms the Groups status as an Investor in ECHO Trust, to channel the Groups charitable I Continual assessment under the Investors in People.
activities to those in need.
During the year People accreditation: The Groups in-house magazine, notice boards, ended 1 March 2007, a total of 173,575 2006: I People Excellence through attraction and employee forums, team briefings, staff suggestion 363,989 was raised from donations by our selection, training and development, scheme and annual opinion survey all illustrate customers in charity collections and events communication and engagement: that employees are both well informed and able organised by the Group.
These monies were to feed back and contribute towards the running paid to the ECHO Trust and a total of 221,327 I Reward and recognition which engenders a of the business.
2006: 403,079 was paid out by the ECHO stakeholder philosophy: and Trust to national and local charities.
The Group has defined its values as The I Measurement through a range of people KPIs.
Luminar Difference, which is about being more No direct contributions for charitable purposes SUPPLIER PAYMENT POLICY professional, more passionate, more principled were made during the year 2006: nil.
No AND PRACTICE and more participative.
These values apply both political donations were made during the year The Groups policy with regard to the payment internally and externally through the customer 2006: nil.
of suppliers is to agree terms of payment at the interface.
MARKET VALUE OF LAND AND BUILDINGS start of business with each supplier, to ensure Employment policies do not discriminate In the opinion of the Directors, the market value that the supplier is made aware of the standard between employees or potential employees on of land and buildings is higher than its current payment terms.
Such terms include an the grounds of gender, colour, race, nationality, carrying value in the balance sheet.
undertaking to pay suppliers within an agreed Luminar plc 39 Report of the Directors Annual Report 2007 STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS comply with IFRSs as adopted by the GOING CONCERN RESPONSIBILITIES IN RESPECT OF THE European Union and IFRSs issued by the IASB, The Directors have made enquiries into the ANNUAL REPORT, THE DIRECTORS and with regard to the parent Company adequacy of the Groups financial resources and, REMUNERATION REPORT AND THE financial statements that applicable UK having conducted a review of the Groups FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Accounting Standards have been followed, budget and medium-term plans which include The Directors are responsible for preparing the subject to any material departures disclosed capital expenditure projections and cash flow Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration and explained in the financial statements: forecasts, have satisfied themselves that Report and the Group and the parent Company adequate resources exist to ensure that the I prepare the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with Group will continue in operational existence for financial statements on the going concern basis applicable law and regulations.
For this reason, the unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Directors continue to adopt the going concern Company law requires the Directors to prepare Group will continue in business, in which case basis in preparing the Groups and the financial statements for each financial year.
Under there should be supporting assumptions or Companys financial statements.
that law the Directors have prepared the Group qualifications as necessary.
financial statements in accordance with DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO The Directors confirm that they have complied International Financial Reporting Standards AUDITORS with the above requirements in preparing the IFRSs as adopted by the European Union, and So far as the Directors are aware, there is no financial statements.
the parent Company financial statements and the relevant audit information that is, information The Directors are responsible for keeping Directors Remuneration Report in accordance needed by the Groups auditors in connection proper accounting records that disclose with with the applicable law and United Kingdom with preparing their report of which the reasonable accuracy at any time the financial Accounting Standards United Kingdom Groups auditors are unaware, and the Directors position of the Company and the Group, and to Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
In have taken the steps that they ought to have enable them to ensure that the Group financial preparing the Group financial statements, the taken as Directors, in order to make themselves statements comply with the Companies Act Directors have also elected to comply with aware of any relevant audit information and to 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and the IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting establish that the Groups auditors are aware of parent Company financial statements and the Standards Board IASB.
The Group and parent that information.
Directors Remuneration Report comply with Company financial statements are required by AUDITORS the Companies Act 1985.
They are also law to give a true and fair view of the state of  LLP have indicated responsible for safeguarding the assets of the affairs of the Company and the Group and of their willingness to continue in office, and a Company and the Group and hence for taking the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
resolution for their reappointment will be reasonable steps for the prevention and In preparing those financial statements, the proposed to the Annual General Meeting.
detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Directors are required to: The Directors are responsible for the By Order of the Board I select suitable accounting policies and then maintenance and integrity of the Companys apply them consistently: website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of I make judgements and estimates that are Tim OGorman financial statements may differ from legislation in reasonable and prudent: Company Secretary other jurisdictions.
16 May 2007 I state that the Group financial statements 40 Luminar plc Annual Report 2007 Luminar plc 41 Consolidated Financial Statements Annual Report 2007 Consolidated Financial Statements
