Governance The Board Left to right: Sir Mark Moody-Stuart, Cynthia Carroll, Ren Mdori, Bobby Godsell, David Challen, Sir Rob Margetts Sir Mark Moody-Stuart KCMG N Ren Mdori E David Challen CBE N PhD, MA, FGS Doctorate in Economics MA, MBA 67, was appointed a non-executive 50, was appointed to the Board on 64, joined the Board on 9 September 2002. director on 16 July 2002 and non-executive 1 June 2005, becoming finance director on He is chairman of the Audit Committee and a chairman on 1 December 2002.
Ren Mdori is a member member of the Remuneration Committee.
David on the Remuneration, Safety and Sustainable of ExCo, CeCom and chairman of the Challen is currently vice chairman of Citigroup Development S&SD and Nomination Investment Committee.
He is a former finance European Investment Bank and a non-executive Committees.
He is a director of HSBC Holdings director of The BOC Group plc and is a director of Smiths Group plc.
Previously he was plc, Accenture Ltd and Saudi Aramco.
Sir Mark non-executive director of Scottish and chairman of J. Henry Schroder & Co. Limited, was chairman of The Shell Transport and Southern Energy plc, fide Beers, DB Investments where he spent most of his professional career.
Trading Company plc from 1997 to 2001 and and Anglo Platinum Limited.
Mr Mdori is being He is currently deputy chairman of the UKs is a member of the board of the UN Global proposed for re-election at the AGM on Takeover Panel.
Mr Challen will succeed Sir Rob Compact and Chairman of the Global 15 April 2008.
Margetts as senior independent non-executive Compact Foundation.
Bobby Godsell N Cynthia Carroll E MA Sir Rob Margetts CBE N MSc, MBA 55, joined the Board on 18 March 1999.
BA, FREng 51, was appointed chief executive on He is a member of the S&SD Committee and 61, joined the Board on 18 March 1999 and 1 March 2007, having joined the Board on has been with the Group since 1974.
He is a was appointed as the senior independent 15 January 2007.
Cynthia Carroll chairs the former chief executive of AngloGold Ashanti.
He will Executive Committee ExCo and the Chief He is chairman of South Africas national be succeeded as the senior independent Executives Committee CeCom and sits on business organisation, BUSA, and a past non-executive director by David Challen the S&SD Committee.
She is the former president of South Africas Chamber of Mines.
He is chairman of the president and chief executive officer of Alcans Mr Godsell will retire from the Board at the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Primary Metals Group and a former director of AGM on 15 April 2008.
He is chairman of Legal AngloGold Ashanti Limited and the Sara Lee & General Group Plc, Ensus Limited and the Corporation.
She is a non-executive director of Energy Technologies Institute.
He was formerly BP plc, Anglo Platinum Limited and fide Beers.
chairman of The BOC Group plc and vice chairman of ICI PLC.
Sir Rob was also chairman of the UK Natural Environment Research Council and a member of the UK Council for Science and Technology.
In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code, directors who have served longer than nine years are subject to annual re-election and, accordingly, Sir Rob is E Executive director being proposed for re-election at the AGM on N Non-executive director 15 April 2008.
58 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 About Anglo GoAvm erenrain cacn e see also p p 61 70 directors report directors remuneration Left to right: Professor Karel Van Miert, Nicky Oppenheimer, Fred Phaswana, Dr Chris Fay, Dr Mamphela Ramphele, Peter Woicke Professor Karel Van Miert N Fred Phaswana N Dr Mamphela Ramphele N Graduate in Diplomatic Sciences MA, BCom PhD, BComm 66, joined the Board on 19 March 2002.
He is 60, joined the Board on 25 April 2006.
He is a member of the Audit and Nomination chairman of the Nomination Committee She is a member of the Nomination and S&SD Committees.
He is currently a member of the and a member of the Audit Committee.
Dr Ramphele is the chair of Circle supervisory boards of German utility RWE, Fred Phaswana is currently chairman of Anglo Capital Ventures, a black empowerment Philips NV, Munich Re and Vivendi Universal.
Platinum and Transnet Limited and a director company, and is a non-executive director of the He is also a member of the advisory boards of of Naspers and was previously BP regional Mediclinic and Business Partners S. A.
She was Goldman Sachs and Eli Lilly and a member of president: Africa, a director of BP Oil Benelux, formerly co-chair of the Global Commission on the boards of Solvay s. a. and Agfa-Gevaert.
an associate president of BP Netherlands and International Migration, a World Bank managing He was previously President of Nyenrode chairman and chief executive of BP Southern director and vice-chancellor at the University of University, Netherlands Business School, Africa.
He is also a member of the South African Cape Town.
a member of the European Parliament from Institute of International Affairs.
1979 to 1985 and a member of the European Peter Woicke N Commission from 1989 to 1999.
Professor Dr Chris Fay CBE N MBA Van Miert is being proposed for re-election at BSc, PhD, FREng, FRSE, FICE, FEI 65, joined the Board on 1 January 2006 the AGM on 15 April 2008.
62, joined the Board on 19 April 1999.
He is and is a member of the Audit, Nomination and chairman of the S&SD Committee and a S&SD Committees.
From 1999 to January Nicky Oppenheimer N member of the Remuneration and Audit 2005 he was chief executive officer of the MA Committees.
He is a non-executive director of International Finance Corporation.
He was also 62, joined the Board on 18 March 1999.
Conister Trust plc and non-executive chairman a managing director of the World Bank.
Prior to He is a member of the Nomination Committee.
of Stena International S. r. l and Expro joining the International Finance Corporation, Nicky Oppenheimer joined the Group in 1968 International Group plc.
He is a former Peter Woicke held numerous positions over and subsequently became an executive director non-executive director of BAA plc.
Chris Fay nearly 30 years with J. P. Morgan.
He is currently and a deputy chairman of Anglo American is a former chairman of Shell UK and of the a member of the Plugpower Inc. and Saudi South Africa Limited.
He became deputy British governments Advisory Committee on Aramco boards and was previously a member chairman of fide Beers Consolidated in 1985 Business and the Environment.
In accordance of the Raiffeisen International Holding and and has been chairman of fide Beers since 1998. with the provisions of the Combined Code, MTN Group boards.
directors who have served longer than nine years are subject to annual re-election and, accordingly, Dr Fay is being proposed for re-election at the AGM on 15 April 2008.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 59
