"Operating and financial review see also p p 27 10 Group financial performance Our strategy in action 4!2-!# 3 !2% & 5 %!69 Industrial Minerals Business overview 3 $% ""5, $. '"
-!4%2 !, 3 Anglo Industrial Minerals AIM sole business 4ARMAC Operating profit is Tarmac, an international heavy building THER 2006 materials producer.
In the UK it is a market $317 m leader in aggregates, asphalt, mortar and ready- 0RIMARY mixed concrete and it has significant operations 2007 AGGREGATES in concrete products, lime and cement.
It has operations in continental Europe and the Middle $474 m East, where it is principally involved in the production of crushed rock, sand and gravel, EBITDA asphalt, ready-mixed concrete and concrete !SPHALT 2006 products.
$539 m Tarmacs UK organisation consists of two business units, Aggregate Products and Building 2007 Products, which are supported by a shared service centre based in central England.
Aggregate $732 m Products comprises aggregates, asphalt, 2EADY MIXED contracting, recycling and ready-mixed concrete.
Tarmac occupies leading position CONCRETE The organisation is based in seven geographical in aggregates and ready-mix concrete areas, enabling strong local customer focus.
in the UK Building Products is made up of those businesses Operating profits climb by 38% that have essentially national markets, including excluding benefit from exchange rate cement, lime, mortar and concrete products.
movements on prior year #ONCRETE Tarmac International is a combination of Tarmac is a cash generative business BLOCKS six businesses operating in 11 countries.
It is with strong prospects in the UK and a leading producer of hard rock, sand and gravel continental Europe and concrete products in its Central European countries of operation, and of ready-mixed Following a strategic review and as concrete in the Madrid and Alicante areas of #ONCRETE announced in August, the decision was Spain.
In France and Poland, it has important FLOORING taken to sell Tarmac.
It is expected that and growing shares of the concrete products the performance of Tarmac will underpin markets.
In 2006, the company entered Turkey a competitive sale process: however it and acquired a developing business in Romania, has been decided not to launch the involving interests in quarries and readymarketing phase of the sale process until mixed concrete.
IME current credit market conditions improve.
Industry overview Tarmacs sand and gravel products are used mostly in the production of ready-mixed concrete, but are also used for fills and drainage.
ExtractedORTAR from pits and dredged from coastal waters, materials are washed and graded prior to use.
Its crushed rock is predominantly used for road construction where it is used both as a foundation and, when heated and mixed with bitumen, as a surfacing material, other #EMENT foundations, drainage, railway ballast and concrete products.
Crushed rock may also be used in ready-mixed concrete.
Tarmacs ready-mixed concrete is manufactured at production units located close to its market and is composed of sand, gravel, crushed rock, water, cement, cement replacements and other components dependent upon the performance required from the resultant mix.
Ready-mixed concrete is transported to site in specialist truck mixers designed to mix the material during transit.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 51 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued Tarmac recently increased to 100% its ownership of United Marine Holdings, a significant UK marine dredged aggregates business Right: National Contracting is part of Tarmacs Aggregates Products business, which saw profits rise 21% on 2006.
"02 & 4 Mortar and screeds consist of sand, cement Strategy and growth ""9 02 $5#4 and various admixtures dependent on their application and performance requirements."
Tarmacs strategy is to maximise shareholder Mortar is predominantly used for masonry value by exploiting its core competitive advantage !GGREGATES applications such as bricklaying and will often of maintaining reserves in established territories !SPHALT contain lime to improve working properties.
and continuing acquisitive and organic growth 2EADY MIXED CONCRETE Asphalt, which is manufactured by coating in selected regions.
In January 2008, Tarmac #EMENT graded, crushed rock with bitumen, is the main increased to 100% its ownership of United, IME product used for surfacing roads.
Applied hot Marine Holdings, a significant UK marineORTAR or cold to road foundations, asphalt is either dredged aggregates business.
Tarmac will focus #ONCRETE PRODUCTS supplied to site or collected by contractors on the UK and Europe, with increasing emphasis THER from strategically located plants.
on central and eastern Europe, where it can Using extracted materials, Tarmacs concrete develop businesses of scale.
It will also products sector provides the construction concentrate on aggregates and downstream industry with a variety of pre-fabricated activities where the latter provide routes to products, including blocks for walling, market for aggregates.
Tarmac aims to be the pre-stressed structural flooring and engineered supplier of choice across its full product range.
Several programmes are under way across Tarmacs lime and cement, which employ the UK and international businesses which will similar production processes, are added value deliver improvements in business performance materials used widely within construction.
and lay the foundations of a culture of continuous Lime is also an important product in the improvement in all businesses.
Within Tarmac environmental and industrial sectors.
as a whole, there remains significant upside The aggregates, asphalt and ready-mix potential from operational and commercial markets in which Tarmac participate are business improvements and focused growth, consolidated in the UK, with the top five players with initiatives planned to deliver that upside accounting for more than 70% of each market.
The cement market is also consolidated, with Tarmacs management team combines the leading five companies making up nearly significant industry experience with new 90% of the market.
The main aggregates perspectives from complementary industries.
players also compete, though to a lesser During 2007, changes were made to the extent, in the more fragmented concrete management teams and accountability and products market.
52 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review $ million Financial overview Tarmac Internationals higher operating profits unless otherwise stated 2007 2006 were partially offset by market weaknesses Operating profit 474 317 In 2007, Tarmacs operating profit climbed and high cost pressures in Spain and Romania.
EBITDA 732 539 by 38% excluding benefit from exchange The year witnessed a rebalancing of the rate movements to $474 million.
Although the companys international activities, with a Net operating assets 4,509 4,185 year was characterised by high cost pressures $20 million expansion programme in growth Capital expenditure 274 279 and volatile energy prices in a tight and highly areas such as Dubai and the benefits coming competitive market, disciplined margin through in 2007 from the disposal of non-core Share of Group management, procurement initiatives and or underperforming businesses in 2006. operating profit 5% 4% healthy demand from certain sectors had a Share of Group net major positive bearing on results.
In the UK, Outlook operating assets 17% 20% operating profits grew by 41% with sales A three year business plan is now in place that In 2007, Copebrs and Yang Quarry were reclassified from growing ahead of the market.
At Tarmac will deliver performance gains through to 2010, Industrial Minerals to Base Metals and Coal respectively, to align International, operating profits were 32% driven by efficiency improvements and targeted with internal management reporting.
As such, the comparative data has been reclassified.
higher, benefiting from milder weather and capital expenditure.
In the UK, a predicted buoyant markets in France, Poland and the downturn in the housing market and low Czech Republic.
investment levels in road building are expected to have a modest effect in the short term.
Markets The outlook for non-residential and civil The construction industry has experienced construction is stable, with further demand challenging market conditions over the past support in the London area from the 2012 few years, and some weakness could continue, Olympics and other major infrastructure particularly with roads and housing.
The volatility projects such as the widening of the M25 of energy prices and the impact on cement and and the potential Crossrail east-west rail link.
distribution costs will also continue to affect Internationally, Tarmac has a presence in the industry.
attractive markets with strong fundamentals and compelling growth prospects.
At a time Operating performance when industrial minerals are in high demand, The year was marked by a range of initiatives Tarmac has access to substantial reserves to drive and unlock further shareholder value 3.2 billion tonnes of quarry reserves worldwide from the current portfolio of businesses.
and has direct and stable routes to end-markets.
Overall, within the UK market, volumes in aggregates and concrete products were in line with growth in the construction markets, with lower demand in housing and roads being offset by improved demand in the commercial and infrastructure sectors.
In the UK Aggregate Products business, operating profits increased by 21% compared with the 2006 figure, mainly as a consequence of the business being well placed to capitalise on benign markets as well as successful cost savings initiatives aimed at ensuring that aggregates and asphalt deliveries come from the lowest cost source available.
In the UK Building Products business, operating profits increased by 27% compared with 2006.
Its commercial strategy was focused around offering customers comprehensive building solutions.
Cement achieved record turnover in 2007, driven by increased output in a favourable market environment.
A thorough review of the operational and commercial structure of Buxton Lime and Cement has been undertaken, a process that is now largely complete, with the consequent improvements expected to contribute $10 million of additional cost savings during the period 2008 to 2010.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 53
