Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued Projects Coal Business overview In October 2007, the $754 million, 13 Mtpa Sishen Expansion Project commenced Anglo Coal is the worlds sixth largest private Operating profit commercial production, with ramp up to sector coal producer and exporter, with operations 2006 full design capacity expected to be achieved in South Africa, Australia, South America $862 m in 2009. and Canada.
The Sishen South Project, which involves In South Africa, Anglo Coal owns and 2007 the development of a new opencast operation operates eight mines and has a 50% interest some 70 kilometres south of Sishen mine, in Mafube mine.
Four mines are in the Witbank $614 m is currently being considered for development.
coalfield which supplies some 20 million tonnes A decision to proceed with this 9 Mtpa new per annum Mtpa of thermal coals to the EBITDA mine is imminent, and is dependent on finalising export and local markets and a small volume 2006 logistical arrangements and the granting of of metallurgical coal to the export market.
A pre-feasibility study on a further is exported through Richards Bay Coal Terminal, expansion at the Sishen mine of 10 Mtpa by in which Anglo Coal has a 27% interest.
In 2007 beneficiating lower grade resources is due to addition the New Vaal, New Denmark and Kriel be completed during 2008. mines supply some 35 Mtpa of thermal coal $882 m The $183 million GEMCO expansion project to Eskom, the South African state-owned in Australias Northern Territory is on target electric power utility.
Anglo Coals Isibonelo Anglo Coal is one of the worlds biggest to increase the companys annual manganese mine produces some 5 Mtpa for Sasol Synthetic coal producers and exporters ore production capacity from 3.0 dry metric Fuels under a 21 year supply contract.
Current expansion programme to raise tonne units dmtu to 4.0 dmtu by the first half Anglo Coal is the fourth largest producer consolidated coal production to of 2009. of coal in Australia, with one wholly owned mine 115 Mtpa by 2010 and a controlling interest in another four, as well Coal is likely to remain an essential Outlook as significant undeveloped coal reserves.
Its mines part of the energy mix well into Global demand for steel is expected to remain are located in Queensland and New South Wales the future strong through 2008, underpinning demand for and produce some 34 Mtpa 25 Mtpa iron ore and manganese products.
It also owns an effective 23% promises to be a year of healthy steel interest in the Jellinbah mine in Queensland.
production growth, with year on year global In South America, Anglo Coal has a 33% output forecast to rise by 6.8%.
With iron ore shareholding in Cerrejn Coal, which has the producers struggling to bring on new capacity, capacity to produce at a rate of more than China and other major steel producing regions 28 Mtpa, with approved expansion plans to remain undersupplied.
As a result, the annual increase production to 32 Mtpa.
Cerrejn iron ore price increase with effect from 1 April produces thermal coal for export to Europe 2008 is expected to be significant.
In addition, Anglo Coal has Demand for manganese ore and alloy a 25% interest in Carbones del Guasare CDG is forecast to remain firm which, together with which owns and operates the Paso Diablo mine supply constraints in manganese ore, should in northern Venezuela.
CDG produces around result in the record ore prices seen in the latter 6 Mtpa of thermal and metallurgical coal for part of 2007 continuing well into 2008. pulverised coal injection PCI.
Manganese alloy prices will be supported Anglo Coal has a 66% interest in Peace by higher iron ore and other production costs.
River Coal, which has one operating Scaws volumes in the South African market metallurgical coal mine and significant coal are expected to grow, driven by infrastructural resources in western Canada.
Peace River Coal expansion and construction and mining is expected to produce approximately 1.5 Mtpa industry activity.
Anglo Coal also has a 60% interest Demand for Scaws products is forecast in the Xiwan coal mine lease area in China, to remain strong, driven by mining demand and where the feasibility of developing the mine infrastructure growth.
Increasing input costs is under evaluation in conjunction with Anglo will, however, place further pressure on margins.
Coals joint venture partners, the Shaanxi Coal Geological Bureau.
Anglo Coal signed shareholder agreements with Inyosi, a broad-based black economic empowerment BEE company, in November 2007, to create an empowered coal company housing key current and future domestic and export-focused coal operations in South Africa.
In terms of the agreements, Inyosi will acquire, subject to certain conditions precedent, 27% of 46 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review see also p p 27 10 Group financial performance Our strategy in action 7 2, $ # !, #.
Anglo Inyosi Coal, creating a company valued at 4ONNES OIL EQUIVALENT MILLION R7 billion and incorporating several key Anglo.
!MERICA Coal assets: namely Kriel Colliery, which is an 3 # !MERICA existing mine, and the Elders, Zondagsfontein, %UROPE %URASIAIDDLE %AST New Largo and Heidelberg projects.
!FRICA !SIA 0ACIFIC Industry overview Coal is the most abundant source of fossil fuel energy in the world, considerably exceeding known reserves of oil and gas.
The bulk of coal produced worldwide is thermal coal used for power generation.
Thermal coal is also supplied as a fuel to other industries such as the cement sector.
Metallurgical coal is a key raw material for 70% of the worlds steel industry.
"Approximately 5 billion tonnes of hard coal is produced globally each year, with the majority #OMMERCIAL SOLID FUELS ONLY 3OURCE ""0 3TATISTICAL 2EVIEW OF 7ORLD %NERGY used in the country of production."
A small volume is traded across land borders such as those between the US and Canada or between the former Soviet Union countries.
The international seaborne coal market comprises some resulted in a move away from longer term Coal is the most abundant 0.8 billion tonnes, of which some 0.6 billion contracts towards a mix of short term contracts, source of fossil fuel tonnes is thermal coal and 0.2 billion tonnes spot pricing, the development of various price energy in the world, is metallurgical coal.
indices, hedging and derivative instruments.
considerably exceeding Produced in a relatively limited number However, the extent to which the full range of countries, metallurgical coal is primarily used of pricing instruments is used, varies across known reserves of oil in the steelmaking industry and includes hard the world.
and gas coking coal, semi-soft coking coal and PCI coal.
Anglo Coal exports thermal coal from The chemical composition of the coal is South Africa, South America and Australia fundamental to the steel producers raw to customers throughout the Med-Atlantic material mix and product quality.
The market for and Indo-Pacific markets.
The balance of this coal has a majority of larger volume, longer Anglo Coals production is sold domestically term, annually priced contracts, but with some in Australia and South Africa.
In South Africa steel companies increasingly using short term a large portion of domestic sales are made contracts to meet their requirements.
to the domestic power utility, Eskom, on long Demand in this sector is fundamentally term i. e. life of mine cost-plus contracts.
driven by economic, industrial and steel demand Sales also take place to domestic industrial growth, but the Med-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific sector consumers.
In Australia, domestic sales markets have their own particular supply and are predominantly to power utilities under long demand profiles.
Price negotiations between and shorter term contractual arrangements.
Australian suppliers and Japanese steel producers Coal produced in Colombia and Venezuela generally, but not always, set the trend that is marketed by the respective companies.
influences settlements throughout the market.
Anglo Coal is a significant supplier to virtually all the major steel producing groups in the world.
The thermal coal market is supplied by a larger number of countries and producers than the metallurgical coal market, spread across the world.
Production companies vary in size and operate in a highly competitive market.
Demand for thermal coal is driven by demand for electricity and is also affected by the availability and price of competing fuels such as oil and gas, as well as nuclear power.
Driven by varying degrees of deregulation in electricity markets, customers focus increasingly on securing the lowest cost fuel supply at any particular point in time.
This has Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 47 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued $ million Strategy and growth member of the World Coal Institute.
Through unless otherwise stated 2007 2006 this and several other policy influencing bodies Operating profit 614 862 Anglo Coals strategy is focused on globalisation Anglo Coal contributes to promoting the to secure a balanced and profitable mix of interests and addressing the concerns of the South Africa 414 380 metallurgical and thermal coal assets, supplying wider coal industry.
Australia 9 279 international markets in the Med-Atlantic and While Anglo Coal continues to grow and South America 227 227 Indo-Pacific basins and, where appropriate, expand its operations in its existing geographies, selected domestic customers in the country in it is also looking at potential opportunities Projects and corporate 36 24 which the production takes place.
This will be in new regions.
It has spent $49 million on EBITDA 882 1,082 achieved by expanding existing assets, acquiring exploration and new business development new assets and by forming strategic alliances activities, investigating resources for thermal Net operating assets 3,984 2,870 that facilitate, protect and augment this strategy.
and coking coal, coal bed methane and oil Capital expenditure 1,052 782 The current and forecast growth rates in sands, mainly looking in southern Africa, China, the South African economy present numerous Australia and Canada.
It has conducted Share of Group opportunities for the coal industry, especially advanced resource evaluations of the Xiwan operating profit 6% 10% in connection with the supply and demand of project in China and projects in South Africa, Share of Group net electricity.
Anglo Coal is evaluating a number of Canada and Australia.
operating assets 15% 13% opportunities in order to continue to participate In 2007, Yang Quarry was reclassified from Industrial Minerals to in the domestic electricity supply sector and Financial overview Coal to align with internal management reporting.
As such, the comparative data has been reclassified.
is currently reviewing these opportunities with potential historically disadvantaged South Anglo Coals operating profit decreased by 29% African partners and Eskom.
This was mainly brought about In line with its growth strategy, Anglo Coal by a disappointing performance from Australian has recently agreed to acquire 70% of the operations, where port and rail infrastructure Foxleigh coal mine joint venture in Queensland, constraints across the industry, lower sales prices Australia, for $620 million.
This adds to Anglo and an 11% appreciation of the local currency Coals existing coal mining operations in the against the dollar resulted in significantly Bowen Basin, one of the worlds premier coal lower earnings.
Foxleigh currently produces 2.5 Mtpa During the period under review, Anglo Coal of PCI coal for the steelmaking industry.
Australia has recorded an impairment of The mine has production capacity of 3.3 Mtpa, $153 million against certain Australian assets to which it is expected to reach following completion reflect the latest commercial and operational of rail and port expansion projects.
The Foxleigh conditions relating to those assets.
mine adjoins Anglo Coals Capcoal German Creek operations and the associated Lake Markets Lindsay mine development, offering potential An increase in global thermal coal demand, synergies.
The mine and surrounding tenements buoyed by the influential Indian and Chinese will be the subject of ongoing exploration and markets and coupled with periods of significant feasibility studies.
supply disruptions in key producing countries, The impact of climate change is an area of resulted in a particularly strong market in the focus for the sector and Anglo Coals strategy is second half of 2007.
In addition to the supply to participate where appropriate to help address fundamentals, competing energy oil and gas the issue of carbon emissions and climate prices further supported the renaissance of change as the demand for energy continues to coal.
Recently, thermal coal price indices have grow.
Its Clean Coal Energy Alliance with Shell, set new highs.
formed last year, is evaluating the Monash In Australia, 2007 opened with a Energy project, incorporating carbon capture strengthened market for thermal coal on the and storage, in the state of Victoria, Australia.
back of strong Asia Pacific demand, particularly Anglo Coal is also part of The FutureGen from China, which experienced a reduction in Industrial Alliance, which consists of major export tonnage and a rise in domestic prices.
energy and mining companies working in Continued port congestion at Newcastle partnership with the US Department of Energy throughout the year, and storm and flood events DOE to design, construct, and operate the kept supply tight and further strengthened the worlds first near zero emissions coal-fuelled export thermal market.
Prices steadily increased power generation plant.
Although in January throughout the year and are likely to remain 2008, the DOE announced an intention to high into 2008.
Export performance from South establish an alternative programme, the Alliance Africa and from Colombia was steady.
intends to continue to work with the Metallurgical coal prices turned lower at the Administration, Congress and other stakeholders start of the year in the wake of the high 2006 to advance the project.
Anglo Coal is also a prices that were driven by increasing global 48 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review !.
However, supply constraints this could not be realised owing to the port 4ONNES MILLION from Australias congested Dalrymple Bay port, constraints and operating shifts were reduced #OKING declining Russian exports, and Chinas net here and at existing operations.
The Lake 4HERMAL importer status, resulted in a steady price Lindsay project to expand operations at Capcoal increase from April, with prices remaining high will be completed in late 2008. at year end.
Operating profit from South America was As most sales in respect of both thermal in line with 2006 at $227 million.
Coal sales and metallurgical are concluded for delivery at Cerrejn increased by 4% to 29.8 Mt as the some months hence, the full value of the rising expansion project to 32 Mtpa progressed, market will only be felt next year.
however operating costs also rose as a result of the appreciation of the Colombian peso and Operating performance high fuel prices.
In Venezuela, sales volumes Operating profit from South African sourced coal at Carbones del Guasare were marginally ahead was 9% higher at $414 million, mainly because of 2006. of a 10% rise in export prices and despite a The 66% held Peace River Coal operation decrease of nearly 1% in export sales volumes.
in Canada began producing high quality coking Production was maintained at around coal from the Trend Mine at the end of 2007.
59 million tonnes Mt, with a reduction of 0.6 Mt for the trade mines being offset by Projects a modest increase from Eskom and domestic In South Africa, the $505 million Zondagsfontein production.
Total sales, however, declined by project has been approved and is expected to just over 1% to 58.7 Mt, mainly because export deliver 6.6 Mtpa from 2010.
The $292 million sales volumes were below 2006 due to poor development of the Mafube Macro project is rail performance, adverse weather conditions progressing well, with plant commissioning The increasing demand at the Richards Bay Coal Terminal, together with commencing in mid-December 2007.
Mafube for thermal coal from some production issues.
will supply coal to Eskom and to the export China continues to Capital expenditure was $150 million higher market and it is anticipated that the mine will demonstrate coals than in 2006, the Mafube Macro and New Vaal increase thermal coal production by a total of MacWest projects being the primary contributors 5.4 Mtpa, the attributable share being 2.7 Mtpa.
strategic importance of the significant increase in expansionary capital In Australia, the expansion of the Dawson within the global expenditure of $121 million.
Complex, to increase production by 5.7 Mtpa energy mix Operating profit from the Australian 100%, is operational and ramping up to full operations fell to $9 million.
This was primarily capacity and is expected to achieve design rates due to lower realised prices, an unfavourable by the end of 2008.
At Capcoal the Lake exchange rate and higher port demurrage charges.
Lindsay development is progressing with Port and rail infrastructure constraints limited the estimated completion during the second half ability to then offset through volume increases.
The additional production from both Delays in the port and rail infrastructure Dawson and Lake Lindsay will increase coal programme have affected the operations.
production at these mines by approximately Significantly, high value metallurgical coal 9.7 Mtpa.
In addition to the current developments, capacity allocation was reduced by 2.7 Mt, Anglo Coal is reviewing a number of studies on a 100% basis, and material additional costs for key future development prospects, including were suffered owing to lengthening port queues.
Moranbah South, Grosvenor, Dartbrook and Mitigating actions have included building Saddlers Creek.
stockpiles, adjusting production profiles, securing In Colombia, the approved expansion at coal sales via alternative routes, rescheduling Cerrejn to 32 Mtpa is on schedule and should high rate vessels and renegotiating demurrage be achieved in 2008.
Thermal coal prices strengthened by 7% currently under way reviewing possibilities over 2006.
However, the 2007 coking coal of expanding the Cerrejn operation beyond settlement was below the high levels of 2006.
Operational performance improvements were limited by infrastructure constraints for all export mines except Dawson.
The Dawson expansion project will ramp up production to achieve design rates by the end of 2008.
It incurred an operating loss during 2007 following transitional issues and a change in the mine plan.
The Grasstree project at Capcoal became operational in 2007 and delivered an increase in volumes over 2006.
The full benefits of Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 49 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued Right: Night-time operations in the open pit at New Vaal colliery, which supplies thermal coal to South Africas electricity utility, Eskom The $505 million Outlook The increasing demand for thermal coal from Zondagsfontein project China continues to demonstrate coals strategic has been approved and importance within the global energy mix.
is expected to deliver Compared to oil and gas, coals security of 6.6 Mtpa from 2010 supply from widely distributed reserves make it one of the worlds most reliable energy sources.
This, together with the development and implementation of clean coal technologies will, over time, provide coal with the opportunity to make a significant contribution towards satisfying future global energy demand while addressing environmental concerns.
In South Africa, the rand dollar exchange rate and coal prices will continue to be the two main variables in 2008.
Export spot coal prices have doubled over the past six months, reaching record highs.
Globally, the high demand for electricity and increased economic activity are expected to continue into 2008, which will have a positive impact on earnings.
In Australia, port and rail expansions and related constraints are set to continue in 2008.
Alternative sales routes have been secured, enabling the large stockpiles built in 2007 to be reduced.
Infrastructure related supply constraints will result in a return to higher prices in the current contract negotiations for delivery later in 2008.
Growth from projects will deliver higher volumes in 2008.
50 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
