Operating and financial review Group overview 5.
"%!2.. '3 The Group The businesses ""Y REGION Anglo American is a global leader in !MERICAS mining focused on adding value for Precious 3OUTH !FRICA shareholders, customers, employees %UROPE and the communities in which it operates."
Platinum 2EST OF 7ORLD Anglo Platinum mines, processes and refines The Group has a range of high quality, the entire range of platinum group metals core mining businesses with balanced platinum, palladium, rhodium, ruthenium, participation across precious, base and iridium and osmium and is the worlds largest bulk commodities.
primary producer of platinum, accounting for some 37% of global supply.
Anglo Platinum has The five core mining businesses are the largest platinum reserves in the world, as Platinum, Diamonds, Base Metals, well as extensive resource capabilities and the Iron Ore Ferrous Metals and Coal.
ability to grow production in line with projected demand for the foreseeable future.
The industry The Group is geographically diverse, outlook for platinum is positive, supported in with an operating footprint spanning particular by autocatalyst and Chinese jewellery 45 countries.
All of Anglo Platinums current operations are located in South Africa.
"%!2.. '3 Further details on Anglo Platinums ""Y BUSINESS UNIT MILLION 0LATINUM strategy, the demand drivers behind the $IAMONDS business and financial results for the year ""ASEETALS can be found on pages 31 to 34 of the OFR."
&ERROUSETALS #OAL Diamonds NDUSTRIAL Anglo Americans diamond interests areINERALS represented by its 45% shareholding in fide Beers, the other shareholders being Central Holdings Ltd an Oppenheimer family holding company 40%, and the Government of the Republic of Botswana 15%.
fide Beers is the worlds leading diamond exploration, mining and marketing company.
Its expertise extends to all aspects of the diamond pipeline including prospecting, mining and recovery and through its marketing arm, the Diamond Trading Company International DTCI, the sorting, valuing and sale of rough gem diamonds.
fide Beers produces around 40% by value of global rough diamond production from its mines in South Africa and through its partnerships with the governments of Botswana, Namibia and Tanzania.
The long term supply and demand characteristics for the diamond industry are favourable, driven by continued strong jewellery demand in mature markets such as the US and increasing demand from emerging markets such as China and India.
Further details on fide Beers strategy, the demand drivers behind the business and financial results for the year can be found on pages 35 to 37 of the OFR.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 15 Operating and financial review see also p p p 10 27 31 Our strategy in action Group financial performance Review by business unit Group overview continued Base Coal The Groups coal interests are held through its Base Metals wholly owned Anglo Coal business, one of the Anglo Base Metals has 14 operations in six worlds largest private sector coal producers countries: and exporters.
In 2007, Anglo Coal produced six copper operations in Chile the wholly 95.6 million tonnes Mt from three geographic owned Los Bronces, El Soldado, Mantos regions: South Africa, Australia and South Blancos and Mantoverde mines, the America Venezuela and Colombia.
Chagres smelter and a 44% interest in the Anglo Coal produces thermal and Collahuasi mine.
The mines also produce metallurgical coals for international customers in associated by-products such as the Med-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific markets as well molybdenum and silver: as local customers in South Africa and Australia.
the Codemin nickel and Catalo niobium As energy demand and prices continue to mines in Brazil and the Loma fide Nquel rise, coal remains the worlds most abundant, nickel mine in Venezuela: affordable and secure fuel source.
With the help the Namakwa mineral sands mine and of technology it is also becoming a cleaner fuel.
plants in South Africa produce titanium Anglo Coals excellent growth prospects in dioxide, zircon and rutile, together with thermal and metallurgical coal will ensure the The Group is associated by-products: Group is firmly placed to help meet increased the Lisheen Ireland, Black Mountain global energy needs and will continue to play geographically diverse, South Africa and Skorpion Namibia an important part in Anglo Americans growth with an operating zinc mines, producing zinc and associated over the next decade.
footprint spanning by-products such as lead, copper and Further details on Anglo Coals 45 countries silver: and strategy, the demand drivers behind the a controlling interest in the phosphate business and financial results for the year fertiliser and phosphoric acid producer, can be found on pages 46 to 50 of the OFR.
Industrial Minerals Anglo Base Metals world class assets are In August 2007, Anglo American announced supported by a strong project pipeline with the plans to sell Tarmac, the aggregate products divisions extensive brownfield and greenfield and building materials business.
Tarmac has a expansion plans underpinned by a positive leading position in the UK construction outlook for copper, nickel and zinc.
materials industry and is well positioned in Further details on Anglo Base Metals certain key markets in continental Europe and strategy, the demand drivers behind the the Middle East.
It is expected that the business and financial results for the year performance of Tarmac will underpin a can be found on pages 38 to 42 of the OFR.
competitive sale process: however, it has been decided not to launch the marketing phase of Bulk the sale process until current credit market conditions improve.
Ferrous Metals Further details on Industrial Minerals Anglo Ferrous Metals primary business is iron strategy, the demand drivers behind the ore.
The division has a 63.4% shareholding business and financial results for the year in Kumba Iron Ore Limited in South Africa and can be found on pages 51 to 53 of the OFR.
a 49% interest, acquired in mid-2007, in the MMX Minas-Rio project in Brazil.
Other interests principally comprise manganese ore and alloy operations and carbon steel products.
Through Kumba, Anglo American is already the worlds fourth largest iron ore producer, with the capacity to double output over the next five years.
Further details on Ferrous Metals strategy, the demand drivers behind the business and financial results for the year can be found on pages 43 to 46 of the OFR.
16 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
