Operating and financial review Business unit overview In each business unit overview on the Platinum PGMs range: platinum, palladium, rhodium, following pages, operating profit ruthenium, iridium and osmium.
Although PGMs includes associates operating profit are the primary products of its operations, Operating profit and is before special items and base metals such as nickel, copper and cobalt 2006 remeasurements, unless otherwise sulphate are important secondary products and $2,398 m stated.
Capital expenditure relates are significant contributors to earnings.
to cash expenditure on tangible and Anglo Platinums operations exploit the 2007 biological assets.
Share of Group worlds richest reserve of PGMs, known as the operating profit and share of Group Bushveld Complex, which contains PGM-bearing $2,697 m net operating assets for both 2007 Merensky, UG2 and Platreef ores.
The company and 2006 are based on continuing has access to an excellent portfolio of ore EBITDA operations and therefore exclude reserves to ensure that it is well placed to be 2006 the contribution of Mondi and the worlds leading platinum producer for many $2,845 m AngloGold Ashanti.
Anglo Platinum currently wholly owns 2007 five mining operations, a tailings retreatment facility, three smelters, a base metals refinery $3,155 m and a precious metals refinery, all in the Limpopo Anglo Platinums and North West provinces of South Africa.
Worlds leading primary producer Each of its mines operates its own concentrator operations exploit the of platinum facilities, with smelting and refining of the worlds richest reserve Seven greenfield developments output being undertaken at its Rustenburg under way of PGMs, known as the Platinum Mines metallurgical facilities.
Ongoing strong demand from Bushveld Complex, which The companys 100% owned mining autocatalyst and jewellery sectors operations comprise Rustenburg Platinum Mines contains PGM-bearing Rustenburg, Amandelbult and Twickenham Merensky, UG2 and sections, as well as Potgietersrust Platinums Platreef ores Limited PPRust and Lebowa Platinum Mines Business overview Limited, 51% of which is held for sale.
Rustenburg Platinum Mines Union Section is 85% held, Anglo Platinum Limited, based in South Africa, with a black economic empowerment BEE is the worlds leading primary producer of consortium, the Bakgatla-Ba-Kgafela traditional platinum, accounting for about 37% of global Below: Section of Rustenburg Platinum community, holding the remainder.
It mines, processes and Mines Waterval smelter where PGM-bearing Anglo Platinum also has a 50:50 joint ore is smelted prior to further refining refines the entire platinum group metals venture with a BEE consortium, led by African Rainbow Minerals, over the Modikwa platinum mine: a joint venture with Royal Bafokeng Resources, a BEE partner, over the combined Bafokeng-Rasimone platinum mine and Styldrift properties: and a joint venture with Xstrata over the Mototolo mine.
In addition, Anglo Platinum has joint ventures with Aquarius Platinum covering the shallow reserves of the Kroondal and Marikana mines and portions of the reserves at Anglo Platinums Rustenburg Section.
In September 2007, Anglo Platinum agreed to sell assets for R7.6 billion about $1.1 billion to historically disadvantaged South African HDSA companies Anooraq Resources and Mvela Resources.
As part of the deal, an effective 51% of Lebowa Platinum and 1% of the adjacent Ga-Phasha project are being sold to Anooraq, which will then own 51% of Lebowa and Ga-Phasha.
Mvela is to acquire Anglo Platinums 50% interest in the Booysendal project as well as Anglo Platinums 22.4% shareholding in Northam Platinum Limited.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 31 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued 0, !4.
$ Interest in fuel cell technology has accelerated UNCES THOUSAND dramatically over the past decade, largely on 4OTAL PLATINUM SUPPLY the back of rising concerns about environmental 4OTAL PLATINUM DEMAND degradation and energy costs.
At present, demand is small, but gradual medium to long term growth, first in small battery replacement applications and stationary fuel cells, and later with the commercialisation of fuel cell vehicles, is envisaged.
Palladiums principal application is in autocatalysts around 50% of net demand.
Palladium is also used in electronic components, in dental alloys and more recently as an emerging jewellery metal in markets such as China.
Palladium demand growth is expected to slow against a backdrop of increasing supply expected from South African expansions and recycling from spent autocatalysts.
3OURCE OHNSONATTHEY 0LATINUM NTERIM 2EVIEW Rhodium is an important metal in autocatalytic activity, which accounts for nearly !54 #!4!, 934 $%-!.
The metal is also used in UNCES THOUSAND industrial applications such as glass-making for 2HODIUM flat panel display units.
In the short to medium 0ALLADIUM term, the market supply and demand balance 0LATINUM is expected to remain tight, supported by autocatalyst growth and glass demand for flat screen televisions.
Thrifting using less metal, typically in thinner coatings, to achieve the same catalytic effect and increased supply from UG2 reef expansions may ease the market balance in the longer term.
The other three PGMs produced are ruthenium, iridium and osmium.
In recent times, ruthenium has enjoyed strong uptake on the back of heavy demand from the electronics sector, where the metal is utilised to increase magnetic data-recording memory in hard disks and in plasma display panels of flat screen 3OURCE OHNSONATTHEY 0LATINUM NTERIM 2EVIEW televisions.
Ruthenium, along with iridium, is also used in chemical and electronic Industry overview jewellery market, followed by Japan and applications.
Osmium is employed as a catalyst North America.
in the pharmaceutical industrial sector and PGMs have a wide range of industrial and Industrial applications for platinum are to stain specimens for microscopic analysis.
Demand for driven by technology and, especially in the case platinum is driven by its use in autocatalysts of autocatalysts, by legislation.
Technological Strategy and growth to control emissions from both petrol and diesel development continues to drive industrial engine vehicles, and in jewellery.
These uses demand and ongoing research into new Anglo Platinums strategy is to develop the are responsible for 71% of net total platinum applications will create further growth in market for PGMs, expand production into that consumption.
Platinum, however, also has an this sector.
With the rapid spread of exhaust growth opportunity and conduct its business enormous range of lesser-known applications, emissions legislation, more than 93% of new safely, cost effectively and competitively.
predominantly in the chemical, electrical, vehicles sold in the world now have autocatalysts Growing demand is achieved by substantial medical, glass and petroleum industries.
The intensifying stringency of emissions investment in research and development into new The platinum jewellery market requires legislation will drive growth in PGM demand for uses for PGMs, through partners and customers constant promotion and development and autocatalysts as new legislation is applied to including Johnson Matthey plc Anglo Platinum Anglo Platinum is the major supporter of the trucks and off road vehicles in the US.
In Europe, has a 17.5% stake in Johnson Matthey Fuel Cells Platinum Guild International, which since its the increasing popularity of diesel powered Limited, and global development campaigns for inception in 1975 has played a key role in vehicles, which can only use autocatalysts that jewellery through the Platinum Guild International.
encouraging demand for platinum and establishing are predominantly platinum-based, continues These investments enable Anglo Platinum to meet new platinum jewellery markets.
Since 2000, and will further intensify demand.
its objective of growing the market.
China has been the number one platinum 32 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review see also p p 27 10 Group financial performance Our strategy in action $ million In order to meet increased demand, Anglo its use in hard disk drives.
This new use and unless otherwise stated 2007 2006 Platinum is targeting expanding production at an its relative price insensitivity have resulted in Operating profit 2,697 2,398 average compound growth rate of 5% per annum.
a structural change to the market.
Expansion will come from the development of EBITDA 3,155 2,845 Anglo Platinums own extensive resources as well Markets Net operating assets 9,234 7,078 as those where Anglo Platinum is in joint venture Current high dollar PGM market prices partly partnerships.
This growth profile requires projects reflect the up-cycle being enjoyed by most Capital expenditure 1,479 923 that will create additional new production as commodities, but are supported by strong Share of Group well as maintain existing production levels owing market fundamentals, in particular for platinum.
operating profit 28% 27% to reserve depletion from current mining activities.
Long term demand for the metal is expected to Anglo Platinums announced expansion remain robust, based on tightening automotive Share of Group net programme and ore replacement projects emissions legislation, buoyant demand in the operating assets 35% 33% underpin a sustained high level of exploration relatively price resilient Chinese jewellery activities.
Exploration is mainly directed at market, growth in existing applications and accumulating geological data in areas where emerging fuel cell technology.
PGM orebodies are known to occur and is thus Supplies of and demand for platinum are primarily focused on quantifying ore reserves expected to grow and the market is expected to and mineral resources in the Bushveld Complex.
remain balanced over the medium term, with Anglo Platinum is involved in developing short term deficits associated with reduced mining activity for PGMs on the Great Dyke of South African output.
Palladium demand is also Zimbabwe.
The Great Dyke is the second largest expected to grow but, against a backdrop of known repository of platinum after the Bushveld increasing supply from South African expansions Complex.
Development and exploration work is on higher palladium content UG2 ore, remains focused on new projects in the area, including adequately supplied.
The increased supply of the Unki mine, as well as establishing extensions rhodium from expansionary activity should ease to the resource base for future projects.
In addition, pressure on current prices in the longer term.
Anglo Platinum is involved in exploration activities in Canada, Russia, Brazil and China.
Operating performance Anglo Platinum remains committed to the Financial overview principle of zero harm and has implemented a major shift in its approach to safety.
In addition, Anglo Platinums operating profit rose by 12% steps have been implemented to align Anglo to $2,697 million.
This was mainly due to a Platinums approach to employee safety to that higher price achieved for the basket of metals adopted by the Group.
sold and a weaker average rand relative to the The creation of a culture in which safety dollar, offset by lower sales volumes on the back standards are paramount, with effective learning of reduced production from mining operations.
from safety incidents to ensure no repeats, The average dollar price realised for the underlines this new approach.
This includes basket of metals sold equated to $2,579 per a visible, felt commitment from leadership to platinum ounce, 27% higher than in 2006, eliminate harm and increase capacity to manage with firmer platinum, rhodium and nickel prices safety risks wherever they may occur.
making the largest contribution to the increase.
Clarity of personal and collective The average realised price for platinum was responsibilities, and rigid and consistent Anglo Platinums strategy $162 higher than in 2006 at $1,302 per ounce, application of standards, lie at the heart of the is to develop the market while nickel averaged $17.04 per pound against new approach to safety, which is being for PGMs, expand $10.73 in 2006.
The realised rhodium price implemented at all Anglo Platinum operations.
production into that averaged $4,344 per ounce, an increase of A significant deterioration in safety $802 per ounce over 2006, and includes the performance occurred in the first half of 2007, growth opportunity effect of existing long term contractual with 18 fatal incidents, 12 of which occurred at and conduct its business arrangements with some customers, entered Rustenburg mine.
A decision was taken to suspend safely, cost effectively into to support and develop the rhodium market.
production at all Rustenburg shafts on a staggered and competitively Anglo Platinum is at an advanced stage of basis.
Following the temporary closure of negotiations to achieve mutual recognition with Rustenburg, senior management and other its relevant customers of structural changes to relevant stakeholders developed a comprehensive the rhodium market affecting the dollar price of enhanced safety improvement plan, which is the metal.
The objective of the negotiations is being implemented over the next three years.
to move towards a contractual price for rhodium In the second half of 2007, following the initial which is market related.
The year also saw a intervention, the lost time injury frequency rate at significant increase in the price of ruthenium managed operations reduced to 1.71 compared following strong growth in demand, driven by with 2.37 as recorded in the first half of the year.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 33 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued !.
The relocation 53 OUNCE of the Ga-Puka and Ga-Sekhaolelo communities OZ 0T REFINED commenced in July 2007 under the guidance OZ 0'- REFINED of a representative task team facilitated by the office of the premier of Limpopo.
The Amandelbult East Upper UG2 project, which will contribute an additional 100,000 ounces of refined platinum per annum by 2012, is progressing on schedule.
The Rustenburg Paardekraal 2 shaft replacement project is in progress and is expected to produce 120,000 ounces of refined platinum annually by 2015, replacing decreasing production as a result of continuing Merensky ore reserve depletion.
The strong global demand for resources is placing material inflationary pressure on capital expenditure and the ability to meet project schedules, the effect of which was experienced in the latter part of 2007.
The cash operating cost per equivalent refined likely to continue in the foreseeable future.
UNCES THOUSAND platinum ounce in rand terms increased by 34% 0ALLADIUM RHODIUM AND GOLD due to reduced production, substantial Outlook 0LATINUM inflationary pressures including above inflation Anglo Platinums commitment to safety, including increases in wages, diesel, tyres, chemicals and the principle of zero harm, will continue to be an steel grinding media, costs associates with the area of focus in 2008.
The new approach to safety, safety intervention, increased support costs together with operational difficulties, has had and ramp up costs at Mototolo and Marikana.
a material impact on performance in 2007, In addition, an increase in labour complement which is likely to continue in 2008.
Production to support a planned increase in production in disruptions arising from Eskoms inability to supply mining operations in 2007 further contributed sufficient power have been experienced in 2008. to the increase in unit cost.
Consequently, refined platinum production for 2008 is expected to be 2.4 million ounces.
Projects A combination of a weak dollar, robust The implementation of the majority of Anglo demand for platinum and slower than Platinums mining and processing projects, to anticipated supply growth is supportive of expand and maintain production, continues on higher dollar prices.
Marikana and Mototolo which delivered remains buoyant, driven by rising European %XCLUDES SHARE OF.
ORTHAM 0LATINUM, IMITED first production in the last quarter of 2006 both demand for diesel vehicles and their associated increased production in 2007, adding a combined catalyst and filter requirements as well as 92,800 equivalent refined platinum ounces.
Equivalent refined platinum production Anglo Platinum approved capital Purchases of newly mined platinum for equivalent ounces are mined ounces converted expenditure totalling $1,520 million in 2007. jewellery manufacturing in China are holding up to expected refined ounces from the mines Major items included the expansion of the base well in the face of record prices, but new metal managed by Anglo Platinum and its joint metals refinery plant to 33,000 tonnes per demand is declining in the Japanese and US venture partners for 2007 decreased by annum of contained nickel by the end of 2010 jewellery markets as recycling of old jewellery is 167,200 ounces or 6% when compared with and the Townlands ore replacement project, at encouraged by the higher price levels.
This was due to the intervention aimed a capital cost of $139 million, which will replace demand remains firm, particularly in the at achieving a significant improvement in 70,000 ounces of refined platinum per annum electrical and petroleum sectors.
employee safety, as well as reduced production from 2014, with production expected from the Palladium demand for autocatalyst and efficiency following a shortage of skilled labour, new Merensky and UG2 areas at the Rustenburg industrial applications continues to grow, strike action at joint ventures, the unsettled Townlands shaft.
supported by the low price relative to platinum.
labour situation associated with wage The $188 million Mainstream inert grind Jewellery demand is expected to take negotiations and lower grades at Potgietersrust.
projects were approved in November 2007. increasing market share from white gold Refined platinum production for 2007 These projects will improve mineral liberation as palladium prices have lagged the recent decreased by 12% to 2.47 million ounces.
The and metallurgical performance within the significant increase in the gold price.
Palladium decrease is attributable to the reduced production process flow of the current concentrators, prices continue to trade in a narrow band and experienced in 2007 as well as the one-off and will result in an increase in PGM recovery.
remain vulnerable to a change in investor and release of 112,000 ounces from the process The PPRust North expansion project, which fund sentiment.
pipeline in 2006, due to the effect of the will mill an additional 600,000 tonnes of ore Prices for rhodium are anticipated to stay shutdown of the Polokwane smelter in late 2005. per month, is progressing.
Commissioning of the strong as the market remains finely balanced.
34 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
