Operating and financial review see also p p 27 10 Group financial performance Our strategy in action Diamonds Business overview Rough or uncut diamonds are broadly classified either as gem diamonds or industrial quality Anglo Americans diamond interests are diamonds, with gem representing by far the Share of associates operating profit represented by its 45% shareholding in larger of the two markets by value.
The other shareholders in fide Beers world market for gem diamonds is in retail $463 m are Central Holdings Limited an Oppenheimer jewellery where aspects such as size, colour, family owned company, which owns 40%, shape and clarity have a large impact on 2007 and the Government of the Republic of valuation.
fide Beers, through DTCI, supplies its Botswana GRB with 15%.
clients known as sightholders with parcels of $484 m fide Beers is the worlds leading diamond rough diamonds that are specifically aligned to business, with expertise in the exploration, their respective cutting and polishing needs.
EBITDA mining and marketing of diamonds.
fide Beers fide Beers and Mot Hennessy Louis Vuitton 2006 and its joint venture partners operate in more have established a high-end retail jewellery joint $541 m than 20 countries across five continents, venture, through fide Beers Diamond Jewellers, employing nearly 22,000 people.
From its with stores in the most fashionable areas of 2007 15 mines across Botswana, Canada, Namibia, some of the worlds great cities, including South Africa and Tanzania, fide Beers produces New York, Los Angeles, London, Paris, Tokyo, $587 m approximately 40% of the worlds rough Moscow and Dubai, with aggressive plans for diamonds by value.
expanding the global network in future.
fide Beers remains world leader fide Beers holds a 50% interest in both the fide Beers, through Element Six, is a major in diamonds after 120 years Debswana Diamond Company Proprietary producer of synthetic industrial diamond Diamond production again exceeds Limited and Namdeb Diamond Corporation material: applications include cutting, grinding, 51 million carats Proprietary Limited, owned jointly with the polishing, wire making and other technical and Resilience of diamond jewellery GRB and the Government of the Republic of scientific uses.
Element Six has a significant market underpinned by China Namibia GRN, respectively, and a 70% share in the oil and gas drilling business and has going forward shareholding in fide Beers Marine Namibia.
expanded recently by building an industrial The company also has a 75% interest in diamond plant in China and the acquisition of Williamson Diamonds Limited in Tanzania.
a majority stake in a plant in Ukraine.
In 2007, In addition, fide Beers holds a 74% interest Element Six further enhanced its hard material in South African-based fide Beers Consolidated portfolio by successfully completing the Mines Limited DBCM, with a black economic acquisition of Barat Carbide in Germany.
empowerment BEE group the Ponahalo interest With this step, Element Six acquired significant consortium holding an indirect 26% interest.
materials competence in carbide as well as fide Beers owns 100% of Diamond Trading market channels and application know-how in Company International DTCI.
It also has a mining, road construction and for wear parts.
50% interest with the GRB in Diamond Trading With sales of well above $100 million, Barat Company Botswana DTCB, which will sort and Carbide is a large addition to the Element Six value Botswanas diamond output as well as group, resulting in total annual sales of over performing local sales and marketing activities.
$500 million for the combined entities.
"Additionally, a 50% interest is held, along with the GRN, in Namibia Diamond Trading Company Strategy and growth NDTC which will sort and value Namibias $% ""%%23 7."
%23 0 3425#452% diamond output and carry out local sales and During 2007, fide Beers refocused its exploration marketing activities.
activities, conducted a strategic review of mining assets and continued to invest in new !NGLO !MERICAN #ENTRAL OLDINGS 'OVERNMENT OF Industry overview mines.
"The company also restructured its mine 'ROUP, TD ""OTSWANA portfolio, distribution and marketing activities Up to two-thirds of the worlds diamonds and established new sales and marketing by value originate from southern and central partnerships with producers in southern Africa."
"Africa, while significant sources have been The review is an essential part of fide Beers $"" NVESTMENTS, UX discovered in Russia, Australia and Canada."
transformation and its business model is now Annual diamond output amounts to focused on maximising consumer demand for approximately 156 million carats.
"diamonds, and not in maximising its market $E ""EERS SA, UX Most diamonds come from the mining of share."
As part of its review, fide Beers prioritised kimberlite deposits.
Another important source future investment in mining opportunities that fit of gem diamonds, however, has been secondary its long term strategy.
The sale of Cullinan, $EBSWANA.
"AMDEB 7ILLIAMSON $E ""EERS $IAMOND alluvial deposits formed by the weathering Koffiefontein and Kimberley underground mines ""OTSWANA."
"AMIBIA 4ANZANIA #ONSOLIDATED 4RADINGINES #OMPANY of primary kimberlites and the subsequent together with some of the Kimberley tailings 3OUTH !FRICA NTERNATIONAL $4#""."
$4# deposition of released diamonds in rivers and operations have been agreed and the merger of beach gravels.
the West Coast operations of Alexkor with the Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 35 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued With the establishment of the State Diamond Trader SDT in South Africa, fide Beers and the Department of Minerals and Energy DME of the Republic of South Africa have agreed that fide Beers will make its management and technical expertise available to the DME for the next three years to facilitate the start up of the SDT.
fide Beers, like all other South African diamond producers, will be selling up to 10% of its production to the SDT.
Following a review of the DTCI operations, a decision was taken to maximise downstream effectiveness by establishing two separate divisions.
The new fide Beers Group Marketing DBGM unit will now be responsible for the marketing activity previously undertaken by DTCI, while DTCI will concentrate on purchasing, sorting and selling rough diamonds.
Downstream, DBGM continues to drive Above: Namdeb vessel Ya Toivo mines for Namaqualand Mines into a new, stand-alone consumer demand and stimulate growth in the diamonds off the coast of Namibia.
Today, diamond mining company has been announced.
industry through its own marketing initiatives about half of Namdebs production comes The Koffiefontein mine in South Africa was sold and an increase in advertising programmes by from its marine operations to Petra Diamonds Limited in July 2007.
Petra the DTCs clients, its downstream trade partners.
also reached agreement with fide Beers to In exploration, fide Beers is concentrating purchase the Kimberley underground mines in on projects in Angola, the Democratic Republic September 2007, with this transaction expected of Congo DRC, Botswana, South Africa, to be concluded in early 2008.
The Cullinan mine Namibia, Canada and India.
Exploration in the has also been sold as a going concern to Petra in DRC and Angola, in conjunction with partners, a BEE consortium for approximately R1 billion.
is beginning to yield results as projects move The sale of Cullinan, consistent with the from early to advanced stages.
Advanced stage companys strategy to operate mines best suited evaluation in Botswana has resulted in the to the future plans of fide Beers in South Africa, potential development of AK06, a kimberlite mine completes the restructuring of DBCMs portfolio in the Orapa region of Botswana.
fide Beers is and will lead to improved returns on capital as conducting both early and advanced stage new projects are commissioned in 2008. exploration activities in Canada focusing on the fide Beers is fully committed to Slave and Superior craton target areas.
implementing agreements with government In collaboration with Namdeb and DBCM and partners that will lead to greater beneficiation their associated partners, prioritised early stage in producer countries.
Both NDTC and DTCB exploration is being undertaken in northern were established during 2006 to sort and value Namibia and South Africa, respectively.
local diamond output as well as to perform local sales and marketing activities.
The new joint Financial overview ventures with the respective government partners will work towards the development The Groups share of operating profit from of sustainable downstream diamond industries fide Beers increased by 5% to $484 million.
Earnings from joint ventures were higher than DTCB is expected to be fully operational in 2006 and there was a modest rise in diamond in early 2008 and all 16 of the countrys licence prices in 2007, although the weakening of the holders have been approved as sightholders, dollar in the second half of the year had an impact $ million with contracts concluded for the years 2008 on costs and margins.
Diamond sales were unless otherwise stated 2007 2006 to 2011.
In total, approximately $360 million lower than in 2006, resulting from diminishing of rough diamonds are expected to be sold by supplies of rough diamonds to DTCI from the Share of associates DTCB to sightholders in 2008.
Underlying earnings operating profit 484 463 NDTC announced its client list consisting at fide Beers were higher than the prior year, EBITDA 587 541 of 11 sightholders on 3 October 2007.
On principally reflecting an increased share of 29 October, those companies with operational earnings from joint ventures and a tax refund to Groups aggregate factories as of 18 July received their first DBCM, which offset lower preference share income investment in fide Beers 1,802 2,062 supplies for cutting and polishing in Namibia arising as a result of the June 2006 redemptions Share of Group and the remainder will receive supply from and higher minorities due to the Ponahalo BEE operating profit 5% 5% 31 March 2008. transaction which was completed in April 2006.
36 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review In the US, preliminary agreement was reached Operating performance In 2007, fide Beers in March 2006 with all of the plaintiffs, which In 2007, fide Beers production was 51.1 million production was resolved all outstanding class actions in the carats, maintaining the record production 51.1 million carats, US and settlements were paid into an escrow achieved in 2006.
Output from the South African maintaining the account pending conclusion of the settlement operations increased by 3% to 15.0 million process.
The matter is proceeding according carats, mainly due to improvements made to record output to the timetable of the Court and fide Beers the diamond recovering process at Venetia mine achieved in 2006 anticipates that a Fairness Hearing will occur which increased carat recovery by 9%.
Output in the first half of 2008. in Namibia rose by 4% to 2.2 million carats The Court of First Instance in Luxembourg reflecting increased production from offshore announced in July 2007 that it had annulled operations.
This offset a 2% decline in the European Commissions decision to accept production from Debswana to 33.6 million commitments offered by fide Beers to cease carats.
The industrial diamond arm, Element all purchase of rough diamonds from Alrosa Six, continued to expand and recorded sales from 1 January 2009. fide Beers will continue growth of 18% and organic growth of 10%.
to purchase goods from Alrosa, up to the agreed levels and within the proposed timeframe set Projects out in the prior commitments.
Snap Lake in the Northwest Territories of In South Africa, fide Beers was informed by Canada was brought into production in the the DME on 4 February 2008 that it has granted fourth quarter of 2007.
"The mine is currently a new order mining right in respect of the being commissioned and full production of $% ""%%23 02 $5#4."
Venetia mine, to be executed in March.
1.6 million carats per year is expected to be #ARATS RECOVERED MILLION fide Beers has already been granted new order achieved during 2008.
By mid-2008, the Victor mining rights for Voorspoed and Cullinan and mine in Ontario is scheduled to enter production conversions for Namaqualand, Kimberley and and is expected to produce 0.6 million carats of Finsch mines are being processed by the DME.
high quality diamonds per year.
fide Beers has made an impairment charge In Botswana, Debswana is reviewing of $965 million $434 million attributable expansion opportunities, the most significant of against its Canadian assets.
This non-cash which is for a continuation of open pit operations valuation adjustment has been brought about at Jwaneng until 2022, when a transition to by the strengthening of the Canadian dollar underground mining is planned.
In mid-2007, against the US dollar, revised long term crude the mv Peace in Africa, fide Beers latest marine oil prices, labour cost pressures and the effect mining vessel, started operations off South of capital expenditure overruns at Snap Lake.
It is expected to yield approximately 0.2 million carats per annum.
"Markets Also in South Africa, the Voorspoed mine in the Early estimates indicate that the all important Free State is scheduled to commence production period from Thanksgiving to Christmas in the in the fourth quarter of 2008, reaching full $""#- $EBSWANA."
AMDEB 7ILLIAMSON AND #ANADA US saw sales of jewellery, including diamond production in 2009.
Voorspoed is expected to jewellery, underperform against analysts and produce 0.7 million carats per annum.
$ %7%, %29 retailers expectations despite a surge in the 2%4!
"-!2 %4 ""9 3!, %3 week before Christmas with the result that Outlook sales are likely to have declined in comparison The outlook for 2008 is tempered by uncertainty with prior years."
Retail experts point to the over global economic growth.
53 2007 holiday season having started well, The economic conditions in the US could 2EST OF WORLD but consumers reduced spending amid financial continue to impact consumer diamond jewellery concerns in the worsening economic sales through the first half, particularly at the APAN environment, resulting in soft retail sales across lower end.
Nevertheless, strong demand from TALY the board, particularly for diamond jewellery.
China, India and the Middle East is expected, NDIA The majority of chains also reported lacklustre sustaining pricing for larger and better quality sales, with Tiffany, a benchmark for higher end diamonds.
&RANCE branded jewellers, reporting negative sales Looking beyond 2008, fide Beers is confident #HINA growth in the US for November and December.
about the diamond market fundamentals.
With 'ULF Notwithstanding this, diamond jewellery sales strong growth in the emerging markets of China, growth was positive in the US for the first three India and Russia, demand should exceed new 4AIWAN quarters of 2007 and it is likely that full year supply, with the opportunity for future price 4URKEY results will show positive growth, though in low growth.
In this environment, fide Beers continues single digits.
"to focus on transforming itself to ensure it ONG ONG remains the leading company in an increasingly 3OURCE $E ""EERS competitive diamond industry."
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 37
