Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued Base Metals Business overview Around 65% of all refined nickel goes into stainless steel.
Other uses include high Anglo Base Metals has interests in 14 corrosion-resistant alloys for use in chemical Operating profit operations in six countries, producing copper, plants, superalloys that can withstand extreme 2006 nickel, zinc, niobium, phosphate fertilisers, temperatures and are predominantly used $3,897 m titanium dioxide and zircon, together with in aviation, high-tech electronic uses and as associated by-products including lead, a substitute for chromium plating.
Zinc is used predominantly in galvanising In Chile, its six copper operations comprise and alloys.
Steel coated with zinc galvanised $4,338 m the wholly owned Los Bronces, El Soldado, steel exhibits high levels of corrosion Mantos Blancos and Mantoverde mines, the resistance.
This application is responsible for EBITDA Chagres smelter and a 44% interest in the around 50% of total demand.
Zinc based alloys 2006 Collahuasi mine.
The mines also produce in die casting, ranging from automotive $4,255 m associated by-products such as molybdenum components to toys and models, account for and silver.
around 10-12% of demand, with copper-based 2007 Other South American operations are zinc alloys brass accounting for 15-17%.
Zinc the Loma fide Nquel nickel mine in Venezuela, semis are used as roofing products and in dry $4,683 m and the Codemin nickel and Catalo niobium cell batteries 8-10%.
Chemical and other mines in Brazil.
Anglo Base Metals also has applications make up the remainder of refined Increased production volumes for a controlling interest in Copebrs, a leading demand approximately 13-15%, where zinc copper in 2007 Brazilian producer of phosphate fertilisers and is used in a diverse range of products and Further upside potential in copper phosphoric acid.
Phosphate fertilisers are used applications, including tyres, paints, through Quellaveco and Michiquillay to supplement natural soil nutrients to achieve pharmaceuticals and chemical processing.
in Peru and Pebble in Alaska high agricultural yields.
With the exception of nickel, base metals Barro Alto to boost attributable In southern Africa, Black Mountain and industry ownership is presently relatively nickel output by an average of Skorpion mines produce zinc and associated fragmented.
The global market shares of the 36,000 tpa from 2011 by-products such as lead, copper and silver.
four largest copper, nickel and zinc metal Anglo Base Metals sole European operation producers are approximately 25%, 52% and is the Lisheen zinc and lead mine in Ireland.
23% respectively but subject to ongoing In January 2007, black economic consolidation in the base metals industry.
empowerment company Exxaro Resources Producers are price takers and there are agreed to acquire Anglo Base Metals Namakwa relatively few opportunities for product mineral sands operation in South Africa, which differentiation.
produces titanium dioxide, zircon and rutile, The industry is capital intensive and is likely together with associated by-products, along to become more so as high grade surface with 26% each of Black Mountain and Gamsberg, deposits are exhausted and deeper and or lower a large, moderate-grade zinc undeveloped grade deposits, requiring greater economies deposit located in the Northern Cape province of scale in order to be commercially viable, of South Africa.
Black Mountain and Gamsberg are developed.
Real prices of copper, nickel and will remain subsidiaries of, and continue to be zinc have declined over the long term, although managed and operated by, Anglo Base Metals.
there have been material and sustained deviations from this trend, most notably over Industry overview the past five years.
The decline in real prices reflects the long term reduction in costs as a The majority of copper produced is used by the result of improvements in technology and lower wire and cable markets and takes advantage input costs.
Average margins have, therefore, of the metals electrical conductivity, corrosion tended to be maintained.
Applications For the past five years, the ongoing that make use of coppers electrical conductivity, industrialisation and urbanisation of China has such as wires including building wire, cables driven demand for a range of commodities.
and electrical connectors, account for around This, together with interest from speculative 60% of total demand, while about 20% comes and investor funds, has resulted in a base metal principally from the construction industry, which price up-cycle which has been unprecedented uses copper to produce plumbing pipe and roof both in its extent and its longevity.
China now sheeting, owing to the metals corrosion resistant comprises an estimated 27%, 24% and 31% qualities.
Coppers thermal conductivity also makes of global demand for copper, nickel and zinc it suitable for use in heat transfer applications respectively, the markets for which have all such as air conditioning and refrigeration, which benefited materially.
make up some 10% of total demand.
Other applications include structural and aesthetic uses.
38 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review see also p p 27 10 Group financial performance Our strategy in action Strategy and growth Anglo Base Metals strategy is to find or acquire, develop and operate long life, low cost mines in a socially and environmentally responsible manner, with a strong focus on efficient resource allocation, continuous improvement and capital and operating excellence.
The business is constantly developing and evaluating growth options from a combination of sources, including greenfield and brownfield projects, acquisitions, exploration and technology development.
In addition to the growth potential arising from approved expansions at Los Bronces, Collahuasi and Barro Alto, and studies into further growth potential in particular at Collahuasi and Quellaveco these projects are discussed further in the projects section on page 42, Anglo American, through its Base Metals division, has invested in a number of major new copper projects.
In April 2007, Anglo American tendered $403 million and won the Michiquillay Above: Washing down copper cathodes in the solvent-extraction electro-winning plant privatisation auction in Peru.
The consideration Northern Dynasty Minerals Limited in the at Mantos Blancos in Chile for this world class resource, with a production Pebble Limited Partnership for a staged cash potential of up to 300,000 tpa, will be payable investment of $1.425 billion.
The partnership over five years.
However, there is a right to owns the Pebble Project, the key assets of exit the project, at any time after the first year, which are the open pit style Pebble West by paying 30% of the difference between monies  deposit and the expended and the $403 million.
During the first adjacent, deeper and higher grade Pebble East year there is a minimum work commitment of deposit.
The objective is to complete a pre- $1 million with no exit payment.
The Peru based feasibility study in 2008, a feasibility study team has been mobilised and the primary focus around 2011 and to have a world class mine of efforts in the first 12 months will be the in operation by 2015.
A key priority is to build development of a productive relationship with supportive relationships with local communities, the local communities.
consistent with Anglo Americans policy of In July 2007, Anglo American became developing and operating projects to the highest a 50% partner with the Northern Dynasty social and environmental standards and to Partnership a wholly owned affiliate of promote development that is truly sustainable.
4ONNES THOUSAND 4ONNES THOUSAND 4ONNES THOUSAND #HILE 2USSIA #HINA 53 #ANADA !USTRALIA 0ERU !USTRALIA 0ERU !USTRALIA NDONESIA 53 NDONESIA.
"EW #ALEDONIA #ANADA 2USSIA #UBAEXICO #HINA 0HILIPPINES RELAND #ANADA #HINA NDIA :AMBIA #OLOMBIA AZAKHSTAN 0OLAND 3OUTH !FRICA 3WEDEN WORLD TOTAL KT WORLD TOTAL KT WORLD TOTAL KT 3OURCE 7ORLD ""UREAU OFETAL 3TATISTICS 3OURCE 7ORLD ""UREAU OFETAL 3TATISTICS 3OURCE 7ORLD ""UREAU OFETAL 3TATISTICS Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 39 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued !."
ICKEL NIOBIUM MINERAL SANDS AND PHOSPHATES :INC In 2007, Copebrs was reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Base Metals to align with internal management reporting.
Only the 2006 comparative has been restated to reflect this.
In addition to reserve life extensions, significant mark to market and final liquidation adjustment new ore deposits have been discovered at as at 31 December 2007 resulted in realised Paloma Sulfatos and San Enrique Monolito both copper prices being little changed from 2006. near Los Bronces, while, at Collahuasi, Rosario Oeste has been further extended.
Markets In 2007, Anglo Base Metals spent Average prices c lb 2007 2006 $77 million on exploration and has increased Copper 323 305 its exploration around its Chilean copper mines, adding significant resources at Los Bronces and Nickel 1,686 1,095 making two major discoveries in the immediate Zinc 147 148 vicinity of Los Bronces.
Collahuasi continues to drill out its very exciting Rosario Oeste Lead 118 58 discovery.
In Brazil, drilling is ongoing at the Jacar nickel discovery.
Work continues in the During 2007, the copper market was broadly Philippines to complete a pre-feasibility study in balance, with prices recovering strongly in the at Boyongan.
At Gamsberg East in South Africa, first half as the Chinese restocked, but then $ million unless otherwise stated 2007 2006 orebody expansions are being drilled.
Copper moved lower in the fourth quarter.
Nickel had exploration is being undertaken in Brazil, Chile, a buoyant first six months, with very tight Operating profit 4,338 3,897 Indonesia, Mexico, Peru and the US.
Nickel terminal market stocks, but weakened materially Copper 2,983 3,019 sulphide mineralisation is being sought in in the second half as ongoing stainless steel Arctic Canada, Russia and Scandinavia through production cutbacks, greater scrap availability, Nickel, niobium, alliances and zinc programmes continue in substitution and increases in nickel pig-iron mineral sands and Australia, South Africa and Namibia.
production all contributed to a material build up phosphates 786 426 of stock across the year.
Zinc prices weakened, Zinc 654 516 particularly in the second half, owing to market Other 85 64 Financial overview concerns about the impact of increasing 2008 supply on terminal market stocks.
EBITDA 4,683 4,255 Operating profit at Anglo Base Metals reached Net operating assets 4,989 4,599 an all time high of $4,338 million, surpassing Operating performance the previous years record of $3,897 million.
Capital expenditure 610 315 Copper division 2007 2006 This resulted from increased copper, zinc and Share of Group Operating profit phosphate fertiliser production, combined with operating profit 45% 44% $ million 2,983 3,019 higher nickel, lead, niobium and fertiliser prices, partially offset by adverse exchange rate Share of Group net Attributable movements and further rises in the costs operating assets 19% 22% production of energy, labour and most key consumables.
tonnes 655,000 643,800 In 2007, Copebrs was reclassified from Industrial Minerals to Base Metals to align with internal management reporting.
As Although the London Metal Exchange copper such, the comparative data has been reclassified.
price was higher than in 2006, a significant 40 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Operating and financial review !.
All of the divisions mines, with the exception Sales fell from 16,900 tonnes to 14,500 tonnes 4ONNES THOUSAND of Mantos Blancos, increased production.
arising out of a combination of administrative #OPPER In addition, Mantos Blancos, Mantoverde delays by the Venezuelan authorities and :INC. ICKEL and Collahuasi all successfully renegotiated weakening stainless steel customer demand.
collective bargaining agreements without any The Venezuelan Ministry of Basic Industries disruption to the operations.
and Mining MIBAM commenced administrative Los Bronces increased output by 2%, proceedings in January 2007 in relation to the principally due to a 14% increase in cathode 16 nickel exploration and exploitation production.
Despite the attributable loss of concessions held by the Companys subsidiary, 9,200 tonnes of production owing to the Minera Loma fide Nquel MLdN, alleging that shutdown of the SAG mill number 3 for MLdN had failed to fulfil certain conditions of its replacement of its stator motor and planned concessions.
MLdN submitted a timely response lower oxide and sulphide grades, Collahuasi to MIBAMs administrative writ in February increased its attributable production by 3%.
By means of a series of resolutions El Soldado lifted production by 6%.
Output published in two Official Gazettes made from Mantoverde was marginally up, while available in January 2008, MIBAM declared the Mantos Blancos was affected by planned and termination of 13 of MLdNs nickel concessions.
unplanned maintenance shutdowns as well as The 13 concessions do not include the an earthquake and was unable to offset the concessions where the current mining operations impact of lower grades with higher throughputs, and the metallurgical facilities are located.
leading to a marginal production decline.
MLdN is in the process of filing administrative Molybdenum production rose 8% to appeals seeking the annulment of all of these 4,400 tonnes, primarily as a result of increases resolutions and requesting that their effects be at Collahuasi.
Chagres output fell by 5% suspended pending a final decision by MIBAM.
mainly due to the lower average grade of As at 31 December 2007, Anglo Americans concentrate treated.
Adverse exchange rate interest in the book value of MLdN, including movements and further rises in the costs of its mineral rights, was $616 million as energy, labour and most key consumables included in the Groups balance sheet.
In the impacted all Chilean operations.
12 months to December 2007, MLdNs production and contribution to Group operating Nickel, niobium, mineral sands 2007 2006 profit were, respectively, 15,700 tonnes of and phosphates nickel in ferronickel and $370 million.
The Operating profit $ million 786 426 average price of nickel in 2007 was 1,686 c lb.
As of 19 February 2008, the price of nickel was Attributable nickel 1,259 c lb.
production tonnes 25,600 26,400 Anglo American is proud of its record in Venezuela, where it has invested substantial At Codemin, output moved up marginally, amounts in exploration and subsequently but sales were 5% lower following a slowdown the construction of the countrys only primary in stainless steel producer offtake.
It is a major contributor to, and niobium production was flat, with higher mill employer in, the Venezuelan economy as well throughput being offset by lower metallurgical as a significant taxpayer.
The operation recoveries arising from a change in ore continues, as it has always done, to work characterisation.
Copebrs had a spectacular constructively with all stakeholders year, with much improved prices and fertiliser employees, local communities and government sales climbing by 14% to exceed 1 million tonnes and to the highest sustainable development, for the first time.
All of the Brazilian operations social and environmental standards.
saw costs increase as a consequence of adverse Anglo American and MLdN are seeking currency movements and cost increases in fuel further clarification from MIBAM, with which oil, aluminium powder and sulphur.
they have maintained a constructive working Loma fide Nquels production declined by relationship in the past.
Anglo American and 5% due to heavy rains and strike action, while MLdN believe that there is a valid legal basis tonnage processed was affected by a planned to reverse the notices of termination and will maintenance stoppage and a series of refractory pursue all appropriate legal and other remedies and equipment failures.
These also had a and actions to protect their respective interests bearing on operating costs which were impacted both under Venezuelan and international law.
further by numerous cost and indirect tax As a result, the Group continues to consolidate increases within a fixed exchange rate and MLdN and no impairment has been recorded increasingly difficult operating environment.
for the year ended 31 December 2007.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 41 Operating and financial review Business unit overview continued Zinc division 2007 2006 Organic growth will been approved.
Construction is under way, with first production scheduled for 2011. be boosted by the two Operating profit A debottlenecking project at Collahuasi, $ million 654 516 major acquisitions made which will increase sulphide mill throughput in 2007 Pebble and Attributable zinc from 130,000 tpd to 140,000 tpd, has been production tonnes 343,100 334,700 Michiquillay approved at a total cost of $64 million, with ramp up due to commence in the second half Attributable lead of 2008.
The first phase of a potential two production tonnes 62,100 71,400 phase expansion at Collahuasi, which will Skorpion operated at design capacity throughout increase throughput to 170,000 tpd, plus the the year, producing a record 150,100 tonnes.
addition of a separate 30,000 tpd sulphide Mine operating unit costs fell, reflecting tight leach circuit equivalent to around 650,000 tpa cost control and higher volumes, partially offset of copper on a 100% basis, will be evaluated by increases in royalties and the costs of key during 2008.
Recent exploration success at consumables.
At Lisheen, zinc production Rosario Oeste suggests that there is potential decreased by 4% while lead output was down to further increase production to around 13%.
Higher than anticipated water inflows and 1 million tpa by 2014. poor ground conditions limited mining flexibility, The revised feasibility study on the resulting in lower tonnages, grades and Quellaveco project in Peru, which contemplates metallurgical recoveries.
At Black Mountain, an operation producing approximately mining difficulties related to limited stope 200,000 tpa of copper in concentrate at availability were compounded by a slower than a capital cost of approximately $1.7 billion, anticipated ramp up of the infrastructure and will be completed in 2008. ore handling systems of the new Deeps shaft, In addition, this organic growth will be as well as seven weeks of industrial action.
boosted by the two major acquisitions made Overall, declining mill throughput and lower in 2007 Pebble and Michiquillay.
grades were only partly offset by material Chagres, Mantoverde, Mantos Blancos, improvements in metallurgical recoveries and El Soldado, Catalo, Gamsberg, Copebrs, 28,300 tonnes of zinc and 41,900 tonnes of Boyongan and Kalayaan have early stage lead were produced.
studies under way examining options for The previously announced sale of projects that will either increase production Namakwa Sands R2.0 billion subject to and or extend mine lives.
contractual adjustments, and 26% of each of Black Mountain and Gamsberg combined Outlook R180 million subject to contractual adjustments, Production of copper, zinc, lead, niobium and to Exxaro Resources has yet to be completed, fertilisers are all forecast to increase in 2008, awaiting the approval of the conversion of old while there is a risk that the nickel production order to new order mining rights.
The sale profile will be affected by uncertainties in is expected to be completed in 2008.
With the base metals industry operating at capacity and, on the assumption Projects that the currencies of the countries where the Anglo Base Metals has a strong project pipeline division produces continue to remain firm in which provides significant scope for organic relation to the dollar, cost pressures will remain, growth.
The pipeline includes the Barro Alto nickel with sulphur and sulphuric acid prices forecast project, which is on track for first production in to rise dramatically.
In Chile, the energy supply 2010 and is due to increase existing nickel situation in the northern grid is very tight and production by an average 36,000 tpa from the risk of periodic requests for load shedding 2011.
To date, in excess of $900 million of the cannot be ruled out.
$1.5 billion capital expenditure required has It seems likely that certain base metal been committed to this project and the strength markets will move into surplus in 2008, of the Brazilian currency is putting ongoing with some modest build up of stock forecast material upward pressure on the domestic except in the case of zinc, which is likely to component of capital expenditure.
see a material market surplus, the extent of The $1.7 billion Los Bronces expansion which will be dependent on the magnitude of project, which aims to increase sulphide mill any supply side disruptions.
Notwithstanding throughput from 61,000 tonnes per day tpd these shorter term uncertainties, medium and to 148,000 tpd and increase copper production longer term fundamentals remain positive.
by an average of 170,000 tpa to an initial production level exceeding 400,000 tpa, has 42 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
