About Anglo American Our strategy in action We are focusing on improvement in four key areas integration, performance, growth and engagement Integration People The increasing technological sophistication As Anglo American continues to extend its of mining, combined with a serious skills reach across the globe and diversifies its mining shortage in the current competitive market, asset base, the organisation is being reshaped has further underlined the importance we to ensure we are able to meet the sustained already attach to retaining our talent through demand for the commodities we mine.
appropriate reward, talent development and A high degree of decentralisation through people management activities.
autonomous business units is making way for a Several Group-wide One Anglo initiatives new One Anglo approach.
This concept allows have provided impetus in these areas.
The for greater sharing of talent, expertise and introduction of a broad banding system knowledge across the Group and, as a result, throughout the businesses underpins our move our culture is changing as we move towards towards more consistent and competitive becoming a single, integrated organisation.
regional reward strategies and a common One Anglo involves consistently applying a performance management process.
It has also common framework of values and standards: been a key enabler for the introduction of an putting the structures in place to foster greater improved talent tracking system, an integrated knowledge-sharing: and leveraging our scale internal and external vacancy management through shared services.
system, and the development of Group-wide people information and shared services Safety systems.
Nowhere is this integrated concept more Our global leadership development portfolio important than in our approach to safety.
has been extended during the year and going The safety of all our employees is paramount.
forward there will be an increased focus on Our vision of zero harm, which was endorsed common standards in terms of curriculum and in 2007 by all our businesses and their delivery for all our management development leadership teams, is based on three clear programmes across the Group.
principles: all injuries are preventable: all necessary steps must be taken to learn from Shared services incidents in order to prevent reoccurrence: and Applying common policies, processes and common, simple non-negotiable standards must systems, as well as creating a One Anglo be consistently applied.
mindset among our employees, will also Key to realising this vision is The Anglo Safety be delivered through our shared services Way, a global framework of risk management initiative.
systems and standards, which is being rolled We will create three shared services centres out across the business.
This is being supported based in existing offices in Asia Pacific, Latin by greater communication and cross-fertilisation America serving the whole of the Americas of ideas and experiences around safety within and and South Africa serving Africa and Europe.
between the Groups businesses, as well as other The centres will provide common accounting organisations in mining and related industries.
10 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 About Anglo American In-house technological capability augmented by strategic partnerships In contrast to many mining industry peers, Anglo American for many years has been distinguished by its formidable in-house technical capacity, with the aim of maintaining a technological edge and, in doing so, enhancing shareholder value.
Based on two main internal units, Technical and Research, and enhanced by a range of partnered technologies, the Group has become an industry standard-setter in finding, extracting and refining minerals.
For example, advanced airborne electromagnetic techniques and superconducting quantum interference devices have identified prospective mineral deposits: in partnership with external specialists, a new solvent-extraction and electro-winning process was developed to yield zinc ore: while robot laboratories right at Anglo Platinums concentrators and smelters have greatly reduced assay-assessment time.
This initiative seeks to identify the full cost countries such as China, while also potential of each operation and put programmes continuing to develop small and medium sized As part of our strategy to become the leading in place to manage actual performance towards entrepreneurs close to existing operations.
global mining company, Anglo American has this goal.
This has involved a rigorous, bottomIn recent years, many parts of the mining disposed of a number of non-core assets and is up analysis of our assets and operations industry supply chain have been operating at focusing on ensuring that its assets have and their subsequent benchmarking against or close to full capacity, resulting in constraints economies of scale, long lives, are in the lowest our peers to bring our operations up to the and delays for equipment and services.
We are quartile in terms of costs and have the potential highest level.
mitigating these issues by developing clear to give the Group critical mass in each of our plans and engaging more effectively with our commodities.
For example, we are entering Today, Anglo American is centred around Taking an integrated global approach to innovative longer term supply arrangements three core commodity categories precious procurement while maximising efficiencies with suppliers to secure tyres for our existing with our unique platinum and diamond assets, through the supply chain are other ways we operations and new projects.
are looking to drive performance.
We are now progressing into the second We have made major improvements with phase of our strategy, where we are seeking progressively more demanding efficiency to maximise the value we derive from each of targets.
In 2007, the Group achieved supply our assets.
chain efficiencies of almost $200 million.
We are working closely with our suppliers to Asset optimisation eliminate waste from all areas of our supply We are identifying, and seeking to close, any chain by developing a detailed understanding value gaps between the performance of our of cost drivers, standardising requirements and operations and the industrys best in class.
leveraging economies of scale across the Group.
To this effect, a major asset optimisation In addition, we are optimising our sourcing programme is under way across our business footprint by increasing purchasing from lower Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 11 About Anglo American Our strategy in action continued Diversity: key to success As mining technologies become more sophisticated and skills shortages are fuelled by boom conditions in the industry, we are constantly looking at alternative ways of meeting the resourcing needs of our expanding business.
Through our investment in our bursary and trainee programmes, we have attracted over 4,000 individuals into our early career pipeline, some drawn from local communities and others from further afield.
A key element of our future success will rest on how well we attract, retain and reward women who are still represented in only modest numbers.
Anglo American is aiming to steadily increase the proportion of women throughout its ranks like geologist Dania Trist right from our Mantos Blancos operation in Chile.
Growth In Base Metals, the $1.5 billion Barro Alto expansion in Brazil is making good progress Anglo American has one of the strongest and and, when fully on stream in 2011, will boost highest quality project pipelines in world mining, Anglo Americans total attributable nickel which will deliver substantial volume growth.
production to an average of around Currently under development are projects 100,000 tonnes a year.
spanning a number of countries, totalling Los Bronces $1.7 billion expansion in Chile $12 billion.
Further out, and encompassing will almost double annual copper production at South Africa, Chile, Peru, Brazil, Alaska and the mine to an initial production level exceeding Canada, are an additional $29 billion of projects 400,000 tonnes per annum, making it one under consideration.
of the ten largest copper mines in the world Anglo Platinum has a major expansion on completion of the expansion in 2011. and replacement programme that will deliver In Ferrous Metals, Kumba Iron Ores progressively rising quantities of refined $754 million Sishen Expansion Project produced platinum, as well as other platinum group first commercial output in 2007 and is metals and nickel, through to 2015. anticipated to ramp up to design capacity in 2009.
Coal is involved in a number of projects.
fide Beers has two projects, both in Canada, In South Africa, the $505 million Zondagsfontein and with a collective cost of around $2 billion, project, to deliver 6.6 million tonnes of coal at various stages of development.
Snap Lake, annually from 2010, has been given the fide Beers first mine in the country, produced its go-ahead.
In Australia, Dawson and Lake first diamonds in October and is ramping up to Lindsay will add an additional 9.7 Mtpa at full output later this year.
A second mine, Victor, full production.
is planned to enter production by mid-2008.
12 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 About Anglo American next section: How the Group and its subsidiaries performed in 2007, including business unit and financial reviews Acquisitions and new investing in social and physical infrastructure Through our asset business relationships and careful management of social and optimisation programme, Complementing Anglo Americans programme environmental impacts, we seek to develop we are identifying, and of organic growth, the Group is building its positive outcomes as a result of our presence.
seeking to close, any position in a number of key commodities, in Leading community engagement initiatives particular copper and iron ore, through strategic is our Socio-Economic Assessment Toolbox value gaps between value enhancing acquisitions.
Anglo American is also an active the performance of The aim of becoming a significant player member of the UN Global Compact, the our operations and the in the highly consolidated iron ore industry, Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative industrys best in class with its high barriers to entry, has been boosted and the round table on the Voluntary Principles by the acquisition of 49% in the advanced on Security and Human Rights.
We are also MMX Minas-Rio project in Brazil.
Phase 1 of the working to be a force for development through mine is expected to cost $3.46 billion, with total the Investment Climate Facility for Africa, projected output of 26.5 million tonnes of Business Action for Africa, the International iron ore per annum by the end of the decade.
Council for Mining & Metals and the World The Minas-Rio project, the Amap mine and Business Council for Sustainable Development.
the expansions at Kumbas Sishen mine will In addition, Anglo American has taken steps contribute towards the goal of lifting the towards building a corporate partnership with Groups annual iron ore output to 150 million the environmental NGO Fauna and Flora tonnes by 2017. International FFI.
Anglo American and FFI The Group increased its copper profile with intend to work together to craft a Biodiversity its successful tender for the Michiquillay project Performance Standard that will govern the in Peru and by becoming a 50% partner, approach to diversity management throughout with Northern Dynasty, in the copper-goldthe Groups operations.
molybdenum Pebble project in Alaska for a staged cash investment of $1.425 billion.
If Our energy partnerships approval is secured for Quellaveco in Peru, these Anglo American is broadening its range of three projects, combined with the Los Bronces relationships in the energy field.
These are and Collahuasi expansions, could see the Groups helping to create the potential for the Group to attributable copper production rising to around expand into downstream areas closely related 1.6 million tonnes a year by 2016. to its core business.
Through such relationships, The acquisition of a 70% stake in the risk can be shared and there is the mutual Foxleigh coal mine in Australia for $620 million opportunity of accessing each others will further support our coal ambitions.
complementary resources, including markets, Recently, Anglo American and China technologies and capital.
Development Bank entered into a Memorandum Anglo American is involved with various of Understanding MOU.
The MOU represents parties in a number of energy ventures, a long term mutual commitment to establish including the commercialisation of fuel cell a partnership to identify and develop mining technology, the capture and commercial sale projects in China, Africa and other parts of of methane from its coal mines, as well as the world.
in researching integrated carbon capture and storage projects.
The Group is a member of the Engagement FutureGen Industrial Alliance, which consists of major energy and mining companies working in Partnerships for a more partnership with the US Department of Energy sustainable future DOE to design, construct and operate the At Anglo American, we believe that the pursuit worlds first near zero emissions coal-fuelled of sustainable development goes hand in hand power generation plant.
Although in January with best business practice.
By our responsible 2008, the DOE announced an intention to custodianship of valuable resource endowments, establish an alternative programme, the Alliance which often include scarce water supplies, and intends to continue to work with the US our insistence on good governance, we hope Administration, Congress and other stakeholders to demonstrate to host governments and to advance the project.
Anglo American has communities that resources, when developed also formed a Clean Coal Energy Alliance to wisely, can be of widespread ongoing benefit develop the Monash brown coal to liquids to their countries.
In China, Anglo American, Through finding ways to maximise local the Shaanxi Coalfield Geological Bureau and economic linkages and benefits for example, Shell are jointly looking at ways to develop, employing a majority of local people, including downstream applications, a coal establishing supply chain initiatives and resource of more than 600 million tonnes.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 13
