Governance Directors report The directors have pleasure in submitting the Share capital Sustainable development statutory financial statements of the Group for The Companys authorised and issued share The Report to Society 2007 will be available the year ended 31 December 2007. capital as at 31 December 2007, together with from the Company in April.
This report focuses details of share allotments and purchases of on the safety, sustainable development, health Principal activities and business review own shares during the year, is set out in note 29 and environmental performance of the Groups Anglo American plc is one of the worlds largest on pages 116 to 120. managed operations, their performance with mining and natural resource groups.
With its The Company was authorised by regard to the Companys Good Citizenship: subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates, it shareholders at the Extraordinary General Our Business Principles, and the operational is a global leader in platinum group metals and Meeting EGM held on 25 June 2007 to dimensions of their social programmes.
diamonds, with significant interests in coal, purchase its own shares in the market up to a base and ferrous metals, as well as an industrial maximum of 10% of the issued share capital.
Payment of suppliers minerals business and a stake in AngloGold This authority will expire at the 2008 AGM Anglo American plc is a holding company and, Ashanti.
The Group is geographically diverse and in accordance with current best practice, as such, has no trade creditors.
with operations in Africa, Europe, South and the Company will propose a resolution to Businesses across the Group are responsible North America, Australia and Asia.
increase the maximum authority to purchase for agreeing the terms under which transactions More detailed information about the Groups its own shares on the market to 14.99% of with their suppliers are conducted, reflecting businesses, activities and financial performance issued capital.
The Group values its is incorporated into this report by reference and suppliers and recognises the benefits to be derived can be found in the chairmans and chief Material shareholdings from maintaining good relationships with them.
executives statements on pages 4 to 9, Details of interests of 3% or more in the Anglo American acknowledges the importance the operating and financial review on pages ordinary share capital of the Company are of paying invoices, especially those of small 14 to 57 and the section entitled substantial shown within the shareholder information businesses, promptly.
shareholdings in the Notice of Meeting section of the Notice of Meeting booklet.
Value of land Directors Land is mainly carried in the financial statements Going concern Biographical details of the directors currently at cost.
It is not practicable to estimate the market The directors have made enquiries and the serving on the Board are given on pages 58 and value of land and mineral rights, since these Groups business is a going concern as 59.
Details of directors interests in shares and depend on product prices over the next 20 years interpreted by the Guidance on Going Concern share options of the Company can be found in or longer, which will vary with market conditions.
and Financial Reporting for directors of listed the Remuneration report on pages 70 to 83. companies registered in the UK, published in Cynthia Carroll was appointed to the Board Post balance sheet events November 1994. on 15 January 2007 and succeeded Tony Trahar Post balance sheet events are set out in note 42 as Group chief executive on 1 March 2007. to the financial statements on page 132.
Dividends Tony Trahar retired from the Board at the An interim dividend of 38 US cents per ordinary conclusion of the AGM on 17 April 2007.
Audit information share was paid on 20 September 2007.
The Simon Thompson, David Hathorn and The directors confirm that, so far as they are directors are recommending that a final dividend Ralph Alexander resigned from the Board on aware, there is no relevant audit information of 86 US cents per ordinary share, be paid on 13 April, 3 July and 26 October 2007 respectively.
of which the auditors are unaware and that all 30 April 2008 subject to shareholder approval Upon the recommendation of the Board, directors have taken all reasonable steps to at the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held Sir CK Chow is being proposed for election as an make themselves aware of any relevant audit on 15 April 2008.
This would bring the total independent non-executive director at the AGM.
information and to establish that the auditors dividend in respect of 2007 to 124 US cents per Sir CK 56 is currently chief executive of the are aware of that information.
However, in accordance with MTR Corporation, a position he has held since International Financial Reporting Standards December 2003.
He was formerly chief IFRS, the final dividend will be accounted for in executive of Brambles Industries and GKN.
Prior the financial statements for the year ended 31 to joining GKN he worked for the BOC Group for December 2008.
20 years, becoming chief executive of its Gases Three shareholders have waived their rights Division and joining its board in 1993.
Sir CK is a to receive dividends.
In both cases, these chartered engineer and holds Bachelor of shareholders act as trustees nominees holding Science and Master of Science degrees in shares for use solely in relation to the Groups Chemical Engineering from the Universities of employee share plans.
These shareholders Wisconsin and California respectively.
Sir CK and the value of dividends waived during the was knighted in 2000 for his contribution in year were: industry.
He is a non-executive director of Greenwood Nominees Limited $17,353,803.20 Standard Chartered plc and the non-executive Security Nominees Limited $128,503.87 chairman of Standard Chartered Bank Rose Nominees Limited $7,791.09 Hong Kong Limited.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 61 Governance Directors report continued Employment and other policies In addition, the Company regularly publishes Additional information for shareholders The Anglo American Groups key operating Optima available on the Companys website Set out below is a summary of certain businesses are empowered to manage, within and AngloWorld, which contain items of news, provisions of the Companys current Articles of the context of their own industry and the current affairs and information relevant to Group Association the Articles and applicable English different legislative and social demands of the employees.
During the year, the Company law concerning companies the Companies Act diverse countries in which those businesses continued to enhance the functionality of its 1985 and the Companies Act 2006, together operate, subject to the standards embodied in enterprise information portal, theSource, aimed the Companies Acts required as a result of the Anglo Americans Good Citizenship: Our at promoting knowledge-sharing across the implementation of the Takeovers Directive in Business Principles.
Group and keeping employees up to date with English law.
This is a summary only and the Within all the Groups businesses, the safe business developments.
The availability relevant provisions of the Articles or the and effective performance of employees and of theSource continues to grow and it is now Companies Acts should be consulted if further the maintenance of positive employee relations available to over 18,000 employees across information is required.
Certain amendments to are of fundamental importance.
the Articles will be proposed at the AGM to be charged with ensuring that the following key held on 15 April 2008.
Details are set out in the principles are upheld: Charitable donations enclosed notice of the AGM.
Copies of the adherence to national legal standards on During the year, Anglo American, its Companys Articles marked up to show the employment and workplace rights at all subsidiaries and the Anglo American Group proposed amendments, are available by times: Foundation made donations for charitable application to the Company Secretary at the adoption of fair labour practices: purposes or wider social investments Registered Office.
prohibition of child labour: amounting to $60.5 million 0.7% of pre-tax prohibition of inhumane treatment of profit.
Charitable donations of $3.09 million Dividends and distributions employees and any form of forced labour, were made in the UK, consisting of payments in Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, physical punishment or other abuse: respect of education, sport and youth $1.321 the Company may by ordinary resolution from continual promotion of safe and healthy million 43 % : community development time to time declare dividends not exceeding working practices: $0.642 million 21% : health and HIV AIDS the amount recommended by the Board.
The promotion of workplace equality and $0.28 million 9% : environment $0.135 Board may pay interim dividends whenever the elimination of all forms of unfair million 4% : arts, culture and heritage $0.241 financial position of the Company, in the opinion discrimination: million 8%, and other charitable causes of the Board, justifies such payment.
provision of opportunities for employees to $0.469 million 15%.
These figures were The Board may withhold payment of all enhance their work-related skills and compiled with reference to the London or any part of any dividends or other monies capabilities: Benchmarking Group model for defining and payable in respect of the Companys shares recognition of the right of our employees to measuring social investment spending.
A fuller from a person with a 0.25% interest or more freedom of association: and analysis of the Groups social investment as defined in the Articles if such a person adoption of fair and appropriate procedures activities can be found in the Report to Society has been served with a notice after failing for determining terms and conditions of 2007. to provide the Company with information employment.
concerning interests in those shares required Political donations to be provided under the Companies Acts.
Further, the Group is committed to treating No political donations were made during 2007. employees at all levels with respect and Anglo American has an established policy of not Rights and obligations attaching to shares consideration, to investing in their development making donations to, or incurring expenses for The rights and obligations attaching to the and to ensuring that their careers are not the benefit of, any political party in any part of ordinary and preference shares are set out in constrained by discrimination or arbitrary barriers.
the world, including any political party or the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed Copies of the Good Citizenship: Our Business political organisation as defined in the Political by the shareholders by special resolution.
Principles booklet are available from the Company Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000. and may be accessed on the Companys website www.
co. uk Annual General Meeting As in previous years, numerous employee The AGM will be held on 15 April 2008.
A separate communication and education presentations booklet enclosed with this report contains the and workshops took place covering, among notice convening the meeting together with a others, AIDS awareness, the Companys description of the business to be conducted.
charitable giving, climate change, exploration technologies and health and safety.
The aim was to inform and consult employees on matters of concern to them and to raise awareness of financial and economic factors affecting the performance of the Group.
62 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 Governance Voting Issue of shares meeting the quorum shall be two persons Subject to the Articles generally and to any Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts holding or representing by proxy at least onespecial rights or restrictions as to voting relating to authority and pre-emption rights and third in nominal value of the issued shares of attached by or in accordance with the Articles to of any resolution of the Company in a general the class calculated excluding any shares held any class of shares, on a show of hands every meeting, all unissued shares of the Company as treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon member who is present in person at a general shall be at the disposal of the directors and they the holders of any shares shall not, unless meeting shall have one vote and on a poll every may allot with or without conferring a right of otherwise expressly provided in the rights member who is present in person or by proxy renunciation, grant options over or otherwise attaching to those shares, be deemed to be shall have one vote for every share of which he dispose of them to such persons, at such times varied by the creation or issue of further shares she is the holder.
It is, and has been for some and on such terms as they think proper.
ranking pari passu with them.
years, the Companys practice to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual and Extraordinary Shares in uncertificated form Transfer of shares shareholder meetings.
Directors may determine that any class of All transfers of shares which are in certificated Where shares are held by trustees shares may be held in uncertificated form form may be effected by transfer in writing in nominees in respect of the Groups employee and title to such shares may be transferred any usual or common form or in any other form share plans and the voting rights attached to by means of a relevant system or that shares acceptable to the directors and may be under such shares are not directly exercisable by the of any class should cease to be held and hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be employees, it is the Companys practice that transferred.
Subject to the provisions of the signed by or on behalf of the transferor and such rights are not exercised by the relevant Companies Acts, the CREST Regulations and except in the case of fully-paid shares by or on trustee nominee.
every other statute, statutory instrument, behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall Under the Companies Acts, members are regulation or order for the time being in force remain the holder of the shares concerned until entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a concerning companies and affecting the the name of the transferee is entered in the member of the Company, to exercise all or any Company together, the Statutes, the directors register.
All transfers of shares which are in of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on may determine that any class of shares held on uncertificated form may be effected by means their behalf at a general meeting or class meeting.
the branch register of members of the Company of the CREST system.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in resident in South Africa or any other overseas The directors may decline to recognise any relation to a general meeting or class meeting branch register of the members of the Company instrument of transfer relating to shares in provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise may be held in uncertificated form in accordance certificated form unless it: the rights attached to a different share or shares with any system outside the UK which enables a is in respect of only one class of share: and held by that member.
A member that is a title to such shares to be evidenced and b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped corporation may appoint one or more individuals transferred without a written instrument and if required accompanied by the relevant to act on its behalf at a general meeting or class which is a relevant system.
The provisions of share certificate s and such other evidence meetings as a corporate representative.
the Articles shall not apply to shares of any as the directors may reasonably require to The Company is aware of the debate class which are in uncertificated form to the show the right of the transferor to make the concerning section 323 of the Companies Act extent that the Articles are inconsistent with transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is 2006, related to the voting rights of corporate the holding of shares of that class in executed by some other person on his her representatives.
Anglo American is committed uncertificated form, the transfer of title to behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
to ensuring all investors have the opportunity to shares of that class by means of a relevant exercise their voting rights and, to this end, will system or any provision of the CREST Regulations.
The directors may, in the case of shares in adopt the guidance issued by the Institute of certificated form, in their absolute discretion and Chartered Secretaries and Administrators Deadlines for exercising voting rights without assigning any reason therefor, refuse to available at www.
uk in respect of its Votes are exercisable at a general meeting of register any transfer of shares not being fully- 2008 AGM.
the Company in respect of which the business paid shares provided that, where any such being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be shares are admitted to the Official List of the Restrictions on voting exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to London Stock Exchange, such discretion may No member shall, unless the directors corporate members, by corporate representative.
not be exercised in such a way as to prevent otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of The Articles provide a deadline for submission dealings in the shares of that class from taking any share held by him her to vote either of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours place on an open and proper basis.
The directors personally or by proxy at a shareholders before the time appointed for the holding of the may also refuse to register an allotment or meeting or to exercise any other right conferred meeting or adjourned meeting.
transfer of shares whether fully paid or not by membership in relation to shareholders in favour of more than four persons jointly.
meetings if any call or other sum presently Variation of rights If the directors refuse to register an allotment payable by him her to the Company in respect Subject to statute, the Articles specify that or transfer, they shall send within two months of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, rights attached to any class of shares may be after the date on which the letter of allotment or no member shall be entitled to vote if he she varied with the written consent of the holders transfer was lodged with the Company, to the has been served with a notice after failing of not less than three-quarters in nominal value allottee or transferee, notice of the refusal.
to provide the Company with information of the issued shares of that class, or with the A shareholder does not need to obtain the concerning interests in those shares required sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed approval of the Company, or of other to be provided under the Companies Acts.
at a separate general meeting of the holders of shareholders of shares in the Company, those shares.
At every such separate general for a transfer of shares to take place.
Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 63 Governance Directors report continued Directors Significant agreements: Change Directors shall not be less than ten nor more of control than 18 in number.
A director is not required to In the event of a takeover change of control, hold any shares of the Company by way of employee share plans would be affected.
The Company may by ordinary resolution increase or reduce the maximum or Purchases of own shares minimum number of directors.
At the EGM held on 25 June 2007, authority was given for the Company to purchase, in the market, 86 Powers of directors up to 134,544,000 Ordinary Shares of 54 91 Subject to the Articles, the Companies Acts and US cents each.
Details of purchases made any directions given by special resolution, the during the year are set out in Note 29 on business of the Company will be managed by page 116. the Board who may exercise all the powers of the Company.
Indemnities The Board may exercise all the powers of At the date of this report, indemnities are in the Company to borrow money and to mortgage force under which the Company has agreed to or charge any of its undertaking, property and indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted uncalled capital and to issue debentures and by law and the Companys Articles in respect of other securities, whether outright or as all losses arising out of, or in connection with, collateral security for any debt, liability or the execution of their powers, duties and obligation of the Company or of any third party.
responsibilities as directors of the Company and The Company may by ordinary resolution its associated companies.
declare dividends but no dividend shall be payable in excess of the amount recommended By order of the Board by the directors.
Subject to the provisions of the Nicholas Jordan Articles and to the rights attaching to any Company Secretary shares, any dividends or other monies payable on or in respect of a share may be paid in such 19 February 2008 currency as the directors may determine.
The directors may deduct from any dividend payable to any member all sums of money if any presently payable by him her to the Company on account of calls or otherwise in relation to shares of the Company.
The directors may retain any dividends payable on shares on which the Company has a lien, and may apply the same in or towards satisfaction of the debts, liabilities or engagements in respect of which the lien exists.
Appointment of directors The directors may from time to time appoint one or more directors.
The Board may appoint any person to be a director so long as the total number of directors does not exceed the limit prescribed in the Articles.
Any such director shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
Retirement of directors At each AGM all those directors who have been in office for three years or more since their election or last re-election shall retire from office.
In addition, a director may at any AGM retire from office and stand for re-election.
64 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
