"Operating and financial review see also p 136 Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources estimates ', ""!, 30%."
"$ ""9 #!53% 3500 24%$ began a major relocation of almost 1,000 Resources MILLION families in the Limpopo province of South Africa EALTH 6 amid some controversy."
The resettlement is The resources Anglo American %DUCATION AND YOUTH now more than 50% complete and the families considers critical to achieving its %NVIRONMENT involved have secured a clear improvement in strategic aims include: #OMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT the standard of their housing.
However, the Knowledge and expertise !RTS CULTURE AND HERITAGE Group has drawn some important lessons in Proved and Probable reserves.
Full OUSING relation to the handling of direct communication details of the Groups Ore Reserves THER with community members and the importance and Mineral Resources estimates are of long term planning if economic development found on pages 136 to 157 commitments are to be made good.
Corporate social investment Knowledge and expertise Anglo American and its managed subsidiaries and joint ventures contributed $60.5 million Technology capability 0.7% of pre-tax profit to charitable causes Anglo American has long been distinguished by and community development initiatives its strong in-house technology capability.
Anglo compared with $50.3 million 0.5% of pre-tax Technical Division ATD is the custodian of the profit in 2006.
These figures include cash specialised technologies employed throughout donations, gifts in kind and staff time spent the Group, while Anglo Research identifies delivering community benefit programmes.
"emerging technologies and develops them to ', ""!, 30%."
In addition, the Group is providing approximately pilot-plant scale and also assists in the rapid MILLION $5 million a year for five years to two transfer of technologies across the Group.
3OUTH !FRICA independent trusts, Optima and Epoch, to They are key members of Anglo Americans 2EST OF !FRICA raise standards of maths and science teaching Technology Council, which meets quarterly 5NITED INGDOM in South African schools.
to examine developing trends in the mining 2EST OF %UROPE The Anglo American Chairmans Fund, the industry and to ensure that the Group takes full 4HE !MERICAS Groups main social investment vehicle in South advantage of new and emerging technologies.
!USTRALIA !SIA Africa, was rated for the sixth time in seven The Groups wide portfolio of technology THER years as the top corporate giver by NGOs and expertise makes it an attractive partner for peer group companies.
In 2007, it supported other companies wishing to develop mineral over 300 projects.
In Chile, the Groups properties that had previously been considered enterprise development programme was too difficult or uneconomic to mine successfully.
recognised through the award of one of only ATD continues to assist operations at Group seven Bicentennial Medals by President sites worldwide, particularly in such fields as Bachelet.
In its first year, in partnership with the safety improvement, asset optimisation and Fondo Esperanza, it supported loans to 900 energy efficiency.
In the exploration field, small-scale entrepreneurs and worked with the superconducting interference device 20 more established businesses to assist them SQUID has been successfully tested in two in moving to the next stage of growth.
airborne applications and holds great promise to To mirror the work of the Chairmans Fund, improve the sensitivity of exploration surveys.
the Anglo American Group Foundation was Investigation into the cause and effect of established in 2006 aimed at supporting projects parametric resonance in large grinding mill in the UK and other parts of the world where the systems has led to a whole new area of Group operates.
Amongst the causes supported expertise in systems studies to prolong by the Foundation during 2007 were projects mechanical life and increase availability of large for Plan International in China, SightSavers mills.
ATD has developed guidelines for rollInternational in West Africa, Children of the Andes over protection for mobile equipment and has in Colombia, Starfish, which works with HIV AIDS assisted operations in designing appropriate impacted families in South Africa, and Engineers structures for low-height vehicles and other Without Borders.
Within the UK, Anglo American special applications.
A new electro-hydraulic rig worked with homelessness charities Centrepoint for shaft sinking has been designed and and the Connection at St Martin-in-the-Fields developed by ATD engineers in conjunction with in London, and the National AIDS Trust.
a major contracting company and is being tested In addition, the Group built on a longstanding at the Paardekraal 2 shaft of Anglo Platinum.
involvement with the international development Faster than conventional pneumatic drills, the rig charity CARE in countries like Brazil and can also drill the horizontal holes needed to Zimbabwe, by forming a global relationship insert ground support anchors, reducing the aimed at poverty alleviation and improving local number of people needed in the congested area development outcomes.
In Australia, Anglo Coal is Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007 | 25 Operating and financial review Group overview continued deploying the worlds largest underground mine fide Beers at 100%, but excluding the activities hydraulic roof supports, with almost 50% more of Anglo Gold Ashanti.
thrust than existing designs, at its Moranbah Anglo Base Metals which spent North longwall operation.
ATD is assisting the $77 million continued exploration around its equipments manufacturer with finite element Chilean copper mines and Brazilian nickel and analysis on the design to ensure that the phosphate mines, in addition to zinc exploration supports are mechanically reliable and have adjacent to operations in Namibia and South the necessary structural strength to withstand Africa.
A number of new nickel and copper the difficult geological conditions there.
projects entered the project pipeline and At Anglo Research, innovative processes advanced project work continued on the The Groups wide are being developed for the production of Boyongan-Bayugo copper-gold discoveries in the titanium and to extract nickel from laterite ores, Philippines, the Jacar nickel discovery in Brazil, portfolio of technology with extensive pilot plant testing scheduled the Sulfatos copper discovery in the Los Bronces expertise makes it an during 2008.
Anglo Research has also upgraded region in central Chile, and the Gamsberg East attractive partner for other its pressure leach pilot plant facility with new zinc discovery in South Africa.
Elsewhere, the companies wishing to controls and instrumentation, enabling more Michiquillay copper project in Peru was added to precise data to be collected during test runs the exploration portfolio through a successful develop mineral properties while simultaneously allowing operators to bid, and a 50% interest in the Pebble copperthat had previously been be removed from the immediate vicinity of the gold-molybdenum project in southern Alaska considered too difficult high-pressure equipment and the potentially was negotiated successfully in 2007. or uneconomic to mine aggressive chemical environment.
This equipment Anglo Coal $32 million continues to is being used to study potential processes for the evaluate, assess and extend resources for successfully Mantoverde and Pebble orebodies.
A new X-ray thermal and coking coal, coal bed methane and photo-electron spectroscope was commissioned oil sands.
In South Africa in 2007 it successfully during 2007 and is being used to study the retained 94% of its coal prospecting rights, and surface chemistry of complex mineralogical continued its evaluation of coal bed methane samples, so that more precisely tailored CBM production in the Waterberg project area.
processes can be developed for recovering them.
Exploration activities in Australia concentrated Anglo American has one of the largest project on the Moranbah South, Dartbrook and Dawson development portfolios in the mining industry.
In Canada, Roman Mountain was the The growing influence of governments, local focus of exploration adjacent to the Trend Mine communities and NGOs, coupled with constraints in British Columbia.
In China, a two-phase on skills and resources such as water and energy, exploration programme was aimed at bringing has prompted a reassessment of the way in the Xiwan project geological data close to which major projects are designed, assessed feasibility study level.
A suite of tools and procedures, Anglo Platinum $36 million continues its developed internally and in conjunction with programme of exploration around existing international partners, is being rolled out across operations in South Africas Bushveld Complex, the Group to assist project managers in ensuring where new exploration permits were granted.
that due consideration is given to all relevant Drilling was undertaken at the Danba project in factors over the lifetime of each project.
southern China and in Murmansk Oblast in western Russia following encouraging Exploration exploration results.
Exploration continued for Exploration continues to be one of the key platinum group elements with strategic partners growth activities for Anglo American, in in Brazil, Canada and Zimbabwe.
greenfield and brownfield exploration, and in Anglo Ferrous Metals $12 million the identification of exploration properties for exploration for iron ore comprised both greenfield acquisition or company involvement.
The Northern Cape and brownfield Sishen and continuing strong markets for mineral products, Thabazimbi activities in South Africa, and the worries about global energy security and an initiation of greenfield exploration within the MMX upsurge in resource nationalism are producing Minas-Rio project area in Minas Gerais, Brazil at a challenging environment for mineral discovery the Itapanhoacanga, Serro and Serra do Sapo sites.
This is prompting an intense fide Beers $126 million is concentrating its competition for exploration land holdings, search for diamonds in Angola, the Democratic moves towards increasing around-mine Republic of Congo DRC, Botswana, South exploration for a quick exploration discovery, Africa, Namibia, Canada, India and Russia.
and the growth of mergers and acquisitions, Projects have moved to an advanced stage in joint ventures and inter-company exploration Botswana, especially with regard to the potential alliances.
In 2007, the Group spent $283 million development of a kimberlite pipe in the Orapa on exploration in 25 countries, including region, and in Angola and the DRC.
26 | Anglo American plc Annual Report 2007
