8 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 OUR MARKETPLACE Interest rate rises and higher bills have begun to dent consumer confidence.
But this has not yet changed spending habits, which are being fuelled by increasing levels of debt.
Last year, the retail market continued Retailers converged in the middle ground, Consumers have become much more to grow.
However, the proportion of with value retailers adding higher-priced conscious of food quality, trading up to disposable income spent in shops ranges, and mid-market players premium ranges.
Increasingly, purchasing shrank, as people chose to spend expanding their value ranges.
decisions are swayed by such things as more on leisure and other activities.
provenance, with demand for fairly traded At the same time customers have and organic goods from ready-prepared Traditional high streets remained under become less loyal and more savvy, willing jams and pies, to basics such as milk pressure.
Out-of-town shopping centres to shop anywhere and everywhere to increasing rapidly.
became more dominant: online and compare price and quality.
television shopping were firmly established Cooking a meal from scratch became More retailers entered the fragmented as mainstream shopping channels: while popular again, along with a renewed homeware market in the past year.
mail order firms offered branded goods at emphasis on fresh food, with consumers Consumers, meanwhile, looked for low more competitive prices.
shopping more often in more stores.
prices as they regularly freshened up Healthy eating continued to grow in Moreover, the market remained intensely their homes with soft furnishings in importance, but people still treated competitive, with new entrants regularly fashionable colours and styles.
themselves to the occasional indulgence.
joining the fray and established players Shoppers were happy to spend on steadily increasing their store space.
In the year to come, the expected technology, from flat-screen televisions slowdown in property prices will further In the clothing market, a modest increase to MP3 players, upgrading to the latest impact consumer confidence, whilst in total sales value was dwarfed by a version.
The supermarkets increased their competition will increase.
Convenience, large increase in volume, as consumers offer to meet this demand, making this quality, service and choice will remain key bought more lower-priced products.
In market more price sensitive.
spring 2007, this was further influenced Growth in food remained strong, with by consumers buying into a multitude of the big food retailers benefiting at the looks in the absence of one dominant expense of smaller chains and fashion trend.
Sources: BRC KPMG: Mintel great product.
Now that we have better products, we are using The website, www.
com, performed well, advertising to drive sales with greater confidence.
This year, we reaching sales of over 100m for the first time.
We know that extended our television advertising into childrenswear for the online is a big opportunity for us and, in March 2007, we first time.
launched our new website the first step in building our multichannel offer.
2006 07 saw us invest heavily in modernising our stores.
35% of the portfolio was modernised by Christmas 2006 from big Our international business also performed well.
We have built stores such as Cribbs Causeway and Manchester to small high a strong franchise operation and now have 219 stores in 34 street stores in Crewe and Clapham.
We have a target to territories.
Turnover, including our eight wholly-owned stores in complete 70% of the portfolio by the end of 2007.
Hong Kong and 13 in the Republic of Ireland, rose 16.8% to 610.6m last year 522.7m while operating profits rose 33.2% This is a big programme.
But it is being managed with minimal to 87.5m last year 65.7m.
disruption to customers and our overall performance.
Feedback from customers is good and sales performance at the new M&S Money is benefiting from our partnership with HSBC, with stores is encouraging.
our share of profits more than doubling from 9.6m to 19.5m.
Over three million people now use the &More credit card, reWe want to offer a convenient, exciting and modern shopping launched during the year, and we have over 100 Bureaux fide experience.
However, our new stores will only thrive if we keep Change at our stores serving 3.8 million customers.
We getting our products and service right.
expanded the range of financial products, which now includes As well as improving the look and feel of our stores, we have home and car insurance and a new ethical investment fund.
invested in our people, increasing the number of customer In the pages that follow I will expand on how each element of assistants and the amount of time they spend helping the business performed in more detail and look at some of the customers.
Our work on reward, training and career paths main opportunities and challenges we see coming up in the is helping us recruit and retain the best people.
Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 9 OUR BRAND The public has an affinity with M&S which, arguably, it has with few others.
They have grown up with M&S and feel they own it.
The award-winning Your M&S tag continues to recognise this and unify the brand.
During the year, we continued to focus For the important festive season, we ran on fewer, bigger impact campaigns and a feature-length ad, with Shirley Bassey, to use mass-appeal, traditional capturing the special quality we bring to communication channels, like television, Christmas.
to bring clarity and authority to our Look behind the label and Plan A messages.
responded to customers desire to We freshened our womenswear and better understand our approach to lingerie formula, introducing Lizzie environmental and ethical issues.
Jagger to appeal to younger audiences.
But its not just about advertising.
Better In March 2007, Myleene Klass joined product, better looking stores, investment the girls outside for a fashion picnic in in customer service and a new website the park.
have been critical in encouraging In menswear, rock-star turned people to reassess our brand.
photographer Bryan Adams captured The positive net effect of our marketing our Autograph offer: while our first mix continues to build: footfall is childrenswear television ad drove up growing ahead of the market and brand sales faster than any previous momentum is the highest it has ever campaign.
In our home department we been and the M&S brand grew by 192% developed our catalogues, in-store during the year to a value of 4.75bn, dcor and website offer further.
making it the fastest growing top 100 Not just food advertising continued global brand Millward Brown.
Our to give a strong visual taste of our high challenge is to maintain this by keeping quality products, such as our organic our brand fresh.
Exploring new opportunities Our new website, developed in partnership with Amazon and 2007 08 will be critical as we seek to put the business on launched in March 2007, makes us a truly multi-channel the path to solid and sustainable growth, consolidating on operation, allowing us to offer customers greater choice and our progress to date, whilst also building the foundations for convenience.
With the right technology in place attached to a future growth.
much better service offer, we believe we can increase our sales through this channel five-fold in the next five years.
Our plan to focus on product, service and environment will remain front of mind we cant afford to take our foot off We have tested new product and service offers too, such as the accelerator.
home technology, new formats for mens shoes, and new eating offers, such as our eat over delicatessens, all of which we are Our other challenge in the months ahead is also to pursue new now trialling more widely.
This year, we will also trial a new product opportunities in our stores and online to encourage our layout for womens shoes and for childrenswear.
existing customers to spend more with us.
We will develop our overseas business at a faster pace.
We We will do more of what we do already, but at greater pace.
For have teams exploring opportunities both in markets where we instance, this year we will open more Simply Food stores than already perform well and in new locations, as I describe in more ever before, working towards our aim to have more than 400, detail on page 24. in addition to selling our food in BP Connect service stations under the Simply Food banner in up to 200 locations within The continued tight control of our costs and stock levels five years.
But we are prepared to invest heavily, as we have with the modernisation of our stores, in Our property review, outlined in November, means that over the areas where we see real opportunities for long-term growth next five years we will expand our overall space by 15-20%, and investment returns.
with new or extended stores out of town, on Retail Parks and in city centres.
The objective is to be in the right place with the right space for tomorrows customers.
We are reviewing our high street stores to make sure we are properly represented in well-located sites where customers most want to shop.
