Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 25 The explosion of internet shopping provides another big The photography is sharper, you can look at the item in all opportunity for us.
available colours, and a zoom function means you can home in on stitching and fabric detail.
Our customers already like shopping with us on the net.
In 2006 07, online sales grew by more than 60%, well ahead The site also offers tips and recommendations tailored to of the market, albeit from a fairly low base, reaching over customers shopping preferences.
This was driven by over 55 million We are also improving service levels, with standard delivery visits last year 30 million.
times shortened from seven days to three, in addition to our If you consider that we have an 11.1% share of UK clothing free standard delivery on all orders over 30.
We also offer next sales, but just 4.2% of online clothing sales, its clear that day and nominated day deliveries for a small premium.
theres a lot more we can go for.
Later in the year, web, phone and in-store ordering will be We have set a target to increase online sales to 500m in five linked together for the first time, providing more delivery years.
To reflect the size of the opportunity, e-commerce is now choices, something customers have said is important to them, a separate business unit reporting to me.
including collecting online orders from a store of your choice.
In March 2007, we launched our new website, developed with In line with Plan A, we are playing our part in making our Amazon, which has the widest selections of online clothing in operations more sustainable, with over 90% of our online delivery the UK over 15,000 items as well as 10,000 homeware and packaging now made from recycled, recyclable materials.
technology products, flowers, wines and exclusive online I believe we are now set up to offer one of the best e-commerce ranges, including jewellery.
sites in the UK for clothing, homeware, gifts and selected food As well as looking fresh and modern, the website includes a products with potential for further development.
range of new features, including a sophisticated, fast-search facility which lets you search by size, colour, style and price, or choose from over 50 departments.
500m We intend to grow our online sales from just over 100m in 2006 07 to 500m within five years.
THE ONLINE OPPORTUNITY Online shopping is growing at a rapid rate in the UK.
This is supported by the spread of broadband technology.
Industry forecasts for the UK online clothing and footwear market predict an increase in sales this year of 42% to 3.5bn source IMRG.
