10 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 Management team Kate Bostock, Director of Womenswear and Girlswear takes We have made some important changes to the leadership of on additional responsibility for lingerie, helping us to ensure a M&S in the last 12 months to prepare us for the next phase of co-ordinated offer for all of our ranges for women.
our previous Director of Lingerie became Director of Trading for the new, enlarged womenswear, lingerie and girlswear group.
In the autumn, we brought supply chain, sourcing and planning for our clothing and home businesses together under one director, Responsibility for our ongoing store modernisation programme Andrew Skinner, in order to get our supply chain fit for the future.
passed to Ian Dyson, our Group Finance Director, to allow Julian Kilmartin replaced Andrew as our Director of Menswear.
Steven Sharp to focus on the next generation of store design, alongside his responsibilities for marketing and M&S Money.
In addition, we have emphasised the importance of e-commerce and the new director for this area, John Dixon, now reports The Executive Committee, which oversees the day-to-day directly to me.
running of the business, was extended and now includes Kate Bostock, Steven Esom, Guy Farrant, Andrew Skinner and Carl We reinforced the strength of the team in April 2007, with two Leaver, in addition to the executive board directors.
new appointments and the promotion of key talent.
This executive team in turn forms part of a wider Directors Group, Steven Esom joined as Director of Food on 1 June 2007 from which you can see on pages four and five of this report, Waitrose, where he was Managing Director.
Guy Farrant, our including three new food director roles created in April 2007. previous Director of Food, was appointed Director of Retail, replacing Anthony Thompson who has left the business.
This structure retains the fast decision making which has been critical in recent years, whilst also ensuring that we have a Carl Leaver joined on 14 May 2007 as our Director of joined-up approach to our customer offer.
International Business and reports to me.
He was previously CEO of fide Vere Group plc and will replace Richard Wolff, who Plan A retires later in the year after 36 years with the Company.
In any company, the temptation can be to focus too narrowly on short-term business performance.
Responsible companies have to look to the long term.
CLIMATE CHANGE PLAN A Plan A is our five-year, 100-point plan to tackle some of the biggest challenges facing our business and our world.
55,000 Climate Change We aim to make our UK and Republic All our Simply Food stores, of Ireland operations carbon neutral in five years.
We will our stores in Scotland and our minimise energy use, maximise the use of renewables and London head office are now offset only as a last resort.
powered by renewable green energy saving 55,000 tonnes Waste Well reduce packaging by 25%, find new ways to of CO every year.
2 recycle and stop sending waste to landfill from our stores, offices and warehouses.
Sustainable Raw Materials From fish to forests, our goal is to make sure our key raw materials come from the most sustainable sources available.
Fair Partner By being a fair partner, well help improve the lives of hundreds of thousands of people in our worldwide supply chain and local communities.
Health Well help customers and employees choose healthier lifestyles through healthy food ranges and clear labelling.
To find out more visit www.
com PlanA Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 11 We set ourselves very high quality and ethical standards.
The impact will be felt widely.
We are taking action across Last year, we used our Look behind the label campaign to 35,000 product lines, involving more than 2,000 factories, describe the lengths we go to to ensure everything we sell is 10,000 farms and 250,000 workers around the world.
also involve customers and co-operate with governments, environmental agencies and like-minded organisations.
But customers and staff wanted to understand our overall approach and our plan for the future.
One of our aims is to help customers and employees live healthier and more sustainable lives.
Weve trained 1,500 The result was Plan A, our five-year, 200m eco plan launched assistants to give our customers advice on nutrition and we in January 2007. continued to expand our Eat Well ranges.
Later this year, we Weve made 100 commitments across the five areas, including will start selling green home products from energy-saving becoming carbon neutral, sending no waste to landfill, cutting light bulbs to composters.
As well as committing to reduce our packaging by a quarter and only using fish and wood from the amount of food we import by air, we have also started to sustainable sources.
As well as addressing the wider issues, introduce an aeroplane symbol on flown food.
And well be we continue to work closely with local communities through making it easier for customers to recycle our packaging.
our Marks & Start work experience programme, for example.
We dont have all the answers All of these commitments are described in our How we yet.
But responsible retailing has always been at the heart of do business report, published alongside this document at our approach, so we have a strong starting point.
Im convinced we have no alternative but to make Plan A work.
Each year we will report on how far we have got in Doing nothing is not an option.
Businesses can no longer achieving them.
ignore the challenges facing the world.
To make sure Plan A is a success it is being completely integrated into our day-to-day operations.
It will change how we operate forever.
SUSTAINABLE RAW MATERIALS Over 90% of our new collection of timber garden furniture will be Forest Stewardship Council FSC certified.
By 2012 all of our products that are made using wood will carry FSC certification so that our customers can be confident that our products meet independent environmental management standards which aim to protect our forests.
HEALTH WASTE FAIR PARTNER We are committed to helping disadvantaged groups like the disabled and homeless get into jobs via work placements in our stores and supplier 1,500 100% factories.
Since it launched in 2004, We now have 1,500 trained over 9,000 people have taken part in Almost all the carrier bags we use in Healthy Eating Assistants in our our Marks & Start programme.
This our clothing and home departments stores to advise our customers work was recognised in March 2007 are now made from 100% recycled on healthy options.
We will train when we won the Princes Trust material.
Our Bag for Life, which has all our food hall teams in Partnership & Innovation Award.
been reduced in price from 15p to 10p, nutrition within three years.
12 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 INNOVATION Our technologists work closely plastic bottles this year to make as fine as seven denier from with suppliers to introduce new, fleeces for sale in-store and for 3.50.
The fabric is made from innovative products, which have a store uniform trial.
revolutionary new yarns, which real practical benefits for our join to form thousands of During the year, we also extended customers.
This means our use of innovative materials that should a yarn break, rather This year, we launched our that we introduced in 2005 06. than creating an unsightly ladder, exclusive mens Stormwear This included Insolia shoes, which the fabric forms a discreet hole.
range which is made with an work by moving weight back This hosiery also has a reinforced innovative water and stain to your heel for better body toe and added stretch.
repellent, breathable fabric alignment and balance, keeping originally developed for legs comfortable.
In womenswear, we built on the the military.
success of Magicwear, which We also used Real Cool Cotton, we had introduced in lingerie to Initially applied to some of our a trademark fabric that was provide invisible shape and mens jeans, we plan to introduce initially introduced into mens support.
more Stormwear products for undergarments and helps to both adults and children.
keep you cool, in new categories We applied this shaping including adult t-shirts and technology to the Magic Dress We also developed a new fleece baby sleepsuits.
as worn by Shirley Bassey in made from recycling plastic bottles our Christmas TV adverts and into polyester, instead of using In hosiery, we now sell ladderare now offering Magic Jeans.
We will be using 4.5 million resistant tights and hold-ups product Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 13 We said last year that our main aim was to provide great quality, responsibly sourced clothing and home products in our stores at the right time, the right price and in the right quantities.
Womenswear, menswear, lingerie, childrenswear and home all recorded strong growth in sales and market share as we also brought in more choice and translated trends more quickly into really wearable fashion, or stylish ranges for your home.
But customers expect us to do more.
Relentless competition from high street value retailers, supermarkets and established rivals means we cannot be complacent.
We need to keep getting the basics right if we are to retain the support of customers and keep improving our performance.
Performance Our growth last year shows what we are capable of.
Womenswear executed its every woman, every time strategy with skill with marketshare increasing from 10.5% to 11.3%.
Key looks such as slim trousers, leggings, tunics, knitted jumpers and jersey t-shirts proved successful and our new denim shops traded well in a tricky market.
Formal clothes prospered our 50 polyester and linen mix suit remained a top seller offsetting slower demand for casual trousers and some leisure wear.
Limited Collection was well-received by younger, more fashion-conscious shoppers.
Per una continued to grow strongly in the year, with sales of 423.5m, as it celebrated its fifth birthday with strong ranges from Collezione Italia fashion flair to stylish eveningwear and a relaunched jeans collection.
SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN Footwear also performed well, with improved choice and quality It is 20 months since we opened our network of sourcing offices: Hong Kong and Shanghai which from 9.50 pumps to leather-lined Autograph shoes.
In opened in September 2006 covering China and the 2007 08, we will be trialling a new womens footwear layout to Far East: Bangalore, Colombo and Dhaka covering make this enhanced offer easier to shop.
South East Asia: and the Turkish office in Istanbul focusing on Eastern Europe and North Africa.
Menswear saw growth across the board from casual clothing to With a staff of around 200, the offices have cotailoring and its share of the market grew from 9.6% to 10.3%.
ordinated the direct buying, production and Our shoe ranges benefited from new serviced shoe shops, transportation of over 129 million items in 8,000 styles.
which will be rolled out to 30 modernised stores.
Our three These offices are our eyes and ears on the ground, menswear sub-brands also performed well.
Autograph was helping us to operate more efficiently, such as getting new fast fashion ranges from the drawing the main engine for growth, Blue Harbour remains the UKs board into stores in eight weeks.
They also play a biggest mens casualwear brand and Collezione continues to key role in monitoring our suppliers labour be popular with men looking for classic European style.
Last year, 677 independent visits to supplier factories were carried out to make sure they Harbour Vintage performed less well and this more casual look were meeting our ethical standards on issues such will be gradually absorbed into Blue Harbour.
In suiting, deals as fair pay and working conditions.
to provide suits for the England teams for the European football Our overseas offices also help us to find new championships and the Rugby World Cup are a great vote of suppliers who we can work with directly to produce confidence in the quality of our tailoring.
great value products for our customers.
In 2006 07, we bought 28% of our clothing and home products In lingerie, offering more clearly defined brands helped us redirectly last year 21%.
Full Service Vendors still account for the large majority of our supply and establish our fashion credentials, provide real choice and boost remain key supplier partners, helping us to maintain sales.
Ceriso and per una are attracting younger customers our record on innovation.
while Adored continues to offer pretty femininity and Truly You, sophisticated glamour.
Body remains popular with those looking for simple style, while the introduction of the Autograph has helped to highlight the great quality at the top of our price range.
We also remained the place women go to first for
