14 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 essential items like everyday bras, single knickers and hosiery, to choose from without compromising on quality, innovation thanks to competitive pricing and excellent quality.
segmentation and choice enabled us to increase our market We have been taking action on prices across clothing and share, despite intense competition, from 24.3% to 26.1%, home for two years, with further progress made on improving nearly five times the share held by our nearest competitor.
value across our ranges in 2006 07.
Average prices fell by Maintaining this dominant position will be the challenge this year.
around 3% over the year, while volumes increased by around In childrens clothing we reversed the weak performance of 14%.
Last year, items like womens jogging trousers for 9.50, recent years and made our first market share improvement for one of our biggest selling lines: cosy, long fleece dressing six years, up from 4.2% to 4.5%, introducing better product gowns at 17.50: our mens 49.50 machine-washable suit: from baby right through to young teenage girls and boys.
Our and cooking sets from 9.50, set the pace on value.
first television advertising campaign for childrenswear boosted But we need to keep providing customers with new, great sales, as did a new trial store layout.
We are pleased with the value products.
In the year ahead, there will be more must-have progress this year, but we know we have a lot more to do here, fashion items like leggings and printed jersey dresses in both in terms of product and availability.
womenswear, while in mens we will continue to introduce Our home department is in its second year of strong growth, better opening prices on popular lines, as we have done with helped by good demand for furniture and a clearer pricing our 5 polo-shirt.
In lingerie and home, were extending the stretching from 50p glass tumblers and 5 large glass vases choice of colours in key lines like the 6 bra and in basic towels to our Autograph extra large pure combed cotton bath towels and bed linens.
Therell be more value items in childrenswear, at 25.
Theres potential to grow this business significantly.
like our 2.50 girls t-shirts, as we continue our work to improve In furniture, our priority is to improve our deliveries to provide our offer.
even better levels of service.
Choice Value Our brands are helping us to introduce more clarity at higher As the UKs largest clothing retailer, we buy on a vast scale.
Autograph the brand we use across This means we can give customers a broad spread of prices womenswear, mens, lingerie and home for contemporary products at the top end of our price range is a good example VALUE AWARDS We offer customers a choice of high We won a number of important quality products at prices that suit awards during the year.
For us, its a simple equation: included being named Business value price x quality.
Were trying to in the Community Company of make the choices simpler.
Take bed the Year for the second time: linen.
Customers can now choose our Best Fashion Retailer by the opening price pillow cases at 2 each, RSPCA: and being given Grade A opt for our Supima 100% soft cotton, status by Greenpeace for non-iron pillow cases at 4, or choose sustainable wood sourcing.
Both Autograph Egyptian fine cotton ones Prima and Drapers voted us best at 12 each.
FAIR PARTNER Weve increased our use of Fairtrade cotton from India and Africa, buying around a third of the worlds current supply.
In Fairtrade Fortnight in March we offered an outfit for all the family, including socks, t-shirts and jeans.
Next year we will sell over 20 million Fairtrade garments, equating to around 100m of sales.
Financial Shareholder Executive Team Your Board Review Governance Financials Information www.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 15 of this, offering affordable luxury from cashmere loungewear to It is vital that our core departments like womens formal Timothy Everest suits.
trousers and mens shirts remain easy to shop with good availability.
Our Petite and Plus ranges for women are helping We can give Autograph more authority.
Already worth us meet the needs of a diverse customer base.
The new 275m across clothing and home, we aim to double its value wedding range, which we launched in March with outfits for the in the next three years.
The launch of Autograph Weekend whole wedding party, and our extended maternity range have smart-casual clothes for women will help us achieve that.
both helped fill important gaps in our offer.
We are extending Limited Collection, like Ceriso in lingerie, is attracting younger this work through our website, providing the widest range of customers.
Along with girls ranges such as Girls Boutique, it colours, styles and sizes.
is bought on an eight-week cycle from Turkey, to keep stores We have also added to our home offer.
Our technology shops, fresh with up-to-the-minute trends.
However, we have not which we introduced to 12 stores and online in September, always offered new product frequently enough and were taking and to our Croydon store after the year end, offer a carefully action on this with a new three-weekly buying cycle and by selected range of branded goods from music systems to backing key trends in more depth.
microwaves, all with easy to follow instructions.
Everything Our much improved childrens ranges include organic cotton comes with a two-year guarantee except for our large televisions, babywear, trendier outfits for girls and plenty of popular which come with a five-year guarantee and free installation.
The enhanced childrenswear offer is We intend to add this offer to more stores during 2007 08. an important part of our efforts to provide great value clothing Outlook for all the family.
Its encouraging to see how customers have responded to Greater fashion appeal is very important.
But we havent the changes weve made across our clothing and home forgotten our customers who want classic style.
But they have made it clear they expect us to our Classic Collection which now spans sizes 8 to 24 and keep improving.
With competition intensifying, we will be also introduced a new Golf range of sport-styled casual working closely with our suppliers to do just that.
clothes for men and women.
FAIR PARTNER We have supported the Breakthrough Breast Cancer Campaign since 2001 and we are now its largest corporate partner.
We have raised over 6m in total, including 1.5m in 2006 07, and helped to educate and inform customers.
In March, we supported the Prostate Cancer Charity, to raise 90,000 funds and awareness for a disease which kills one man every hour in the UK.
CHOICE CLIMATE CHANGE We want every one of our Later this year, we will introduce a new customers to find something green home department selling they love every time they visit, products like energy efficient whether that be the perfect lightbulbs, hand-charged dynamo Autograph cashmere jumper or torches and household composters a trend-led item from Limited to help people live greener lives as part Collection or per una.
We also of our commitments under Plan A.
As filled gaps with new offers such we add to this exciting range, well as our range of bridal and look to sell bigger items through the occasionwear with everything website.
from wedding dresses to morning suits, launched in March 2007.
16 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC www.
com annualreport2007 product INNOVATION Innovation in food is what sets diet of wild salmon, one portion Introduced in October 2006, the M&S apart from our competition of the salmon provides the range already represents 25% as we continue to develop new Governments recommended of our total ready meal offering.
products and new methods of weekly allowance of Omega-3.
Developed in response to production.
growing customer awareness From September 2006 we about health, the range took We introduced new, tastier fish replaced all fresh farmed salmon 18 months to develop and and meat products from unique with Lochmuir Salmon.
By includes dishes inspired by breeds that we developed with autumn 2007, all our chilled cuisines from around the world.
our suppliers, such as our salmon products will be made Lochmuir Salmon.
All of the new dishes are based on Government guidelines for Developed using similar As part of our additive reduction balanced calorie, fat, salt and principles to our Oakham programme we were the first sugar content and, like all M&S Chicken, the salmon are kept in major retailer to remove ready meals, the range is free large saltwater pens with lower hydrogenated fats, which have from artificial colours, flavours stock levels than recommended been associated with the risk of and hydrogenated fats.
higher cholesterol levels, heart products in the range are total disease and diabetes, from all The farms have been selected meal solutions, which means our the food we sell.
for their lower environmental customers dont need to add any impact and our high standards We also launched a new range accompaniments which would of fish care are recognised by the of 120 Nutritionally Balanced impact on the nutritional content RSPCA.
Thanks to a specially ready meals to help customers of the whole meal.
formulated feed, similar to the maintain a healthy, balanced diet.
com annualreport2007 MARKS AND SPENCER GROUP PLC 17 We continue to provide customers with delicious, high quality, innovative food sourced both responsibly and SOURCING AND SUPPLY CHAIN sustainably.
We have always worked and in February 2007, we closely with suppliers to increased the price we pay It is a credit to our food team and suppliers that weve produce great food for milk under our Milk produced our best ever period of sustained growth in recent responsibly and sustainably.
Pledge scheme, which Because our food is 100% guarantees farmers a history.
In 2006 07, total food sales grew at twice the market own brand, we can do this fixed price for their milk, rate at 9.7% to 3.97bn.
Sales from existing stores grew by with real authority.
giving them greater 4.2% on a like-for-like basis and we reached more customers security.
In 2007 08, we We had already improved will be consulting with through new stores and formats, particularly Simply Food animal welfare standards farmers on ways to extend stores.
Total market share grew to 4.3%, its highest ever level.
with breeds like Oakham this scheme into other Chicken and Muir Den product areas.
Although competition is fierce and food trends are changing Pork which are less intensively farmed.
As part Under Plan A we will faster than ever, we are confident we can continue to of our Plan A commitments reduce the proportion of make gains.
we will convert our fresh, food we air freight.
whole turkey, goose and Additionally, we have New trends in eating duck to free range within started to introduce an Around seven million people buy food from M&S each week.
We aeroplane symbol onto Given our relatively small share of the UK market, we are already have also committed to packs of products that convert our fresh pork to we do air freight.
reaching a wide audience, attracted by our outstanding quality free range as well.
We are To help our suppliers to offer, convenient locations and mouth-watering advertising.
also working with the make changes in their Marine Stewardship People shop with us for a wide range of reasons.
For some own businesses, we are Council and other introducing a web-based customers, M&S simply stands for high quality food from organisations to achieve Supplier Exchange.
Some just love food and like the way we Together we aim to share for the fisheries we interpret new eating trends in our prepared meals.
Others want best practice, stimulate source from.
innovation and help high quality traditional ingredients to make their own dishes.
For We want to be a fair suppliers secure funds for many people, M&S is a place to come at special times of the partner to all our suppliers investment.
year and for indulgent treats: and for others M&S stands for great food on the go.
For all of these customers, different food trends are important and we must stay a step ahead of them, using great innovation to meet their changing preferences.
The trend in healthy eating shows no signs of easing.
Demand for fresh, natural food as well as the healthy prepared meals, at which we excel, is rising fast.
But indulgent products are also in high demand such as our Gastropub range and special desserts, like the recently advertised lemon souffl, which has been very successful.
Increasingly, customers want to know precisely where their food comes from right down to individual farms and growers.
Customers want assurance that their food has been sourced ethically with proper care taken over nutrition, fair trading, the environment and animal welfare.
And they want it to be labelled clearly and packaged responsibly.
Fresh, natural and healthy Healthy eating is a priority for us and our customers.
Facilitated by our 100% own-brand offer, our work to remove unnecessary ingredients from our products is industry leading.
In 2006, M&S became the only major retailer to have removed hydrogenated fats from all our food and we remain ahead of the industry in reducing salt.
We are also continuing to meet the growing demand for fresh food which has had the minimum of processing.
range, our ready meals and all of our Eat Well childrens prepared meals are now free of artificial colours, flavourings, sweeteners and have no added preservatives.
