Directors Report The Directors have pleasure in submitting their dividend of 13.85 pence 2006: 13.15 pence per Annual Report and Financial Statements for the share.
Payment of the final dividend, if approved year ended 31 December 2007.
The Consolidated at the Annual General Meeting, will be made on 4 Group Financial Statements have been prepared July 2008 to shareholders registered at the close under International Financial Reporting Standards of business on 6 June 2008. adopted by the EU adopted IFRSs.
The Parent Company Financial Statements have been The dividend paid in the year to 31 December prepared in accordance with UK Accounting 2007 and disclosed in the Consolidated Income Standards.
Statement is 13.40 pence 2006: 12.70 pence per share being the previous year's final dividend of Principal Activities and Business 8.85 pence 2006: 8.40 pence per share and the Review interim dividend of 4.55 pence 2006: 4.30 pence per share in respect of the year ended 31 The principal activities of the Group are the December 2007 and paid on 5 December 2007. manufacture and supply of landscape, driveway and garden products from a range of materials, including Share Capital concrete, natural stone, iron, steel, wood, glass and polyurethane.
Further details of the principal Details of the share capital is set out in Note 20 on activities of the Group are set out in Note 33 on page pages 89 to 90.
As at 7 March 2008, the Company had 143,106,254 The Chairmans Statement on page 4 and the ordinary shares of 25 pence each in issue.
"Save for Operating and Financial Review on pages 6 to 23 the Treasury Shares and some of the shares held contain a review of these activities, which includes a by the Marshalls plc Employee Benefit Trust the fair review of the Groups business and a description ""EBT"" as set out below, these ordinary shares carry of the principal risks and uncertainties."
equal rights to dividends, voting and return of capital on the winding up of the Company.
There Details of the Groups policy in relation to employees are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in the Company and there are no restrictions on any and information on charitable and political donations are disclosed on page 25. voting rights other than those prescribed by law, nor is the Company aware of any arrangement Details of the Groups policies in relation to Corporate between holders of its shares which may result in Governance are disclosed on pages 40 to 45. restrictions of the transfer of securities or voting rights.
There are no significant agreements other than those where disclosure would be seriously prejudicial During the year all of the B shares in issue which to the Company to which the Company is a party had been issued in June 2004 following a Return that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of of Value exercise, were compulsorily redeemed.
control of the Company following a take over bid.
Details of the redemption are set out in Note 20 on page 90.
Group Results Details of outstanding awards under the Marshalls The Consolidated Income Statement for the year plc 2005 Long Term Incentive Plan are set out in ended 31 December 2007 is shown on page 60.
The EBT holds shares in the Company on trust for employees Investment Dividends Shares and also purchases shares to be granted The Board is recommending a final dividend of to Directors and Senior Executives Matching 9.30 pence 2006: 8.85 pence per share which, Shares and Performance Shares subject to the together with the interim dividend of 4.55 pence achievement of Performance Targets.
At 31 2006: 4.30 pence per share, makes a combined December 2007 the EBT held 543,744 ordinary shares in the Company in respect of Matching and 36 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Performance Share Awards.
No dividends are Articles of Association payable on these shares.
The Trustees of the EBT The Companys Articles of Association give exercise any voting rights in accordance with the powers to the Board to appoint Directors.
appointed Directors are required to retire and submit themselves for re-election by shareholders Employees of the Group with more than six months at the first Annual General Meeting following their service may participate in the Marshalls plc Share appointment.
Specific rules regarding the rePurchase Plan.
Employees purchase ordinary shares election of the Directors are set out in the in the Company with pre-tax salary.
The shares are Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 45. purchased in the market and then held in Trust by Yorkshire Building Society.
Employees receive The Board of Directors may exercise all the powers dividends on these shares and may give voting of the Company subject to the provisions of instructions to the Trustee.
relevant statutes and the Companys Memorandum and Articles of Association.
These Purchase of Shares include specific provisions and restrictions At the Annual General Meeting in May 2007 regarding the Companys power to borrow shareholders gave a limited authority to the money.
Powers relating to the issuing and buying Directors to purchase ordinary shares in the back of shares are included in the Articles of Company in the market.
During the year, the Group Association and such authorities are renewed by purchased 2,425,000 ordinary shares, representing shareholders each year at the Annual General 1.694 per cent of the issued share capital, which are Meeting.
No dividends are payable on these shares and no voting rights attach to them.
The Articles of Association may be amended by The Directors will seek to renew this authority at the Special Resolution of the shareholders.
Charitable and Political Donations Directors Details of the charitable and political donations Details of each of the Directors who served made during the year are set out in the Corporate throughout the year, together with biographical Social Responsibility Statement on pages 24 to 27. details, are set out on page 35.
Disposals and Acquisitions Ian Burrell and Bill Husselby will retire by rotation at On 12 January 2007 the Group acquired Clearwell the Annual General Meeting.
Both of these Quarries Limited and, on 5 February 2007, Ollerton Directors, being eligible, offer themselves for reLimited, a supplier of high quality and widely election in accordance with the Companys Articles specified seating systems, was acquired.
Details about the Directors service 2007 a further natural stone business was contracts or letters of appointment are set out in the acquired, which expanded the Group's natural Directors Remuneration Report on page 55. and reconstituted stone walling business in the North East and Scotland.
Details of Directors' attendance at Board and Committee meetings and a statement on Board Since the year end, the Group has acquired a 25 Evaluation is set out in the Corporate Governance per cent stake in a small natural stone quarrying Report.
Directors Interests Full details of Directors remuneration, interests in the share capital of the Company and of their share based payment awards are set out on pages 46 to 56 in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 37 Directors Report continued Fixed Assets applicable law and have elected to prepare the The Group continues to invest in the business with Parent Company Financial Statements in accordance net capital investment in the year of 28.7 million with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law 2006: 24.0 million.
UK Generally Accepted Accounting Practice.
The Group Financial Statements are required by law In the opinion of the Directors, the current market and IFRSs as adopted by the EU to present fairly the value of the Groups interests in land and buildings financial position and the performance of the Group: exceeds the book value by approximately 40 the Companies Act 1985 provides in relation to such million.
Financial Statements that references in the relevant part of that Act to Financial Statements giving a true Payment to Suppliers and fair view are references to their achieving a fair The Group follows the CBIs prompt payment code presentation.
and operates and abides by a clearly defined payment policy which has been agreed with all major The Parent Company Financial Statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the suppliers.
The Groups creditor payment period at 31 state of affairs of the Parent Company.
In preparing each of the Group and Parent Company Substantial Shareholdings Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: As at 7 March 2008, the Company had been notified of the following disclosable interests of 3 per cent or select suitable accounting policies and then more in its voting rights.
apply them consistently: % make judgments and estimates that are M&G Investment Management 11.14 reasonable and prudent: Majedie Asset Management 4.86 for the Group Financial Statements, state whether they have been prepared in accordance with AXA S. A.
4.58 IFRSs as adopted by the EU: Credit Suisse Asset Management 4.43 for the Parent Company Financial Statements, New Star Asset Management 4.36 state whether applicable UK Accounting Legal & General Investment Management Ltd 4.30 Standards have been followed, subject to any Artemis Investment Management 3.55 material departures disclosed and explained in Liontrust Asset Management 3.38 the Parent Company Financial Statements: and prepare the Financial Statements on the going Statement of Directors Responsibilities concern basis unless it is inappropriate to in respect of the Annual Report and the presume that the Group and the Parent Financial Statements Company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the The Directors are responsible for keeping proper Annual Report and the Group and Parent Company accounting records that disclose with reasonable Financial Statements in accordance with applicable accuracy at any time the financial position of the law and regulations.
Parent Company and enable them to ensure that its Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 1985.
They have general responsibility for taking such Company law requires the Directors to prepare steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard Group and Parent Company Financial Statements for the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect each financial year.
Under that law they are required fraud and other irregularities.
to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and 38 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 Under applicable law and regulations, the Directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors' Report, Directors' Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Company's website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Disclosure of Information to Auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys Auditors are aware of that information.
Annual General Meeting The Notice convening the Annual General Meeting to be held at Birkby Grange at 12.00 noon on Thursday 15 May 2008, together with explanatory notes on the resolutions to be proposed, is contained in a circular to be sent to shareholders with this Annual Report.
Auditors A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as Auditors to the Company and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
By Order of the Board Ian Burrell Company Secretary 7 March 2008 Marshalls plc Annual Report 2007 39
