Directors report Business review Viridor continued A year of investment and progress Strategy The UK is required under the EU Landll Directive to reduce the amount of biodegradable municipal waste going to landll sites.
This is being achieved by a major increase in recycling, with residual waste increasingly being used for energy recovery.
The Governments main mechanism for diverting waste from landll and providing incentives for recycling and energy recovery is landll tax, supported by a range of other policy and legislative measures.
Many leading corporate organisations are also looking to improve environmental and business performance through recycling and resource efficiency.
All of these factors underline the key aims and long-term trends in UK waste management that Viridor has been pre-empting and responding to in its services and continued business transformation.
The strategic position and ability of the company to capitalise on these favourable trends is therefore strong.
Business performance Viridors revenue increased by 49.1 million to 761.1 million.
Acquisitions accounted for 23.1 million of this, while existing business increased by 26.0 million including an increase in landll tax of 17.8 million.
Since 2007 08 and up until the first half of 2011 12 our strong growth in recycling profits had been more than offsetting the decline in annual landll profits.
However, recyclate prices fell in the second half of the year reecting world economic conditions, although Viridor was able to offset more than 50% of the impact of this fall under the terms of its customer supply contracts and by other cost reductions.
The year on year growth in recycling profits, combined with strong performances in contracts and joint ventures, wasunable to offset the on-going decline in landll coupled with increased contract bid costs associated with Viridors expanding PPP EfW pipeline.
Notwithstanding this the company produced a robust performance during a year of continuing difficult economic conditions.
The proportion of our profits that come through recovering the value in waste continues to grow, and was around 50% in 2011 12.
This compares with just 16% eleven years ago.
Despite the challenging UK and global economic climate, Viridor remains convinced that embracing the environmental agenda has been an effective driver for long-term growth.
Being green is good for business.
We are confident that ourstrategy will continue to drive long-term growth and produce value for Viridor and its Top: Lakeside energy from waste facility.
Recycling will be key to profits in the next couple of Bottom: Viridor collection services.
years, with long-term momentum underpinned by our growing PPP and EfW pipeline.
Investment and awards 2011 12 was a year of major long-term investment from Viridor, including the completion of a further five acquisitions for a total of around 40 million, complementing the existing business and in line with the companys recycling and collection strategies.
These comprised the acquisition of Community Waste Recycling Limited for a total of 18.5 million, JWS Churngold Limited for 14.3 million, Storm Recycling Limited for 1.7 million, and two separate acquisitions of trade waste collection interests of Veolia in the South West of England for a combined sum of 8.2 million, the latter bringing excellent synergistic opportunities for Viridors business in thatregion.
20 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Viridor Group Governance Financial statements the current 64 per tonne to 80 per tonne by 1 April 2014.
The Viridor continues its profit per tonne in recycling remains appreciably higher than the level in landll operations.
Quality recyclates also remain attractively transformation into a priced commodities when compared with virgin materials.
Contracts and joint ventures progressive recycling-led 2011 12 was the third year of operation of the 25-year Greater Manchester Waste PFI contract, a joint venture that remains the resource management UKs largest combined recycling-focused waste and renewable business, with a growing energy project.
Some 39 out of the 43 now planned facilities required to service the contract are now operational.
The project focus on recovering the value aims to recycle over 50% of Greater Manchesters waste and divert at least 75% from landll.
in waste through materials Phase I of the Runcorn EfW CHP plant, which is being constructed to treat solid recovered fuel produced from Greater recycling and the generation Manchesters residual waste, is on schedule to open at the end of 2012 13.
Phase II of the Runcorn facility is also under construction of renewable energy from and is scheduled to open during 2014.
This additional capacity is designed to serve the North West market more generally.
Runcorn will be one of the largest and most efficient EfW CHP plants in Europe.
Towards the end of the year Viridor completed its 45 million Investments in the future capabilities and strength of our business investment in infrastructure to serve the West Sussex County included capital expenditure and investment in joint ventures of Council recycling and waste handling PFI contract.
The opening 140 million, of which 93 million was for new projects in EfW, of the final recycling site at East Grinstead completed a seven recyclingand waste treatment infrastructure.
This included year programme to deliver a network of modern recycling facilities 58.3million on Phase II of the Runcorn EfW combined heat and across the county.
The contract is on track to deliver its target of a power CHP facility.
An additional 13.4 million was invested in 45% recycling rate, three years ahead of schedule.
of JWS Churngold Limited strengthened contract services in the During the year Viridors Lakeside EfW joint venture, near North West.
Heathrow airport, won the Chartered Institution of Wastes 2011 12 was the second full year of operation of the Lakeside EfW Managements Peel Peoples Cupfor the best run waste plant, a joint venture with Grundon Waste Management, with a management facility in the UK.
Lakeside also won the EfW Facility capacity to treat 410,000 tonnes of residual waste a year and an of the Year and Best Designed Renewable Energy Facility electricity generation capacity of 37MW.
This is the first of Viridors categories at the Renewable Infrastructure Awards 2011.
Viridor, pipeline of EfW plants and it has performed consistently strongly along with West Sussex County Council, Horsham District Council in terms of its electrical output and its on-going profitability, with and sub-contractor, Olus, also won the Association for Organic a total contribution of 7.8 million.
The total contribution from Viridor joint ventures increased by 4.5% These awards, and the robust position and performance of the to 11.5 million.
business, are recognition of the commitment, professionalism, Landll gas power generation innovation and hard work of our employees, for which we Viridor has 34landll gas power plants generating renewable thankthem.
power by harnessing methane produced as organic material Recycling which is anaerobically broken down in contained landll cells.
Year on year growth in recycling volumes and profits continued, The total power generated by these plants in 2011 12 rose reecting organic growth, acquisitions and an improved mix slightly to 576GWh from 566GWh in 2010 11.
The average price between higher and lower value recyclates produced.
achieved per MWh was also up slightly 1% at 83.50 but this Volumes of recyclate traded during the year increased by 124,000 was offset by unit cost increases, leaving profits at year on year.
Higher value recyclate Viridor estimates that its landll gas power generation is volumes increased by 198,000 tonnes 17.4%, including 110,000 approaching peak output.
The company had an overall generating tonnes through acquisitions, while lower value recyclates 1 capacity of 107MW on 31 March 2012.
Electricity produced is decreased by 74,000 tonnes 12.8%.
Viridor continues to focus sold under the Governments Renewables Obligation Certicates on investments and operational improvements to ensure the ROCs, or the older Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO schemes.
highest possible quality of output from its recycling activities.
This The proportion of electricity generated at Viridor plants sold under strengthens our long-term relationships with customers via our the higher value ROCs, increased from 69% to 74% during the global trading platform Viridor Resource Management and allows year, with the remaining 26% sold under NFFO contracts.
Around exibility in changing market conditions.
60% of the NFFO component will migrate to ROCs in 2013 14, The acquisition of Community Waste Recycling Limited included with the remaining balance migrating by 2016 17. two MRFs, in Milton Keynes and Oxfordshire, and a business 1 Excludes 3MW capacity at sub-contract sites in Suffolk.
processing up to 90,000 tonnes of recyclates.
Storm Recycling Landll and collection services Limited brought an additional 20,000 tonnes of quality recyclates Landll continues to provide an important disposal option for into the business in the North West of England.
The acquisition a significant but declining proportion of UK wastes.
Total of two trade waste collection businesses of Veolia in parts of the volumes received at Viridor sites decreased by 0.4 million tonnes South West reected the increasing role that Viridors collection 11.4% to 3.1 million tonnes, broadly in line with the UK market.
eet has in feeding the companys recycling operations.
Approximately half of this decline in volume was accounted for by The long-term economics of recycling and energy recovery are the closure of Horton landll in West Sussex, with the remainder enhanced by the rate of landll tax increasing by 8 a year from from reduced third party industrial and commercial inputs.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 21 Directors report Business review Viridor continued Average gate fees at Viridor sites increased by 5.8% to 23 PPP pipeline per tonne, but the gain was offset by increased costs on lower Viridors bidding team for long-term PPP contracts has performed volumes.
Consented landll capacity fell from 69.0 million cubic strongly in recent years.
During 2011 12 we were announced metres at 31 March 2011 to 65.4 million cubic metres at 31 March as preferred bidder for the South London Waste Partnerships 2012, reecting usage during the year.
25-year PPP residual waste contract for the treatment of up to 200,000 tonnes of residual waste.
Similarly the company achieved profits from collection services were at year on year.
Two preferred bidder status for the Glasgow PPP contract requiring acquisitions during the year of Veolia trade waste collection treatment and disposal of up to 200,000 tonnes of residual waste businesses strengthened capacity in core service areas.
This a year via an energy recovery facility.
reects our drive forcontrolled growth in industrial and commercial collection within key areas, to provide materials for our recycling Viridor was also named preferred bidder for the South Lanarkshire and EfW operations.
PPP contract currently subject to legal challenge and is one of the last two bidders for contracts in Peterborough for recycling Renewable energy developments and for residual waste, West Lothian residual waste, South East Viridor believes that there is potential for the UK to generate up Wales residual waste, Central Bedfordshire residual waste and to 6% of its total electricity from energy derived from waste as Edinburgh and Midlothian food waste.
fuel from current contribution approaching 2%.
Energy security remains a vitally important issue for the UK and utilising waste to Key relationships generate renewable power presents opportunities for diversity Environmental permits are required for all waste and recycling of supply, with the additional benets of landll diversion and facilities in England and Wales, with waste management licences carbon reduction.
Viridor currently has a generating capacity or pollution, prevention and control PPC permits required in of 136MW and is confident that it can grow this capacity to Scotland.
These are issued and monitored by the Environment over 300MW in four years.
This would represent 3-4% of Agency and the Scottish Environment Protection Agency UK renewable energy supply.
Viridor maintains a positive working relationship with the regulators by means ofproactive liaison and issues To that end, Viridors strong pipeline of opportunities in the EfW management, at both a siteand strategic level.
and renewable energy sector continues to progress.
The Runcorn facility, for example, will have a total capacity of 750,000 tonnes a The company has developed an innovative data sharing portal year and a CHP capacity of 120MW a proportion of which will be named Openspace, with the Environment Agency in England, provided under joint venture.
which supplies online environmental monitoring datalive to the regulator, replacing the need to supply huge volumes of written During the year Viridor secured planning consent for its Ardley EfW quarterly and annual reports.
This ground-breaking project is part facility.
Construction has now begun on this plant which will largely of the Agencys better regulation agenda and has substantial cost serve the Oxfordshire PPP contract, treating 300,000 tonnes of and resource saving potential.
residual waste a year with an electricity generating capacity of 24MW.
The construction of the Exeter EfW facility also began Local authorities remain Viridors largest single customer group during the year.
It is designed to treat 60,000 tonnes of residual accounting in total for 32% of the companys revenue, although waste for Devon County Council with a generating capacity no individual authority accounts for more than 11%.
ROC energy contracts account for 6% of revenue, primarily with onecustomer.
At the end of the year Viridor signed an EPC contract for the Trident Park EfW scheme in Cardiff, with  No supplier accounts for more than 5% of Viridors revenue.
This facility will have a waste treatment The company sources from competitive markets.
capacity of 350,000 tonnes a year, and an electricity generating Our employees capacity of 28MW.
The company also has planning consent for We areproud of the achievements of our employees.
Viridors two further EfW projects in Dunbar and Avonmouth and is seeking operational priority remains the safety, health and positive consent for a further plant at Beddington in South London.
professional development of our employees.
It is the on-going Towards the end of the year a contract was signed for the commitment, motivation and professionalism of our employees construction of an anaerobic digestion AD facility at Walpole that enables the company to continue to grow, develop and in Somerset.
This plant will be capable of treating up to 30,000 deliver results.
Particular attention has been paid during the year tonnes of organic waste, mostly sourced from the existing to improving further training capacity and personal development PPP contract with Somerset Waste Partnership, and will opportunities and to health and safety.
Our overall RIDDOR have an electricity generating capacity of over 1MW.
Viridor incidence rate has fallen by 43% during the year.
is commissioning four other AD plants as part of the Greater The company continues to focus on supporting new employees Manchester waste PFI contract.
joining Viridor to ensure quick and effective integration into our company culture, especially our health and safety and business management systems.
This also enables all new employees to contribute to the companys success from the beginning of their Viridor career.
22 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Viridor Group Governance Financial statements Looking ahead we intend to increase further the proportion of profits generated by recovering the value in waste.
profit contribution by segment Recycling operations will 2011 12 be key to profits in the Collection 6% short-term with Viridors JVs 9% Recycling 27% pipeline of PPP EfW projects Landll 18% underpinning its long-term profit momentum.
Power generation 20% Contracts and other 20% Looking ahead Around 50% of profits from recovering value in waste including During the year the UK Government completed its Waste Policy more than 2% energy generation recycling in JVs and Contracts Review for England with similar themes enshrined in the Scottish and other.
and Welsh zero waste strategies and plans.
These underline the governments commitment to moving towards a zero waste economy via higher levels of recycling, energy recovery and 2010 11 resource efficiency.
Viridor awaits with interest the National Waste Management Plan due in 2013 setting out updated guidance Collection 6% on the delivery of waste infrastructure.
There has already been JVs 9% good progress in the delivery of planning consents for recycling Recycling 24% and waste facilities and we believe that the current market-friendly approach to recycling and generating energy form waste should continue to be encouraged.
Landll 23% The seventh Environment Action Programme EAP is also due to be adopted by the European Commission EC in 2012.
This Power will emphasise the need for waste prevention, recycling and generation 20% greater resource efficiency, as well as better implementation of environmental legislation at all levels including waste Contracts and management.
other 18% Within the context of EC policy and legislative trends, we believe that Viridor is well placed to benefit from additional requirements to increase renewable energy generation, carbon reduction and overall resource efficiency.
The waste sector will continue to be driven by a regulatory environment in which Viridor has been able to take an entrepreneurial approach.
As we target further growth, particularly in our recycling and EfW businesses, we believe it is important that the current light touch is maintained to give us the operational freedoms we need to benefit our clients, the environment at large and our investors.
Looking ahead we intend to increase further the proportion of profits generated by recovering value in waste.
The company strategy has been successful to date and recycling operations will be key to profits in the short-term.
Long-term profit momentum will be underpinned by our growing PPP and EfW pipeline.
This gives us confidence that Viridor can continue to deliver long-term growth in shareholder value.
Anaerobic digestion facility, Greater Manchester.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23
