Treasury Committee The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
B. C. Short and senior members of the finance and purchasing departments.
The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign currencies and implements strategies, including the use of foreign exchange hedges, in order to reduce the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
The Treasury Committees remit also includes the ability to utilise financial instruments in order to hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Further details of the work carried out by the Treasury Committee are contained within the Financial Review on pages 16 to 25.
Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and annually reviews their effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems, including controls related to financial, operational and reputational risks identified by the Group, in accordance with the Code for the period from 29 January 2011 to the date of approval of this annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 19 January 2012, following a review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Audit Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of internal controls in place.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the board.
The board requires the departments within the Group to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are reported to the board via the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the year ended 28 January 2012 and up to the date of the approval of this annual report and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The three main elements of the Groups internal control system, including risk identification, are as follows: The board The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statements, statement of financial position and indebtedness, is reported.
The board and the management committee review their business and financial performance against the prior year and against annual plans approved by the board.
Audits and reviews The key internal risks identified in the Group are subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm which is independent from the board and the Company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The board confirms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2012 47
