Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. significant accounting policies continued The requirements of IAS 39 are applied to determine whether it is necessary to recognise any impairment loss with respect to the Groups investments.
Where an indicator of impairment exists or the carrying value of the asset contains goodwill with Q liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or share-based payment an indefinite useful life, the entire carrying amount of the investment including goodwill is tested for impairment in accordance arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets IAS 36 as a single cash generating unit through the comparison of its recoverable amount accordance with IFRS 2 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date: and the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell with its carrying amount.
Any impairment loss recognised forms part Q assets or disposal groups that are classied as held for sale in accordance with IFRS 5 Non-current Assets Held for Sale of the carrying amount of the investment.
Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognised in accordance with IAS 36. and Discontinued Operations are measured in accordance with that Standard.
When a Group entity transacts with its investees, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the investee are recognised Where a business combination is achieved in stages, the Groups previously held interests in the acquired entity are remeasured in the Groups consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate that are not related to the Group.
to fair value at the acquisition date i. e. the date the Group attains control and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have Functional and presentation currency previously been recognised in equity are reclassied to profit or loss, where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest The functional currency for each entity in the Group is determined as the currency of the primary economic environment in which was disposed of.
For all Russian entities the functional currency is the Russian Rouble RUB.
The investment holding companies, including Polymetal International plc, also have a Rouble functional currency as they are in substance an extension of the Russian Goodwill and goodwill impairment group and have significant Rouble-denominated intercompany loans in most cases.
The functional currency of the Groups entity Goodwill arising in a business combination is recognised as an asset at the date that control is acquired the acquisition date.
located in Kazakhstan and operating with significant degree of autonomy is the Kazakh Tenge KZT.
Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any over the net of the The Group has chosen to present its consolidated financial statements in US Dollars US$, as management believes it is a more acquisition-date amounts of the identiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed.
convenient presentation currency for international users of the consolidated financial statements of the Group as it is a common presentation currency in the mining industry.
The translation of the financial statements of the Group entities from their functional If the Groups interest in the fair value of the acquirees identiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, currencies to the presentation currency is performed as follows: the amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirers previously held equity interest in the acquiree if any, the excess is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement as a bargain purchase gain.
Q all assets and liabilities are translated at closing exchange rates at each reporting period end date: Q all income and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill transactions that are translated at rates on the date of such transactions: is allocated to each of the Groups cash-generating units expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
CashQ resulting exchange differences are included in equity and presented as movements relating to the effect of translation to the generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an Groups presentation currency within the Translation reserve: and indication that the unit may be impaired.
If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, Q in the consolidated statement of cash ows, cash balances at the beginning and end of each reporting period presented are the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other translated using exchange rates prevalent at those respective dates.
All cash ows in the period are translated at the average assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset in the unit.
An impairment loss recognised for exchange rates for the periods presented, except for significant transactions that are translated at rates on the date of transaction.
goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
On the disposal of a foreign operation i. e. a disposal of the Groups entire interest in a foreign operation, or a disposal involving On disposal of a subsidiary, the attributable goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal.
loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, a disposal involving loss of joint control over a jointly controlled entity that includes a foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of significant inuence over an associate that includes a Acquisition of mining licences foreign operation, all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of that operation attributable to the owners The acquisition of mining licences is often effected through a non-operating corporate entity.
As these entities do not represent of the Company are reclassied to profit or loss.
a business, it is considered that the transactions do not meet the denition of a business combination and, accordingly, the transaction is accounted for as the acquisition of an asset.
The net assets acquired are accounted for at cost.
In the case of a partial disposal that does not result in the Group losing control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, the proportionate share of accumulated exchange differences are re-attributed to non-controlling interests and are not Investments in associates recognised in the consolidated income statement.
For all other partial disposals i. e. reductions in the Groups ownership interest An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant inuence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint in associates or jointly controlled entities that do not result in the Group losing significant inuence or joint control, the venture.
significant inuence constitutes the power to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of the investee proportionate share of the accumulated exchange differences is reclassied to the consolidated income statement.
but does not extend to a control or joint control over the enactment of those policies.
The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in the consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments on identiable assets and liabilities acquired arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each Interests in joint ventures reporting period.
Exchange differences arising are recognised in equity.
A joint venture is a contractual arrangement whereby the Group and other parties undertake an economic activity that is subject to joint control i. e. when the strategic financial and operating policy decisions relating to the activities of the joint venture require Exchange rates used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements were as follows: the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control.
Joint venture arrangements that involve the establishment of a separate 31 December 31 December entity in which each venturer has an interest are referred to as jointly controlled entities.
The Group reports its interests in jointly 2012 2011 controlled entities using the equity method of accounting.
Russian Rouble US Dollar Year end 30.37 32.20 Equity method of accounting Average for the year 30.09 29.39 Under the equity method, an investment in an associate or jointly controlled entity investee is initially recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognise the Groups share of the profit or loss and other Kazakh Tenge US Dollar comprehensive income of the investee.
When the Groups share of the losses of an associate exceeds the Groups interest Year end 150.74 148.40 in that entity, the Group ceases to recognise its share of further losses.
Additional losses are recognised only to the extent Average for the year 149.11 146.60 that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the investee.
The Russian Rouble and Kazakh Tenge are not freely convertible currencies outside the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and and, accordingly, any translation of Russian Rouble and Kazakh Tenge denominated assets and liabilities into US Dollar for the contingent liabilities of an investee at the date of acquisition is recognised as goodwill, which is included within the carrying purpose of the presentation of consolidated financial statements does not imply that the Group could or will in the future realise amount of the investment.
Any excess of the Groups share of the net fair value of the identiable assets, liabilities and or settle in US Dollars the translated values of these assets and liabilities.
contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition, after reassessment, is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
120 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 121 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. significant accounting policies continued Operating leases Foreign currency transactions Operating lease payments are recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Contingent rentals arising Transactions in currencies other than the entitys functional currencies foreign currencies are recorded at the exchange rates under operating leases are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred.
prevailing on the dates of the transactions.
All monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items carried at historical cost are translated at the exchange Impairment of property, plant and equipment rate prevailing on the date of transaction.
Non-monetary items carried at fair value are translated at the exchange rate prevailing An impairment review of property, plant and equipment is carried out when there is an indication that those assets have suffered on the date on which the most recent fair value was determined.
Exchange differences arising from changes in exchange rates an impairment loss.
If any such indication exists, the carrying amount of the asset is compared to the estimated recoverable are recognised in the consolidated income statement.
amount of the asset in order to determine the extent of the impairment loss if any.
Where it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group estimates the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit to which the Property, plant and equipment asset belongs.
Mining assets Mining assets and leases include the cost of acquiring and developing mining assets and mineral rights.
Mining assets are Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future depreciated to their residual values using the unit-of-production method based on proven and probable ore reserves under the cash ows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reects current market assessments of the Russian Resource Reporting Code GKZ, which is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared.
Changes in proven time value of money and the risks specic to the asset for which the estimates of future cash ows have not been adjusted.
If the and probable reserves are dealt with prospectively.
Depreciation is charged on new mining ventures from the date that the recoverable amount of an asset or cash generating unit is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount mining asset is capable of commercial production.
In respect of those mining assets whose useful lives are expected to be of the asset or cash generating unit is reduced to its recoverable amount.
An impairment loss is recognised as an expense less than the life of the mine, depreciation over the period of the assets useful life is applied.
The difference in the depreciation immediately in the consolidated income statement.
charge which would have been applied had the Group based the depreciation expense on JORC reserves is considered to be immaterial.
When there is little likelihood of a mineral right being exploited, or the value of the exploitable mineral right has Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit is increased diminished below cost, an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but only to the extent that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the original carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised in prior periods.
Capital  assets are measured at cost less any recognised impairment.
Depreciation commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
Mineral exploration and evaluation costs, including geophysical, topographical, A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised in the consolidated income statement immediately.
geological and similar types of costs, are expensed as incurred.
When it has been determined that a mineral property can be economically developed as a result of established proven and probable reserves, the costs incurred in exploration and Inventories development of such property, including costs to further delineate the ore body, are capitalised.
Metal inventories Inventories including rened metals, metals in concentrate and in process, Dor and ore stock piles are stated at the lower of Non-mining assets are depreciated to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
When parts production cost or net realisable value.
Production cost is determined as the sum of the applicable expenditures and expenses of an item of property, plant and equipment are considered to have different useful lives, they are accounted for and depreciated incurred directly or indirectly in bringing inventories to their existing condition and location.
Rened metals are valued at the separately.
Depreciation methods, residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at least annually.
average total cost of production per saleable unit of metal.
Work in-process, metal concentrate and Dor are valued at the average total production costs at each assets relevant stage of production.
Ore stock piles are valued at the average cost of Estimated useful lives are as set out below: mining that ore. Where ore stock piles are not expected to be processed within 12 months, those inventories are classied as non-current.
Machinery and equipment Up to 20 years Transportation and other assets Up to 10 years Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price for that product based on prevailing spot metal prices, less estimated costs to complete production and selling costs.
Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated useful lives of the assets.
Consumables and spare parts Gains or losses on disposal of property, plant and equipment are determined by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the Consumables and spare parts are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value.
Cost is determined on the weighted average assets carrying amount at the date.
The gain or loss arising is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
The portion of consumables and spare parts not reasonably expected to be used within one year is classied as a long-term asset in the Groups consolidated balance sheet.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less Stripping costs all estimated costs of completion and costs to be incurred in marketing, selling and distribution.
When it has been determined that a mining asset can be economically developed as a result of established proven and probable reserves, the costs to remove any overburden and other waste materials to initially expose the ore body, referred to as stripping Financial instruments costs, are capitalised as a part of mining assets.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised when a Group entity becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Post-production stripping costs are recognised as a component of inventory and included in cost of sales in the same period as the revenue from the sales of inventory is recognised.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value.
Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value Estimated ore reserves through profit or loss are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, Estimated proven and probable ore reserves reect the economically recoverable quantities which can be legally recovered in on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value the future from known mineral deposits.
The Groups reserves are estimated in accordance with the GKZ and JORC Codes.
through profit or loss are recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
Leases Financial instruments designated as fair value through profit and loss FVTPL Finance leases A financial instrument other than a financial instrument held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: Leases under which the Group assumes substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are classied as finance leases.
Q such designation eliminates or signicantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise Assets subject to finance leases are capitalised as property, plant and equipment at the lower of fair value or present value arise: or of future minimum lease payments at the date of acquisition, with the related lease obligation recognised at the same value.
Q the financial instrument forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over their estimated economic useful lives or over the term of the lease, performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Groups documented risk management or investment if shorter.
If there is reasonable certainty that the lessee will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the period strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis: or of expected use is useful life of the asset.
Q it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and IAS 39 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract asset or liability to be designated as at FVTPL.
Finance lease payments are calculated using the effective interest rate method, and allocated between the lease finance cost, which is included in finance cost, and the capital repayment, which reduces the related lease liability payable to the lessor.
122 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 123 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. significant accounting policies continued the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay.
If the Group Financial instruments at FVTPL are stated at fair value, with any gains or losses arising on remeasurement recognised in profit retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise or loss.
Fair value is determined in the manner described in Note 29. the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
Effective interest rate method Financial liabilities The effective interest rate method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial instrument and of allocating interest Other financial liabilities income or expense over the relevant period.
The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts estimated future cash receipts Other financial liabilities including borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest or payments including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction rate method.
costs and other premiums or discounts through the expected life of the financial instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount on initial recognition.
Derecognition of financial liabilities The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Groups obligations are discharged, cancelled or they Financial assets expire.
The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable Non-derivative financial assets are classied into the following specified categories: FVTPL, available for sale AFS financial is recognised in the consolidated income statement.
assets and loans and receivables.
The classication depends on the nature and purpose of the financial assets and is determined at the time of initial recognition.
No financial instruments have been classied as available for sale.
Derivative financial instruments The Group may enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to certain risks.
Further details Income is recognised on an effective interest basis for financial instruments other than those financial assets classied as at FVTPL.
of derivative financial instruments are disclosed in Note 29.
Loans and receivables Derivatives are initially recognised at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with xed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active remeasured to their fair value at the end of each reporting period.
The resulting gain or loss is recognised in the consolidated market.
Loans and receivables are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less any impairment.
income statement immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the Interest income is determined by applying the effective interest rate, except for short-term receivables when the recognition of timing of the recognition in the consolidated income statement depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
Derivatives embedded in non-derivative host contracts are treated as separate derivatives when their risks and characteristics AFS financial assets are not closely related to those of the host contracts and the hybrid contracts are not measured at FVTPL.
Investments other than those classied as held for trading, held-to-maturity or loans and receivables are classied as available for sale financial assets.
These assets are subsequently measured at fair value and unrealised gains and losses are recognised Borrowing costs in equity until the investment is disposed or impaired, at which time the cumulative gain or loss previously recognised in equity Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets, which are assets that is included in the consolidated income statement.
necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
Impairment of financial assets Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of impairment at the end of each reporting period.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specic borrowings pending their expenditure on qualifying assets Financial assets are considered to be impaired when there is objective evidence that, as a result of one or more events that is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
occurred after the initial recognition of the financial asset, the estimated future cash ows of the investment have been affected.
For equity investments classied as AFS, a significant or prolonged decline in the fair value of the security below its cost All other borrowing costs are recognised in the consolidated income statement in the period in which they are incurred.
is considered to be objective evidence of impairment.
Cash and cash equivalents For all other financial assets objective evidence of impairment could include: Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, cash deposits and highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or fewer, which are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and are subject to an insignicant risk Q significant financial difficulty of the issuer or counterparty: or of changes in value.
Q breach of contract, such as a default or delinquency in interest or principal payments: or Q it becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or financial re-organisation: or Provisions Q the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.
Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present obligation legal or constructive as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Group will be required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the amount of the impairment loss recognised is the difference between the assets carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash ows, discounted at the financial assets original effective The amount recognised as a provision is the best estimate of the consideration required to settle the present obligation at the interest rate.
reporting date, taking into account the risks and uncertainties surrounding the obligation.
Where a provision is measured using the cash ows estimated to settle the present obligation, its carrying amount is the present value of those cash ows.
The carrying amount of the financial asset is reduced by the impairment loss directly for all financial assets with the exception of trade receivables, where the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an allowance account.
When a trade receivable Environmental obligations is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account.
Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written An obligation to incur environmental restoration, rehabilitation and decommissioning costs arises when disturbance is caused off are credited against the allowance account.
Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognised in the by the development or ongoing production of mining assets.
Such costs arising from the decommissioning of plant and other consolidated income statement.
site preparation work, discounted to their net present value using a risk-free rate applicable to the future cash ows, are provided for and capitalised at the start of each project, as soon as the obligation to incur such costs arises.
These costs are recognised For financial assets measured at amortised cost, if, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss decreases and in the consolidated income statement over the life of the operation, through the depreciation of the asset in the cost of sales line the decrease can be related objectively to an event occurring after the impairment was recognised, the previously recognised and the unwinding of the discount on the provision in the finance costs line.
Costs for restoration of subsequent site damage impairment loss is reversed through the consolidated income statement to the extent that the carrying amount of the investment which is created on an ongoing basis during production are provided for at their net present values and recognised in the at the date the impairment is reversed does not exceed what the amortised cost would have been had the impairment not consolidated income statement as extraction progresses.
Changes in the measurement of a liability relating to the decommissioning of plant or other site preparation work that result from Derecognition of financial assets changes in the estimated timing or amount of the cash ow or a change in the discount rate, are added to or deducted from the The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash ows from the asset expire, or when it cost of the related asset in the current period.
If a decrease in the liability exceeds the carrying amount of the asset, the excess transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity.
If the Group is recognised immediately in the consolidated income statement.
neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, 124 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 125 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 2. significant accounting policies continued Revenue recognition The provision for closure cost obligations is remeasured at the end of each reporting period for changes in estimates and Revenue is derived principally from the sale of gold and silver bullion and copper, gold and silver concentrate and is measured circumstances.
Changes in estimates and circumstances include changes in legal or regulatory requirements, increased at the fair value of consideration received or receivable, after deducting discounts.
obligations arising from additional mining and exploration activities, changes to cost estimates and changes to the risk free interest rate.
Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion and sale of copper, gold and silver concentrate is recognised when the risks and rewards of ownership are transferred to the buyer, the Group retains neither a continuing degree of involvement nor control over Employee benefit obligations the goods sold, the amount of revenue can be measured reliably, and it is probable that the economic benets associated with Remuneration paid to employees in respect of services rendered during a reporting period is recognised as an expense in that the transaction will ow to the Group.
Revenue from the sale of gold and silver bullion represents the invoiced value of metal reporting period.
The Group pays mandatory contributions to the state social funds, including the Pension Fund of the Russian shipped to the buyer, net of value added tax VAT.
Federation and Kazakhstan, which are expensed as incurred.
Sale of gold and silver bullion Taxation The Group processes Dor produced in the Russian Federation at Dukat, Khakanja, Voro, Omolon, and Amursk-Albazino Income tax expense represents the sum of the tax currently payable and deferred tax.
Income taxes are computed into London Good Delivery Bars prior to sale.
This final stage of processing is carried out on a toll-treatment basis at four in accordance with the laws of countries where the Group operates.
The Group sells gold and silver bullion to banks through long-term agreements.
The sales price, as determined in the agreement, may be variable based upon the London Bullion Market Association LBMA spot price or xed.
Current tax But the Groups policy is not to enter into xed price contracts.
For domestic sales, title passes from the Group to the purchaser The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for the period.
Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in the at the renery gate with revenue recognised at that point.
For export sales, once the gold and or silver bars have been approved consolidated income statement because of items of income or expense that are taxable or deductible in other periods and items for export by Russian customs, they are then transported to the vault of the purchaser, which is typically located in London.
that are never taxable or deductible.
The Groups liability for current tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted Title passes and revenue is recognised at the point when the gold and or silver bars are received by the purchaser.
or substantively enacted by the reporting date.
Sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate Deferred tax The Group sells copper, gold and silver concentrate under pricing arrangements where final prices are determined by quoted Deferred tax is recognised on temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the consolidated market prices in a period subsequent to the date of sale.
Concentrate sales are initially recorded based on forward prices for financial statements and the corresponding tax bases used in the computation of taxable profit.
Deferred tax liabilities are the expected date of final settlement.
Revenue is recorded at the time of shipment, which is also when risks and rewards pass generally recognised for all taxable temporary differences.
Deferred tax assets are generally recognised for all deductible to the buyer.
Revenue is calculated based on the copper, gold and silver content in the concentrate and using the forward temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profits will be available against which those deductible London Metal Bulletin LMB or London Metal Exchange LME price to the estimated final pricing date, adjusted for the specic temporary differences can be utilised.
Such deferred tax assets and liabilities are not recognised if the temporary difference terms of the relevant agreement.
Until final settlement occurs, adjustments to revenue are made to take into account the changes arises from goodwill or from the initial recognition other than in a business combination of other assets and liabilities in metal quantities upon receipt of new information and assay.
Revenue is presented net of rening and treatment charges which in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit.
are subtracted in calculating the amount to be invoiced.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries and The Groups sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate are based on a provisional price and as such, contain an embedded associates, and interests in joint ventures, except where the Group is able to control the reversal of the temporary difference and derivative that is required to be separated from the host contract for accounting purposes.
The host contract is the receivable it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets arising from deductible from the sale of the concentrate at the forward exchange price at the time of sale.
The embedded derivative, which does not temporary differences associated with such investments and interests are only recognised to the extent that it is probable that qualify for hedge accounting, is measured at FVTPL with changes in its fair value recognised within revenue in the consolidated there will be sufficient taxable profits against which to utilise the benets of the temporary differences and they are expected income statement for each period prior to the final settlement.
to reverse in the foreseeable future.
Share-based compensation The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that The Group applies IFRS 2 Share-based Payments to its accounting for share-based compensation.
IFRS 2 requires companies it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
to recognise compensation costs for share-based payments to employees based on the grant-date fair value of the award.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability The fair value of share-based payments was calculated by the Group at the grant date using the two-stage Monte-Carlo is settled or the asset realised, based on tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of simulation model.
The expense is recognised on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the awards.
The measurement of deferred tax liabilities and assets reects the tax consequences that would follow from the manner in which the Group expects, at the end of the reporting period, to recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets The fair value of the awards granted is recognised as a general, administrative and selling expense over the vesting period with and liabilities.
a corresponding increase in the share-based compensation reserve.
Upon the exercise of the awards, the proceeds received, net of any directly attributable transaction costs, are credited to the stated capital account, and the amounts recognised within Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current the share-based compensation reserve transferred to retained earnings.
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority and the Group intends to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Earnings per share Earnings per share calculations are based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period.
Current and deferred tax Diluted earnings per share are calculated using the treasury stock method, whereby the proceeds from the potential exercise Current and deferred tax is recognised in the consolidated income statement, except when they relate to items that are of dilutive stock options with exercise prices that are below the average market price of the underlying shares are assumed to recognised in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity, in which case, the current and deferred be used in purchasing the Companys common shares at their average market price for the period.
tax also recognised in consolidated statement of comprehensive income or directly in equity respectively.
Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in the accounting for the business combination.
126 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 127 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty Fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations The following are the critical judgements, apart from those involving estimations see below, that the management has made In accordance with the Groups policy, the Group allocates the cost of the acquired entity to the assets acquired and liabilities in the process of applying the Groups accounting policies and that have the most significant effect on the amounts recognised assumed based on their fair values as estimated on the date of acquisition.
Any difference between the cost of the acquired in consolidated financial statements.
entity and the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill.
The Group exercises significant judgement in the process of identifying tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, valuing these assets and liabilities, and Production start date estimating their remaining useful lives.
The valuation of these assets and liabilities is based on assumptions and criteria that, The Group assesses the stage of each mine or plant construction project to determine when an asset moves into the in some cases, include managements estimates of discounted future cash ows.
The criteria used to assess the start date are determined by the unique nature of each construction project and include factors such as the complexity of a plant and its location.
If actual results are not consistent with estimates and assumptions considered, the Group may have to adjust its estimates of the fair values of assets and liabilities recognised and the goodwill balance during the measurement period.
Such a remeasurement The Group considers various relevant criteria to assess when the mine is substantially complete and ready for its intended could have an impact on the amounts reported in the consolidated income statement in current and future periods.
use and moves into the production stage.
Criteria considered but are not limited to the following: Ore reserve estimates Q the level of capital expenditure incurred compared to the construction cost estimates: An ore reserve estimate is an estimate of the amount of product that can be economically and legally extracted from the Groups Q the completion of a sufficient level of testing on the mine plant and equipment: properties.
Ore reserve estimates are used by the Group in the calculation of: depletion of mining assets using the units-ofQ the ability to produce gold, silver or copper in saleable form within specications : and production method: impairment charges and in forecasting the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration Q the ability to sustain ongoing commercial levels of production.
Also, for the purpose of impairment review and the assessment of the timing of the payment of decommissioning and land restoration costs, management may take into account mineral resources in addition to ore reserves where there is a high degree When a construction project moves into the commercial production stage and depreciation commences, the capitalisation of confidence that such resources will be extracted.
of certain mine construction costs and interest ceases and costs are either regarded as inventory or expensed, except for capitalisable costs related to mining asset additions or improvements, underground mine development or ore reserve In order to calculate ore reserves, estimates and assumptions are required about geological, technical and economic factors, development.
including quantities, grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, transport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices, discount rates and exchange rates.
Estimating the quantity and or grade of ore reserves requires the size, The Omolon Merrill-Crowe plant achieved commercial production in April 2012 and the Albazino mine achieved commercial shape and depth of ore bodies to be determined by analysing geological data such as the logging and assaying of drill samples.
This process may require complex and difficult geological judgements and calculations to interpret the data.
The Amursk POX plant commenced commercial production in November 2012.
Ore reserve estimates may change from period to period as additional geological data becomes available during the course of operations or if there are changes in any of the aforementioned assumptions.
Such changes in estimated reserves may affect Acquisitions the Groups financial results and financial position in a number of ways, including the following: IFRS 3 Business Combinations applies to a transaction or other event that meets the denition of a business combination.
Q asset carrying values due to changes in estimated future cash ows: When acquiring new entities or assets, the Group applies judgement to assess whether the assets acquired and liabilities Q depletion charged in the consolidated income statement where such charges are determined by using the units-of-production assumed constitute an integrated set of activities and thus whether the transaction constitutes a business combination, method: using the guidance provided in the standard.
In making this determination, management evaluates the inputs, processes Q provisions for decommissioning and land restoration costs where changes in estimated reserves affect expectations about and outputs of the asset or entity acquired.
the timing of the payment of such costs: and Q carrying value of deferred tax assets and liabilities where changes in estimated reserves affect the carrying value of the As a result of this evaluation process, management has determined that its 2012 acquisitions of Semchenskoye and Svetlobor relevant assets and liabilities.
did not meet the denition of a business combination and as such the Group has accounted for these transactions as asset acquisitions see Note 4.
Depreciation Mining assets are depreciated using the units-of-production method except where the useful lives of the assets are shorter than Key sources of estimation uncertainty the life of mine.
The units-of-production depreciation calculations are based on proved and probable reserves under the Russian Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRS requires the Groups management to make Resource Reporting Code GKZ, which is the basis on which the Groups mine plans are prepared as the useful lives of these estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and assets are considered to be limited to the life of the relevant mine.
For other property, plant and equipment, the straight-line liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the method is applied over the estimated useful life of the asset which does not exceed the estimated mine life.
The determination of estimates requires judgements which are based on historical experience, current and expected economic conditions, and all other available information.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
The calculation of the units-of-production rate of depreciation could be impacted to the extent that actual production in the future is different from current forecast production based on proved and probable ore reserves.
This would generally arise when there The following are the key assumptions concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the are significant changes in any of the factors or assumptions used in estimating ore reserves.
The Groups units-of-production reporting period that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities depreciation rates are based on the GKZ reserves gures which are different to the reserves calculated under the JORC within the next financial period.
reporting code and included into the Groups external reporting.
The most significant areas requiring the use of management estimates and assumptions relate to: Impairment of goodwill, mining assets and other property, plant and equipment Q fair value of net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations: The Group considers both external and internal sources of information in assessing whether there are any indications that Q ore reserve estimates: goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment owned by the Group are impaired.
External sources of Q depreciation: information the Group considers include: changes in the market and economic and legal environment in which the Group Q impairment of goodwill, mining assets and other property, plant and equipment: operates, that are not within its control and that affect the recoverable amount of goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment.
Q inventory obsolescence and write-downs: Q share-based compensation: Q environmental obligations: Q contingencies: and Q income taxes.
128 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 129 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 3.
Critical accounting judgements and key sources of estimation uncertainty continued Income taxes and mining taxes Internal sources of information the Group considers include the manner in which mining properties, plant and equipment are The Group is subject to income tax and mining taxes in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan.
Mining taxes do not meet being used or expected to be used and indications of economic performance of the assets.
In determining the recoverable the denition of a tax under IAS 12 Income taxes.
significant judgement is required in determining the provision for these taxes amounts of the Groups mining assets and other property, plant and equipment, the Groups management determines the fair due to the complexity of legislation.
There are many transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is value less costs to sell by estimating the discounted future after-tax cash ows expected to be derived from the Groups mining uncertain.
The Group recognises liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be properties, costs to sell the mining properties and the appropriate post-tax discount rate.
Reductions in metal price forecasts, due.
Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will increases in estimated future costs of production, increases in estimated future capital costs, reductions in the amount impact the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
of recoverable reserves and resources and or adverse current economics can result in a write-down of the carrying amounts of the Groups goodwill, mining assets or other property, plant and equipment.
Deferred tax assets are reviewed at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
The estimation of that probability includes In making the assessment for impairment, assets that do not generate independent cash inows are allocated to an appropriate judgements based on the expected performance.
Various factors are considered in order to assess the probability of the future cash-generating unit.
Management necessarily applies its judgement in allocating assets that do not generate independent cash utilisation of deferred tax assets, including past operating results, operational plan, expiration of tax losses carried forward, and inows to appropriate cash-generating units, and also in estimating the timing and value of underlying cash ows within the tax planning strategies.
If actual results differ from these estimates or if these estimates must be adjusted in future periods, the value-in-use calculation.
Subsequent changes to the cash-generating unit allocation or to the timing of cash ows could impact financial position, results of operations and cash ows may be negatively affected.
the carrying value of the respective assets.
Acquisitions and disposals Stock piles and work in-process a Asset acquisitions In determining mine operating costs recognised in the consolidated income statement, the Groups management makes Veduga estimates of quantities of ore stacked on leach pads and in process and the recoverable gold and silver in this material to On 7 February 2012 the Group completed the acquisition from AngloGold Ashanti Holdings PLC AngloGold of AngloGolds determine the average costs of nished goods sold during the period.
Changes in these estimates can result in a change in mine 50% interest in various companies held in joint venture with Polymetal comprising the AngloGold Ashanti Polymetal Strategic operating costs of future periods and carrying amounts of inventories.
At 31 December 2012 the carrying value of the ore stock Alliance for US$20 million.
It subsequently entered into a series of transactions with new investors unrelated parties, retaining piles was US$336 million and work in-process was US$66 million.
a 42.65% economic interest in the principal asset the Veduga licence.
See Note 20 for further information.
Share-based compensation Semchenskoye Zoloto In November 2010, the Group issued equity-settled share appreciation rights to certain employees.
Equity-settled share On 22 August 2012 the Group acquired 100% interest in Semchenskoye Zoloto LLC Semchenskoye Zoloto from Suntsov V. A. appreciation rights are measured at fair value excluding the effect of non-market based vesting conditions at the date of grant.
25% interest and Polister Limited 75% interest, both unrelated parties.
Semchenskoye Zoloto holds the exploration licence for The fair value determined at the grant date of the awards is expensed as services are rendered over the vesting period, based Semchenskoye eld in Karelia.
The Group paid cash consideration of US$0.8 million: in addition, a contingent consideration on the Groups estimate of the rights that will eventually vest.
of US$0.5 million is payable by the Group in case the exploration of the licence area proves to be successful and the mining licence for the new gold deposit is received before 25 December 2014.
Another US$1.2 million is payable depending on the level The fair value of share-based compensation is measured using the Monte-Carlo two-stage simulation model.
The expected of proved and probable ore reserves of the new deposit.
life used in the model has been adjusted, based on managements best estimate, for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions and behavioural considerations.
The awards include an option, exercisable at the discretion of the participant, to After evaluation of the possible outcome of the contingency, the Group estimated fair value of the contingent consideration defer the measurement period by one year.
For further details see Note 32. to be US$0.1 million.
The most significant assumptions used in estimation of the cost of equity-settled stock appreciation rights are: the expected Semchenskoye Zoloto does not meet the denition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008, thus it was accounted for as volatility of the Companys share price over the life of the award: the risk-free interest rate used: the level of expected forfeitures an acquisition of a group of assets.
The Group purchased mineral rights of US$0.8 million and other current liabilities of and the expectation at the grant date of the dividends to be paid over the life of the awards.
Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of return on the Companys GDRs.
Svetlobor On 17 December 2012, the Group acquired 24.99% interest in JSC Nevyansk Group NG, a Russian legal entity whose whollyThe risk-free rates used in the valuation model are based on US Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal owned subsidiary holds a mining and exploration licence for the Svetlobor area.
The Group issued consideration in the form to the expected life assumed at the grant date.
of 130,053 new ordinary shares in the Company.
Simultaneously, CJSC VTB Capital VTB purchased a 75.01% stake in NG in exchange for 390,369 new Polymetal ordinary shares, which were subscribed for by a subsidiary of VTB for a total cash Expected forfeitures are estimated using historical trends of executive director and employee turnover.
At the grant date, the Group had not historically declared dividends.
As such, the expected annual dividend per share was The Group also entered into legally binding agreement to acquire the 75.01% stake in NG from VTB, as soon as this transaction therefore nil.
Subsequent changes in the Groups dividend policy will be taken into account when valuing options granted is approved by the Government Commission on Monitoring of Foreign Investments, for cash consideration of US$6.9 million, in the future.
plus any interest accrued on this amount at a rate of 7.25% per annum.
Environmental obligations The Group determined 17 December 2012 to be the date when it obtained control over NG, and consolidated the acquiree from The Groups mining and exploration activities are subject to various laws and regulations governing the protection of the that date.
The cash received from VTB has been accounted for as a loan and included within borrowings Note 25.
The Groups provision for future decommissioning and land restoration cost represents managements best meet the denition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 and this transaction has been treated as an acquisition of assets.
estimate of the present value of the future cash outows required to settle the liability which reects estimates of future costs, The allocation of the consideration paid to the assets acquired was as follows: ination, movements in foreign exchange rates and assumptions of risks associated with the future cash outows: and the US$000 applicable interest rate for discounting the future cash outows.
Actual costs incurred in future periods could differ materially Net assets acquired from the estimates.
Additionally, future changes to environmental laws and regulations, life of mine estimates and discount Mineral rights 9,449 rates could affect the carrying amount of this provision.
Other assets 299 Other liabilities 11 Contingencies By their nature, contingencies will only be resolved when one or more future events occur or fail to occur.
The assessment Net assets acquired 9,737 of such contingencies inherently involves the exercise of significant judgements and estimates of the outcome of future events.
Consideration: Fair value of shares issued 9,737 130 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 131 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 4.
Acquisitions and disposals continued In the prior year, the Group disposed of the following subsidiary: In the prior year, the following transactions took place: CJSC Northeastern Coal Company Kutyn LLC On 29 June 2011 the Group sold 100% in CJSC Northeastern Coal Company for US$5.3 million to an unrelated party.
CJSC On 29 April 2011, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Kutynskaya GGK LLC Kutyn from Olsen Business Limited, an Northeastern Coal Company did not perform any operations during 2011.
The gain on disposal was calculated as follows: unrelated party, in exchange for 3,500,000 JSC Polymetal GDRs.
The GDR share price on the acquisition date was US$19.14.
US$000 The Group acquired Kutyn as it holds the mining licence for Kutyn gold deposit located in the Khabarovsk region.
Consideration received 5,300 Carrying value of property, plant and equipment disposed of 5,725 Kutyn does not meet the denition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus this acquisition was accounted for as an Carrying value of other liabilities disposed of 5,356 acquisition of a group of assets.
The allocation of the cost of acquisition to the group of assets acquired was as follows: Gain on disposal 4,931 US$000 Mineral rights 67,719 5.
Segment information Property, plant and equipment 618 The Group has seven reportable segments: Other liabilities 1,347 Q Voro CJSC Gold of Northern Urals : Net assets acquired 66,990 Q Khakanja LLC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company : Consideration: Q Dukat CJSC Magadan Silver : Fair value of GDRs transferred 66,990 Q Omolon Omolon Gold Mining Company LLC : Q Varvara JSC Varvarinskoye : Industriya LLC Q Amursk-Albazino Albazino Resources Ltd, Amur Hydrometallurgical Plant LLC : and On 27 May 2011, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Industriya LLC Industriya from Kuzmichev V. V. an unrelated party.
The Group acquired Industriya as it holds the hard-rock gold exploration and mining licence for the Elmus property.
The Group Q Mayskoye Mayskoye Gold Mining Company LLC.
paid cash consideration of US$1.787 million.
Industriya does not meet the denition of a business pursuant to IFRS 3 2008 thus it was accounted for as an acquisition of a group of assets.
The Group purchased mineral rights of US$1.82 million and other Reportable segments are determined based on the Groups internal management reports and are separated based on the current liabilities of US$ 0.042 million.
Minor companies and activities management, exploration, purchasing and other companies which do not meet the reportable segment criteria are disclosed within Corporate and other.
Each segment is engaged in gold, silver Ofce LLC or copper mining and related activities, including exploration, extraction, processing and reclamation.
The Groups segments are On 13 May 2011, the Group acquired a 100% interest in Ofce LLC Ofce from ICT-Kolyma LLC, an unrelated party, for all based in the Russian Federation other than Varvara which is based in Kazakhstan.
US$10.3 million, of which US$6.2 million was netted against advance provided to ICT-Kolyma LLC in 2010.
The Group acquired Ofce as it holds three storeys of an ofce premises in Magadan.
The cost of the ofce premises was US$9.76 million, with the The measure which management and the Chief Operating Decision Maker the CODM use to evaluate the performance of the residual amount of US$0.56 million representing other assets and liabilities acquired.
Group is segment adjusted EBITDA, which is dened as profit for the period adjusted for depreciation and amortization, writedowns of inventory to net realisable value, share-based compensation expenses, rehabilitation expenses, gains or losses arising b Disposal of subsidiary on disposal of subsidiaries, foreign exchange gains or losses, changes in the fair value of derivatives, changes in the fair value In December 2012 the Group disposed of following minor subsidiaries: Uralskoye GRP LLC, Severno-Uralskoye GRP LLC and of contingent consideration, finance income, finance costs and income tax expenses.
The accounting policies of the reportable JSC Aurum.
For further information on the partial disposal of Amikan Holding Limited, which owns the Veduga gold deposits, segments are consistent with those of the Groups accounting policies under IFRS as described in Note 2. see Note 20.
Revenue shown as Corporate and other comprises, principally, intersegment revenue relating to the supply of inventories, spare SevernoUralskoye Uralskoye Aurum Amikan Total parts and xed assets to the Groups production entities.
Intersegment revenue is recognised based on costs incurred plus US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 a xed margin basis.
External revenue shown within Corporate and other represents revenue from services provided to third Net assets disposed of: parties by the Groups non-mining subsidiaries.
Property, plant and equipment 295 2,749 127 67,842 71,013 Other non-current assets 1,388 2,317 3,577 7,282 Business segment current assets and liabilities, other than current inventory, are not reviewed by the CODM and therefore are not disclosed in these consolidated financial statements.
Current assets 1,848 1,688 230 3,766 Current liabilities 549 17 1,278 1,844 Non-current liabilities 3,572 17,995 21,567 2,982 848 1,166 53,654 58,650 Consideration receivable 1,593 1,475 3 28,000 31,071 Fair value of interest in associate undertaking acquired 20,201 20,201 Intercompany debt assigned to acquirer 3,331 3,331 Gain loss on disposal 1,389 627 1,163 8,784 10,709 132 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 133 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued Total Intersegment 5.
Revenue Mining tax is a royalty payable in Russian Federation and Kazakhstan which is calculated based on the value of the precious Revenue analysed by geographical regions of customers is presented below: metals extracted in the period.
This value is usually determined based on the realised selling price of precious metals or, in case if there were no sales during the period, cost of sales of metals extracted Russian Federation or the average market price Year ended Kazakhstan during the period.
31 December 31 December 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Mining tax in respect of the metal inventories produced during the year is recognised within cost of sales, while the additional Sales within the Russian Federation 1,055,569 859,720 mining tax accruals in respect of various disputes with tax authorities are recognised within other expenses see Note 12.
On-mine costs Sales to Europe 219,546 207,184 Year ended Sales to Kazakhstan 396,543 136,660 31 December 31 December Sales to other countries 2,495 2012 2011 Total metal sales 1,852,212 1,323,387 US$000 US$000 Other sales 1,853 3,043 Consumables and spare parts 137,788 110,695 Total 1,854,065 1,326,430 Services 161,533 120,398 Labour 100,127 83,299 Metal sales to related parties sales to Nomos-Bank are disclosed in Note 33.
Taxes, other than income tax 1,168 1,839 Other expenses 4,110 3,509 Included in revenues for the year ended 31 December 2012 are revenues which arose from sales to three of the Groups largest Total Note 7 404,726 319,740 customers amounting to US$357 million, US$340 million and US$234 million, respectively 2011: US$258 million, US$242 million and US$137 million, respectively.
No other customers individually account for more than 10% of the Groups revenues.
Smelting costs Presented below is an analysis of revenue from gold, silver and copper sales: Year ended 31 December 31 December Year ended 31 December 2012 Year ended 31 December 2011 2012 2011 Average Average US$000 US$000 price US price US Consumables and spare parts 138,258 117,407 Thousand Dollar per Thousand Dollar per ounces troy ounce ounces troy ounce Services 137,339 97,666 tonnes tonne tonnes tonne Labour 57,063 47,088 unaudited unaudited US Dollars unaudited unaudited US Dollars Taxes, other than income tax 902 178 Gold thousand ounces 593 1,631 966,463 448 1,556 697,135 Other expenses 2,002 2,075 Silver thousand ounces 27,797 30 832,886 17,045 34 580,182 Total Note 7 335,564 264,414 Copper tonnes 7,011 7,540 52,863 6,363 7,240 46,070 Total 1,852,212 1,323,387 10.
Depletion and depreciation of operating assets Year ended 7.
Cost of sales Year ended 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 31 December 31 December US$000 US$000 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Mining 141,491 106,402 Cash operating costs Smelting 60,913 33,851 On-mine costs Note 8 404,726 319,740 Total Note 7 202,404 140,253 Smelting costs Note 9 335,564 264,414 Depreciation on operating assets excludes depreciation relating to non-operating assets included in general, administrative Purchase of ore from third parties 29,519 16,817 and selling expenses and depreciation related to assets employed in development projects where the charge is capitalised.
Purchase of ore from related parties 3,035 Depreciation expense, which is excluded in the Groups calculation of Adjusted EBITDA see Note 5, also excludes amounts Mining tax 120,910 96,955 absorbed into unsold metal inventory balances.
Total cash operating costs 893,754 697,926 Depreciation and depletion of operating assets Note 10 202,404 140,253 11.
General, administrative and selling expenses Rehabilitation expenses 3,873 3,583 Year ended Total costs of production 1,100,031 841,762 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Increase in metal inventories 223,640 215,492 US$000 US$000 Write-down to net realisable value Note 22 11,078 6,232 Labour 92,429 72,291 Total change in metal inventories 212,562 209,260 Services 18,430 14,580 Cost of other sales 2,096 2,835 Share-based compensation 54,279 57,116 Total 889,565 635,337 Depreciation 4,437 4,122 Other 12,073 11,917 Total 181,648 160,026 136 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 137 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 12.
Auditors remuneration Year ended Year ended 31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Taxes, other than income tax 14,205 11,278 Fees payable to the auditor and their associates for the audit of the Companys Annual Report Mining taxes, penalties and accrued interest Note 16 65,911 United Kingdom 254 250 Listing expenses 9,511 Overseas 588 555 Exploration expenses 32,908 30,212 Total audit fees 842 805 Social payments 10,544 8,692 Audit-related assurance services half year review 355 Housing and communal services 7,860 6,357 Taxation compliance services 99 28 Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 9,325 6,203 Other services 10 3,482 Bad debt allowance 267 1,171 Total non-audit fees 464 3,510 Other expenses 12,835 7,262 Total fees 1,306 4,315 Total 153,855 78,344 Other services provided in the year ended 31 December 2011 relate to services in relation to the Companys listing and capital raising see Note 1.
Exploration expenses include an US$5.8 million write down of evaluation and exploration assets relating to the Corporate and other segment, where management have decided to suspend development activities relating to the Fevralskoye eld.
Finance costs Mining taxes, penalties and accrued interest have been accrued in respect of various disputes with the Russian and Kazakh tax Year ended authorities.
The background to these cases and their impact on the results of the Group has been set out in more detail within 31 December 31 December Note 16.
US$26.9 million was paid during the year ended 31 December 2012, US$39 million represents accrued expenses as 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 of 31 December 2012 see Note 34.
Employee costs Unwinding discount on borrowings 4,643 5,344 The weighted average number of employees during the year ended December 2012 was: Unwinding of discount on environmental obligations 3,621 3,328 Year ended Total 26,787 28,746 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Interest expense on borrowings excludes borrowing costs capitalised in the cost of qualifying assets of US$14.7 million and Number Number US$12.5 million during the years ended 31 December 2012 and 2011, respectively.
These amounts were calculated based Voro 901 848 on the Groups general borrowing pool and by applying an effective interest rate of 3.06% and 2.81%, respectively, to cumulative Khakanja 1,132 1,021 expenditure on such assets.
Income tax The income tax expense for the year ended 31 December 2012 is as follows: Varvara 695 657 Amursk-Albazino 1,119 897 Year ended Mayskoye 759 617 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Corporate and other 1,434 1,274 US$000 US$000 Total 8,993 8,051 Current income taxes 174,444 127,671 Excess profit taxes payable in Kazakhstan 17,111 Year ended Income tax expense arising in respect of lost litigation 27,475 31 December 31 December Deferred income taxes 2,826 8,686 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 216,204 118,985 Wages and salaries 252,152 204,379 A reconciliation between the reported amount of income tax expense attributable to profit before income tax for the year ended Social security costs 53,963 40,040 31 December 2012 is as follows: Share-based payment 54,279 57,116 Year ended Total payroll costs 360,394 301,535 31 December 31 December Reconciliation: 2012 2011 Less: employee costs capitalised 50,021 30,250 US$000 US$000 Less: employee costs absorbed into unsold metal inventory balances.
27,590 30,935 profit before income tax 617,365 408,847 Employee costs included in operating costs 282,783 240,350 Statutory income tax expense at the tax rate of 20% 123,473 81,769 Loss incurred in tax-free jurisdictions 4,336 5,998 Compensation for key management personnel is disclosed within Note 33.
Share-based compensation 10,856 11,423 Excess profit taxes payable in Kazakhstan 17,111 Income tax arising in respect of lost litigation 27,475 Income tax provision in respect of other exposures 5,055 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses and other permanent differences 36,570 19,795 Total income tax expense 216,204 118,985 138 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 139 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Income tax continued The following are the major deferred tax liabilities and assets recognised by the Group and movements thereon during the The actual tax expense differs from the amount which would have been determined by applying the statutory rate of 20% reporting period.
for the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan to profit before income tax as a result of the application of relevant jurisdictional tax Property, Environmental plant, and Trade and regulations, which disallow certain deductions which are included in the determination of accounting profit.
These deductions obligation Inventories equipment other payables Tax losses Loan Other Total include share-based compensation, social related expenditures and other non-production costs, certain general and US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 administrative expenses, nancing expenses, foreign exchange related and other costs.
At 1 January 2012 10,990 7,822 78,023 4,521 53,661 2,624 2,073 17,224 Charge credit to In the normal course of business, the Group is subject to examination by tax authorities throughout the Russian Federation and income statement 1,654 13,484 4,576 1,343 2,068 926 5,743 2,826 Kazakhstan.
Out of the large operating companies of the Group, tax authorities have audited CJSC Gold of Northern Urals, Disposal 369 2,201 88 1,378 578 3,458 CJSC Magadan Silver for the period up to 2009, LLC Okhotskaya Mining and Exploration Company and JSC Varvarinskoye for the period up to 2010.
According to Russian and Kazakhstan tax legislation, previously conducted audits do not fully exclude Exchange differences 699 1,528 8,064 126 514 136 1,415 6,974 subsequent claims relating to the audited period.
At 31 December 2012 13,343 22,465 79,310 6,078 57,621 1,834 8,653 17,914 Income tax and other expenses arising in respect of lost litigation Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset where the Group has a legally enforceable right to do so.
The following analysis The additional income tax charges incurred in respect of litigations in the year total US$27.5 million and comprise US$14.5 million shows deferred tax balances after offset presented for financial reporting purposes: in respect of a case concerning Magadan Silver sales to ABN AMRO in 2007 and US$13.0 million in respect of cases relating to Year ended the deductibility of transportation and processing expenses and of foreign exchange losses in Varvara.
Including US$5 million of 31 December 31 December additional income tax exposures provided for and US$17.1 million excess profit tax in Kazakhstan recognised for the first time in 2012 2011 2012, there was total additional income tax expense of US$49.6 million in the year.
US$000 US$000 Deferred tax liabilities 75,938 79,342 The Group has also provided for mining taxes, interest and penalties totalling US$65.9 million which are recognised within Deferred tax assets 58,024 62,118 Other Operating Expenses see Note 12.
These expenses comprised US$15.0 million in respect of the Magadan Silver ABN 17,914 17,224 AMRO case, US$9.2 million in respect of the Magadan Silver MET case, US$10.1 million in respect of Varvara litigation and US$31.6 million in respect of other exposures.
These principal cases are described below.
Other exposures considered possible Tax losses carried forward represent amounts available for offset against future taxable income generated by JSC Omolon Gold but not probable and therefore not provided for total to US$3 million and are described in Note 28, Contingent Liabilities.
Mining Company, ZK Mayskoye LLC, Albazino Resources LLC, Amursky Hydrometallurgy Plant LLC and the Company during the period up to 2021.
Each legal entity within the Group represents a separate tax-paying component for income tax purposes.
Magadan Silver litigation in respect of ABN AMRO sales The tax losses of one entity cannot be used to reduce taxable income of other entities of the Group.
As at 31 December 2012 On 10 July 2012, the Supreme Arbitration Court of the Russian Federation SAC made a final ruling on the tax dispute between and 31 December 2011 the aggregate tax losses carried forward were US$288.1 million RUB 8.8 billion and US$268.3 million CJSC Magadan Silver, a subsidiary of the Group, and tax authorities in relation to the sale of silver by the Group in 2007 pursuant RUB 8.6 billion, respectively.
to certain sale contracts with ABN AMRO Bank.
The Group believes that recoverability of the recognised net deferred tax asset DTA of US$57.6 million at 31 December 2012 is As a consequence of the Supreme Arbitration Court decision, the Group recognised in full the tax liabilities, interest and penalties more likely than not based upon expectations of future taxable income in the Russian Federation and Kazakhstan and available of US$29.5 million indicated in the judgement.
This amount comprised US$14.5 million in income tax and US$15.0 million in tax planning strategies.
mining taxes, penalties and accrued interest see Note 12.
Losses incurred in certain taxable entities in recent years have created a history of losses as of 31 December 2012.
The Group Varvara litigation has concluded that there is sufficient evidence to overcome the recent history of losses based on forecasts of sufficient taxable On 5 November 2012 the Kostanay regional court in Kazakhstan issued a ruling on the tax dispute between JSC Varvarinskoye income in the carry-forward period.
and the tax authorities in respect of the deductibility of non-cash foreign exchange losses and of transportation, treatment and rening charges levied by copper concentrate off-takers.
As a consequence of the regional courts decision, the Group The Groups estimate of future taxable income is based on established proven and probable reserves which can be economically recognised liabilities of US$23.1 million as indicated in the judgement.
The liability comprised US$13.0 million in income developed.
The related detailed mine plans and forecasts provide sufficient supporting evidence that the Group will generate tax and US$10.1 million in penalties and accrued interest recognised within Other Operating Expenses see Note 12. taxable earnings to be able to fully realise its net DTA even under various stressed scenarios.
The amount of the DTA considered realisable, however, could be reduced in the near term if estimates of future taxable income during the carry forward period are Magadan Silver litigation in respect of Mineral Extraction Tax MET reduced due to delays in production start dates, decreases in ore reserve estimates, increases in environmental obligations, or In March 2012, a eld tax audit was concluded in relation to CJSC Magadan Silver with respect to all taxes, duties and reductions in precious metal prices.
contributions to social funds for the period 1 January 2008 to 31 December 2009.
As a result of this audit the tax authorities issued an assessment in relation to the alleged misapplication of technical loss limits in the calculation of mineral extraction tax.
The Groups tax losses carried forward expire as follows: The case has been heard by the first level of the Russian courts, which ruled in favour of the tax authorities on 21 January 2013.
31 December Whilst the Group intends to appeal the decision to the next court, it has provided for liabilities arising comprising US$6.5 million 2012 US$000 in respect of mineral extraction taxes, and related interest and penalties of US$2.7 million.
These amounts are recognised within Year ended Other Operating Expenses see Note 12.
31 December 2014 2,888 31 December 2015 7,981 Other Exposures 31 December 2016 6,692 At 31 December 2012 the Group had raised an additional provision for certain additional exposures of US$5.0 million in respect 31 December 2017 9,982 of income tax and US$31.6 million in respect of other taxes it considers will likely be payable, plus related interest and penalties.
31 December 2018 28,792 These amounts are recognised within Other Operating Expenses see Note 12.
31 December 2019 30,451 Excess profit taxes in Kazakhstan 31 December 2020 42,087 Under Kazakhstan law, excess profit taxes arise where a companys profit for the year after tax exceeds 25% of allowable 31 December 2021 60,436 contractual expenses incurred, which was the case for Varvara in 2012.
Excess profit tax is calculated on a sliding scale: the 31 December 2022 98,794 additional current tax charge accrued for the year was $17.1 million.
Total loss carried forward for tax purposes 288,103 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is attributable to the temporary differences that exist between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for tax purposes.
140 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 141 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 16.
Income tax continued Mining assets at 31 December 2012 included mineral rights with net book value which amounted to US$370 million The deferred tax liabilities for taxes that would be payable on the unremitted earnings of certain of the Group subsidiaries have 31 December 2011: US$363.5 million.
Mineral rights of the Group comprise assets acquired upon acquisition of subsidiaries not been recognised as the Group has determined that the undistributed profit of its subsidiaries will not be distributed in the and asset acquisitions.
The temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, for which deferred tax liabilities have not been recognised, amount to US$1,712 million 2011: US$1,066.3 million.
The additions and the disposals of property, plant and equipment in the year ended 31 December 2012 are shown net of US$67.8 million of exploration and development assets recognised on acquisition of a controlling interest in Amikan Holding Ltd 17.
Dividends in February 2012 and subsequently derecognised on loss of control in that entity following its disposal in May 2012 see Note 20.
On 14 June 2012 a dividend of 20 cents per share was paid to shareholders by the Company resulting in cash outows of US$76.5 million.
No dividends were paid in 2011.
In the period US$9 million of pre-production stripping costs at Mayskoye were transferred from inventory to exploration and development assets 2011: US$nil.
On 5 December 2012, the Board approved the payment of a special dividend of US$0.50 per ordinary share, which will result in a cash outow of US$191 million.
The dividend was paid on 21 January 2013.
No property, plant and equipment were pledged as collateral at 31 December 2012 and 31 December 2011.
A final dividend has been proposed in relation to the year of 31 cents per share 2011: 20 cents per share giving a total expected 19.
Goodwill dividend of US$119 million 2011: US$76.5 million.
This is subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 and has therefore not been included as a liability in these financial statements.
Property, plant and equipment At 1 January 108,587 114,712 Translation effect 6,519 6,125 Exploration Capital and evaluation Non-mining construction At 31 December 115,106 108,587 assets Mining assets assets in-progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Cost Goodwill has been allocated for impairment testing purposes to the following cash-generating units: Balance at 1 January 2011 64,542 1,280,522 64,069 453,430 1,862,563 31 December 31 December Additions 63,386 103,286 12,999 299,878 479,549 2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Transfers 7,945 208,807 8,726 209,588 Change in decommissioning liabilities 5,876 5,876 Varvara 68,411 64,537 Acquired on acquisition of group of assets 70,156 9,756 79,912 Mayskoye 23,720 22,377 Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 5,383 342 5,725 Khakanja 14,237 13,431 Disposals 13,263 12,580 1,167 120 27,130 Dukat 8,738 8,242 Translation to presentation currency 6,464 96,541 6,577 32,173 141,755 Total 115,106 108,587 Balance at 31 December 2011 94,873 1,559,526 87,464 511,427 2,253,290 Additions 66,077 123,938 18,756 163,544 372,315 The carrying amount of goodwill is reviewed annually to determine whether it is in excess of its recoverable amount.
The Transfers 74,723 436,721 7,187 345,964 8,847 recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is determined based on a fair value less costs to sell calculation.
Fair value is based on the application of the Discounted Cash Flow Method DCF using post-tax cash ows, and the tail margin method.
Change in decommissioning liabilities 3,245 3,245 The DCF method is attributable to the development of proved and probable reserves.
The tail margin method, an extension of Acquired on acquisition of group of assets 10,264 6 10,270 the DCF method, is attributable to the development of resources beyond proved and probable reserves, assuming they could Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 10,815 1,114 11,929 be developed after the end of the DCF forecast period.
Resources used in calculations are based on the amounts of measured Disposals 7,654 19,219 1,897 2,105 30,875 and indicated and inferred resources, which are adjusted for a conversion factor in order to obtain a forecast production gure.
Translation to presentation currency 6,352 96,095 2,299 26,720 131,466 A steady state cash ow per unit of subject metal is usually applied to the annual resource recovery amount to determine the Balance at 31 December 2012 84,925 2,199,755 98,327 353,622 2,736,629 total annual cash ow, based on past experience with an appropriate risk adjustment.
Exploration Capital The Group used a post-tax nominal discount rate in the DCF calculations equal to its weighted average cost of capital of 9% and evaluation Non-mining construction 2011: 9%.
The DCF method used is based on proved and probable reserves and uses the following key assumptions: assets Mining assets assets in-progress Total US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 US$000 Q production volumes: Accumulated depreciation, amortisation Q commodity prices: Balance at 1 January 2011 208,017 11,065 219,082 Charge for the year 155,875 6,697 162,572 Q proved and probable reserves: and Disposals 5,949 468 6,417 Q production costs.
Translation to presentation currency 22,776 1,145 23,921 Recoverable reserves and resources are based on the proven and probable reserves and resources in existence at the end of Balance at 31 December 2011 335,167 16,149 351,316 the year.
Production costs are based on managements best estimate over the life of the mine.
Estimated production volumes are Charge for the period 221,114 9,521 230,635 based on detailed life of mine plans and take into account development plans for the mines approved by management as part of Disposals 8,705 752 9,457 the long-term planning process.
Commodity prices are based on latest internal forecasts, benchmarked against external sources Eliminated on disposal of subsidiary 8,369 389 8,758 of information.
Goodwill continued Equity investment in Polygon Gold Inc.
The tail margin method is used to value resources not currently included within an assets mine plan.
The methodology involves Polygon Gold Inc. Polygon, a private shell company, was initially set up between Polymetal and Tyner Enterprises Inc. Tyner calculating an estimated unit cost per ounce in order to forecast net operating cash ows which are discounted to present value.
which initially held 250 and 100 shares respectively in the new venture.
Tyner is controlled and managed by Len Homeniuk, While applying the tail margin method the Company used the following key assumptions: a non-executive Director of Polymetal International plc.
s PRODUCTION FORECASTS WERE CALCULATED BASED ON THE WEIGHTED AVERAGE AMOUNT OF MEASURED AND INDICATED AND INFERRED resources with a conversion factor of 0.7 for measured and indicated resources and 0.5 for inferred resources: and On 14 May 2012, Polymetal sold 100% of Amikan Holding Limited to Polygon in exchange for consideration of US$20 million s STEADY STATE CASH mOW PER UNIT OF SUBJECT METAL GOLD SILVER AND COPPER WAS DETERMINED AS THE AVERAGE OF CASH mOWS PER UNIT in cash and 750 ordinary shares of Polygon.
In addition, Sibproekt LLC Sibproekt, an unrelated local partner, provided of subject metal for the period during which their values in real terms were relatively stable.
a US$21 million loan to Polygon and received 100 newly-issued Polygon shares for no consideration.
This resulted in Polymetal holding an initial 81.8% equity ownership in Polygon.
Under the new shareholder agreement, Polymetal obtained one of the In managements view, no reasonably possible changes in a key assumption would trigger an impairment of goodwill.
four board seats giving it significant inuence.
Investments in associates and joint ventures On 4 June 2012, Polygons share capital was increased to 1,571 shares by the issuance of 471 new shares to an afliate of The Groups investments in joint ventures and associates as at 31 December 2012 and 2011 consisted of the following: Gazprombank OJSC Gazprombank for a total consideration of US$14.2 million paid in cash.
The proceeds from the offering will be used to finance the Veduga project and repay part of Polygons debt.
In addition, Gazprombank has expressed an interest 31 December 2012 31 December 2011 in providing project nancing to Polygon to develop Veduga into a producing mine.
Voting Carrying Voting Carrying power value power Value % US$000 % US$000 On 7 June 2012, Polymetal sold 230 of its shares in Polygon to Sibproekt for a total consideration of US$8.0 million payable Associates in cash, US$5 million of which was paid with US$3.0 million payable by 28 February 2013.
JSC Ural-Polymetal 33.3 10,507 33.3 11,152 The Groups equity ownership in Polygon Gold Inc. had now decreased to 42.65%.
It continued to exercise significant inuence Polygon Gold 42.65 19,315 over Polygon.
Joint ventures JV with AngloGold Ashanti Limited 50 12,406 In addition, the Group has provided a US$10 million convertible debt facility to Polygon see Note 33.
Total 29,822 23,558 The effects of these transactions are shown on a combined basis below: US$000 Joint venture with AngloGold Ashanti Limited In February 2008, the Company signed an agreement to set up a strategic alliance and entered into a series of joint ventures with Net assets of subsidiary disposed of 100% basis 53,654 AngloGold Ashanti Limited with each party owning 50% of each joint venture.
The joint ventures were created in order to execute Intercompany debt asset transferred to Polygon 3,331 development projects in several territories of the Russian Federation.
Less fair value of interest in associate undertaking retained 20,201 Net assets disposed of 36,784 On 7 February 2012, the Company acquired AngloGolds 50% equity interest and debt investments in the various joint venture Loss on disposal 8,784 companies held with Polymetal Note 4.
The principal company acquired was Amikan Holding Limited, which owns the Veduga Total consideration 28,000 gold deposit in the Krasnoyarsk region of the Russian Federation, with other entities acquired not holding any material assets or liabilities.
The consideration for the acquisition was US$20 million in cash comprising US$18.4 million for the equity and US$1.6 Less unpaid consideration 3,000 million for debt investment in Amikan.
At the acquisition date, the Groups existing 50% investment had a carrying value of Proceeds from disposal of subsidiary 25,000 US$14.2 million together with a loan asset of US$6.9 million.
The transaction costs were nil.
Amikan Holding Limited meets the denition of a business under IFRS 3 2008 Business combinations and the transaction was accounted for using the acquisition The above loss on disposal arose partly due to the 6.4% interest in Polygon, which has a fair value of $3 million, being transferred method.
The allocation of the purchase price based on the consideration paid and on the fair value of Amikan net assets to Tyner, a related party, for a cash consideration of US$ nil in exchange for introducing the other funding partners into the acquired is as follows: project and for assuming an ongoing management role.
The remaining loss arose principally due to the dilution in Polymetals Preeconomic interest as a result of the 100 shares being issued to Sibproekt on 14 May 2012 for no consideration.
The Group transaction Fair value considers that Sibproekts local operating expertise will though be of significant benefit to the project.
book value adjustment Fair value US$000 US$000 US$000 Equity investment in JSC Ural-Polymetal Exploration and development 20,188 47,654 67,842 In November 2010, a Group subsidiary signed an agreement to establish JSC Ural-Polymetal Ural-Polymetal, with Valentorskiy Deferred tax asset 3,577 3,577 Rudnik LLC and Kuzmichev V. V. The Group contributed 100% of its interest in North Ural LLC, a subsidiary of the Group, holding Other assets net 230 230 Galka gold, zinc and silver mining licences to Ural-Polymetal.
In addition to Galka, assets contributed to Ural-Polymetal by other Borrowings 8,464 8,464 investors consist of an operating copper and zinc open-pit mine, an operating copper and iron ore underground mine and a processing plant.
Within the framework of this agreement the Group, Valentorskiy Rudnik LLC and Kuzmichev V. V. each own Deferred tax liability 9,531 9,531 33.3%, 55.7% and 11% of Ural-Polymetal, respectively.
Ural-Polymetal was established in order to execute development projects Net assets acquired 15,531 38,123 53,654 in the North Ural region of the Russian Federation concerned with silver, zinc, copper and iron ore extraction and processing.
Debt investment acquired 1,572 55,226 satisfied by: Carrying value of investment in JV held previously 14,175 Consideration paid in cash 20,000 Revaluation to fair value of previously held interest 12,651 Bargain purchase gain negative goodwill 8,400 Total 55,226 The total gain on acquisition of the remaining interest in the joint venture was US$21.1 million, comprising a US$12.7 million revaluation to fair value of previously held interest and a bargain purchase gain of US$8.4 million.
The bargain purchase gain resulted from AngloGold Ashanti Limiteds strategic decision to exit the Russian Federation.
144 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 145 Financial statements Financial statements Notes to the consolidated financial statements continued 20.
Investments in associates and joint ventures continued In addition, during the year ended 31 December 2012 the Group wrote-down US$5 million of costs 2011: US$3.5 million The following tables summarise the aggregate financial position and the Groups share in the net losses of the joint venture in Omolon which did not signicantly enhance the value of the ore stock piles.
with AngloGold Ashanti Limited and the investment in Ural-Polymetal: During the year ended 31 December 2012 the Group reversed previous obsolescence provisioning against consumables Polygon AngloGold Gold Inc Ashanti Limited JSC Ural-Polymetal and spare parts inventory in the amount of US$3 million year ended 31 December 2011: reversal of US$0.6 million.
31 December 31 December 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 2012 2011 The amount of inventories held at net realisable value at 31 December 2012 is US$83.7 million 31 December 2011: nil.
Trade and other receivables Current assets 13,731 477 12,970 9,229 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Non-current liabilities 18,150 25,013 10,237 7,582 US$000 US$000 Current liabilities 19,844 2,592 14,651 12,198 Trade receivables 59,508 37,609 Equity 44,347 62,031 36,975 35,374 Non-trade receivables 30,365 24,035 Revenue 40,794 3,266 Short-term loans provided to entity under common control 1,522 Net loss income 1,658 1,820 3,660 944 Accounts receivable from related parties 4,717 4,064 Groups share in joint ventures net loss income 706 910 1,098 315 Short-term loans provided to employees 2,765 1,426 21.
Non-current loans Short-term loans provided to equity method investments 11,792 315 Total trade and other receivables 109,147 68,971 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Less: Allowance for doubtful debts 1,551 980 Interest rate US$000 US$000 Total 107,596 67,991 1 Polygon Gold 7%-8% 5,469 6,303 Loans extended to third parties 8.00% 5,287 Trade receivables mainly relate to JSC Varvarinskoye for their sales of provisionally priced copper and gold concentrate, and Employees 6.00% 4,055 2,659 to CJSC Magadan Silver and Albazino Resources Ltd for their sales of provisionally priced silver concentrate.
Of the trade receivables balance as of 31 December 2012, US$47 million 2011: US$31 million is due from one customer.
There are Total 14,811 8,962 no other customers who represent more than 10% of the total balance of trade receivables.
1 Loan is advanced to a subsidiary of Polygon Gold, an associated undertaking, which previously formed part of the joint venture with AngloGold Ashanti Limited see Note 20 for further details.
The average credit period on sales of copper, gold and silver concentrate at 31 December 2012 was 30 days 2011: 28 days.
Inventories No interest is charged on trade receivables.
The Groups allowance for doubtful debt relates to its non-trade receivables.
31 December 31 December There are no trade receivables either past due or impaired as at 31 December 2012 31 December 2011: US$ nil.
2012 2011 US$000 US$000 Non-trade receivables include amounts receivable from sale of fuel or operating lease of machinery to contractors, the Inventories expected to be recovered after twelve months average credit period for non-trade receivables at 31 December 2012 was 93 days 2011: 143 days.
No interest is charged Consumables and spare parts 62,401 44,318 on non-trade receivables.
Ore stock piles 38,571 13,904 Non-trade receivables disclosed above include those that are past due at the end of the reporting period for which the Group Total non-current inventories 100,972 58,222 has not recognised a bad debt allowance because there has not been a significant change in credit quality and the amounts are Inventories expected to be recovered in the next twelve months still considered to be recoverable.
Such past due but not impaired receivables amounted to US$3.7 million as at 31 December Ore stock piles 297,753 202,339 2012 2011: US$2.8 million, the majority of which mature within 90 days.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other Copper, gold and silver concentrate 146,406 72,973 security over these balances nor does it have a legal right of offset against any amounts owed by the Group to the counterparty.
Cash and cash equivalents Dor 31,045 22,889 31 December 31 December 2012 2011 Rened metals 24 US$000 US$000 Total metal inventories 562,404 364,802 Bank deposits RUB 15,695 Consumables and spare parts 297,452 234,510 Bank deposits foreign currencies 4,095 629,259 Total 859,856 599,312 Current bank accounts RUB 5,124 2,110 foreign currencies 9,346 11,684 At 31 December 2012 the gold and silver concentrate included US$50.2 million 31 December 2011: US$45.3 million in respect of Dukat and Albazino-Amursk.
In addition, the Group has presented separately the metal for rening.
Previously these amounts Other cash and cash equivalents 57 47 were included within work in-process.
The comparative gures have been adjusted to be presented on a consistent basis.
Total 18,622 658,795 At 31 December 2012 US$39 million of ore stock piles at Omolon were classied as non-current inventories following Bank deposits as at 31 December 2012 bear interest of 0.3% per annum 2011: 3.5% per annum with an average maturity managements assessment that these stock piles will be processed starting from 2016 31 December 2011: US$14 million.
at inception of 15 days 2011: 90 days.
Previously these amounts were included within current metal inventories.
During the year ended 31 December 2012, the Group recognised a US$4 million write-down to net realisable value of its Dor in Albazino-Amursk and US$10 million write-down to net realisable value of its ore stock piles at Omolon due to low content of precious metals.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Group recognised a US$2.8 million write-down to net realisable value of its ore stock piles in Varvara due to poor gold and copper recovery on ore with lower content of precious metals.
146 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2012 Annual Report 2012 Polymetal International plc 147
