DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 44 45 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in Audit reviewing the Groups financial reporting, overseeing the Committee appointment and work of the external Auditors and report reviewing Redrows internal control processes.
The Group has a widely publicised whistleblowing policy which The key features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: enables employees and other stakeholders e. g subcontractors, to raise concerns in confidence.
The Committee has arranged to n Defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as receive reports on all occasions when such issues are raised under land purchase, the placing of orders and contracts and this policy.
staff recruitment: n A comprehensive prioritised risk register which is regularly Audit Independence reviewed and presented to the Audit Committee: Current Members  LLP PwC were appointed Auditors in of the Audit Committee n The Groups management information systems provide 2003 having succeeded  who were n weekly updates on key statistics and information in Paul Hampden Smith, appointed in 1987.
The current Audit Partner from PwC Chairman of the Audit respect of sales and production and the content of these commenced his tenure following the conclusion of the 30 June Committee pictured weekly reports is regularly reviewed to ensure it remains 2010 audit.
n appropriate: Alan Jackson n Debbie Hewitt The Committee has a formal policy in respect of the work of the n Redrow has an in-house health and safety department and external Auditors.
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that the places great emphasis on the importance of health and Auditors objectivity and independence is maintained by ensuring safety and environmental management.
The department The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing The Group Finance Director was invited and attended each both that the nature of any non-audit work undertaken and the works closely with the operating companies to ensure level of fees paid does not compromise the Auditors position.
the Groups financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and meeting as did the external Auditors.
On each occasion the that training is provided to employees and subcontractors, work of the external Auditors and reviewing Redrows internal Committee had the opportunity to meet the external Auditors Appointments in respect of non-audit work require the prior best practice is shared and appropriate actions are taken approval of the Committee within an established budget.
The terms of reference of the Committee, without any Executive Director being present.
to comply with heath and safety best practice and which are in compliance with the Combined Code, are kept addition, no work can be undertaken by the external Auditors in legislation throughout the organisation: any area where there is any identifiable risk that the work of an under review.
The terms of reference are available at n The Board requires each Director in its operating divisions The Committee receives regular updates on changes to redrowplc.
individual within the external audit firm or the external audit firm to complete an annual statement on Corporate accounting standards and best practice in financial reporting and generally could conflict or compromise the quality, objectivity or Governance and related party transactions.
The Committee invites other individuals All the members of the Committee are independent and the independence of any audit or compliance work undertaken for is designed to provide assurance that Group policies and to attend the meetings to provide technical support and advice Board believes the Committee has the appropriate level of the Group.
procedures are being implemented and complied with in as appropriate.
In addition, individual members are encouraged expertise to fulfil its terms of reference.
In addition, key functional directors to attend external seminars and courses on areas relevant to The main non-audit work historically undertaken related to complete a Principal Controls Self Assessment The Committee held four meetings during the financial year their membership of the Committee.
The Committee addressed a information provided to the Company by PwC in their capacity as Questionnaire which is reviewed by the Board to assist in ended June 2012 and holds further meetings as appropriate.
wide variety of issues in its meetings, including: Scheme Actuary of the Redrow Staff Pension Scheme.
No such improvements in the control framework: work was undertaken in this financial year following the disposal n A weekly business report WBR comprising sales funnel Month Principal Activities by PwC of its actuarial business to Xafinity Consulting Limited.
information, gross margins and order book is produced for The Company retains a separate actuary to provide it with advice the Group, each division and each site and circulated n November 2011 A review of the proposed External Audit strategy for 2011 2012 and associated fees: on pension matters.
across the Group: n A review of the effectiveness of the external audit process: n n A review of the independence and objectivity of the external Auditors: and A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and The external Auditors are not indemnified by the Company nor n A review of the Committees effectiveness.
reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and Divisional has the Company purchased liability insurance for them.
Annual budgets are set, with actual n February 2012 A review of the 2011 12 half-yearly accounts including a report from the External Auditors: performance compared against the annual budget: Internal Controls n A review of the Terms of Reference of the Committee: and n Preparation and regular updates of Strategic Plans: The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the n A review of the proposed Audit Committee timetable for calendar year 2012.
Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its n A policy and procedures manual which covers all the n June 2012 A review of the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies: effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, significant aspects of the Groups operations and n A review of the Groups Whistleblowing policy: evaluating and managing significant risks.
However, in reviewing describes the systems and controls that are to be applied: n A review of internal controls across the whole business: and the effectiveness of internal control, such systems can only and n An update on Internal Audit and a review of the Internal Audit timetable for 2012 2103. provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material n Daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying misstatement or loss.
significant payments are prepared, rolling cashflow n September 2012 A review of the full year 2011 12 results including the Annual Report and Accounts and a report forecasts are prepared and forecast banking covenant from the External Auditors: and Key business activities including finance, land acquisition, product compliance is tested.
n Consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a going concern review.
design, procurement and information technology are controlled DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 46 47 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Audit Nomination Committee Committee report report continued by the Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a structured reporting framework.
A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
The Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and functional heads of department meet monthly to discuss the Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
The operating companies hold monthly Current Members of the board meetings which are attended on a rotational basis by the Nomination Committee Executive Directors.
n Alan Jackson, Chairman of the Nomination The Group formally reviews its prioritised risk register.
In addition, Committee pictured the Executive Board, through its regular meetings, reviews key n areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the Paul Hampden Smith internal controls identified in relation to those risks remain n Debbie Hewitt appropriate.
Insurance The Nomination Committees terms of reference are kept under 5.
To consider the proposed re-election of Paul Hampden Smith The Board has appointed an experienced broker to advise on and regular review being last considered in June 2012 and are as Non-Executive Director at the AGM on 12 November co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group and they liaise published on the Groups website.
2012 in compliance with the Code and after due closely with appropriate Redrow personnel at Head Office and consideration to recommend his re-election to the Board: within the divisions and report directly to the Group Finance The Committee has met once during the year ended 30 June and Director.
2012 following the publication of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts and its principal business can be summarised as 6.
To consider the proposed re-election of Debbie Hewitt as Risk Management and Internal Audit follows: Non-Executive Director at the AGM on 12 November 2012 in The Groups risk register defines controls as prevent or detect and compliance with the Code and after due consideration to identifies owners of each high level risk.
Feedback on the risks and 1.
To consider the proposed re-election of Steve Morgan as recommend her re-election to the Board.
controls is actively encouraged and is facilitated by links on the Executive Chairman at the AGM on 12 November 2012 in Groups intranet to ensure the risks listed remain relevant and compliance with the The UK Corporate Governance Code The Directors were not present and did not vote when their accurate.
The register itself is regularly maintained and is the Code introduced in June 2010 and after due individual proposals were discussed.
reviewed by the Committee annually.
consideration to recommend his re-election to the Board: The internal audit strategy is discussed and agreed with the 2.
To consider the proposed re-election of John Tutte as an Committee and PwC.
Suggested control improvements and any Executive Director at the AGM on 12 November 2012 in control weaknesses identified are followed up as appropriate.
The compliance with the Code and after due consideration to cornerstone of the Internal Audit work undertaken is the Business recommend his re-election to the Board: Alan Jackson Process Reviews.
A risk based programme was designed based on Chairman of the Nomination Committee the risk register.
The Business Process Review programme looks to 3.
To consider the proposed re-election of Barbara Richmond as 18 September 2012 provide assurance to the Group, by testing internal controls and an Executive Director at the AGM on 12 November 2012 in reviewing specific risks, as well as seeking out best practice and compliance with the Code and after due consideration to sharing it across the Group and identifying business process recommend her re-election to the Board: improvements.
Committee Members receive an Executive Summary of each Business Process Review report.
To consider the proposed re-election of Alan Jackson as Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director at the AGM on 12 November 2012 in compliance with the Code and after due consideration to recommend his re-election to the Board: Paul Hampden Smith Chairman of the Audit Committee 18 September 2012 DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 48 49 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Corporate Directors Responsibility Remuneration Committee report report Current Members of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Current Members of the n Alan Jackson, Remuneration Committee Chairman of the Corporate n Responsibility Committee Debbie Hewitt, pictured Chairman of the Remuneration Committee pictured n Nigel Smith, n Debbie Hewitt Redrow Research and Paul Hampden Smith Chairman of the Sustainability Director n Alan Jackson Remuneration Committee n The Corporate Responsibility Committees terms of reference are 7.
Update on changes to Part L 2013 of the Building This report has been prepared in accordance with the determining performance targets and the extent of their kept under regular review being last reviewed in May 2012 and Regulations, the Standard Assessment Procedure 2012 requirements of Schedule 8 to the Accounting Regulations under achievement for both annual and long term incentive awards are published on the Groups website.
SAP and Energy Performance Certificates EPCs and the Companies Act 2006 and The Listing Rules.
The Financial operated by the Company affecting Senior Executives: and their impact: Reporting Council introduced in June 2010 a new governance n monitoring and approving the level and structure of The Committee met three times during the year ended 30 June code entitled The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
remuneration of the Managing Directors immediately below 2012 and its principal business can be summarised as follows: 8. Review of site waste management benchmarking and This report, unless specifically stated, refers to the Code, and the Senior Executives.
procedures: and describes how the Board has applied the principles relating to 1.
A review of the terms of reference of the Committee: Directors remuneration in the Code.
As required by the The Committee meets as often as is required but at least twice 9.
A briefing on the RICS Guidance Note on the Value of Companies Act 2006, a resolution to approve this report will be per year.
The Committee met three times during the course of 2.
A review of the Companys Environmental Management Sustainable Features.
put to Shareholders for approval at the Annual General Meeting the financial year ended 30 June 2012.
Standards: to be held on 12 November 2012.
The Corporate responsibility review on pages 30 to 37 provides During the year the Committee consulted with Deloitte LLP on a 3. Review of external environmental benchmarking reporting further information on areas of work monitored by the Remuneration Committee range of remuneration matters.
Deloitte LLP also provides the and an update on the Next Generation UK Homebuilders Committee.
The Remuneration Committee is comprised solely of Company with advice on taxation matters but do not have any Sustainability Rankings for 2011: Non-Executive Directors and comprises Debbie Hewitt as other connection with the Company.
Chairman, Alan Jackson and Paul Hampden Smith.
Update on the Carbon Disclosure Project, and the Renewable Committee attendance has been set out on page 42.
The Committee addressed a variety of matters in its meetings Heat Initiative: during the year, including: The Committee has agreed terms of reference detailing its 5.
A review of the Flood and Water Management Act 2010 and Alan Jackson authority and responsibilities.
The terms of reference of the Month Principal Activities its impact together with updates on the responses provided Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee Committee are kept under regular review and were subject to a n July 2011 Confirmation of 2010 11 Annual Cash to the numerous Consultations which have been issued 18 September 2012 comprehensive update in line with best practice in 2012.
They Bonus payments and targets for during the period in respect of the proposed changes under are published on the Groups website and include: 2011 12: the Act: n n determining and approving the remuneration policy in Setting the targets for the LTSIP 2011: 6.
Updates on the Devolution of Building Regulations to the respect of the Executive Chairman, Steve Morgan the and Welsh Assembly Government and attendance and Executive Directors namely, John Tutte the Group Managing n Adoption of Terms of Reference.
engagement with the Community Engagement Forum: Director and Barbara Richmond the Finance Director and the Company Secretary, Graham Cope the Senior Executives, n April 2012 Consideration of Senior Executive taking into account the context of the Companys overall salaries: approach to remuneration for all employees and within this n Review of pension entitlements of policy determining the total individual remuneration package Senior Executives following closure of of each Senior Executive: DIRECTORS & BOARD REPORTS Redrow plc Annual Report Redrow plc Annual Report Directors & Board reports Directors & Board reports 50 51 and Accounts 2012 and Accounts 2012 Directors Remuneration report continued the Defined Benefit Section of the Company.
Remuneration packages are designed to ensure that an iii Benefits in kind v Long Term Incentives Redrow Staff Pension Scheme: and appropriate level of performance related remuneration is These primarily relate to a fully expensed car or cash equivalent LTSIP 2012 grant vesting in September 2015 provided.
The performance related elements have clearly defined car allowance and private medical insurance.
n Review of the effect of the Firm Following the review in 2011 of the Executive Remuneration and stretching quantitative and qualitative targets that link Placing and Open Offer on Share Framework, the Committee felt that the quantum of the long iv Annual bonuses rewards to business performance in the short, medium and long Schemes.
term incentive arrangements remains appropriate and as a result Following changes implemented during the financial year ended term.
Those elements which are performance related are set out each Senior Executive, with the exception of Steve Morgan, will June 2012, the Senior Executives had the potential to earn a cash in further detail below.
be awarded a grant of nil cost options under the LTSIP with a n bonus equivalent to a maximum of 100% of their base salary, June 2012 Review of Terms of Reference of value equivalent to 100% of their 2011 base salary.
Committee: subject to meeting targets relating to performance on and above Elements of the Remuneration Package budget of PBT, ROCE, land bank and forward sales.
n Committee Self-Assessment: and The main components of the remuneration package provided to The Committee decided that the award would, as last year, be an Executive are as follows: n Salary Review of the Senior The Committee feels that this combination of measures based on performance of EPS and ROCE, pre exceptional, with up Executives.
represents an appropriate balance between backward looking to 50% of any award relating to performance of each of the i Base salary financial performance and forward looking measures, which criteria.
The Committee believes that these two measures are Salaries are reviewed as appropriate and at least once per support value creation over the medium to long term.
The transparent, are easy to understand, track and communicate, are annum.
potential payable was weighted equally across the four cost effective to measure and fundamentally aligned to the Executive Remuneration at a Glance measures.
strategic ambitions that have been communicated to the The Remuneration Committee considered that Senior Executive market: Components of reward In addition, as reported last year, the Senior Executives will be salaries would be increased in line with the increases awarded at Fixed component Base salary required to defer 50% of any bonus earned by receiving nil cost the same time to the general employee population of the n EPS ensures that the team delivers strong bottom line Benefits in kind options in lieu of cash, half of which will vest after one year and Company.
profitability and growth for shareholders.
Pension & retirement the remaining half after two years.
No matching shares will be benefits n ROCE provides balance by requiring that profit is delivered awarded.
The Committee believes that the introduction of The Committee agreed to increase Steve Morgans notional fees deferral into share options brings our framework into line with efficiently from a capital perspective.
from 1 July 2012 from 425,000 to 435,000 2.4% see page Variable component Annual bonus best practice and it will help us to increase share ownership 54 : Barbara Richmonds salary from 1 July 2012 from 257,000 Long Term Share Incentive throughout the executive team including at levels below the The Remuneration Committee does however have complete to 265,000 3.1% and John Tuttes salary from 1 July 2012 Plan LTSIP discretion to adjust the number of any shares vesting from the main board, where a similar scheme will be applied.
Save as You Earn Option Committee has retained the discretion under the rules put in award if it considers that performance is not sufficiently Scheme SAYE reflective of the general growth created by the market.
place to prevent vesting or exercise and clawback in the event ii Pension and retirement benefits of gross misconduct or the material misstatement of accounts.
Following the closure of the Defined Benefit Section of the Remuneration Policy EPS for the year ending June 2015 x Taking into account this deferral, the maximum annual cash Redrow Staff Pension Scheme to future accrual with effect from The Committee considers that in framing its remuneration policy bonus potential will be 50% of salary, with an equal amount Award 1 March 2012, John Tutte became a deferred member of the it has given full consideration to the provisions of Section 1 and awarded in share options.
The Remuneration Committee gave John Tutte the Nil x 24p Schedule A of the Code.
option of joining the new Redrow Group Personal Pension Plan or 10.0% to 30% on sliding scales 24p x 27p The Senior Executives were awarded 100% of base salary for the having a pension related salary supplement.
John Tutte elected 30% to 49.9% on sliding scales 27p x 30p The Committee aims to ensure that the Group provides performance against the bonus targets for the period ended June to receive in lieu a pension allowance supplement from 1 March 50% x 30p competitive but cost effective remuneration packages at all 2012, 50% of which was paid in cash in September 2012 and the 2012, equivalent to 20% of salary.
This supplement will not be levels in order to reward, retain and motivate staff who are remaining 50% of which were deferred by the granting of considered in the calculation of any future bonuses.
ROCE for the year ending June 2015 y expected to meet high levels of performance, as well as ensuring options at a price set by reference to the average share price of Award overall remuneration is competitive and that it attracts and the three days trading following the announcement of the Barbara Richmond was not a member of the Redrow Staff retains a high calibre of employee.
Companys Preliminary Results on the 19 September 2012.
These Nil y 14% Pension Scheme and instead receives a pension allowance options will vest, as described above, over a one and two year 10.0% to 30% on a sliding scale 14% y 16% supplement equivalent to 20% of salary.
This supplement will The Remuneration Committee recognises the importance of period and will have no further performance conditions to vest, 30% to 49.9% on a sliding scale 16% y 18% not be considered in the calculation of any future bonuses.
aligning the interests of shareholders and employees to create except the Executive has to be employed by the Company and 50% y 18% maximum levels of shareholder value.
Dividends equivalents, should dividends be Steve Morgan is a pensioner member of the Redrow Staff paid, will be paid in respect of these options for the vesting LTSIP Phantom Share Scheme 2012 Pension Scheme.
Consistent with this policy, the remuneration packages awarded periods.
Due to the size of Steve Morgans shareholding, the to Senior Executives are intended to reward them for their Remuneration Committee has decided to grant him a phantom John Tutte and Barbara Richmond are also covered by fixed term The Committee has also determined that the annual bonus for current achievements, whilst also encouraging a focus on the option under the LTSIP.
This option will be paid out in cash.
In all group income protection and death in service benefit.
the forthcoming financial year will continue to be assessed using medium and long term strategy and performance of the other respects Steve Morgans option mirrors the terms and the following four metrics PBT, ROCE, land bank and forward conditions of the LTSIP awarded to the other Senior Executives.
sales, with equal weighting given to each metric.
