Directors report | Business review | Financial review 30 FINANCIAL REVIEW A net loss of 9m arose on the sale or WE RAISED $626M THROUGH PRIVATE closure of businesses this year relating primarily to the write off of Illovos investment in pre-project expenditure in PLACEMENTS DURING THE YEAR.
BY Mali following the decision not to pursue the development of this business, net of deferred FURTHER DIVERSIFYING OUR SOURCES OF profit realised on the disposal, in November 2009, of the groups former Polish sugar FUNDING AND LENGTHENING OUR DEBT operations.
The net loss is excluded from the calculation of adjusted earnings.
MATURITY PROFILE THE FINANCIAL Finance expense less finance income of 105m compared with a net charge of 92m last year.
This reected the higher STRENGTH AND FLEXIBILITY OF THE average net debt during the year and the incremental interest rate on the private GROUP HAS BEEN ENHANCED.
placement nancing completed in March.
profit before tax increased from 757m to 761m.
Adjusted to exclude the intangible amortisation and exceptional impairment charges, the losses on the sale of xed assets and on the sale or closure of John Bason businesses, profit before tax increased Finance Director by 17% to 974m.
Taxation The tax charge of 178m included an underlying charge of 242m, at an effective rate of 24.8% 2011 24.6% on the adjusted profit before tax.
The small increase in the effective rate is a result of the mix of profits earned in different tax jurisdictions and would have been higher had it not been for the further reduction in the UK corporation tax rate.
The UK tax charge included a credit of 12m from the calculation of deferred tax liabilities reecting the enacted rate reduction from 25% to 23%.
The group is a substantial UK tax payer and even at the lower tax rate, out of a total of 191m tax paid in the year, 107m was paid in the UK as a result of the higher profits earned by our UK businesses.
The proposed future reduction in the UK tax Group performance The exceptional charge was taken to impair rate to 22% will be reected in the year that Group revenue increased by 11% to property, plant and equipment at the meat the relevant legislation is substantively 12.3bn and adjusted operating profit was business in Australia which has performed enacted.
However, with increasing up 17% at 1,077m.
Movements in foreign well below expectations.
Although a profitability in jurisdictions with a higher currency exchange rates had no material recovery plan is in place and a number of corporate tax rate than the UK, we expect net effect on revenues but at constant operational improvements have been made the groups effective tax rate to be higher exchange rates, adjusted operating profit during the year, the discounted cash ow in future years.
forecasts for the business were not sufficient to support the carrying value of its The overall tax charge for the year benefited In calculating adjusted operating profit, assets and an impairment charge of A$150m from a 33m 2011 25m credit for tax the amortisation charge on non-operating 98m was taken.
Accounting standards do relief on the amortisation of non-operating intangibles, any profits or losses on disposal not permit the inclusion, in the impairment intangible assets and goodwill arising from of non-current assets and any exceptional calculation, of cash ows that are expected previous acquisitions.
A tax credit of 2m items are excluded.
On an unadjusted basis, to be generated from the future sale of the arose on the property and business operating profit was 4% ahead of last year at former meat processing sites in Western disposals and a deferred tax asset of 29m 873m after charging intangible amortisation Australia and Victoria.
These are being has been recorded in respect of the of 100m and an exceptional impairment redeveloped and the net cash inows in exceptional impairment charge.
future years are expected to be substantial.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report | Business review | Financial review 31 Earnings and dividends Cash ow On 13 December 2011 we raised $100m Earnings attributable to equity shareholders Net cash ow from operating activities was in a bi-lateral private placement with a ten were 555m, 14m higher than last year, very strong this year with a substantial year maturity and on 29 March 2012 we and the weighted average number of shares increase from 736m to 1,240m.
This completed a private placement of senior in issue during the year used to calculate mainly reected a working capital inow of notes to a number of UK and US earnings per share was 789 million 2011 43m this year compared to an outow of institutional lenders raising $526m with 788 million.
Earnings per ordinary share 199m last year, and higher operating profit a range of maturities from 2019 to 2024. were 2% higher than last year at 70.3p.
adjusted for amortisation, depreciation and These issues provided funds, in addition Adjusted earnings per share which provides the exceptional item.
The amortisation and to our existing committed bank facilities, a more consistent measure of performance depreciation charges were respectively some of which will be used to renance increased by 18% from 74.0p to 87.2p.
26m and 77m higher than last year, largely debt maturing next year.
The average xed the consequence of capital investment in interest coupon on these notes of 4.5% The interim dividend was increased by recent years on assets which are now and 3.66% respectively, while historically 8% to 8.5p and a final dividend has been operational, and also due to a foreshortening attractive, are higher than prevailing variable proposed at 20.0p which represents an of the useful economic lives of certain assets interest rates on shorter term bank borrowings.
overall increase of 15% for the year.
The in British Sugar, AB Mauri and Primark.
This increased the groups interest expense proposed dividend is expected to cost in the second half of the year.
However, by 158m and will be charged next year.
We continued to invest in the future growth further diversifying our sources of funding Dividend cover, on an adjusted basis, of the group but the net 707m spent on and lengthening our debt maturity prole remains at three times.
property, plant and equipment and the financial strength and exibility of the intangibles net of disposals during the year Balance sheet group has been enhanced.
was a reduction on last years investment Non-current assets of 6,971m were of 825m.
Primark spent 326m on the Pensions broadly unchanged from last year.
Intangible acquisition of new stores and the t-out Pensions are accounted for in accordance with assets were 124m lower, mainly reecting of new and existing stores.
Elsewhere we IAS 19 Employee benets and on this basis, the amortisation charge of 122m for the continued the capital investment programme liabilities in the groups dened benefit year.
Property, plant and equipment at Allied Bakeries and good progress was pension schemes exceeded employee increased by 76m driven by the capital made with construction of the new yeast benefit assets by 95m compared with expenditure in the year, net of depreciation factory in Mexico and the relocation of the last years deficit of 44m.
The UK scheme and the exceptional impairment charge.
Zhangbei sugar factory in China.
accounts for 90% of the groups total Working capital at the year end was 73m pension assets and the increase in the We invested 45m on acquisitions, lower than last year and average working market value of these assets during the year principally 34m on the acquisition of capital across the year expressed as a was slightly less than the increase in the Elephant Atta, with the balance being percentage of sales showed an improvement.
present value of scheme liabilities which deferred consideration payable on The ination seen in commodity costs last resulted from a further reduction in longacquisitions made in previous years.
year was not repeated and Primark term bond yields during the year.
By delivered a substantial improvement with Financing agreement with the Trustees, the Company tight inventory management across the Cash and cash equivalents totalled 391m agreed to eliminate the deficit identied at year.
Net borrowings at the year end were at the year end.
These were managed during the time of the triennial actuarial valuation 224m lower than last year at 1,061m as the year by a central treasury department, of the UK pension scheme in 2008 with five a consequence of the very strong cash ow.
operating under strictly controlled guidelines, annual payments of 30m each.
The last which also arranges term bank finance for triennial valuation was undertaken in 2011 A currency loss of 230m arose on the acquisitions and to meet short-term working and revealed a funding surplus of 17m.
translation into sterling of the groups capital requirements, particularly for the However, following the fall in bond yields foreign currency denominated net assets.
sugar beet and wheat harvests.
after the date of that valuation, the Company This resulted from a strengthening of agreed to continue to make the remaining sterling at the end of the year, particularly The group has total committed borrowing two payments, the last of which will be in against the euro, US dollar and the rand.
facilities amounting to 2.6bn, of which March 2013.
Total contributions to dened The groups net assets increased by 46m 1.15bn is provided under a syndicated, benefit plans in the year amounted to to 6,221m.
revolving credit facility which does not 71m 2011 70m.
1.2bn was drawn Return on capital employed ROCE for the down on these facilities at the year end.
For dened contribution schemes the group increased from 15.8% to 17.0% this The strength and breadth of the 12 banks charge for the year is equal to the year.
Sugar and Primark both delivered an in the syndicate provide support for our contributions made which amounted improvement through much higher profits financial needs and reect the scale and to 53m 2011 51m.
but the lower profit at George Weston international presence of the business.
The Foods and AB Mauri resulted in a reduction John Bason group also had access, at the year end, to in the returns for Grocery and Ingredients.
Finance Director 874m of uncommitted credit lines under ROCE is calculated by expressing adjusted which 265m was drawn.
operating profit as a percentage of the average capital employed for the year.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2012
