Generate consistent organic growth by providing greater customer value Strategies for growth We create consistent organic growth through our skilled local expertise, close customer relationships and the local availability of a wide range of products, services and engineered solutions.
Our knowledge of customer processes, applications Over the years, many customers have signi cantly and plant operation issues enables us to deliver reduced their maintenance and operations staff and unique engineering solutions that allow our have lost much of their steam systems expertise in plant customers to achieve enhanced and sustainable operations and maintenance.
As customers increase ef ciencies.
We form strong, long-term relationships their outsourcing and look for simple, single-source with our customers who rely increasingly on our expertise transactions with competent full service suppliers to to assist them in achieving energy and water savings, solve their local maintenance, operations and capacity process and product quality improvements, and health, expansion issues, our total solutions approach to safety and environmental regulatory compliance.
We do problem solving is simply unmatched by any of this through applying our extensive knowledge in proper our competitors.
steam system design and maintenance, temperature We have located our major manufacturing plants control, heat transfer, steam boiler ef ciency and niche strategically in all key market regions including our pumping of hygienic, corrosive or abrasive uids.
major factories in the United Kingdom, France, Italy, As nearly one-third of our employees are engaged in United States, Brazil, Argentina and China and we customer-facing sales and service activities, effective time have invested over 50 million in the past four years utilisation is of paramount importance.
We continuously including to expand our manufacturing footprint closer work to develop effective training programmes to improve to the point of sale in emerging markets.
We employ the technical skills of our employees and to automate lean manufacturing systems built upon the concept equipment sizing and selection and simplify paperwork of manufacturing today what was sold yesterday and all of this in an effort to allow our sales and service centred on providing maximum exibility and scalability people to spend more time directly with our customers.
We believe these manufacturing strategies help us compensate for our very short order books typically five to six weeks and that our top-line revenue growth is enhanced through local, off-the-shelf availability of our very wide range of steam system and pump products.
Total revenue by year m Perseverance pays off 2008 502.3 2009 518.7 2010 589.7 2011 650.0 2012 661.7 Sales growth organic % 2008 9 2009 -7 Our technical expertise and understanding of customer requirements 2010 9 has enabled Spirax Sarco to deliver an added-value partnership with Linde Group while designing and supplying two compact and energy 2011 9 ef cient condensate lift systems for an Acrylic Acid Complex in 2012 5 Saudi Arabia.
Turning strategy into sustainable value We have a track record of revenue and pro t growth.
Combining the investments made in the last few years, together with our clear strategy, we look forward to continuing to create sustainable value for shareholders.
Ov Ove er rv vi ie ew w St Strategy rategy and and p per erf for ormance mance Business review 17 17 We have a resilient business model and continue to focus our efforts on creating our own growth opportunities.
In 2012, Group operating pro t was a record 136.2 million and Group organic sales increased by 5% to 661.7 million.
Current environment Trading As expected, the second half year Global economic growth and industrial output Group sales increased by 2% from 650.0 bene ted from cost controls and European progressively slowed throughout 2012, million to 661.7 million in 2012.
Organic restructuring cost savings of 2 million.
characterised again by a sharp divergence sales grew by 5% with higher sales in all We continued to invest in research and in the rates of economic and industrial segments except EMEA, which were at development, and in market development, production growth between developed and year-on-year.
The full-year effect of the two with further sales resource added in many emerging markets.
small business disposals in 2011 impacted emerging markets.
As noted at the half sales by 0.5% and unfavourable currency year, the pace of R&D spending declined As anticipated, market conditions were movements reduced sales on translation by in the second half and in the future is weak across most of Europe, although our nearly 3%.
Sales from emerging markets expected to more closely re ect the rate business performed better than might have represented 39% of total Group sales in of sales growth, having been raised to a been expected, as customer maintenance 2012, up from 38% in 2011. much higher, and more appropriate, level spending appeared to have bottomed early over the last few years to support the in the year and demand improved modestly In the steam specialties business, organic business strategy requirements for new in the second half of 2012.
Our markets in sales rose by nearly 5%.
The modest bene ts North America were better than Europe, product sales of steam traps, valves and of operational gearing from the 5% organic although we saw softness in the US in the temperature pressure controls increased sales increase were offset by the impact last few months of the year.
in line with higher overall levels of basic of lower throughput in our main European customer maintenance spending, but steam specialties manufacturing plants, Market conditions were generally positive in metering sales were down due to the nonas we reduced stock levels and managed most of our emerging markets, particularly repeat of the exceptional ow metering the volume reduction in European demand.
in China and in Southeast Asia.
However, project in 2011 related to the US Federal The Group operating pro t margin was we experienced weakness in our emerging Governments energy management unchanged at 20.6%, with unfavourable markets in Eastern Europe due to the programme.
Sales of pre-fabricated heat currency movements masking a small continuing economic and financial turmoil exchange packages, including clean steam underlying advance in the margin for in the Eurozone.
Brazil was also challenging generators, increased signi cantly in the the year.
Material cost increases and owing to a decline in industrial output and year due to strong growth in Asia and in unfavourable product and market mix poor economic growth in 2012.
Elsewhere North America, where we are increasing our changes were broadly covered by our in Latin America, our markets were in-house fabrication capabilities to address own price increases.
In the second half generally robust.
greater customer demand for simpler energy year, which is seasonally our better trading saving solutions.
Our customers are spread across a wide period, we achieved a record operating range of industries and institutions.
In the Watson-Marlow pumps business, conditions for our business tend to re ect organic sales grew 8%, in part due to In August 2012, we announced that general levels of local economic activity backlog reduction in the US and good cost reduction actions were being taken and, in particular, movements in industrial growth in our emerging markets.
There in response to the persistently dif cult production.
However, we have a resilient were increases across the product range economic conditions in Europe.
These business model and we continue to focus but we realised signi cantly higher sales were implemented through the second half our efforts on creating our own growth from our Bredel hose pumps in precious year, with overall headcount reductions of opportunities and in taking advantage of metals processing and wastewater treatment 9% across our steam specialties European increasing customer preference to work applications, and from continued success sales operations and with additional actions with fewer, more capable suppliers that with our Flexicon and MasoSine products.
taken in our European manufacturing can provide a wider range of engineered We also saw good initial sales of important plants.
The associated one-off cost, which solutions to help them improve plant new pump products launched during has been taken as an exceptional charge productivity, reduce energy intensity and the year.
and excluded from adjusted operating lower carbon emissions.
pro t, was 7.2 million: 1.7 million higher Group operating pro t was a record 136.2 than provided for in the first half year.
The million, increasing by 2% from 134.0 million annualised cost savings have therefore in the prior year.
Using constant exchange increased by 0.5 million to 5.5 million, rates, operating pro t for the year was ahead of which 2.0 million was realised in 2012 6% having been down 3% at the half year.
with the full-year bene t accruing in 2013.
Sales from our emerging markets generated 45% of total Group operating pro t in 2012.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2012 17
