Operating and Financial Review 2.1 Introduction The Directors are pleased to present their report on the Group for the year ended 30 April 2012.
This section 2 contains the Operating and Financial Review, which includes the information that the Group is required to produce to meet the need for a business review in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Operating and Financial Review also provides significant information over and above the statutory minimum.
Biographies of each director are contained in section 3 of this Annual Report and the remainder of the Directors report is set out in section 4.
The Operating and Financial Review that follows is intended largely to reflect the recommendations of the Accounting Standards Boards reporting statement of best practice on the Operating and Financial Review.
2.2 Cautionary statement The Operating and Financial Review has been prepared for the shareholders of the Company, as a body, and no other persons.
Its purpose is to assist shareholders of the Company to assess the strategies adopted by the Company and the potential for those strategies to succeed and for no other purpose.
This Operating and Financial Review contains forward-looking statements that are subject to risk factors associated with, amongst other things, the economic and business circumstances occurring from time to time in the countries, sectors and markets in which the Group operates.
It is believed that the expectations reflected in these statements are reasonable but they may be affected by a wide range of variables which could cause actual results to differ materially from those currently anticipated.
No assurances can be given that the forward-looking statements in this Operating and Financial Review will be realised.
The forward-looking statements reflect the knowledge and information available at the date of preparation.
1 Overview of the Stagecoach Group Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, with extensive operations in the UK, United States and Canada.
The Group employs around 33,000 people, and operates bus, coach, train and tram services.
The Group has four main divisions UK Bus regional operations, UK Bus London, North America and UK Rail.
We are committed to conducting business in a socially responsible way and we believe this to be consistent with our business objectives and strategy.
Indeed, by taking a responsible approach towards the environment and the wider community, we believe we will enhance our objective to deliver organic growth.
Stagecoach Group plc is a public limited company that is incorporated, domiciled and has its registered office in Scotland.
Its ordinary shares are publicly traded and it is not under the control of any single shareholder.
Throughout this Annual Report, Stagecoach Group plc is referred to as the Company and the group headed by it is referred to as Stagecoach and or the Group.
In the remaining parts of this section 2.3, we: Section Summarise the Groups business objectives and long-term strategy 2.3.
2 Describe each of the Groups business segments, their regulatory environments, their strategy, the market opportunities, the competitive position and likely future market developments 2.3.
3 Summarise how we aim to create value, by providing an overview of the Groups business model 2.3.
4 Discuss the key resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin the Groups business and strategy 2.3.
5 Set out the principal risks to the achievement of the Groups objectives and strategy 2.3.
6 Describe how we measure and monitor progress against our objectives and strategy, and how we are performing 2.3.
2 What we look to achieve business objectives and long-term strategy Group strategy The key elements of Stagecoach Groups business strategy to deliver long-term shareholder value are: To deliver organic growth across all of the Groups operations: To acquire businesses that are complementary to the Groups existing operations, in areas where the Groups management has proven expertise and which offer prospective returns on capital in excess of the Groups weighted average cost of capital: In addition to organic and acquisition growth, to maintain and grow the Groups Rail business by bidding for selected rail franchises and to seek to secure new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment UK Bus regional operations Description The UK Bus regional operations Division connects communities in more than 100 towns and cities across the UK on bus networks stretching from the Highlands of Scotland to south west England.
These include major city bus operations in Liverpool, Newcastle, Hull, Manchester, Oxford, Sheffield, Cambridge and Exeter.
The UK Bus regional operations Division operates a fleet of around 6,600 buses and coaches across a number of regional operating units.
Each regional operating unit is managed independently and is led by a managing director.
In addition to local bus services in towns and cities, Stagecoach operates express interurban services linking major towns within its regional operating company areas.
The Group also runs the budget inter-city coach service, megabus.
Our local and express bus and coach services carry an average of around 2 million passengers each weekday.
In Scotland, Stagecoach has a joint venture Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited with international transport group, ComfortDelGro, to operate megabus.
com and Scottish Citylink coach services.
Stagecoach owns 35% of the share capital of Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited and ComfortDelGro owns the remaining 65%.
The joint venture is the leading provider of express coach services in Scotland.
Stagecoach is responsible for the day-to-day operational management of the business, which is overseen by a joint board.
page 4 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 5 2.3.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued UK Bus regional operations continued Regulatory environment The current structure of the bus market in Great Britain outside London was established by the Transport Act 1985.
This is essentially a deregulated structure: any holder of a Public Service Vehicle operators license may operate bus services, having first registered various details with the relevant traffic commissioner.
The traffic commissioners are responsible for enforcing compliance with these registered details, including standards of maintenance, reliability and punctuality.
The UK Bus regional operations bus and coach services are operated on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
The Division also operates tendered services, including schools contracts, on behalf of local authorities.
Around 11% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is receivable from local authorities in respect of such tendered and school services.
Around 25% of the UK Bus regional operations revenue is earned from concessionary fare schemes, whereby the Group is reimbursed by public authorities for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge.
Strategy The strategy of the UK Bus regional operations is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes.
This may be supplemented by acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise.
Market opportunity The Group has around 20% of the UK Bus market excluding London.
The UK Department for Transports 2010 National Travel Survey NTS is a household survey of personal travel in Great Britain.
The NTS found that in 2010, there was an average of 960 trips per person per year.
Trips by car or van accounted for 78% of distance travelled, bus trips accounted for 5%, rail trips accounted for 9% and walking, cycling and other modes accounted for 8%.
There therefore remains significant market opportunity to stimulate model shift from car to bus.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus regional operations have performed well during more challenging macroeconomic conditions.
Although revenue is not immune to macroeconomic changes, it is less exposed than in many other types of business.
In addition, the Group can adjust the pricing and frequency of the majority of its services and is therefore well placed to respond to any changes in demand for particular services.
Around 70% of the costs vary with operating miles.
Competition The UK Bus regional operations face competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
The Group regards its primary competitor as the private car and aims to encourage modal shift from car to public transport.
The other major groups that operate buses in the UK outside of London are three other groups publically quoted on the London Stock Exchange FirstGroup, National Express Group, and Go-Ahead Group and Arriva, which is owned by Deutsche Bahn.
Future market The level of Government support in the UK Bus Industry has come under pressure in recent years with reductions in Bus developments Services Operators Grant a rebate of fuel tax and constraints on the payments made by Government to bus operators for carrying the elderly and disabled free of charge to the passenger.
Funding of tendered services by local government has also reduced.
The Group is therefore gradually becoming less reliant on Government and a greater proportion of its revenue is coming directly from passengers.
There is a positive long-term environment for further growth in demand for UK Bus services created by rising road congestion, rising car operating costs, supportive government policy and public concerns for the environment, which augur well for the future of the Division.
UK Bus London Description In October 2010, the Group re-entered the London bus market through the acquisition of the bus business formerly owned by East London Bus Group Limited in administration, acquiring four companies that together operate the business.
We operated a successful and profitable bus business in London for several years and were pleased to re-enter the London bus market at an attractive price.
The Group is the third largest operator in the London bus market, with an estimated 15% share of that market.
The business operates from 9 depots and has a fleet of around 1,300 buses serving routes in and around east and south-east London.
Regulatory environment The UK Bus London business operates bus services under contract to Transport for London, receiving a fixed fee subject to adjustment for certain inflation indices and taking the cost and capital risk.
Bus operators tender to win contracts and each contract is typically for a five-year period with the potential for it to be extended by two years.
Strategy We undertook a full review of the business prior to and following its acquisition in 2010 and identified a significant opportunity to add value through a turnaround of the under-performing business and through synergies with the rest of Stagecoach.
The UK Bus London strategy is focused on addressing the structurally high cost base and bidding contracts that earn a realistic return.
Our long-term aspirations are for mid to upper single-digit operating margins.
Market opportunity The Group operates approximately 15% of the bus operating mileage contracted by Transport for London to bus operators.
While there is therefore scope to grow market share in London, the Groups primary focus for its London bus operations is to turnaround the business which it acquired in 2010.
The Group does not seek to gain market share for its own sake and remains disciplined in ensuring that its bids for new contracts offer an acceptable trade-off of risk and reward.
Macroeconomic factors The UK Bus London operations are not especially exposed to short-term changes in macroeconomic conditions because it receives a fee from Transport for London for operating services irrespective of the passenger volumes on those services.
Its costs and in particular, labour costs, can vary due to macroeconomic changes and also, in the longer term, the level of services that Transport for London offers for tender might be affected by the macroeconomy.
Competition UK Bus London faces competition to win contracts from Transport for London from other bus operators, the largest of which are FirstGroup, Go-Ahead Group, Arriva, Metroline, RATP and Abellio.
Future market In light of the pressures on Government finances, we do not expect to see Transport for London significantly increase the level of developments bus operating mileage in the next few years and so any revenue growth will come from inflationary price increases, retaining work on tender but at higher rates and or winning contracts from other operators.
We see some potential for consolidation in the London bus market.
Our focus will remain on turning around the acquired business and monitoring opportunities to participate in consolidation amongst London bus operators.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 5 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 6 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
3 What we do description and strategy of each business segment continued North America Description The North America Division provides transport services in the United States and Canada.
Our businesses include commuter transit services, inter-city services, tour and charter, sightseeing and to a small extent, school bus operations.
com, a low cost inter-city coach operator that sells its services principally via the Internet, is the fastest growing part of the North American business.
Our main North American school bus interests were disposed of in November 2011.
The North America business is headed by a Chief Operating Officer.
Stagecoach excluding its joint ventures currently operates approximately 1,900 vehicles in the United States and Canada where our operations are mainly in the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, West Virginia, Wisconsin, Ohio, Indiana and Illinois and the provinces of Quebec and Ontario.
Our services operate in major cities such as New York City, Newark, Pittsburgh, Chicago, Washington DC, Boston and Philadelphia.
The acquisition of businesses and assets from Coach America will further extend the Groups business in North America, and further details are provided in section 2.5.
In addition to its wholly-owned operations in North America, Stagecoach has a joint venture, Twin America LLC, with CitySights NY.
The joint venture principally operates sightseeing services in New York under both the Gray Line and CitySights brands.
The Group holds 60% of the economic rights and 50% of the voting rights in the joint venture.
Twin America LLC is headed by a Chief Executive and is overseen by a joint Board.
Regulatory environment The North America business operates on a commercial basis in a largely deregulated market.
It also operates some tendered services for local authorities.
Strategy The strategy of the North America Division is to deliver organic growth in revenue and passenger volumes.
This may be supplemented by acquiring businesses where appropriate opportunities arise for example, in May 2012, we agreed to acquire businesses and assets from Coach America and further details on this are provided in section 2.5.
A core short to medium-term objective in delivering this strategy is the expansion of the fast growing megabus.
com business Market opportunity The Group estimates it has less than 3% of the bus and coach market in North America and is growing this through innovative new services such as megabus.
The 2009 National Household Travel Survey published by the US Department of Transportation found that less than 2% of trips in the US were by public transport.
The opportunity to stimulate modal shift from car to bus and coach is substantial and megabus.
com has been successful in doing this.
Macroeconomic factors The North American operations are more exposed to macroeconomic factors than the UK Bus operations as a greater proportion of their revenue is derived from customers using its services for leisure purposes, including its charter, tour and sightseeing services.
It nevertheless has similar flexibility to UK Bus over pricing and supply, enabling it to effectively respond to changes in macroeconomic conditions.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other operators of coaches and buses but also from other modes of transport.
com faces competition from the car but also from airlines and train operators.
FirstGroup and National Express Group are major operators of coach and bus services in North America, although with the exception of FirstGroups Greyhound services they do not tend to compete directly with the Group.
Future market The Group has taken a leading role in the development of bus and coach travel in North America through its megabus.
The market for inter-city coach travel, such as that provided by megabus.
com, is growing rapidly and we expect that to continue and present significant opportunities to the Group.
UK Rail Description Stagecoach Group has major rail operations in the UK.
Our principal wholly-owned rail businesses are South West Trains and East Midlands Trains.
South West Trains runs around 1,700 train services a day in south west England out of London Waterloo railway station, and operates Island Line services on the Isle of Wight.
The South West franchise is expected to run until February 2017.
From 11 November 2007, we have operated the East Midlands Trains franchise.
The franchise comprises main line train services running to London St Pancras, regional rail services in the East Midlands area and inter-regional services between Norwich and Liverpool.
The East Midlands Trains franchise is expected to run until 31 March 2015.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in the city of Sheffield, on a concession running until 2024.
Stagecoach Group has a 49% shareholding in a joint venture, Virgin Rail Group, which operates the West Coast Trains rail franchise.
The current West Coast Trains rail franchise runs until December 2012.
The other shareholder in Virgin Rail Group is the Virgin Group of Companies.
South West Trains, East Midlands Trains and the tram operations each have a managing director, who report to the Group Finance Director.
Stagecoachs Group Finance Director is Joint Chairman of Virgin Rail Group.
Virgin Rail Group has a Chief Executive, who reports to the Virgin Rail Group board, which includes Stagecoach Group and Virgin Group representatives.
Regulatory environment The UK train operating market is split into a number of separate franchises, which are awarded by the Government for set time periods to a specification set by the Department for Transport DfT on the basis of competitive bids.
Train operating companies operate passenger trains on the UK rail network.
The UK railway infrastructure is owned and operated by Network Rail, a not for dividend company that invests any profits into improving the railway.
Network Rail runs, maintains and develops tracks, signalling systems, bridges, tunnels, level crossings and key stations.
Strategy In rail, we seek to deliver organic growth across all of our existing operations and to maintain and grow the business by bidding for selected new franchises where the risk return trade-off is acceptable.
Market opportunity The market opportunity in rail arises from the potential to retain existing and or win new franchises, and also, from the potential to attract increased use of the Groups rail services.
With at least seven franchises expected to be tendered within the next three years, there is scope to grow the Groups share of the rail market.
Macroeconomic factors The Rail operations are exposed to macroeconomic factors with passenger revenue correlated to Gross Domestic Product and employment levels.
The exposure is further increased by the relatively fixed cost base of the business which restricts the scope to reduce costs in response to reduced demand.
The Groups existing franchises have significant protection against macroeconomic risks due to the receipt of revenue support from Government whereby Government pays the Group a proportion of the shortfall of actual revenue to the revenue expected when the Group bid for the franchise.
On bids for new franchises, however, the Groups evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a key component of the bid process.
Competition The business faces competition for customers not only from other train operators but also from other modes of transport.
The main competitors that bid against the Group for UK rail franchises are FirstGroup, National Express Group, Go Ahead Group, Arriva, MTR, Keolis, SNCF and Abellio.
Future market The UK Government is focussed on reducing the costs of the UK Rail industry and the Group is at the forefront of this in its ground developments breaking Alliance with Network Rail see section 2.5.
We expect this to be a continuing theme in the development of UK Rail which the Group is well placed to participate in.
page 6 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 7 2.3.
4 How we create value the business model The Groups overall business model is illustrated below.
Stagecoach factors driving demand for public transport Other drivers of Safe and Advertising Value for Cost factors Investment Design of reliable and money growth in services services transport marketing pricing Flexible cost Contract base franchise in bus bids Economic returns Strong Acquisitions group-wide cost control External factors driving demand for public transport Increasing Rising Supportive Long-term Rising car Lower cost Contract road environmental government economic running rail business management congestion awareness policy growth costs model The right environment Decentralised Emphasis on Sustainable, efficient Short chains of Environment to to underpin the management operational long-term capital command support innovation business model structure performance structure The business model varies to some extent by division.
The business model is intended to deliver the business objectives and long-term strategy explained above in that it is designed to preserve and add value through organic growth, targeted acquisitions and rail franchise wins.
The overall model of the Group is based on a relatively decentralised management structure with short chains of command and close monitoring and direction from the centre.
Across the Group, there is an emphasis on achieving strong operational performance as an underpin of strong financial performance.
The business model for the Groups UK Bus regional operations and North America Divisions is designed to be sufficiently flexible to respond to developments in the markets in which they operate and to changes in demand.
The key features of this business model are: A decentralised management structure enabling local management to quickly identify and respond to developments in each local market: An emphasis on lightly regulated bus operations enabling management to vary prices, operating schedules and timetables in response to developments in each local market without significant hindrance from regulation: A flexible cost base whereby operating mileage and operating costs can be flexed in response to changes in demand.
The business model of the UK Bus London and UK Rail Divisions is different.
The businesses are more highly regulated and their cost base is less flexible so there is greater management focus on agreeing the right contractual arrangements, including appropriate risk-sharing arrangements, and ensuring these are appropriately managed for the duration of each contract.
5 What we need to do what we do resources and relationships Stagecoach Group has a range of resources and relationships, including contractual relationships, that underpin its business and support its strategy.
These assist in giving the Group a competitive advantage in the markets in which it operates.
Customers Millions of people use our services and our relationship with our customers is important to us.
To deliver organic growth in revenue, a key element of our strategy, we need to provide services that people want to use.
We conduct extensive customer research to monitor our performance and to determine how we can improve the delivery and accessibility of our services.
We are passionate about providing good customer service and indeed, the theme of our 2012 Group-wide management conference was customer service.
Our businesses have a regular and ongoing dialogue with bus and rail user groups.
This includes presentations from managers on detailed aspects of our service as well as consultation and information sharing on particular issues.
An important element of the Groups success in growing its customer base lies in a track record of product innovation and new ideas on developing effective public transport systems.
The Group has an ongoing programme of market research.
We have a dedicated telemarketing unit in the UK that communicates with current customers and non-users to build a detailed profile of what attracts people to use our services.
Employees Human resources are key to the Groups business and the Groups relationship with its employees is therefore fundamental to achieving its objectives.
We seek to recruit and retain the best employees in our sector, offering an excellent package of benefits, which allows us to deliver good customer service to our passengers.
The Groups individual divisions invest significantly in the training and development of our people and we operate a successful graduate training scheme which provides one source of training for the managers of the future.
We have established strong working relationships with trade unions and work in partnership with them on a range of issues, including training and development, occupational health matters, pensions and other employee benefits.
We also communicate with our people face to face and through a number of internal publications.
The financial community Our shareholders and lenders are critical to our business success.
We have a regular programme of meetings with investors and provide frequent updates to the markets and financial community on our performance.
We have contractual arrangements with banks and other finance providers for the provision of funds and financial products to the Group.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 7 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 8 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
5 What we need to do what we do resources and relationships continued Government and regulatory bodies Our managers have ongoing relationships with national and local government in all our countries of operation to ensure the effective delivery of government transport policy and to assist in meeting wider objectives.
We work with local authorities, including passenger transport executives, regional transport committees and transit authorities, in the delivery and planning of bus and rail services.
Many of our businesses have partnership agreements in place to improve the delivery of public transport in their areas.
In the UK, we work closely with the DfT, the Scottish Executive, Transport Scotland, the Welsh Assembly, and Transport for London.
We contract with local authorities, government bodies and other parties for the supply of bus services on a contracted or tendered basis.
We have franchise agreements with the DfT governing the supply of franchised rail services in the UK.
We have constructive dialogue with organisations such as the Commission for Integrated Transport, which provides advice to the UK Government, and lobbying groups such as the Campaign for Better Transport.
Suppliers We rely on a range of suppliers to provide goods and services linked to our bus and rail operations.
All of our businesses have various contractual relationships with suppliers including purchase contracts with fuel suppliers, vehicle suppliers, IT companies and spare part suppliers.
The operation of our rail franchises depends upon a number of contractual relationships with suppliers, including contracts with Network Rail governing station and track access arrangements, leases with rolling stock companies for the lease of trains and maintenance contracts for the maintenance of trains.
Corporate reputation, brand strength, and market position Stagecoach is one of the best-known public transport operators in the UK and is consistently rated highly for the quality of its services in research by Government and other independent organisations.
We value our reputation, both as a public transport provider and as a key part of the communities in which we operate.
Stagecoach has a strong set of brands that support our strategy of organic growth in our business and that help maintain our leading market position.
Natural resources and manufacturing technology Operating our bus and rail services requires considerable use of natural resources, including diesel and electricity.
We have arrangements in place to ensure that these resources are sourced as efficiently as possible and that our supplies are maintained to ensure the smooth functioning of our business.
A number of experienced manufacturers supply our buses, coaches, trains and trams, which are produced to detailed specifications relevant to the individual markets in which they are required.
Licences Various licences are held by Stagecoach giving authority to operate our public transport services and these are maintained up to date as required.
Transport and Industry Representation Groups We are active members of industry groups, such as the Confederation of Passenger Transport UK which covers buses and light rail, the Association of Train Operating Companies and the American Bus Association.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties Like most businesses, there are a range of risks and uncertainties facing the Group and the matters described below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of all possible risks and uncertainties.
Generally, the Group is subject to risk factors both internal and external to its businesses.
External risks include global political and economic conditions, competitive developments, supply interruption, regulatory changes, foreign exchange, materials and consumables including fuel prices, pensions funding, environmental risks, industrial action, litigation and the risk of terrorism.
Internal risks include risks related to capital expenditure, acquisitions, regulatory compliance and failure of internal controls.
The focus below is on those specific risks and uncertainties that the Directors believe are the most significant to the Group, taking account of the likelihood of occurrence of each risk and the potential effect on the Group.
Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2012 Annual Report Catastrophic events There is a risk that the Group is The Group has a proactive culture that No significant matters to report.
involved directly or indirectly in a puts health and safety at the top of its major operational incident resulting in agenda in order to mitigate the significant human injuries or damage potential for major incidents.
This could have a unlikely event that a major incident significant impact on claims against did occur, the Group has procedures in the Group, the reputation of the Group place to respond.
The Group and its chances of winning and periodically rehearses its response to a retaining contracts or franchises.
Terrorism There have been multiple acts of The Group has plans in place designed No significant matters to report.
terrorism on public transport systems to reduce the financial impact of a and other terrorist attacks that whilst terrorist incident and these plans take not directly targeting public transport account of the Groups experience of have discouraged travel.
There is a risk managing the North American that the demand for the Groups business during the period of services could be adversely affected by depressed demand following the a significant terrorist incident.
Such a major terrorist attack on 11 September fall in demand would have a negative 2001. effect on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
page 8 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 9 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2012 Annual Report Economy The economic environment in the Management monitors actual and From November 2011, East 2.5.
4 geographic areas in which the Group projected economic trends in order to Midlands Trains became entitled operates affects the demand for the match capacity to demand and where to revenue support from Groups bus and rail services.
In possible, minimise the impact of Government hence significantly particular, the revenue of the Groups adverse economic trends on the reducing its exposure to UK rail operations is historically Group.
External forecasts of economic macroeconomic changes.
All correlated with factors such as UK trends form part of the Groups three of the rail franchises in Gross Domestic Product and Central assessment and management of which the Group has an interest in London Employment.
are now entitled to revenue America, a greater proportion of the support from Government.
In bidding for new rail franchises, the revenue is derived from tour, charter evaluation of macroeconomic risks is a Macroeconomic risks were a key 2.5.
5.1 and sightseeing services than in the UK key element of the bid process.
consideration in Virgin Rail and these services tend to be more Groups bid for the new West Cost Further information on the relevance susceptible to economic changes.
of macroeconomic factors to each revenue and profit of the Group could business segment is provided in therefore be positively or negatively section 2.3.
3. affected by changes in the economy.
Rail cost base A substantial element of the cost base The Group looks to achieve sensible As described above, the in the Groups UK Rail Division is risk sharing arrangements in its rail entitlement to revenue support essentially fixed because under its UK franchise agreements and franchise reduces the UK Rail Divisions rail franchise agreements, the Group is bids are designed to deliver an exposure to economic risks.
obliged to provide a minimum level of acceptable risk-reward trade-off.
As train services and is therefore unable described above, economic and to flex supply in response to shortterrorism risks are closely managed.
In term changes in demand.
In addition, addition, the Group remains focussed a significant part of the cost base is on controlling costs in the UK Rail comprised of payments to the Division and in recent years, has infrastructure provider, Network Rail, achieved considerable controllable and payments under train operating cost savings.
leases which are committed and do not vary with revenue.
Accordingly, a significant proportion of any change in revenue for example, arising as a result of the risks described above in respect of terrorism and the economy will impact profit from the UK Rail Division.
Sustainability of rail profits A significant element of the Groups In order to manage the risks, the Virgin Rail Group submitted a bid 2.5.
5.1 revenue and profit is generated by UK Group has devoted significant for new West Coast rail franchise.
There is a risk that the management resource and financial The Group is shortlisted for a 2.5.
4 Groups revenue and profit could be investment to bidding for new rail further two rail franchises.
significantly affected either positively franchises.
Further rail franchises expected to 2.5.
4 or negatively as a result of the Group Appropriately experienced personnel be tendered over the next few winning new franchises or failing to are retained to work on rail bids and years.
third party consultants are engaged to provide additional expertise.
The Board approves the overall rail bidding strategy and the key parameters for each bid.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 9 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 10 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2012 Annual Report Breach of franchise The Group is required to comply with Our UK Rail businesses are subject to No significant matters to report.
certain conditions as part of its rail complex contractual arrangements.
If it fails to Contractual management is an comply with these conditions, it may important part of our rail activities be liable to penalties including the because the way in which contracts are potential termination of one or more managed can be a significant of the rail franchise agreements.
This determinant of financial performance.
would result in the Group losing the Compliance with franchise conditions right to continue operating the is closely managed and monitored and affected operations and consequently, procedures are in place to minimise the related revenues and cash flows.
The Group may also lose some or all of The Group maintains an overview of the amounts set aside as security for Virgin Rail Groups business risk the shareholder loan facilities, the management process through performance bonds and the season representation on its board and audit ticket bonds.
The Group can do more committee.
to prevent breaches of franchise where it has sole control than where it has joint control.
As the holder of a 49% joint venture interest in Virgin Rail Group, the Group has less control over the joint ventures operations and that means the Groups management may be less able to prevent a breach of the Virgin Rail Group franchise agreement.
Pension scheme funding The Group participates in a number of Decisions on pension scheme funding, Pension scheme changes during 2.6.
asset allocation and benefit promises the year partly offset an increase There is a risk that the cash are taken by management and or in pension scheme liabilities and contributions required to these pension scheme trustees in helped secure the continued schemes increases or decreases due to consultation with trade unions and provision by the Group of high changes in factors such as investment suitably qualified advisors.
A Pensions quality pension arrangements for performance, the rates used to Oversight Committee has been its employees.
12 discount liabilities and life established comprising the Finance Pension scheme liabilities have expectancies.
Any increase in Director, a Non-Executive Director and moved during the year due to contributions will reduce the Groups other senior executives, to oversee the market changes.
The Board participates in major decisions on the funding and design of pension schemes.
Insurance and claims environment The Group receives claims in respect of The Group has a proactive culture that Insurance and claims costs on our 2.5.
1 traffic incidents and employee claims.
puts health and safety at the top of its bus divisions in the UK and North and The Group protects itself against the agenda and this helps mitigate the America decreased in the year as a 2.5.
3 cost of such claims through third party potential for claims arising.
An element of the claims do arise, they are managed by claims is not insured as a result of the dedicated insurance and claims excess on insurance policies.
specialists in order to minimise the cost to the Group.
Where appropriate, There is a risk that the number or legal advice is obtained from magnitude of claims are not as appropriately qualified advisors.
The expected and that the cost to the balance between insured and retained Group of settling these claims is risks is re-evaluated at least once a significantly higher or lower than year and insurance and claims activity expected.
In the US, in particular, there is monitored closely.
is a risk that given the size of the excess, that a small number of largevalue claims could have a material impact on the Groups financial performance and or financial position.
page 10 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 11 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2012 Annual Report Regulatory changes and availability of public funding Public transport is subject to varying Management closely monitors Decline in UK Bus concessionary, 2.5.
1 degrees of regulation across the relevant proposals for changes in the tendered and school revenue.
locations in which the Group operates.
regulatory environment and Positive conclusion to 2.5.
1 There is a risk that changes to the communicates the Groups views to Competition Commission inquiry regulatory environment could impact key decision makers and bodies.
The into the local bus market in the the Groups prospects.
Group actively participates in various UK excluding London and industry and national trade bodies Similarly, many of the Groups Northern Ireland.
along with domestic and international businesses benefit from some form of Continuing regulatory review of 2.5.
The Group seeks financial support from government Twin America joint venture.
to maintain good, co-operative including direct financial support, the relationships with all levels of Continuing Government review of 2.5.
4 provision of equipment, government government, by developing and rail franchising in light of the contracts and concessionary fare promoting ideas that offer cost McNulty report on value for schemes.
There is a risk that the effective ways of improving public money and publication of the Rail availability of sufficient government transport.
financial support changes due to regulatory or other reasons.
The new UK Governments stated policy to reduce spending has increased the likelihood of this risk crystallising.
Management and Board succession The Group values the continued Succession planning for the Directors No changes to Board during year.
services of its senior employees, and senior management is an 1 Successor to UK Bus Managing including its Directors and important issue and as such is Director identified and transition management who have operational, considered by the Nomination plan in place.
marketing, engineering, technical, Committee as described in section 1 New South West Trains Managing project management, financial and 7.4 and the Board.
The appropriate Director, East Midlands Trains administrative skills that are important level of management deals with Managing Director and Sheffield to the operation of the Groups recruitment and retention of other Supertram Managing Director business.
appointed from within the Group.
Disease There have been concerns in recent The Group has plans in place to No significant matters to report.
years about the risk of a swine flu respond to any significant outbreak of pandemic, which follows previous disease.
concerns over bird flu and SARS.
There is a risk that demand for the Groups services could be adversely affected by a significant outbreak of disease.
Such a fall in demand would have a negative impact on the Groups revenue and financial performance.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 11 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 12 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
6 The challenges we face principal risks and uncertainties continued Description of risk Management of risk Developments in year ended Section in 30 April 2012 Annual Report Information technology The Group is reliant on information The Group is continually investing in New website and associated technology for sales, operations and its information technology systems, systems developed in-house for back office functions.
Information people and suppliers to ensure the megabus.
com and other activities technology failures or interruptions robustness of its information resulting in improved resilience could adversely affect the Group.
It is developing new and scaleability.
New systems Internet sales platforms and continues launched in May 2012.
An increasing proportion of the to look to ensure that it secures Group's sales are made via the reliable service provision.
There is a risk that the Group's capability to make Internet sales either fails or cannot meet levels of demand and the time taken to implement restorative actions is unacceptably long due to insufficient resource being available and or over reliance on a small number of service providers.
This risk could result in significant levels of lost revenue at a time when the Group is investing in megabus.
com coach operations in North America, of which Internet sales is a fundamental part.
com website failure could severely affect the megabus.
com brand and also give a competitor an advantage during the time of the failure.
Treasury risks Details of the Groups treasury risks are discussed in note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, and include the risks arising from movements in fuel prices.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators The Group uses a wide range of key performance indicators KPIs across its various businesses and at a Group level to measure the Groups progress in achieving its objectives.
The most important of these KPIs at a Group level focus on four key areas: Profitability Organic growth Safety Service delivery KPI 1 profitability The overall strategy of the Group is intended to promote the success of the Group and create long-term value to shareholders.
In the shorter term, we measure progress towards this overall aspiration by monitoring growth in adjusted earnings per share.
KPI 2 organic growth To create long-term value, we aim to deliver organic growth in revenue.
We measure progress on this by division, looking at like-for-like growth in passenger volumes and or revenue as we consider most appropriate for the particular division.
KPIs 3 and 4 safety and service delivery To deliver organic growth in revenue, we aim to provide safe and reliable transport services that passengers want to use.
We measure safety and service delivery by division using a range of measures appropriate for each business.
Further details on how we calculate these key performance indicators, our targets and our recent performance is summarised below.
page 12 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 13 2.3.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Profitability Adjusted earnings per share is earnings per share before exceptional items and intangible asset expenses Adjusted EPS.
Adjusted EPS is calculated based on the profit attributable to equity shareholders adjusted to exclude exceptional items and intangible asset expenses divided by the weighted average number of ordinary shares ranking for dividend during the relevant period.
Adjusted EPS was as follows: Year ended 30 April 2012 2011 2010 pence pence pence Target Adjusted EPS To increase in excess of inflation 25.4p 23.8p 18.7p Organic growth Organic growth KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year or the previous year.
The following measures of organic growth are monitored in respect of three of the Groups divisions: UK Bus regional operations growth in passenger journeys measured as the percentage increase in the number of passenger journeys relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
Rail growth in passenger miles measured as the percentage increase in the number of miles travelled by passengers relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
North America growth in constant currency revenue from continuing operations measured as the percentage increase in revenue relative to the equivalent period in the previous year.
The measures vary by division reflecting differences in the underlying businesses for example, a significant proportion of the revenue in North America is not determined on a per passenger basis.
Throughout this Annual Report, references to passenger volume growth for UK Bus or Rail businesses mean growth determined on the basis set out here.
All of these growth KPIs involve a degree of estimation in respect of passenger volumes and are normalised to exclude businesses that have not been held by the Group for the whole of both periods.
Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2012 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 Target Growth % Growth % Growth % UK Bus regional operations passenger journeys 1.9% 0.9% 0.4 % UK Rail passenger miles Positive growth South West Trains ultimate target is zero 4.1% 4.1% 1.1 % each year East Midlands Trains 3.6% 6.9% 0.4 % Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 4.6% 9.3% 20.4% North America revenue 14.0% 8.5% 3.4 % The declines in passenger volumes at UK Bus regional operations and UK Rail, and the decline in North America revenue, in the year ended 30 April 2010 shows the impact of the tough economic conditions during that year.
At Virgin Rail Group the impact has been offset by the increase in services following a new timetable being introduced in December 2008.
Safety Safety is monitored in various ways, including through a range of KPIs.
Businesses acquired or disposed of in the year are excluded from the safety KPIs.
Five of the more important safety KPIs are reported below: Year ended Year ended Year ended 30 April 2012 30 April 2011 30 April 2010 Target UK Bus regional operations number of blameworthy 20.6 21.4 21.9 accidents per 1 million miles travelled UK Bus London number of blameworthy 25.0 n a n a accidents per 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero US number of blameworthy accidents per To decrease each year To decrease each year 5.2 7.3 8.8 1 million miles travelled ultimate target is zero ultimate target is zero South West Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.8 1.8 2.0 per 1,000 staff East Midlands Trains workforce lost time injuries 1.6 1.5 1.6 per 1,000 staff Virgin Rail Group West Coast workforce lost time 1.5 2.1 1.9 injuries per 1,000 staff Stagecoach Group plc | page 13 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 14 Operating and Financial Review 2.3.
7 How we measure our performance key performance indicators continued Service delivery Our measures of service delivery include: UK Bus regional operations reliability measured as the percentage of planned miles to be operated that were operated.
Rail punctuality measured on the basis of the DfTs Public Performance Measure moving annual average being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
References to rail punctuality throughout this Annual Report refer to punctuality calculated on this basis.
Due to the nature of the North American business, there is no single measure of service delivery for the North American division as a whole.
Service delivery KPIs are not reported for businesses acquired or disposed of in the year.
The service delivery KPIs were as follows: Year ended 30 April 2012 2011 2010 % % % Target UK Bus regional operations reliability 99.0% 99.5% 99.1% 99.3% UK Bus London reliability 99.0% 97.9% n a n a UK Rail punctuality South West Trains 90.0% 92.2% 93.3% 93.0% East Midlands Trains 85.0% 93.7% 92.0% 92.5% Virgin Rail Group West Coast Trains 85.0% 86.0% 86.3% 85.3% Service delivery at our UK businesses for the year ended 30 April 2011 was adversely affected by the severe winter weather in November and December 2010.
2.4 Overview of financial results Stagecoach Group has achieved continued strong financial and operational performance for the year ended 30 April 2012.
Revenue by division is summarised below: REVENUE YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2012 2011 2012 2011 Functional Functional currency Growth m currency m % Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 909.7 893.6 909.7 893.6 1.8% UK Bus London 230.5 133.6 230.5 133.6 72.5% North America 312.6 295.1 US$ 498.0 461.7 7.9% UK Rail 1,140.7 1,070.0 1,140.7 1,070.0 6.6%% Intra-Group revenue 2.8 2.5 2.8 2.5 12.0% Group revenue 2,590.7 2,389.8 Operating profit by division is summarised below: OPERATING PROFIT YEAR TO 30 APRIL 2012 2011 2012 2011 % % Functional Functional currency m margin m margin currency m Continuing Group operations UK Bus regional operations 162.7 17.9% 153.1 17.1% 162.7 153.1 UK Bus London 13.5 5.9% 5.9 4.4 % 13.5 5.9 North America 19.7 6.3% 19.3 6.5% US$ 31.4 30.2 UK Rail 27.1 2.4% 48.4 4.5% 27.1 48.4 Group overheads 11.1 11.3 Restructuring costs 2.3 2.9 Total operating profit from continuing Group operations 209.6 200.7 Joint ventures share of profit after tax Virgin Rail Group 15.9 28.4 Citylink 2.0 1.8 Twin America 9.7 9.3 Total operating profit before intangible asset expenses and exceptional items 237.2 240.2 Intangible asset expenses 12.3 15.2 Exceptional items 38.0 Total operating profit: Group operating profit and share of joint ventures profit after taxation 262.9 225.0 page 14 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 15 budget coach product in the UK, adding more frequent services on key routes 2.5 Divisional Performance and new locations, as well as supporting our joint venture, Scottish Citylink, in 2.5.
1 UK Bus regional operations trialling a new overnight sleeper coach service.
In April 2012, we launched a Financial performance new network of international routes from the UK to Continental Europe.
Our The financial performance of the UK Bus regional operations division for the new services linking London with Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam have already year ended 30 April 2012 is summarised below: proved popular and we are monitoring closely the moves by several countries in Europe to further deregulate domestic coach services.
Year to 30 April 2012 2011 The improvement in operating margin was built up as follows: m m Change Operating margin 2010 11 17.1% Revenue 909.7 893.6 1.8% Change in: Like-for-like revenue 908.1 886.7 2.4% Staff costs 0.9% Operating profit 162.7 153.1 6.3% Fuel costs 0.3 % Insurance and claims costs 0.4% Operating margin 17.9% 17.1% 80bp Other 0.2 % Operating margin 2011 12 17.9% Like-for-like passenger volume growth for the year was 1.9%.
Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: Although wages have generally increased in line with average earnings, staff costs as a whole fell as a percentage of revenue, reflecting a continued focus on cost control and reduced pension costs.
Fuel costs increased by 5.2m, Year to 30 April 2012 2011 reflecting increased unit costs under the Groups fuel hedging programme.
m m Change Insurance and claims costs have reduced as the value of claims received Commercial on and off bus revenue 541.9 511.7 5.9% relative to revenue has been lower than in previous years.
Concessionary revenue 225.3 230.8 2.4 % Tendered and school revenue 101.3 101.9 0.6 % Acquisition Contract revenue 34.2 36.4 6.0 % The Group has agreed, subject to regulatory approval, to acquire the bus assets Hires and excursions 5.4 5.9 8.5 % of FirstGroup in North Devon and Torridge for 2.8m.
The process to seek regulatory approval is underway.
FirstGroup has announced plans to sell further Like-for-like revenue 908.1 886.7 2.4% businesses and we shall assess each further opportunity on its own merits.
We have delivered further revenue, passenger volume and operating profit Cost control growth at our UK Bus regional operations.
While investment by local We have taken sensible steps to manage cuts in public sector spending, authorities in contracted and supported services has decreased, we have including the reductions in Bus Service Operators' Grant from April 2012, focused closely on growing our strong commercial bus services.
Our focus on through changes to our fares and bus networks.
Our focus continues to be on commercial revenue, where we have greater flexibility to manage pricing, protecting services, targeting investment in areas where buses are most used service patterns and frequencies, is reflected in the like-for-like revenue growth by our customers, as well as ensuring our business continues to deliver good of 5.9% reported for that category, which is a little lower than the growth rate returns to our shareholders.
These developments have also made our business reported for the first half of the financial year because some fare increases less dependent on Government spending.
were effected later than in the previous year.
The decline in concessionary In light of the Government cuts to Bus Service Operators Grant, reduced revenue reflects pressure from local authorities to reduce concessionary Government funding of concessionary and tendered revenue, and increasing reimbursement rates in light of budgetary pressures they face, which is also fuel costs, our bus fares were increased in April 2012 by an average of 5% but putting pressure on revenue from tendered and school services.
Revenue generally continue to offer good value when compared to other operators from contracts has declined as a result of major events in the prior year period fares and the costs of other transport modes.
The effect of the April 2012 fare that did not recur such as providing services for the Ryder Cup golf event in increases on revenue has thus far been in line with our expectations.
Wales and the Popes visit to Glasgow.
Regulatory developments Total like-for-like revenue growth of 2.4% is below the rate of 2.7% previously The Competition Commission inquiry into the local bus market in the UK reported for the forty eight weeks ended 1 April 2012.
The reduction in the rate excluding London and Northern Ireland has largely given the industry a of growth reflects the effect of significant concessionary scheme settlements clean bill of health and expressly ruled out structural change, price controls or recognised in April 2011 that did not recur in April 2012, partly offset by there increased regulation.
In another of its key conclusions, it called on local being one less bank holiday day in April 2012 compared to April 2011. transport authorities to embrace partnerships with bus operators.
This We are continuing to achieve good financial returns using tailored approach has been successful in ensuring more bus priority measures, more management solutions to respond to specific markets by managing pricing, investment and higher quality services, encouraging more people to switch from the car to greener bus travel.
In England, the Department for Transport service patterns and frequencies.
Bus use in Hull, for example, has grown by 60% in less than a decade, while in East Kent passenger numbers have doubled is consulting on the Competition Commission recommendations for multi since 2003.
Strong partnerships with local transport authorities have been operator ticketing and some changes to service registration regulations.
These are positive outcomes and we will continue to support further central to that success.
This summer, we will be playing a key role in the successful delivery of the London 2012 Olympic and Paralympic Games, improvements which will lead to greater bus use and build on the already including providing transport for athletes and the media.
high levels of customer satisfaction.
We are continuing to deliver sector-leading profit margins and good organic Outlook passenger volume growth through our value fares strategy, consistent We remain positive on the prospects for the Division as we continue to focus on running good value commercial services where we have flexibility on fares and investment in our fleet, the development of innovative products and roll-out of new technology solutions to make travel easier for our customers.
The Division has continued to perform well during weak February 2012, we announced a 60m investment in 390 new buses and macroeconomic conditions and a period of downward pressure on Government our regional bus networks in spending.
We are benefitting from modal shift from the car to public transport coaches for the 2012-13 financial year for Scotland, England and Wales.
We have expanded further our megabus.
com as motoring costs and fuel prices remain high and this is a key focus for our See definitions in note 35 to the consolidated financial statements.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 15 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 16 Operating and Financial Review marketing campaigns.
These factors have reinforced our confidence in the Like-for-like revenue was built up as follows: robustness of the Division.
As economic conditions improve, it is well placed to Year to 30 April 2012 2011 Change grow further by capitalising on the demand for value travel, rising US$m US$m % environmental awareness, and increasing road congestion.
Megabus 115.9 75.4 53.7% In the year to 30 April 2013, we see the Division being well placed to at least Scheduled service and commuter 213.6 194.9 9.6% maintain operating profit despite the challenging headwinds facing it.
2 UK Bus London School bus 7.0 6.5 7.7% Financial performance Like-for-like revenue 478.2 419.3 14.0% The financial performance of the UK Bus London division for the year ended 30 April 2012 is summarised below: North America is the fastest-growing division in the Group and we have Year to 30 April 2012 2011 increased our operating profit during the year even after taking account of the m m operating profit foregone on the sale of our Wisconsin school bus operations and start-up losses on the further expansion of megabus.
Our focus on Revenue 230.5 133.6 megabus.
com and our scheduled service and commuter business has included Operating profit loss 13.5 5.9 redeploying fleet away from charter work to these businesses.
This approach is Operating margin 5.9% 4.4 % reflected in the change in the mix of revenue.
During the year, we disposed of the majority of our North American school bus operations, which represented On 14 October 2010, the Group completed the acquisition of the bus business US$17.5m of the revenue for the year ended 30 April 2012. formerly owned by East London Bus Group Limited, acquiring four companies that together operate the business.
We are excited by the next phase of our growth plan for our budget coach brand, megabus.
com, in North America where we are seeing growing demand The annualised revenue from contracts which we currently operate is around for our package of value fares and high-quality travel.
At the time of acquisition, the annualised revenue from contracts announced a 40m investment in 95 vehicles for the megabus.
com network being operated was around 241m.
The number of contracts being operated in the United States and Canada.
During the year, we expanded our services to has reduced from 93 at the date of acquisition, to 81 at 30 April 2012.
The the South East United States and we now cover around 90 key cities.
Moving loss of the majority of the contracts no longer being operated was as a result forward, we have a clear plan to roll-out our services to new parts of the of unsuccessful bids submitted prior to our acquisition of the business.
United States and our new Texas network started operating services from 19 Our turnaround programme for our London Bus operations is progressing June 2012.
While we have a relatively high level of investment mileage in this well.
We have achieved overhead cost savings through synergies with our period of expansion, our more established routes are continuing to show other UK operations, and unit labour cost savings through reaching positive excellent operating margins.
negotiated agreements with staff on working practices and productivity.
The North American division has reported good growth in scheduled service The majority of new vehicles for our London Bus business have been obtained and commuter revenue as these services have benefited from passenger on operating leases since our 2010 acquisition of the business.
Although this volumes shifting to bus and coach travel from other forms of transport.
results in lower operating profit with financing costs being incorporated in the Sightseeing, tour, contract and school bus revenue has held up well through lease cost that is expensed to operating profit, it enables the lease terms to be difficult economic conditions.
matched to the duration of the contracts with Transport for London.
This protects the business from residual value risk and means that our other bus The change in operating margin was built up as follows: businesses are not forced to accept second-hand London vehicles.
Operating margin 2010 11 6.5% Bus workers across London, including those employed by the Group, have Change in: voted for industrial action in relation to their demand for bonus payments to Fuel costs 1.2 % recognise what they consider to be an increase in their workload during the 2012 Olympic Games.
Strike action took place on 22 June 2012.
The Group is Insurance and claims costs 0.9% contracted by Transport for London to operate bus services in London and the Staff costs 1.6% price paid by Transport for London does not contemplate the payment of Other external charges 1.5 % bonuses for the 2012 Olympic Games.
The Group continues to work with Transport for London and the trade unions to seek a resolution to this matter.
Operating margin 2011 12 6.3% Outlook Fuel costs increased by US$9.8m, which is in part related to the increased We are encouraged by the continuing signs that our restructured business is mileage operated to support growth in megabus services, and also the fuel more competitive in the tendered market and has now achieved contract wins hedging arrangements mean that the average fuel cost per unit is higher than on realistic profit margins.
We are pleased with the progress to date, and are last year.
Insurance and claim costs have decreased as a percentage of revenue optimistic on the prospects for further profit growth.
from last year as the expense last year included provisions for a small number of significant individual claims.
However, the year-on-year saving in insurance and claims costs is less than we reported for the first half of the financial year, reflecting more significant claims provisions recorded for matters arising in the 2.5.
3 North America second half of the year.
Staff costs fell as a percentage of revenue as we Financial performance continue to focus on cost control.
Other external charges increased as a The financial performance of the North America division for the year ended 30 proportion of revenue mainly as a result of sub-contracted megabus.
com April 2012 is summarised below: services.
Year to 30 April 2012 2011 Change Acquisition from Coach America US$m US$m % In May 2012, we agreed to acquire selected businesses and assets from Coach Revenue 498.0 461.7 7.9% America, and we expect to complete the acquisition shortly.
We have agreed to Like-for-like revenue 478.2 419.3 14.0% acquire: Operating profit 31.4 30.2 4.0% 1.
Certain businesses and related assets and liabilities, for a cash consideration Operating margin 6.3% 6.5% 20 bp of US$134.2m and: page 16 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 17 2.
At the option of the Sellers, up to 85 further coaches for a cash consideration Like-for-like revenue growth of 9.0% is above the rate of 8.8% previously reported for the forty eight weeks ended 1 April 2012.
The increase in the of up to US$25.6m, which would correspondingly reduce other capital rate of growth is principally due to there being one less bank holiday day in expenditure.
Some US$16.0m of the consideration was paid in May 2012 as a refundable The decline in operating margin was built up as follows: deposit, with the balance being due on or around the completion of the transaction.
The consideration payable will be potentially adjusted based on the Operating margin 2010 11 4.5% working capital balances of the businesses to be acquired.
Change in: Amounts paid to from DfT 4.9 % In the year ended 31 December 2011 and applying Stagecoach accounting Rolling stock lease and maintenance 0.2% policies, the businesses to be acquired for US$134.2m generated estimated Network Rail charges 1.3% revenue of US$164.4m, EBITDA of US$24.6m and operating profit of Traction energy costs 0.7 % US$13.3m, after taking account of estimated central overheads relating to the Staff costs 1.6% businesses.
Other 0.4% The businesses being acquired include contract, line-run, charter and Operating margin 2011 12 2.4% sightseeing operations.
The transaction enables Stagecoach to acquire selected businesses at an attractive price and to acquire vehicles as part of its capital The net amount paid to the DfT by our two rail franchises, which includes expenditure programme.
revenue support payments received, has increased at a faster rate than revenue, as actual revenue growth has not been as high as was expected at The businesses to be acquired include operations in Texas and California, which the time the franchise contracts were awarded.
Rolling stock costs have a will provide depot infrastructure to enable Stagecoach to expand its large fixed element which is not subject to inflationary increases and megabus.
com budget coach network more efficiently, more quickly and under therefore decrease as a proportion of revenue as revenue grows.
Network its full control, whilst avoiding the need to pay a sub-contract profit margin in Rail charges as a proportion of revenue have decreased as revenue growth these locations.
In addition, Coach America's Atlanta business is the existing has been higher than the inflationary increase in these costs, along with sub-contractor of the megabus.
com Atlanta hub and that business is amongst changes in the amount of performance regime income received.
Traction those to be acquired.
energy costs have increased ahead of the rate of revenue growth due mainly Outlook to rises in diesel costs.
Staff costs have in general seen inflationary increases, along with some savings from more efficient use of staff, which has resulted The North America division continues to see excellent prospects for long-term in staff costs growing at a lower rate than revenue.
As we roll-out our megabus.
com brand to new locations, we expect the benefits of continuing revenue growth at our established operations and The recent strikes by East Midlands Trains drivers have not had an adverse improving profits at some megabus.
com hubs as they mature to be offset by financial impact on the Group, and we can confirm that agreement in start up losses incurred at the newer megabus.
The planned principle has now been reached with all of the major trade unions, setting acquisition of businesses from Coach America will further add to operating reduced pension contribution rates at East Midlands Trains from July 2012 in profit.
Looking further forward, the outlook remains positive with the accordance with the formal actuarial valuation.
No further strike action is prospect of improving profit across the newer megabus.
com operations and expected in relation to this matter.
ongoing growth in the other businesses.
The Group disposed of its Manchester tram operations, Stagecoach Metrolink Limited, in August 2011, realising a 7.0m gain on disposal, which is separately reported as an exceptional item.
4 UK Rail Operational performance, passenger satisfaction and cost control Financial performance Strong revenue growth in our UK Rail division has been underpinned by The financial performance of the UK Rail division for the year ended 30 April consistently high levels of punctuality and customer satisfaction.
South West 2012 is summarised below: Trains was named Passenger Operator of the Year in 2011 and operational Year to 30 April 2012 2011 performance at our East Midlands Trains and South West Trains franchises m m Change remains amongst the highest of the UK train operators.
The most recent figures show that the moving annual average for punctuality at South West Revenue 1,140.7 1,070.0 6.6% Trains is 91.9% and at East Midlands Trains is 93.5%.
Satisfaction amongst our Like-for-like revenue excluding tram 1,119.1 1,026.9 9.0% passengers also remains high.
The latest National Passenger Survey, carried Operating profit 27.1 48.4 44.0 % out during autumn 2011, shows overall satisfaction of 84% at South West Operating margin 2.4% 4.5% 210 bp Trains and 87% at East Midlands Trains.
The UK Rail division made an operating profit of 27.1m in the year to We continue to critically review our operational cost base to identify and drive 30 April 2012 2011: 48.4m.
This reduction was principally due to losses out efficiency savings, while improving the service for our customers.
In April incurred at East Midlands Trains in the first half of the year where revenue was 2012, South West Trains and Network Rail announced the formation of an below the level forecast when the contract was originally awarded, and the alliance to deliver better and more efficient rail services in the south and premium payments made to the DfT were agreed.
From November 2011, south-west of England.
It delivers a key element of the Governments Rail East Midlands Trains has earned revenue support payments from the DfT, Command Paper, issued in March 2012, which called for closer co-operation which have returned that business to profitability for the second half of the between operations and infrastructure.
A single senior joint management year.
South West Trains, which also makes premium payments to the DfT, team now has responsibility for both trains and track on the route operating continues to receive revenue support.
We have a strong and profitable rail out of London Waterloo in a first for the UK rail industry.
It is aiming to cut portfolio and our wholly-owned franchises recognised net premium delays for passengers, provide better customer service, deliver more effective payments of 283.1m in 2011-12 to the DfT, ensuring taxpayers share in our management of disruption, and reduce the costs of the railway through more success in attracting more people to rail travel.
collaborative working and better decision-making.
The new alliance is also Punctuality is measured on the basis of the Department for Transports Public Performance Measure, being the percentage of trains that arrive at their final destination within 5 minutes or 10 minutes for inter-city services of their scheduled arrival time having called at all scheduled stations.
Figures quoted are taken from the latest train performance results, which measured punctuality to 26 May 2012.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 17 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 18 Operating and Financial Review expected to benefit rail freight operators who use the Wessex route.
5 Joint Ventures on the existing joint working between South West Trains and Network Rail 2.5.
5.1 Virgin Rail Group through the Wessex Integrated Control Centre at London Waterloo, as well as Financial performance recent moves by Network Rail to devolve operational responsibility to regional The financial performance of the Groups Virgin Rail joint venture for the year units.
The alliance has been approved by the DfT and the Office of Rail ended 30 April 2012 is summarised below: Regulation.
It is planned to run until 4 February 2017, the expiry date of the Year to 30 April 2012 2011 South West Trains franchise agreement.
49% share m m Change The Alliance includes an agreed financial baseline for the costs and revenues of Revenue 429.5 392.7 9.4% its activities, with variances to the financial baseline being shared equally Like-for-like revenue 425.2 392.0 8.5% between South West Trains and Network Rail.
"The agreement also includes a ""taxpayer benefit"" whereby the DfT takes a share of any financial upside Operating profit 21.5 39.5 45.6 % generated by the Alliance in excess of agreed financial thresholds."
Net finance income 0.3 0.2 50.0% Taxation 5.9 11.3 47.8 % Investment Profit after tax 15.9 28.4 44.0 % We are continuing to invest in services for passengers, delivering additional Operating margin 5.0% 10.1% 510 bpp capacity on our trains and improving our stations.
A total of 108 extra carriages are to be introduced on South West Trains, one of the busiest Virgin Rail Group VRG has continued to grow its business and leisure base commuter networks in Europe, between May 2013 and December 2014. on the West Coast franchise.
Annual passenger journeys have risen from Under the agreement with the DfT, thousands of extra seats will be provided around 14 million to over 30 million in just 7 years, following significant for commuters during peak times.
As part of the capacity enhancements, investment in new trains and improved infrastructure, with VRG train services Platform 20 at the former Waterloo International Terminal will be brought winning significant market share from domestic airlines.
The VRG operating back into use and South West Trains is working with the Government and margin is lower than last year mainly because the increase in the net amounts other agencies to re-open the platform earlier than the previously planned paid by VRG to the DfT was proportionately higher than the growth in timescale of December 2013.
Proposals are also being developed by the DfT, passenger revenue.
Network Rail and South West Trains to provide a long-term solution to congestion at London Waterloo.
South West Trains is currently investing over Like-for-like revenue growth of 8.5% is above the rate of 7.9% previously 100m in a range of improvements for passengers, including better station reported for the forty eight weeks ended 1 April 2012.
The increase in the rate facilities, additional car parking spaces, fleet refurbishment and provision of of growth is principally due to there being one less bank holiday day in April better customer information.
At East Midlands Trains, passengers are 2012 compared to April 2011, with revenue around the time of the Royal benefitting from investment of around 70m on improving every single train Wedding in April 2011 being notably lower than usual.
in the fleet, delivering better station facilities, creating more car parking Performance has improved in recent months, with a moving annual average spaces, providing 200 extra secure cycle spaces and installing new ticket of 85.4% punctuality to 26 May 2012.
However, it remains below what VRG machines.
believes is acceptable for its customers and VRG continues to press Network Rail for changes that will deliver better, more consistent infrastructure Rail franchises performance on the West Coast mainline to improve train punctuality for The Government is continuing its review of rail franchising in light of the customers.
McNulty report on value for money in the rail industry and publication of the Rail Command Paper.
The evolving franchise model in the rail industry VRG has agreed an eight month extension to the franchise, which has been incorporates longer franchises, some additional flexibility in service levels, a extended to 8 December 2012.
As well as providing continuity of service over more customer-focused measure of quality, changes to risk share in a move the period of the London 2012 Olympics, VRG will manage the introduction of to a GDP-based sharing mechanism and profit share and more responsibility more than 100 new Pendolino train carriages during the extension period.
for stations being transferred to train operators.
Stagecoach has a We expect the Groups share of VRG's profit after tax for the extension period combination of commercial and operational expertise which means the from 1 April 2012 to 8 December 2012 to be below 10.0m.
This expected Group is well placed to benefit from franchise reform.
We have an return reflects the relatively low revenue risk in the extension period and the experienced business development team, which has been refreshed with strategic importance to VRG of it remaining the franchise incumbent.
The Group has a record of major project delivery, received contractual revenue support payments from the DfT for the year to good cost control, generating passenger growth and increased revenue from 31 March 2012 under the West Coast franchise.
The DfTs target revenue for smart timetabling, and delivering consistently high levels of performance and the franchise extension is challenging and VRG expects to be in revenue passenger satisfaction.
We are currently shortlisted for both of the franchises support for the extension period as a whole.
we recently applied for, Greater Western and Thameslink.
The DfT programme for the medium-term will see at least 7 franchises market tested In May 2012, VRG submitted its bid for the new West Coast rail franchise, within the next 3 years and we will seek to add to our existing portfolio where which will start on 9 December 2012 and run until 31 March 2026, with an we believe there is the right risk-reward profile and we can add value for our option to be extended by up to 20 months.
VRGs innovative bid is centred on shareholders.
improving services for passengers, building on its strong record of passenger volume growth, leveraging the investment made in train services and Outlook infrastructure, and providing a significant premium to taxpayers.
The profit of our existing rail franchises is now less sensitive to macroeconomic conditions given the availability of revenue support.
Outlook Revenue growth remains good and although our bidding costs will increase VRG expects to remain profitable through to the end of the now extended West in 2012-13 as we invest in new franchise opportunities and premia payments Coast franchise in December 2012.
As indicated, it has submitted a strong bid for the new West Coast franchise, and will evaluate opportunities to bid for to the DfT will rise, we see potential for increased profit from the UK Rail Division with a full year of revenue support at East Midlands Trains.
other major inter-city rail franchises as they come up for re-tender.
page 18 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 19 on Virgin Rail Group goodwill was reduced so as to spread the remaining carrying 2.5.
5.2 Twin America Financial performance value of goodwill over the now extended remaining period of its West Coast rail The financial performance of the Groups Twin America joint venture for the franchise.
Of the charge, 3.2m 2011: 5.1m related to joint ventures.
year ended 30 April 2012 is summarised below: Year to 30 April 2012 2011 2.6.
2 Business disposals and other exceptional items 60% share US$m US$m Change The following exceptional items were recognised in the year ended 30 April 2012: Revenue 80.6 67.7 19.1% A pre-tax gain of 7.0m on the sale of the Groups Manchester tram Operating profit 16.2 15.2 6.6% operations, which has been updated since the results for the six months Taxation 0.8 0.6 33.3% ended 31 October 2011, was reported following finalisation of the disposal Profit after tax 15.4 14.6 5.5% accounting, and a pre-tax loss of 0.1m in relation to adjustments to Operating margin 20.1% 22.5% 240 bp amounts receivable from previous disposals.
A pre-tax gain of 10.8m US$17.2m on the November 2011 sale of the The tax treatment of our share of profit is such that the joint ventures own Groups Wisconsin school bus operations.
The proceeds for the sale were profit is partially taxed but an additional tax charge falls on the joint venture 31.5m US$50.2m, after taking account of additional proceeds of partners and the effect of that on the Group is included within taxation in US$3.2m received as part of an adjustment for working capital balances, the consolidated income statement.
transaction costs were 0.5m US$0.8m and the carrying value of the net We are pleased by the strong financial performance of our Twin America joint assets disposed was 20.2m US$32.2m.
Although the business had venture in the year ended 30 April 2012.
The main New York sightseeing performed well, Stagecoach's share of the US school bus market was operation has continued to deliver a high operating margin.
Overall profit relatively small and the sale enabled Stagecoach to focus its management growth was partly constrained by losses at a now terminated venture in Los and capital on less regulated North American operations, including the fast Angeles and legal costs associated with the regulatory matters explained growing megabus.
In June 2011, Twin America commenced sightseeing boat tours on the River Hudson around Manhattan, where demand has been encouraging and A pre-tax gain of 38.0m arising from a reduction in the Groups these operations have generated operating profit over the past quarter.
The retirement benefit obligations following pension scheme changes to outlook for Twin America remains positive.
secure the continued provision by the Group of high quality pension arrangements for its employees.
The principal change giving rise to the Twin America was notified by the United States Surface Transportation Board exceptional gain was a reduction in the maximum rate by which STB in February 2011 that its application for formal approval of the joint pensionable pay may increase.
venture had not been approved.
The STB confirmed that the joint venture, as currently structured, did require its approval and therefore, having decided not A pre-tax loss of 5.6m US$9.0m related to the continued re-focussing to approve the joint venture, the STB gave Twin America the option of of the Groups North American business.
The loss arises from the closure separating the business, assets and management of the joint venture.
of certain business units and the expected withdrawal from certain Alternatively, the joint venture could terminate or divest its interstate services, contracts and other operations.
The largest components of the which account for around 1% of the joint venture's revenues.
The intestate exceptional loss are a 4.6m US$7.3m impairment of goodwill and a services are now no longer part of the joint venture and this removed the 0.7m US$1.1m provision for an onerous property lease.
transaction from STB jurisdiction and placed it within the authority of the New Expenses of 0.5m were incurred in the year in relation to the planned York State Attorney General and the United States Department of Justice.
The acquisition of businesses from Coach America.
New York Attorney General and the Department of Justice are now undertaking reviews of the transaction and Twin America is co-operating with The net effect of exceptional items was a pre-tax profit of 49.6m 2011: them.
Twin America believes customers have benefitted from good quality, 0.7m, including a gain of 18.5m reported as profit from discontinued high value, and better co-ordinated services, while the joint venture has operations.
A tax charge of 13.5m 2011: 1.3m arose in respect of achieved cost savings and other synergies.
We and Twin America will continue exceptional items resulting in a net after-tax gain from exceptional items of to assist all regulatory authorities and will present any further evidence as 26.2m 2011: 17.9m.
appropriate to help inform any future decision.
3 Net finance costs 2.6 Other financial matters Net finance costs for the year ended 30 April 2012 were 34.7m 2011: 2.6.
1 Depreciation and intangible asset expenses 34.5m and can be further analysed as follows: Earnings from continuing operations before interest, taxation, depreciation, Year to 30 April 2012 2011 intangible asset expenses and exceptional items pre-exceptional EBITDA m m amounted to 343.9m 2011: 342.7m.
Pre-exceptional EBITDA can be Finance costs reconciled to the condensed financial statements as follows: Interest payable and other facility costs on bank loans, overdrafts and trade finance 5.6 5.7 Year to 30 April 2012 2011 Hire purchase and finance lease interest payable 6.2 6.8 m m Interest payable on bonds 23.7 23.5 Total operating profit before Unwinding of discount on provisions 2.7 3.9 intangible asset expenses and 38.2 39.9 exceptional items 237.2 240.2 Depreciation 99.9 90.3 Finance income Add back joint venture Interest receivable on cash 2.0 2.2 finance income & tax 6.8 12.2 Effect of interest rate swaps 1.5 3.2 Pre-exceptional EBITDA 343.9 342.7 3.5 5.4 The income statement charge for intangible assets decreased from 15.2m to 34.7 34.5 12.3m as certain intangible assets became fully amortised and the rate charged Stagecoach Group plc | page 19 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 20 Operating and Financial Review The net impact of purchases of property, plant and equipment for the year on 2.6.
This primarily related to The effective tax rate for the year ended 30 April 2012, excluding exceptional expenditure on passenger service vehicles, and comprised cash outflows of items, was 22.9% 2011: 21.9%.
The effective rate is lower than the standard 176.1m 2011: 156.3m and new hire purchase and finance lease debt of rate of UK corporation tax for the year of 25.8% due primarily to the 35.3m 2011: 8.1m.
In addition, 65.4m 2011: 14.7m cash was utilisation of previously unrecognised tax losses and the impact of the received from disposals of property, plant and equipment.
reduction in the rate at which deferred tax is calculated following the reduction in the corporation tax rate from 26% to 24%.
The tax charge for continuing operations can be analysed as follows: 2.6.
7 Return of cash Year to 30 April 2012 Pre-tax profit Tax Rate A return of cash to shareholders of approximately 340m was completed in m m % October 2011.
This equated to 47p per ordinary share.
The return of cash was approved by shareholders at a general meeting on 7 October 2011.
Note Excluding intangible asset expenses 209.6 47.5 22.7% 27 to the consolidated financial statements includes further information on and exceptional items the return of cash.
8 Net debt Exceptional items 49.6 13.5 27.2% Net debt as analysed in note 30 to the consolidated financial statements 246.9 58.6 23.7% increased from 280.9m at 30 April 2011 to 523.8m at 30 April 2012, Reclassify joint venture taxation for primarily due to the return of cash to shareholders.
The Groups net debt at reporting purposes 7.1 7.1 30 April 2012 is further analysed below: Reported in income statement 239.8 51.5 21.5% Fixed Floating Total rate rate m m m 2.6.
5 Fuel Costs Unrestricted cash 52.0 52.0 The Groups operations as at 30 April 2012 consume approximately 363.7m Cash held within train operating litres of diesel fuel per annum.
As a result, the Groups profit is exposed to companies 169.2 169.2 Restricted cash 19.8 19.8 movements in the underlying price of fuel.
The Groups fuel costs include the costs of delivery and duty as well as the costs of the underlying product.
Total cash and cash equivalents 241.0 241.0 Accordingly, not all of the cost varies with movements in oil prices.
Sterling bond 398.3 398.3 Sterling hire purchase The proportion of the Groups projected fuel usage that is currently hedged and finance leases 7.4 126.6 134.0 using fuel swaps is as follows: US dollar hire purchase and Year ending 30 April 2013 2014 2015 2016 finance leases 56.2 56.2 Loan notes 20.9 20.9 Total Group 80% 54% 5% 1% Bank loans 155.4 155.4 Net debt 461.9 61.9 523.8 The Group has no fuel hedges in place for periods beyond 30 April 2016.
6 Cash flows The Group has comfortably complied with all of its banking covenants Net cash from operating activities before tax for the year ended 30 April 2012 throughout the financial year.
The Group is subject to certain market standard was 279.2m 2011: 252.2m and can be further analysed as follows: banking covenants, which include a limit on the level of net debt compared Year to 30 April 2012 2011 to EBITDA and a minimum level of EBITDA to interest, in each case as m m defined in the relevant agreements.
EBITDA of Group companies before exceptional items 309.5 291.0 The Groups financial position remains strong and is evidenced by: Loss on disposal of plant and equipment 0.6 0.9 The ratio of net debt at 30 April 2012 to pre-exceptional EBITDA for the Equity-settled share based payment expense 3.0 4.7 year ended 30 April 2012 was 1.5 times 2011: 0.8 times.
Working capital movements 0.2 22.7 Pre-exceptional EBITDA for the year ended 30 April 2012 was 10.0 times Net interest paid 30.8 30.1 2011: 10.0 times net finance charges including joint venture net finance Dividends from joint ventures 25.8 28.8 income.
Net cash from operating activities before Undrawn, committed bank facilities of 265.3m at 30 April 2012 2011: excess pension contributions 307.9 272.6 423.6m were available to be drawn as bank loans with further amounts Pension contributions in excess of pension costs 28.7 20.4 available only for non-cash utilisation.
In addition, the Group continues to have available asset finance lines.
Net cash flows from operating activities before taxation 279.2 252.2 The three main credit rating agencies continue to assign investment grade The net working capital outflow for the year ended 30 April 2012 of 0.2m credit ratings to the Group.
2011: 22.7m was better than previously expected, principally due to active The Groups principal lines of credit have been arranged on a bi-lateral basis management of working capital balances to maximise cash conversion.
with a group of relationship banks which provide bank facilities for general corporate purposes.
These arranged lines of credit allow cash drawdowns to Net cash from operating activities before tax was 279.2m 2011: 252.2m finance the Group and also include facilities which are dedicated to issuing and after tax was 257.5m 2011: 231.8m.
Net cash outflows from performance season ticket bonds, guarantees and letters of credit.
The investing activities were 75.6m 2011: 198.2m, which included in the Groups main bank facilities are committed through to 2016. prior year 57.0m in relation to acquisitions and net cash used in financing activities was 299.4m 2011: 49.7m, which includes the part of the return The Group issued a 400m 5.75% bond in December 2009, which matures in of cash see below to shareholders that was funded from excess cash.
The Group also maintains facilities in relation to asset page 20 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 21 finance Asset Finance Facilities.
Asset Finance Facilities are typically agreed generate returns for its shareholders.
The Group also takes account of the in principle one year in advance and are arranged for the purpose of funding interests of other stakeholders when making decisions on its capital structure.
bus vehicle expenditure and for specific UK Rail operating assets.
Asset The capital structure of the Group is kept under regular review and will be Finance Facilities are used for finance leases, hire purchase agreements and adjusted from time to time to take account of changes in the size or structure operating leases.
The terms of Asset Finance Facilities are dependent on the of the Group, economic developments and other changes in the Groups risk underlying assets and typically range between five and ten years.
The Group will adjust its capital structure from time to time by any of the following: issue of new shares, dividends, return of value to shareholders Although there is an element of seasonality in the Groups bus and rail operations, the overall impact of seasonality on working capital and liquidity and borrowing repayment of debt.
There are a number of factors that the is not considered significant.
Group considers in evaluating capital structure.
The principal ratios that the Directors consider are 1 Net Debt to EBITDA, 2 EBITDA to interest and 3 The rail operations maintain cash balances to meet working capital Net Debt to market capitalisation.
It is a matter of judgement as to what the requirements and the franchise agreements restrict the transfer of this cash.
optimal levels are for these ratios.
Unless DfT consent is obtained, cash can only be transferred by loan or dividend to the extent that the relevant train operating company has distributable profits, and the franchise is compliant with the liquidity 2.6.
14 Treasury policies and objectives covenants specified in its franchise agreement.
Risk management is carried out by a treasury committee and a central The Group plans to initially finance the acquisition of businesses and assets treasury department Group Treasury under policies approved by the from Coach America from its undrawn, committed bank facilities but has Board.
Group Treasury identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in coplans to restore facility headroom through the issue of new debt to part reoperation with the Groups operating units.
The Board provides written finance the acquisition.
principles for overall treasury risk management, as well as written policies covering specific areas, such as foreign exchange risk, interest rate risk, credit 2.6.
10 Capital expenditure risk, use of derivative financial instruments and investing excess liquidity.
Additions to property, plant and equipment for the year were: The funding policy is to finance the Group through a mixture of bank, lease and hire purchase debt, capital markets issues and cash generated by the Year to 30 April 2012 2011 business.
m m See note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, for details of UK Bus regional operations 89.9 85.1 UK Bus London 32.3 17.1 the Groups exposure to financial risks: North America 50.0 31.4 the Groups treasury risk management: UK Rail 42.4 34.2 the Groups management of interest rate risk: Other 0.1 the Groups fuel hedging: 214.7 167.8 the Groups management of foreign currency risk: and The differences between the amounts shown above and the impact of capital the Groups management of credit risk.
expenditure on net debt arose from movements in fixed asset deposits and creditors.
Major financing transactions During the year, the Group entered into various hire purchase and finance 2.6.
11 Net liabilities lease arrangements for new assets as described in note 30 d to the Net liabilities at 30 April 2012 were 57.3m 2011: net assets 246.2m with consolidated financial statements.
the decrease primarily reflecting the return of cash to shareholders in October The following new financing arrangements were put in place during the year 2011, actuarial losses on Group defined benefit pension schemes of 72.8m ended 30 April 2012 and subsequently: after tax and after-tax movements on Group cash flow hedges of 29.2m, partly offset by strong results for the year.
In June 2012, a new c. 37m three-year rail bonding arrangement was agreed to replace a bank facility that was due to expire in February 2013.
12 Retirement benefits In February 2012, two new one-year rail bonding arrangements of c. 72m The reported net liabilities of 57.3m 2011: net assets 246.2m that are and c. 8m were entered into to replace two arrangements that were due shown on the consolidated balance sheet are after taking account of net preto expire in March 2012. tax retirement benefit liabilities of 124.1m 2011: 97.1m, and associated The Group sold vehicles to banks during the year ended 30 April 2012 for deferred tax assets of 29.8m 2011: 25.2m.
c. 33m and in May and June 2012 for c. 11m and leased them back on The Group recognised pre-tax actuarial losses of 93.7m in the year ended operating lease.
30 April 2012 2011: pre-tax actuarial gains 76.5m on Group defined benefit schemes.
15 Critical accounting policies and estimates 2.6.
13 Capital The Groups material accounting policies are set out in note 1 to the consolidated financial statements.
The Group regards its capital as comprising its equity, cash, gross debt and any similar items.
As at 30 April 2012, the Groups capital comprised: Preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the As at 30 April 2012 2011 European Union requires directors to make estimates and assumptions that m m affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and Market value of ordinary shares in issue 1,428.7 1,778.0 accompanying notes.
Actual outcomes could differ from those estimated.
The Directors believe that the accounting policies and estimation techniques Cash 241.0 358.3 discussed below represent those that require the greatest exercise of Gross debt 764.8 639.2 judgement.
The Directors have used their best judgement in determining the Net debt see section 2.6.
8 523.8 280.9 estimates and assumptions used in these areas but a different set of judgements could result in material changes to the Group's reported financial The Group manages its capital centrally.
Its objective in managing capital is to optimise the returns to its shareholders whilst safeguarding the Groups performance and or financial position.
The discussion below should be read in ability to continue as a going concern and as such its ability to continue to conjunction with the full statement of accounting policies.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 21 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 22 Operating and Financial Review Taxation Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment, other than land, are depreciated on a The Groups tax charge is based on the pre-tax profit for the year and tax rates straight-line basis to write off the cost or valuation less estimated residual in force.
Estimation of the tax charge requires an assessment to be made of the value of each asset over their estimated useful lives.
Useful lives are estimated potential tax consequences of certain items that will only be resolved when based on a number of factors, including the expected usage of the asset, agreed by the relevant tax authorities.
Assessment of the likely outcome is expected deterioration and technological obsolescence.
If another based on historical experience, professional advice from external advisors, and depreciation method for example, reducing balance was used or different the current status of any judgmental issues.
However, the final tax cost to the useful lives or residual values were applied, this could have a material effect Group may differ from the estimates.
on the Groups depreciation charge and net profit.
Acquired customer contracts and onerous contracts Rail contractual positions The Group has a number of contractual commitments most significantly in respect of its rail franchises and its London bus business.
In certain The UK Rail industry is subject to a complex matrix of contractual circumstances, IFRS requires a provision to be recorded for a contract that is relationships.
The Groups train operating companies are party to contractual onerous or when acquired as part of a business combination, that is relationships with, amongst others, the DfT, Network Rail and rolling stock lessors.
The nature of these contracts is such that there can be uncertainty unfavourable to market terms.
A contract is considered onerous where it is and or disagreement as to amounts receivable or payable by the Group in probable that the future economic benefits to be derived from the contract are accordance with the contracts.
The Group makes estimates of the amounts less than the unavoidable costs under the contract.
Determining the amount receivable or payable taking account of the available, relevant information.
of any contract provision necessitates forecasting future cash flows and Actual outcomes can differ from the estimates made by the Group and there applying an appropriate discount rate to determine a net present value.
There can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions made by the Group will is uncertainty over future cash flows.
Estimates of cash flows are consistent hold true.
with managements plans and forecasts.
The estimate of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant degree of judgment.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there can be no absolute assurance that the 2.7 Current trading and outlook assumptions used will hold true.
The Group has made a good start to its financial year ending 30 April 2013 and Goodwill and impairment is trading in line with our expectations.
Further investment in growth is planned In certain circumstances, IFRS requires property, plant, equipment and over the next year, notably in expanding megabus.
com to new locations, intangible assets to be reviewed for impairment.
When a review for bidding for new rail franchise opportunities and in capital expenditure on new impairment is conducted, the recoverable amount is assessed by reference to vehicles and other assets.
the net present value of the expected future cash flows of the relevant cash The Group is well positioned to withstand any further deterioration in generating unit CGU or net realisable value, if higher.
The discount rate macroeconomic conditions with its solid financing arrangements, its robust bus applied in determining the present value of future cash flows is based on the operations and its current rail franchises benefiting from the protection of Groups estimated weighted average cost of capital with appropriate Government revenue support.
As well as these strong defensive attributes, the adjustments made to reflect the specific risks associated with the CGU.
Group has a range of opportunities to drive growth and add further value Estimates of cash flows are consistent with managements plans and forecasts.
including the acquisition from Coach America, the further expansion of its The estimation of future cash flows and the discount rate involves a significant successful megabus.
com services, the continued turnaround of the acquired degree of judgement.
Actual results can differ from those assumed and there London Bus operations, pursuing rail franchise opportunities for which it is can be no absolute assurance that the assumptions used will hold true.
shortlisted, developing the Alliance between South West Trains and Network Insurance Rail and furthering its longstanding successful strategy to deliver organic The Group receives claims in respect of traffic incidents and employee passenger volume and revenue growth, particularly in its regional UK Bus incidents.
The Group protects against the cost of such claims through third operations.
These opportunities combined with the positive long-term party insurance policies.
An element of the claims is not insured as a result of environment for public transport created by rising road congestion, rising car the excess or deductible on insurance policies.
Provision is made for the operating costs, supportive government policy and public concerns for the estimated cost to the Group net of insurance recoveries to settle claims for environment augur well for the future of the Group.
incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date.
The estimation of the balance sheet insurance provisions is based on an assessment of the expected 2.8 Corporate social responsibility settlement on known claims together with an estimate of settlements that Responsible business remains central to what we do every day from the will be made in respect of incidents occurring prior to the balance sheet date principles that underpin our business, to the way we support our employees and but for which claims have not been reported to the Group.
The eventual the steps we take to engage with our stakeholders.
settlements on such claims may differ from the amounts provided for at the balance sheet date.
This is of greater risk in younger operations with a The Group has published separate documents outlining its sustainability shorter claims history from which to make informed estimates of provisions.
strategy and its approach to corporate social responsibility.
These documents and additional information and case studies are provided on our website at Pensions http: www.
aspx and The determination of the Groups pension benefit obligation and expense for http: www.
As a result, this defined benefit pension plans is dependent on the selection by the Directors section includes examples of our initiatives to illustrate our approach to these of certain assumptions used by actuaries in calculating such amounts.
assumptions include the discount rate, expected long-term rate of return on We are a key part of communities in the UK and North America, providing plan assets, annual rate of increase in future salary levels and mortality rates.
lifeline transport services and significant job opportunities.
People and A portion of the plan assets is invested in equity securities.
Equity markets partnership are central to the success of our approach.
Our focus is on growing have experienced volatility, which has affected the value of the pension plan our business sustainably, enhancing the communities in which we operate, assets.
This volatility may make it difficult to estimate the long-term rate of delivering value to our shareholders and helping to meet the global challenge of return on plan assets.
The Directors assumptions are based on actual climate change.
historical experience and external data.
While we believe that the assumptions are appropriate, significant differences in actual experience or Stagecoach Group is consistently rated highly against the other major UK significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension transport groups in comparative studies examining social, environmental and obligation and future expense ethical policies and performance.
For the third time in four years, the Group page 22 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 23 headed the transport sector in the Britains Most Admired Companies awards.
3 Promoting safety Stagecoach, was overall considered the 11th most admired company in 2011 A commitment to the highest standards of health and safety is at the heart of out of nearly 240 businesses assessed across 25 sectors.
It was placed in the top our business.
Public transport remains the safest way to travel and we have a six for the quality of its management and was first in the transport sector in good safety record.
We have a proactive culture across the Group that ensures eight out of the nine criteria, including corporate and environmental health and safety is our top priority.
Across our bus and rail operations in the responsibility.
UK and North America, we continue to focus on employee training, accident reduction, regulatory compliance, and security preparedness.
Health and Our corporate responsibility strategy focuses on a number of specific key areas: safety is monitored and reported on across Stagecoach Group and immediate Our people and our customers action is taken to address issues in our business processes.
Our Health, Safety Safety and security and Environmental Committee, chaired by a non-executive director, Accessibility and affordability considers these issues and monitors a range of relevant performance Environmental performance indicators.
It reports to the Board on these matters.
Our employees are provided with appropriate health and safety training and encouraged to Building community relationships report any concerns.
We expect our suppliers and contractors to have a Corporate governance similar commitment to complying with appropriate regulations in this area.
Many stakeholders are involved in the success of our business and information on how we build relationships with them can be found on our website at In the UK, we have in place an engineering maintenance regime which is http: www.
aspx stricter than legal requirements and this is bolstered by a rolling programme of operational and engineering audits at our depots.
During the past year, we have undertaken further initiatives to improve and make a difference in many of these areas.
The information below provides just We have a comprehensive occupation health programme at our UK Bus a few highlights of our commitment in action.
division, carrying out over 4,300 assessments each year, and all managers receive training on stress awareness and managing stress.
1 Code of Business Conduct meeting regulations around noise, vibration, display screen equipment and Stagecoach Group has a set of core values and policies in a number of areas.
Performance is reviewed at operating These values apply to every director and employee in all our companies across company level, in addition to audits and review of civil liability claims to help our global operations.
The Board of Directors remains committed to ensuring address policy and working procedures.
Programmes are in place to monitor the correct processes, controls, governance and culture exist to support the driver weight and assist them with dietary advice and gym membership maintenance of these values and behaviours.
Since March 2012, all UK Bus employees have been provided with free eye tests through a partnership with Tesco Opticians.
We have also started In November 2011, the Group launched a new Code of Conduct setting out the roll-out of a cycle purchase scheme and roadshows are being held at these key principles and providing practical examples and advice to act as a depots in each operating company.
guide to employees corporate behaviour.
The Code of Conduct includes information on Stagecoachs anti-corruption policy and programme, which is In North America, we have a regular safety programme focusing on key issues supported by its Board of Directors and overseen by the Company Secretary.
each month, including pedestrian awareness, lane changing, speed, driver The Board of Directors does not tolerate bribery or corruption and the risk of fatigue and sleep management.
We have introduced a new computer-based bribery and corruption is periodically assessed.
The new Code of Conduct has testing system for candidates for driving positions in North America to help been supported by a communications programme to raise awareness among determine whether or not a candidate is suited to be a bus driver.
Candidates employees of the importance of living up to the Company's values, as well as a must first pass through the screening programme before being eligible for our programme of specific training for key executives.
A copy of the new code is training school.
Our safety executives in the United States have assisted with a available on our website at: number of federal policy reviews covering bus industry regulation.
This work has covered areas such as driver hours of service, electronic on board recorders http: www.
com media Files S Stagecoachand compliance enforcement.
pdf In UK Rail, we are continuing to work with industry partners and the Samaritans on measures to reduce the level of suicides on the network.
2 Supporting and recognising our people West Trains staff have worked with Portsmouth Football Club to launch a local More than 3,000 employees in our UK Bus division have benefitted from our community project called Off the Rails.
Our Rail Community Officers, guards Healthy Heart Bus voluntary heart health screening programme the first of and drivers teams have worked with the club to educate young people about its kind in the UK which has been delivered in partnership with the UK's the dangers of the railway and build respect for staff.
The Portsmouth area is largest independent hospital provider, BMI Healthcare.
A bus refurbished as a considered a high risk location for youth suicide on the railways.
More than mobile cardio-screening unit toured our bus depots, providing free heart 1,600 pupils have benefitted from the project.
health check-ups for thousands of staff.
Employees received individual advice on ways to improve their heart health and access further medical tests through their GP if required.
Work is also underway on a research project to analyse the 2.8.
4 Affordable travel results of the initiative.
We believe promoting affordable travel is a key part of driving modal shift During the year, South West Trains was awarded the prestigious Investors in from the private car to greener, smarter public transport.
Stagecoach has again People mark for its work to develop employees and improve performance been confirmed as Britains best value major bus operator.
It is the third time since 2005 that it has research by transport specialists, TAS, found weekly bus travel with Stagecoach achieved the national standard for good business practice in the UK, providing was on average 17.5% cheaper than other bus operators.
The difference could independent recognition of its people-focused approach.
The assessment, save passengers an average of nearly 150 a year.
TAS analysed nearly 1,100 which included interviews with around 190 people, covered learning and fares across different regions, area types and operators for its National Fares development: reward and recognition: leadership and management: and Survey 2011.
The research covered Stagecoach, First, Go Ahead, Veolia involvement and empowerment.
Transdev, National Express, Arriva, independent operators and municipal bus companies.
The previous TAS National Fares Survey, published in 2009, also We also believe it is important to recognise the excellent work our employees found Stagecoach was the best value major bus operator.
do across our operations in the UK and North America.
Our Stagecoach Champions recognition scheme rewards excellence in the areas of safety, During the year ended 30 April 2012, Stagecoach has extended the footprint environment, community, health, customer service and innovation.
of its budget travel service, megabus.
It now covers around 60 locations Stagecoach Group plc | page 23 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 24 Operating and Financial Review in the UK and around 90 in the United States and Canada, with new routes Groups bus division by 4%.
The scheme also offers employees the chance launched from the UK to France, Belgium and the Netherlands.
Passengers can to earn green points that are converted into financial benefits from a also use our discount rail service, megatrain.
com, to travel for as little as 1 potential 900,000 annual bonus pot.
plus booking fee to around 30 locations in the UK on the South West Trains, maintaining our position as the UK bus industrys leading investor in new East Midlands Trains and Virgin Trains networks.
We also operate hybrid electric buses, which deliver a 30% reduction in carbon emissions megabusplus.
com, an innovative budget coach and rail service.
The Group has ordered more than 200 We are using new technology to help our customers access the best value hybrid electric buses for its operations across the UK.
In the UK, we are rolling out StagecoachSmart, a new way of buying and increasing the number of vehicles running on biofuel, as well as testing using online tickets, which offers the best value travel on our bus services, with other sustainable recycled biofuels.
On rail, East Midlands Trains offers an awardinstalling a new intelligent lighting system, which uses movement sensors winning online Best Fare Finder, which provides a quick and easy way for to determine the amount of light required, at a number of bus depots and passengers to access the cheapest available fare for around 450 different UK railway stations across the UK.
improving energy management systems at offices and depots to reduce carbon emissions from buildings.
5 Sustainable business completing a 2.2m investment at South West Trains in a major The Groups five-year sustainability strategy, launched in April 2010, remains regenerative braking project to save energy on more than 200 trains.
on track to achieve our goals.
We are investing 11m in a range of measures to focus on our core environmental impacts, with specific targets around fleet using an innovative fuel additive on East Midlands Trains, which has demonstrated a 4.4% improvement in fuel economy.
This followed a 12-month analysis of our businesses and the development of a database of improvement opportunities.
We are introducing an innovative energy-saving engine standby system to reduce also undertaking activities to reduce carbon emissions from business travel, carbon emissions from idling trains.
improve recycling and reduce water consumption.
The Group is targeting an a focus on engine idling at our bus operations in the United States, as well overall reduction of 8% in buildings CO e carbon dioxide equivalent 2 as installing new energy efficient hand-driers in facility toilets and switching emissions and a cut of 3% in fleet CO e emissions by April 2014.
It follows 2 to paperless paychecks.
significant reductions already achieved in previous years.
As well as ensuring introducing energy saving lighting and schemes to recycle oil filters and we meet our regulatory obligations, we believe our initiatives can help aerosol cans at our Canadian operations.
improve efficiency, cut costs and contribute to the growth of our business.
Improvements are being delivered on the ground by a network of green teams The Group is working with industry partners and the UK Government on across our operating companies.
As well as improving energy efficiency and climate change issues, including contributing to the development of policies reducing our own carbon footprint, our public transport services can play a key on adapting infrastructure to mitigate the impacts of climate change.
role in reducing overall emissions from the transport sector and helping Stagecoach is also seeking more pro-bus and coach policies through the address the global challenge of climate change.
com and highlighting the need to tackle energy security risks through its work as part of the UK Industry We held our fourth annual Green Week in May 2012 to drive forward taskforce on Peak Oil and Energy Security.
awareness of environmental issues in the UK and North America among employees and customers.
As well as demonstrating the measures we are We continue to report annually through our website on our carbon footprint taking across the Group, Green Week highlighted the environmental and and our progress in reaching our carbon reduction targets.
Updates on our financial benefits of using public transport.
Green roadshows, events, performance are posted annually on our website at the following link: competitions and demonstrations were held at a number of the Group's bus http: www.
com about  tracking-ourand rail operations and free eco kits were distributed to thousands of progress kpis.
In addition, we disclose details of our strategy and customers.
"Stagecoach green teams got involved in a range of local performance through the Carbon Disclosure Project ""CDP"", the worlds environmental projects."
Employees were also given the chance to put forward largest corporate greenhouse gas emissions database.
In the Carbon Disclosure their own green suggestions, while proceeds from fund-raising initiatives were Projects FTSE350 Report 2011, Stagecoach Group achieved the highest donated to environmental charities.
ranking of the listed UK public transport groups for both carbon disclosure and carbon performance.
Stagecoach Group continues to take steps to ensure compliance with its obligations under the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Stagecoach has received further independent recognition in the past year for Scheme.
Stagecoach Group submitted its first annual report and annual its environmental initiatives.
In April, Stagecoach was joint winner of the carbon footprint report documentation, covering data for 2010-11, in July Sustainability Award at the 2012 Scotland plc Awards.
"The Department for Energy and Climate Change ""DECC"" published a measures it has taken to reduce its carbon footprint, promote sustainability performance league table ""PLT"" based on 2010-11 data in November 2011. among employees, and to encourage greater use of public transport through The Group achieved a position of 299 out of 2301 participants, which places joint-working with other transport partners."
Stagecoach, along with Alexander Stagecoach in the top 14% of those included in the scheme.
Dennis Ltd. won the Green Award at the 2011 Route One Operator Excellence During the year, the Group was re-certified under the Carbon Trust Standard Awards for the pioneering introduction of hybrid-electric buses.
The Group also won the Environment Award at the 2011 UK Bus Awards and was also for all of its UK operations.
The Carbon Trust Standard provides a rigorous highly commended in the Company of the Year category at the inaugural independent assessment of the carbon performance of businesses and public BusinessGreen Leaders Awards in July 2011. sector organisations.
Third-party assessors carry out a detailed evaluation to ensure companies are measuring, managing and making real year-on-year reductions in carbon emissions.
Stagecoach Group reduced carbon emissions 2.8.
6 Supporting community projects relative to the turnover of its UK businesses by 5.6% in the two years to 30 We help local people share in our success by funding the vital work of local, April 2011 as a result of a package of measures designed to make Stagecoach national and international charities.
During the year ended 30 April 2012, Group more sustainable.
This reduction followed a 5.7% carbon efficiency 0.5m 2011: 0.6m was donated by the Group to help many worthwhile improvement in the three years to 30 April 2009. causes, including many health charities and local community projects.
The The Group initiatives during the year to reduce the impact of its businesses on Group has provided financial support for the road safety charity, Brake, as well the environment have included: as the Railway Children, which works for runaway and abandoned children continuing the UK roll-out of a multi-million-pound investment in a hi-tech who live in or around the world's railway stations.
Our funding is also helping eco-driving system, which is expected to reduce fuel consumption at the support the work of the National Rail Chaplaincy Service, whose welfare page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc 86303 STC FrontPRINT 86303 STC FrontPRINT 02 07 2012 13:46 Page 25 support is available to all current and retired rail staff members, their families and the travelling public.
During the year, we have made significant donations to a number of organisations, including Londons Air Ambulance, which provides pre-hospital medical care to victims of serious injury, at the scene of the incident.
During the year, Stagecoach announced a new three-year partnership with businessdynamics, part of the Enterprise Education Trust, to help change young people's perception of business, and build their skills and confidence.
We are also a significant supporter of the Eden Project in Cornwall, England.
As well as a gardens tourist attraction with family events throughout the year, the educational charity runs social and environmental projects locally and internationally.
Stagecoach has provided backing for dozens of smaller initiatives, as well as offering match funding to complement many fund-raising activities by our employees for national campaigns or local good causes.
The Group has also provided significant in-kind support by donating free transport and assisting with employee secondments to charitable projects.
7 Corporate Governance Stagecoach Group is committed to the principles of good corporate governance, as described in section 5.
8 Further information Full details of our corporate social responsibility strategy and further case studies can be found on the Stagecoach Group website at http: www.
com scg media publications policydocs csr-strategy.
pdf A copy of the Groups sustainability strategy is available online at http: www.
com media Files S StagecoachGroup Attachments media   Annual updates on our environmental measures and performance are available at http: www.
com about  Stagecoach Group plc | page 25
