Operating financial review The past few years have been difficult and volatile as developed world economies continue to struggle with economic growth post the financial crisis.
The European sovereign crisis Despite continues, exacerbated by the perception of weakness of the European banking system.
To reduce our own complexity and achieve a greater balance in our portfolio of businesses, we the various took a decision to realign the group into three core business divisions: Specialist Banking, challenges in Asset Management and Wealth & Investment.
Despite the various challenges in our operating our operating environment, we continue to build sound and well recognised franchises across all key geographies.
We believe that we have developed the appropriate mix of businesses to environment, we support long-term performance.
have continued to build sound Disappointing financial result and recognised Adjusted earnings per share EPS before goodwill, acquired intangibles and non-operating franchises items dropped 26.4% to 31.8 pence largely as a result of heightened volatility and dampened across all core levels of client activity and the resultant decline in trading and investment incomes.
continued to focus on building our non-banking revenue streams with recurring income as a percentage of total operating income increasing to 67.7% from 62.3% in the previous year.
Our final dividend of 9.0 pence per ordinary share equates to a full year dividend of 17.0 pence.
The total dividend is flat on the prior year.
Our dividend cover, based on adjusted EPS before goodwill and non-operating items, is 1.9 times and is consistent with our dividend policy.
The realignment of the business model towards less capital intensive businesses has shown positive results.
Third party funds under management increased 8.9% to 96.8 billion with the asset and wealth management divisions reporting a combined increase of 2.8% in operating profit.
These divisions now account for 48.1% 2011: 38.6% of group operating profit partially as a result of their improved performance against a weak performance from the Specialist Bank.
The confluence of the operating environment with that of enhanced regulation made for a particularly difficult year for the Specialist Bank.
In light of this uncertainty we continue to hold our liquidity and capital positions at levels that are appropriate for the prevailing environment.
We have been dealing proactively with our underperforming businesses resulting in a decline in the level of gross defaults and a streamlining of our business operations.
Volatile operating environment The volatile movements in equity markets over the year echoed those of the broader macroenvironment.
Interest rates remained pegged at historical lows in the UK and South Africa, with the Australian Reserve Bank further easing its monetary policy over the latter part of the year.
Exchange rates were volatile across all currencies with the depreciation of the Rand having an adverse impact on our reported results.
South Africa South Africa achieved economic growth of close to 3%, similar to the year before as the countrys long-term growth trend was re-established.
However, in a manner similar to that of the prior year, corporates have continued to hoard large stockpiles of cash and remained cautious in their making of investment decisions.
Consumers and households on the other hand have sought to take advantage of historically low interest rates and whilst conservative in relation to longer-term debt, have ventured towards shorter-term unsecured borrowing.
Once again, South Africas financial system was highly rated by the World Economic Forums Global Competiveness Report, ranking second in terms of the soundness of its banks, up from its position at sixth last year.
The countrys fiscal deficit has declined further and with its low level of sovereign debt South Africa is relatively well positioned to absorb the increased borrowings needed to part fund the governments proposed infrastructure rollout.
We continue to retain the view that our local positioning will allow us to partner with clients in their growth aspirations in both South Africa and the broader African continent.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Operating financial review 23 Operating financial review continued The Financial Sector Charter which was put on hold in December 2008 is currently undergoing an alignment process with the Department of Trade and Industry DTI codes.
A Draft Financial Sector Code was published in March 2012 and was, at the time of our financial year end, still out for public comment.
The consultative period has now expired and we look forward to the gazetting of the Charter by the Minister of Trade and Industry.
Until then we will continue to measure our transformation progress against the DTI codes and obtained a level 3 DTI BEE rating for the 2012 financial year, an improvement over the prior years level 4 rating.
United Kingdom The UK economy remained weak, achieving only one quarter of positive growth through the course of the financial year.
In spite of the UKs Monetary Policy Committee having kept the official Bank rate unchanged for a third consecutive year of record low rates, the outlook for the economy, which has now slipped into technical recession, remains negative.
The planned further fiscal consolidation will not help in this regard.
In Ireland, the signs of improvement in the Irish export economy have not filtered through to the broader economy with domestic unemployment and house price retraction continuing unabated.
The Independent Commission on Banking ICB issued its final report in September 2011 detailing its recommendations on the stability of, and competition within, the UK banking industry.
Regarding stability, the report recommends that high street banking operations be ring-fenced from investment banking arms and exist as separate legal and operational entities.
It also suggests substantially higher capital cushions for the high street operations.
After consulting with industry, the government is to issue a White Paper detailing its final recommendations by the end of June 2012 and will provide direction on whether any further realignment of our banking business needs to take place.
We remain committed to ensuring our compliance with any consequent legislation and believe that we will not be impacted by the competition recommendations which may lead to an industry-wide investigation in 2015.
Our UK operation has shown particular resilience through the course of the financial crisis where many other regional banks required government support.
We are appropriately capitalised and currently meet both Basel III capital and liquidity requirements.
Stakeholder recognition of this resilience and our having emerged through the crisis unscathed, has contributed to the creation of a recognised, credible business franchise.
With the integration of Rensburg Sheppards plc and Evolution Group plc, Investec has been established as a meaningful manager of wealth and savings, with all our businesses having taken advantage of dislocated markets to gain further traction in the UK.
Australia The relative insulation of the Australian economy from the global meltdown continued into the current year with the economy recovering quickly from the floods that impacted negatively on the countrys growth in the first quarter of 2011.
The pace of economic growth slowed from that of the first quarter, however consumption and investment expenditure remained robust through the year, gaining support from buoyant Asian resource demand.
The economic outlook remains uncertain as fears over the Euro crisis, signs of slowing growth in China, a cooling of the global demand for resources and the continued strength of the Australian Dollar may impede the countrys economic recovery.
During the financial year, our Australian business was severely impacted by write-offs in our legacy property portfolio in light of weakened residential property prices in certain sectors of the market.
We have acted decisively and have reshaped the nature of the business by refocusing our Private Banking operations on the development of our professional finance franchise.
The resilience of our diversified business model In an environment of extreme volatility, uncertainty and the persistence of lower than normal levels of activity, our results, while disappointing, highlight the material benefits of having the diversified income streams of our three distinct business divisions.
The groups non-capital intensive, largely annuity-based, asset management and wealth management businesses continued to report strong contributions to group earnings.
Specialist banking results, however, reflect the severe challenges of the broader macro-economic environment and the impact of continued market volatility and lower levels of activity throughout the course of the financial year.
Whilst Specialist Banking has seen a significant decline in the level of non-performing loans, impairments this year remained elevated mainly as a result of the write-down and sale of a substantial portion of the Australian run-off property portfolio.
Asset Management Asset Management increased operating profit 5.0% to 133.7 million, benefiting from higher funds under management and a competitive investment performance.
Net inflows of 5.2 billion were recorded.
Total funds under management amount to 61.5 billion 2011:58.8 billion.
Asset Management has established an international, scalable investment platform with its performance displaying the experience and depth of its team, emphasising the quality of its offering across the globalised business.
Wealth & Investment The operating profit of Wealth & Investment decreased by 4.2% to 38.7 million 2011: 40.4 million.
The division has benefited from higher average funds under management and a full contribution from the acquisition of Rensburg Sheppards plc which became effective in June 2010.
However, results were adversely impacted by restructuring of certain operations in the UK and Europe and the sale of Rensburg Fund Managers 24 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Operating financial review in the prior year.
Total funds under management have grown to 34.8 billion 2011: 29.4 billion.
The acquisition of the Evolution Group plc in December 2011 added approximately 7 billion of assets under management, with the integration of the businesses progressing well.
Global economic and European political uncertainty will continue to have a marked impact on the level of equity markets and thereby on divisional performance.
This business continues to develop its international platform to ensure that its offering to our global client base is competitive and will support the organic growth of funds under management.
Specialist Banking The specialist banking business decreased operating profit 30.2% to 186.2 million 2011: 266.7 million.
In South Africa the division has benefited from improved margins in the lending and fixed income businesses and a strong increase in fees and commissions.
Fee and commission growth was supported by increased activity in the corporate banking and advisory businesses.
Whilst the unlisted private equity portfolio continues to perform well, investment income has been adversely affected by a poor performance in the listed principal investment portfolio.
Furthermore, income earned on the sale of investment properties in the prior year was not repeated in the current year.
In the UK the division has also benefited from improved margins, although levels of transactional activity were mixed with net fees and commissions in line with the prior year.
Income earned on last years debt buy-backs was not repeated.
The Australian division was impacted by a significant increase in impairments on the property loan portfolio, with the majority of these loans sold by the year end.
The operation has continued to build its core banking businesses, strengthening the groups platform in this region.
We continue to gain traction in our core geographies and are seeing the benefits of internationalising the business through the facilitation of cross-border activities for our global client bases.
Legacy issues, particularly in Australia and Ireland, mask the significant realignment that has taken place.
We have maintained revenues despite difficult markets with the quality of earnings improving substantially.
Building for the long term Sustainability at Investec is about managing and positioning the group for the long term.
Guided by our commitment to create sustained longterm wealth, we seek to be a positive influence in all our businesses and in each of the societies in which we operate.
We believe that building a sustainable business model allows Investec to make a valuable contribution to society, to macro-economic stability and to our environment.
Core to this strategy is investing in our people and developing a strong, diverse and capable workforce.
We also contribute to our local communities and in the UK we were awarded first prize in the Social Impact category at the Business Charity Awards.
There is a significant shortage of skills in the hard sciences in South Africa and transforming South Africas financial sector to increase black participation needs to begin with educating children in maths and science.
For this reason our flagship sponsorship programme, Promaths, focuses on offering extra maths and science lessons to grade 10, 11 and 12 learners, supporting their endeavours to obtain tertiary education.
We also entered into a partnership during the past year with the Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa and the Department of Education focusing on developing quality teachers of maths, science and English.
The environmental dimension of our sustainability approach is based on a growing understanding of the risks to our business represented by climate change, and the opportunities that exist for our clients and our businesses to address these concerns.
Our internal environmental strategy is focused on creating awareness and encouraging behavioural change in recognition of our environmental responsibilities.
In the UK, Investec was placed in the top 5% overall and ranked third amongst financial institutions in the first league tables of the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Efficiency Scheme.
Similarly, we participated in the Carbon Disclosure Project for South Africa in 2011 and were ranked third in the financial services sector.
Bedding down our realignment The past three years have been marked by the restructuring and realignment of our specialist banking business and the continued growth of our capital light asset management and wealth management businesses.
We have made substantial progress in the implementation of our single bank structure and will begin to realise additional operational efficiencies from our ability to better service our clients from this single platform.
Through the lessons we have learned over the past few years, we have refocused our banking offering and the make-up of our lending portfolios.
Asset Management is well positioned to maintain its growth momentum and will benefit from its ability to use its global franchise to further penetrate international markets outside of our core geographies.
Wealth & Investment has further internationalised its offering and market prominence and will benefit from the completion of the Williams fide Bro integration.
We will continue to identify and exploit the opportunities presented by the currently dislocated markets.
Our strategic focus however remains the same: we are committed to the creation of wealth and the management of wealth for our clients.
We will achieve this through our increasingly internationalised franchise and the ability this platform creates to capture the trade and investment opportunities between developed and emerging economies.
Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Operating financial review 25 Operating financial review continued Credit to our people Our people are the cornerstone to developing a sustainable business.
We now have more than 7 700 employees across the globe who continue to ensure that our group remains distinctive.
We believe that our commitment to the values and culture that define us will create an enduring organisation, making Investec out of the ordinary.
We are mindful that our delivery of financial performance is dependent on the continued support of our employees, clients and stakeholders.
This past year has been a difficult one for all our stakeholders who have been impacted by global events in varying capacities.
We thank you all for your patience, commitment and dedication through the turbulence of the past few years.
Outlook Over many years our unique culture has encouraged our people to be transparent through open and honest dialogue.
This results in the organisation receiving significant feedback which is often very robust.
The last few years have taught us many new lessons and have reminded us of lessons we may have learnt in the past, but forgotten.
These lessons have led to decisive action to realign our business and strengthen our competitive positions and global client franchises.
Whilst our short-term performance will always remain important, growing a sustainable, long-term business in international markets requires appropriate foundations and necessitates longer-term focus and perspective.
The economic and political landscape for the year ahead remains uncertain.
Nevertheless, we have hardcoded and actioned the lessons we have learned and believe that our business is now better streamlined, further diversified and solidly positioned to unmask the franchise value that we have created in pursuit of our long-term strategy.
Sir David Prosser Fani Titi Stephen Koseff Bernard Kantor Joint chairman Joint chairman Chief executive officer Managing director Operating profit as used in the text above refers to operating profit before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests.
The operating financial review provides an overview of our strategic position, performance during the financial year and outlook for the business.
It should be read together with the sections that follow on pages 27 to 262, which elaborate on the aspects highlighted in this review.
26 Investec integrated annual report 2012 | Operating financial review
