Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Financial Review Jann Brown Funding strength and flexibility The successful completion of the disposal of Cairns majority interest in Cairn India in December 2011 saw the realisation of value from the business built in India over a 15 year period.
The subsequent return to shareholders of a Goodwill is allocated to the North Sea operating Oil and Gas Assets significant proportion of that value, US$3.5bn, segment and was tested for impairment at the Atlantic Margin Morocco represented the completion of one full cycle Balance Sheet date.
Though no impairment Cairn announced the farm-in to the Foum Draa of the Groups financial strategy of invest to was identified, the recoverable amount of the licence offshore Morocco during 2012 which create value, realise that value, then return underlying assets was not significantly above is adjacent to the Juby Maritime licence.
The retention of US$1.1bn their carrying value.
A key assumption in the total acreage held by Cairn offshore Morocco 2 of the value realised marked the beginning impairment test was the fair value attributed to is 8,900km.
Exploration drilling is targeted of a fresh cycle of that same strategy.
the Skarfjell discovery, where an appraisal well for 2013. is currently operating.
The results of this well are Throughout 2012, we have had a clear goal due shortly and a review of the carrying value Atlantic Margin Greenland of establishing a balanced portfolio of assets, of goodwill will be carried out at that stage.
Any During 2012, Cairn completed the farm-out of a which was the model for our success in South impairment arising would be reflected in our 30.625% working interest in the Pitu Baffin Bay Asia.
We started by focusing on assets which interim results for the six months to June 2013.
Block, offshore North West Greenland to Statoil.
would provide financial underpinning, downside The cash proceeds received of US$33m were protection and sustainability.
These were Of the assets acquired, the Catcher and Kraken offset against the carrying value of this block.
secured through the two corporate transactions discoveries are now at a late pre-development completed during the year.
We will continue stage while the approval of the FDP in Planned operations for 2013 include the well to review that part of the portfolio, screening December 2012 by JV partners and by DECC in abandonment on Greenland wells relating to the opportunities which offer the right risk reward February 2013 for the Mariner field has resulted 2010 and 2011 drilling campaigns and US$25m profile, with the goal of securing ongoing in a re-classification of this asset to is provided for this work, which is expected to operating cash flow to fund our core activity of development and reserves being booked.
The equity returns on developments The Skarfjell discovery, which occurred after the will be enhanced through the introduction acquisition of Agora had been agreed but before UK and Norwegian North Sea of the right level of debt at the appropriate time, it completed, added further successful & Norwegian Continental Shelf optimising the funds available to invest in exploration to Cairns Balance Sheet.
The acquisition of Agora in May for US$453m, exploration led growth.
At 31 December, US$849m was held in funded through a mixture of cash and shares, intangible exploration appraisal assets and followed by that of Nautical in August for We have also moved quickly to introduce US$71m in property plant and equipment US$648m in cash, has brought both exploration attractive exploration opportunities.
Our focus relating to North Sea properties.
and pre-development assets into the Cairn on the Atlantic Margin is now served both portfolio.
Cash acquired on the acquisitions through our farm-in to the Foum Draa block Since the acquisitions completed, seven of US$124m reduced the net purchase price in Morocco and in the Juby Maritime block exploration wells have been drilled in the North to US$977m, of which $721m was in cash.
acquired with the Nautical portfolio.
In addition Sea without commercial success and a charge Cairn has agreed a proposed farm-in 65% of US$159m has been made to the Income The combined acquisition cost of the two interest as operator with JV partners FAR and Statement.
During the first half of 2013 it is transactions was broadly in line with the fair Petrosen, to the Sangomar, Sangomar Deep anticipated that a further four exploration and values attributed to the underlying assets and the Rufisque blocks, offshore Senegal.
appraisal wells will be drilled in this region.
However, acquisition accounting for a business combination under IFRS requires Financial Assets the deferred tax provision to be based on these and Working Capital revised carrying values of the assets.
For Cairns Balance Sheet strength is underpinned accounting purposes, the deferred tax liability by its cash and listed investment assets which are created reduced the value of the net assets available to fund planned and future exploration, acquired by US$485m and resulted in the appraisal and development opportunities.
recognition of goodwill on acquisition.
Following these accounting adjustments, Cairns Balance Sheet additions include US$474m of goodwill from the transactions.
38 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 39 Strategic Operational Leadership & Financial Additional Review Review Governance Statements Information Financial Review Continued At the year end the Groups remaining 10% We firmly believe that our reduced equity base, following holding in CIL was valued at US$1.1bn.
During the return of cash to shareholders, means that we can 2012 Cairn disposed of an aggregate 11.5% of its shareholding in two separate on market generate significant returns for our shareholders with transactions in June and September.
sales generated US$1.3bn of net cash inflows.
As a result of the return of US$3.5bn in cash to shareholders in the first half of 2012, the Groups net cash balance of US$1.6bn on inter-company positions within the Group.
Cairns Balance Sheet at 31 December 2012 is significantly lower Other finance income includes the interim strength and significant cash reserves ensure than the equivalent 2011 figure.
dividend of US$18m received from CIL that the Group is liquid.
Liquidity risk is closely in November.
monitored through detailed cash forecasting and The Group has bank borrowings of US$30m.
scenario planning and policies are in place to These short term loans are drawn against future Taxation credits for the year of US$267m restrict the concentration risk of funds placed on tax refunds receivable in Norway on qualifying include US$145m from the CIL sales noted deposit.
The Groups financial and non-financial exploration expenditure incurred in the year.
In addition, US$83m was released from assets have been assessed for impairment at the deferred tax provision primarily as a result of the reporting date with no material impairment Group capital expenditure for the year on the write off of unsuccessful exploration costs.
exploration, appraisal and pre-development A further US$39m of current tax credits relate activities was US$139m.
At the year Change of Auditors end, the closing deferred tax provisions total During 2012, Cairn competitively tendered the Results for the Year US$531m and include US$119m relating to the external audit service contract.
As a result of The profit after tax for the year of US$73m residual shareholding in CIL and US$412m on oil the tender, PwC has been selected by the Board reflects foreign exchange gains and other and gas assets acquired through acquisitions.
Ernst & Young will finance income and the net profit after tax on consequently resign their position as auditors on disposal of financial assets.
This is offset by Principal Risks & Uncertainties completion of their work for this year and PwC the costs of unsuccessful exploration activities Following the completion of the disposal of a will be appointed by the Board to commence and administration costs.
majority shareholding in CIL and the return of their engagement from this time.
The Board cash to shareholders in H1 2012, the Company would like to thank Ernst & Young for the Unsuccessful exploration costs of US$159m entered a new phase: the building of a balanced excellent services provided to the Company over predominantly relate to North Sea drilling portfolio with exploration opportunities in frontier many years up to and including the 2012 year activity.
Wells drilled include Kakelborg and and mature basins plus development assets end audit.
Shareholder approval will be sought Geite in the Norwegian North Sea and Tybalt which, when onstream, will provide the cash at the AGM to formally appoint PwC as the and Spaniards in the UK North Sea.
The costs flow to fund future exploration.
During 2012, this Companys external auditor.
written off include the fair value allocated included the acquisition of two companies and to these wells at the time of the Agora and the integration of their assets and staff and the Financial Outlook Nautical acquisitions.
evaluation of a number of other new investment With net cash plus our investment in CIL totalling opportunities.
As the Company continues its US$2.7bn at the year end, the Group remains One-off expenses of US$11m were incurred on strategy of targeting and realising value from well funded.
Administration costs exploration success, the principal risks and of US$15m incurred in London and Stavanger uncertainties facing the Group at the end We firmly believe that our reduced equity base, offices in the year also includes non-recurring of 2012 in relation to the Groups financial following the return of cash to shareholders, reorganisation costs and termination payments.
and operational performance are as follows: means that we can generate significant returns The remaining head office cost of US$38m, up h Lack of near-term drillable frontier for our shareholders with exploration success.
from US$33m in 2011, reflects the corporate exploration opportunities We remain highly focused on investing in focus of activities during 2012. h Lack of exploration success the right assets at the right cost to deliver h Failure to monetise CIL shareholding that success.
The sale of an aggregate 11.5% of the Groups at the right price and at the right time holding in CIL in two separate transactions h Negative stakeholder reactions to operations during the year resulted in an accounting loss of US$82m, reflecting the movement in the price Country, Currency realised from that recognised at the date of and Liquidity Risks completion of the transaction with Vedanta Cairns core business is conducted and funded Resources.
As both sales took place on-market, in US Dollars, the functional currency of the no tax liability arose and therefore a release of majority of companies within the Cairn Group.
US$145m has been made from the related The Groups remaining investment in CIL, Jann Brown deferred taxation provision.
though denominated in Indian Rupees, is Managing Director and CFO underpinned by US Dollar valued assets.
The 18 March 2013 Finance income of US$136m includes exchange acquisition of Agora and Nautical introduced gains of US$112m: US$62m of these gains were subsidiaries with Norwegian NOK and UK due to the conversion of proceeds received in Sterling functional currencies though neither USD from the sale of a majority interest in CIL bring any significant currency nor country to Vedanta and held in GBP until the cash return exposure to the Group, with the only additional to shareholders in February and April 2012.
A balance sheet exposure resulting from the further US$50m of exchange gains arose largely retranslation of the functional currency into 40 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012
