Chief Financial Officers Report ncluded as part of this statement is the usual detailed IFinancial Review on pages 16 to 29 which provides useful information to shareholders and investors.
Despite the continuing uncertain economic and stock market environment during the year, our financial performance in 2012 was strong across all key measures, continuing the positive trend we have seen in recent years.
David, in his CEO statement, has covered the 5.88 billion of new business, the record funds under management and the strong growth in the Partnership.
In this statement I will comment on the other financial results.
Financial Results As shareholders are aware we report our results on both an IFRS and EEV basis as well as providing further detail on the cash emerging from the business.
Further analysis on these measures is provided on pages 16 and 17.
Andrew Croft Chief Financial Officer The tables below show the five year record of the financial results under these measures starting with the IFRS basis.
Profit before shareholder tax on an IFRS basis The Board regards the profit before shareholder tax as the best measure of the performance of the business on an IFRS basis, in any particular year.
As can be seen from the table below, profit on this measure was 134.6 million, up 23% over the prior year.
In recent years shareholders have seen a steady increase in this measure which mirrors the development of the cash result, commented on further below, and reflects the maturing of the business.
Profit before shareholder tax Million 2012 134.6 2011 109.7 2010 84.2 2009 49.9 2008 excluding one offs 64.5 EEV result The three key measures within the EEV results are the new business profit, the operating profit and the net asset value per share.
12 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information The new business profit was up 13% during the year and has Column 2 of the table shows the cash earnings that are grown in each of the years since 2008, doubling over the re-invested in acquiring new business.
The growth in new business profit reflects investment has remained relatively stable over the last five years increasing new business volumes, positive business mix and notwithstanding the new business growth over the same expense management.
Shareholders should receive a good return from this investment, with an expected internal rate of return of c. 22%.
The operating profit is impacted not only by the new business The net effect of growing the cash arising from the in-force profit but also experience variances from the assumptions in business whilst keeping the level of cash invested in new the EEV calculation.
Although there was once again a positive business relatively flat, is a growing net cash flow.
This net experience variance in the current year, the greater positive cash result was up 37% in 2012 a third successive year of experience variance in the prior year meant the operating significant growth.
Cash arising Cash invested profit for the year has marginally declined.
on in-force in acquiring Net cash business new business result The net asset value per share on an EEV basis at the end Million Million Million 2012 was 461.0 pence, some 20% higher than the start of 2012 152.2 60.5 91.7 the year and almost double the 2008 figure.
This is important not only for the safeguarding of our clients assets, but also to ensure we can maintain returns Cash result to shareholders.
The Groups cash income is dependent on the level of client funds and the level of asset values.
Since much of our The Group continues to be capitalised well in excess of business does not generate net cash in the first six years, the regulatory solvency requirements, and the assets remain level of income will also increase as a result of new business invested prudently in cash, AAA rated money market funds from six years ago becoming cash generative.
The lack of significant balance sheet or market risk, together with this prudent investment The first column in the table below shows how the cash arising policy has provided for a stable and increasingly resilient from the in-force business has grown by 18% in the year.
solvency position over recent years, despite the difficult financial and market environment.
At the year end the total Nearly a third of the funds under management are currently Group solvency net assets were 403.5 million, well in excess not generating any positive cash flow.
Since they are of the 57.8 million total Group solvency requirement.
expected to become cash generative once they reach the end of their sixth year they will support strong organic growth Dividend in the cash arising from the in-force in future.
As the business matures, the cash emerging from the in-force business is increasing year by year, whilst the proportion of this cash that is re-invested in acquiring new business is falling.
Annual Report and Accounts 2012 13 Chief Financial Officers Report continued This combination means the cash available for corporate Concluding Remarks purposes and to return to shareholders is increasing, 2012 has been another strong year of financial performance consequently the Board has been able to increase the for the Group.
This is again particularly pleasing given the dividend in each of the last five years.
continuing difficult trading conditions that prevailed for the majority of the year.
As can be seen in the table below, the dividend was significantly increased by 33% in both 2010 and 2011.
At The business is in good shape and has already benefited from the time of the interim results the board announced a third the positive stock market performance in the first two year of significant dividend growth and increased the 2012 months of the year.
As the business continues to mature we interim dividend by 33%.
Subject to shareholder approval at expect further growth in the profits and in particular an the AGM, the Board has resolved to also increase the 2012 increased cash emergence which should translate to further final dividend by 33%.
I am also pleased to confirm that we expect to increase the 2013 dividend by a similar significant amount.
Thereafter, we will continue with a progressive dividend policy by growing the dividend in line with the underlying performance of the business.
Dividend per share Growth Pence % Andrew Croft 31 December 2012 10.64 33 Chief Financial Officer 31 December 2011 8.0 33 27 February 2013 31 December 2010 6.0 33 31 December 2009 4.5 2.5 31 December 2008 4.39 2.1 Future Developments There are a number of tax and regulatory developments that have been implemented or are in the process of being implemented which will have an impact on the future financial results of the business.
The actual impact will be dependent upon the level of future new business and stock markets, however, we currently expect to see little change to IFRS profit, a small reduction in the EEV new business profit and operating profit and earlier emergence of cash flows.
Further comment is included in the relevant sections of the Financial Review.
14 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Business Review Corporate Governance Financial Statements Other Information Annual Report and Accounts 2012 15
