OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION RETAIL Charles Maudsley Head of Retail Our robust performance during what has been a challenging year strengthens our conviction that we have the right assets well suited to the needs of modern retailers.
0msqft 2.7msqft 0.3% 98.3% 72% Focus on quality assets Like-for-like net rental Of lettings and Of rent reviews Footfall increased UK retail 347,000 sq ft of UK delivered a total income growth: renewals agreed: settled on average 0.3% compared occupancy rate development property return of 6.1%, ERV up 1.4% overall 6.9% ahead 5.2% above previous with the previous year, broadly maintained commitments outperforming IPD significantly of ERV passing rent while the IPD at 98.3% already 72% pre-let All Retail by 110 bps outperforming IPD benchmark fell 2.0% or under offer at 0.4% The retail landscape in the We have predicated our retail property Our strategy is to own and create retail strategy on aligning our properties closely space which gives retailers the greatest UK is going through a period to the changing needs of retailers and penetration to their target spend in what of fundamental change.
their customers and the belief that the is becoming an increasingly multi-channel Consumers are becoming retail property market would become environment.
This enables us to meet the increasingly sophisticated and heavily polarised between the right space needs of modern retailers from food and that which was essentially obsolete.
and convenience to destination shopping.
They want more This, combined with the depth of the choice, greater convenience After a relatively benign period, the relationships we have with occupiers, means and better value, along with a retail market had a more difficult year, we continued to deliver rental and capital much better shopping experience, particularly so in the second half as growth across our asset base when rental whether it be in the physical consumer confidence was hit by the twin and capital values across the market as a impacts of austerity at home and the debt whole were falling.
Our robust performance or online environment.
crisis in Europe and which led to a marked during what has been a challenging year Increasingly, they see physical increased in the rate of retailer failures.
strengthens our conviction that we have and online retailing as Retailers responded by more aggressively the right assets well suited to the needs interchangeable and looking to focus their store portfolios of modern retailers.
on those locations which are able to offer interdependent.
For some time, the right combination of accessibility, We continued to outperform the market our view has been that too affordability, flexibility and overall shopping on ERV, capital and total returns.
much of the available space experience.
This was true whether they This outperformance was driven by the in the UK is not well suited to were expanding, consolidating or contracting.
combination of the strength and diversity As a result, the polarisation we have seen in of our retail portfolio, the strength of our the changing needs of the rental performance in recent years became asset management initiatives and our modern retailer, nor can it be even more marked.
Although rental values focus on creating the right environment.
economically adapted to do so.
across the market fell by 0.4% in the year, Demand for space across our UK portfolio prime rental values continued to grow.
remained robust throughout the year with We also started to see a divergence in occupancy broadly maintained and our rental performance of primary and secondary trends remaining positive at 1.4% ahead properties in the investment markets, compared to a 0.4% fall for the IPD which hitherto have been more uniform.
The value of our UK retail The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 49 OUR PERFORMANCE RETAIL continued portfolio rose by 0.4%, reflecting weakening We continued to build on our existing Glasgow and Colchester: and Hobbycraft which opened stores at The Beehive Centre, sentiment in the investment markets, notably strong relationships with major fashion in the second half and we outperformed retailers agreeing a number of multiple Cambridge and Gallagher Retail Park, capital returns for the market as a whole deals.
These included eight deals 172,000 Cheltenham.
At Meadowhall we agreed by 120 bps.
Total returns from our portfolio sq ft with Next: five lettings 98,000 sq ft nearly 50 new long-term transactions were 6.1%, outperforming IPD All Retail with Marks and Spencer: and three deals on average significantly ahead of ERV, returns by 110 bps.
All of our sub-sectors 54,000 sq ft with H&M.
All three retailers including tenants such as Urban Outfitters, outperformed the All Retail index with have taken units at Whiteley Shopping Carluccios, TK Maxx and Beaverbrooks, superstores once again the best sector Centre, our new retail development, with the Jewellers.
This continues our delivering strong capital returns and ERV Marks and Spencer taking a 60,000 sq ft programme of increasing the proportion growth.
The defensive qualities of this asset anchor unit.
After the year end, we pre-let of premium retailers to attract more class remain an integral element of our a new 60,000 sq ft including 30,000 sq ft affluent shoppers.
Rental values for our largest of mezzanines department store to sub-sector, retail parks, outperformed the Debenhams at Fort Kinnaird, Edinburgh Improving the retail environment by all retail index by 100 bps.
as part of the reconfiguration and increasing leisure and food on our schemes modernisation of the existing shopping was a key aim during the year.
We In Europe, the value of our portfolio fell and leisure park.
successfully obtained 62 planning consents by 5.7% reflecting the difficult conditions and completed five superstore extensions in southern Europe where the majority of We also saw a further increase in lettings totalling 95,000 sq ft. We continue to place our assets are located.
Consumer spending to traditional high street and fashion names a strong emphasis on upgrading our leisure continued to fall and investor sentiment on our retail park schemes.
We agreed offer, agreeing 39 long-term food and leisure was particularly weak post the relettings with a number of premium retailers lettings on 103,000 sq ft of space across emergence of concerns over the stability including Swarovski and Jack Jones at our schemes to a range of food and of the Eurozone in the late summer.
Glasgow Fort and the food retailer Whole beverage operators including Caf Rouge, Foods Market, which opened its first out-ofPizza Express and Nandos.
We also Retail asset management town offer at our Cheltenham Retail Park.
completed the 7 million major Our operational performance remained Simply Be, the online retailer, opened its redevelopment of the Oasis food court at robust throughout the year despite first out-of-town store at Teesside Shopping Meadowhall adding seven new restaurants weakening consumer demand in the second Park.
We also introduced new formats with with tenants including Giraffe, Carluccios half.
Our leasing activity across the portfolio a Boots and Starbucks drive-through store and Chaobaby: and YO!
Sushi let new was relatively well balanced through the at St James Retail Park in Northampton, purpose built units at Drake Circus in year: we agreed 340 lettings and renewals and Dominos Pizza opened their first Plymouth and Bon Accord in Aberdeen.
on 1.0 million sq ft of space across the food court unit at our Eastgate Shopping portfolio on average 6.9% above ERV with Centre in Basildon.
Occupiers in administration were 0.6% of our weighted average lease length of more total rent at 31 March 2012 compared with than 11 years to first break.
Long-term In addition to fashion retailers, 123,000 sq ft 0.5% in March 2011 reflecting an increase deals accounted for 90% of lettings.
of multiple deals were agreed with: Asda, in the number of retail failures, particularly Our occupancy rate was maintained at for three new stores including Asda Living in the second of half of the year.
Of the high levels at 97.9% 31 March 2011: 97.9%, at Woking, Stafford and Leeds: Smyths Toys 60 retail units that were in administration at the year end nearly 60% are currently under including Europe.
We currently have 440,000 which continued to expand its franchise, sq ft of lettings and pre-lets under offer opening three new stores at Edinburgh, offer to be re-let or assigned.
Following the across our portfolio at terms ahead of ERV.
Asset management initiatives Leasing activity H1 H2 FY 14% 22% Lettings renewals Sq ft 000s 527 568 1,095 versus ERV % 5.4 9.0 6.9 Rent reviews Sq ft 000s 996 1,671 2,667 versus previous rent % 6.4 4.4 5.2 8% 6% 39% 1% 10% General retail Other Homeware Clothing and footwear Grocery Restaurants and leisure Electrical Directors report and business review The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 50 OVERVIEW UNDERSTANDING OUR STRATEGY OUR PERFORMANCE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND OTHER INFORMATION UK retail market development pipeline million sq ft 12 8 4 0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Retail parks Town centre Source: PMA administration of Clinton Cards in May 2012, we fully pre-let and started enabling works occupiers in administration rose to 1.0% for the 45,000 sq ft cinema and restaurant of our total rent.
Our ability to manage our extension which will improve the schemes low exposure to administrations reflects leisure offer with an eight-screen Vue the quality of our portfolio as well as our Cinema and five restaurant dining offer diverse range of major UK and international which will include TGI Fridays, Pizza Express retailers and gives us confidence in our and Harvester.
7msq ft ability to re-let current and future vacancies Committed retail arising from retail failures.
At Puerto Venecia in Zaragoza, our 1.4 million development sq ft shopping centre development in Spain Investment activity is on schedule to open in autumn this year Our investment activity was principally focused with 69% currently pre-let or under offer on developments but we also successfully and a further 19% is in negotiation, including sold a number of smaller retail assets which pre-let agreements secured with all of the were either non-core or where we believed Inditex Groups brands, Desigual, H&M and we could reinvest the capital more Mango along with key anchors El Corte Ingls productively.
We sold properties for a total of and Primark.
On completion, Puerto Venecia 32 million and no retail assets were acquired will be the regions largest retail destination during the year.
We started on site at two serving a catchment of 2.2 million people schemes in the UK having successfully within a two-hour radius.
obtained various planning approvals and 10.5m pre-let all or a significant part of the space.
Over the last year, we have been more active Estimated rental income In total, including existing schemes under in looking to progress with existing prospective from developments development, committed development will projects as well as add further potential add 1.7 million sq ft of space and 10.5 million projects to our pipeline.
Of our one million sq ft of rental income of which nearly 70% of prospective development projects, we have is already pre-let or in advanced legals.
achieved over 200,000 sq ft of planning consents.
At Surrey Quays Shopping Centre, In January 2012, we started construction planning consent has been granted for a of Whiteley Shopping Centre, a 302,000 sq ft major refurbishment and 100,000 sq ft retail scheme located between Portsmouth extension to the scheme.
At Glasgow Fort, we and Southampton.
The 64 million have an agreement in principle with an anchor development, which we own in joint venture tenant on a further 142,000 sq ft extension.
with USS, is due to open in Q2 2013 and is already 68% pre-let or under offer to a number of major high street retailers including Marks and Spencer, Next, Boots, H&M and Bank Fashion.
At Glasgow Fort, The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Directors report and business review 51
