Operating and financialreview Notwithstanding the steady performance from our UK Bus division in 2011 12 we have seen We have taken action to address specific a further deterioration of economic conditions particularly in our urban operations in Scotland issues, improve performance and and the north of England and, as a result, we do not expect revenue growth and cost strengthen the business.
efficiencies in 2012 13 to be sufficient to offset the impact of reduced Government subsidies Business summary and funding to the industry and increased Against the backdrop of continued economic fuel costs.
New management in our UK Bus uncertainty and the impact of weaker economic division has a clear strategy and is executing conditions in certain markets in which we operate, a detailed plan to recover performance and we have taken action to address specific issues, equip the business to achieve increased improve performance and strengthen the business.
This will include In First Student, which faced substantial repositioning our UK Bus portfolio which, pressure on its operating margin driven by together with a transformed approach to the constraints on school board budgets, we have management of our operations, will create a implemented a comprehensive programme to far more robust base from which to generate reform the operating model and the business improved returns and sustainable growth.
is now well set on the path to recovery.
The Group is committed to its public investment Tim OToole First Transit continues to generate good returns grade credit rating which it has maintained since Chief Executive from low capital investment across a range 2002.
Since March 2009 we have consistently of business segments and is established in driven down leverage, reducing our net debt: asector that depends on proven credentials EBITDA ratio from 3.2 times at March 2009 to and a strong track record.
We are focused on Greyhound is now delivering strong growth and further leverage reduction to increase financial improved returns, with operating profit more flexibility.
The Group has significant levels of than doubled over the last two years, as a result liquidity headroom and maintains prudent levels of actions we took to transform the business of headroom under its financial covenants.
and strengthen the operating model.
Group revenue increased by 4.1% to 6,678.7m In UK Rail, as we transition to a new generation 2011: 6,416.7m, or 2.9% excluding the extra of rail franchises, we are encouraged to be week of trading.
Operating profit was 428.5m the only operator to have pre-qualified for 2011: 456.7m reflecting the expected reduction all four franchises that the Government has in First Student and UK Bus profits partly offset by Nick Chevis tendered so far.
We look forward to submitting higher profits in Greyhound and UK Rail.
All of our Acting Finance Director competitive proposals which meet the operating divisions experienced higher fuel costs requirements of customers and taxpayers and during the year, which amounted to an additional provide an economic return for shareholders.
31.8m compared to the prior year.
Statutory operating profit increased to 448.0m 2011: 308.6m reflecting lower levels of net exceptional 1 4 Year to 31 March 2012 Year to 31 March 2011 items compared to last year.
Adjusted basic EPS Operating Operating Operating Operating was 40.0p 2011: 41.1p a reduction of 2.7% with 2 2 2 2 Revenue profit margin Revenue profit margin the reduction in operating profit partially offset by Divisional results m m % m m % lower net finance costs due to lower interest rates First Student 1,567.2 107.1 6.8 1,594.4 128.3 8.0 on US Dollar denominated debt.
As expected, the net debt to Greyhound 657.2 50.6 7.7 634.6 40.2 6.3 EBITDA ratio was 2.5 times, in line with last year.
1 For all businesses excluding UK Rail this year includes 53 weeks compared to 52 weeks last year.
3 Tramlink operations, central management and other items.
4 Restated to exclude discontinued operations.
22 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements In First Student our plan to address performance During the year we started new contracts to First Student and strengthen the operating model is delivering operate more than 1,000 buses, one third of in line with our expectations and we are pleased which came from conversions, where operations with the good progress made so far.
The annual are transferred to the outsourced market for cost savings as a result of our recovery plan are the first time.
Conversion interest continues to now expected to be around $100m, exceeding increase during the current bid season and we our original target of $65m per annum.
are seeing record levels of activity.
However, as the pace of conversions industry-wide remains Trading has developed in line with our slow, we continue to focus our activity in those expectations with revenue of $2,497.9m or areas where there is greatest potential.
1,567.2m 2011: $2,480.2m or 1,594.4m, an increase of 0.7% in US Dollars but a reduction of 1.7% in Sterling terms.
Adjusting for the extra week, US Dollar revenues were reduced by Our plan to address 1.3% year on year.
Operating profit was $169.5m performance and strengthen or 107.1m 2011: $200.2m or 128.3m.
The the operating model is reduction in operating profit included additional one-time costs including, as anticipated, a field delivering in line with our management coaching programme supporting 2012 2011 expectations and we are the good momentum in the recovery plan.
The US Dollar operating margin in the second half pleased with the good Revenue 1,567.2m 1,594.4m of the year was 11.5% compared with 11.4% for progress made so far.
the corresponding period last year, indicating a Operating profit 107.1m 128.3m stabilisation in line with our expectations.
Revenue as percentage of Group Pressure on school board budgets continues to As part of the recovery programme we have present challenges although we are encouraged introduced improvements in working practices by signs of wider economic recovery in the US.
and culture in many areas, helping us to deliver During the current bid season we have continued on our objectives and embed a standard way of to see more rational bidding behaviour in the operating across our business.
Our strategy to strengthen our best practices across almost 600 locations commercial team, focus on contract retention 23.5% we are delivering a more agile and sustainable and reduce contract churn in our portfolio operating model.
We have removed a layer of continues to deliver a performance in line with organisational management, providing closer Operating profit as percentage of Group our plan and we are on track to achieve our links between the local operations and central target retention rate of more than 90%.
management team, and continue to streamline systems to reduce bureaucracy.
Through this period of change we were pleased to receive a record number of responses to our annual customer survey with an increase in overall satisfaction scores.
23.4% Our strategy to strengthen our commercial team, focus on contract retention and reduce contract churn in our portfolio continues to deliver a performance in line with our plan and we are on track to achieve our target retention rate of over90% for the new school year.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 23 Operating and financialreview continued First Student continued A key goal within our transformation of and to support a unified direction with more the business is the improvement in labour efficient and consistent processes.
Across all our locations we are we are now saving on average 12 minutes per driving full adoption of a range of initiatives to preventative maintenance inspection, of which ensure greater efficiency, accuracy and fairness.
Initiatives such For example, applying best practices to the as lean practices will increase our productivity pre-trip inspections performed by drivers has by more than 10% and our best performing reduced time taken and saved on average locations have demonstrated that these types of five minutes per driver, per location, per day improvements are capable of producing ongoing throughout the business, achieving a cost costefficiencies.
reduction of $2m for each minute saved.
First Student is now positioned to leverage We have enhanced our FOCUS software its scale as the market leader.
Our recovery system to enable greater productivity savings.
programme is restoring performance and This proprietary system, which links on-board is demonstrating marked improvement data with engineering, payroll and back office acrossmanyareas.
There is some way to go systems, allows us to manage standard driving but our steady progress, consistent with our hours more accurately as well as eliminate plan, gives us confidence that we will create a excess miles and reduce non-driving time.
sustainable competitive advantage for the future.
We will also be utilising GPS software to help us to encourage improved driving behaviour and practices, reduce fuel usage and provide First Student is now customers with direct access to real time information and performancemetrics.
positioned to leverage its scale as the market leader.
We are also driving efficiency improvements across the business.
In the key areas of Our recovery programme engineering and maintenance we have is restoring performance worked with our technicians to reorganise our workshop layouts for maximum efficiency.
Two and is demonstrating workshops have now been created in each of marked improvement our operating regions to train in lean practices acrossmanyareas.
Maintenance and engineering initiatives in First Student will increase efficiency and help toimprove productivity by more than 10%.
Our best performing locations have demonstrated thatthese types of improvements are capable of producing ongoingefficiencies.
24 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements First Transit continues to develop in line with Our shuttle bus business delivered a strong First Transit our expectations.
Revenue was $1,242.6m performance during the year and we were or 778.6m 2011: $1,199.0m or 771.5m, awarded the contract for the consolidated an increase of 3.6% and 0.9% in US Dollar and rental car centre at Chicagos Midway Airport.
Adjusting for the We continue to be the largest provider of extraweek, US Dollar revenues were up 2.0% university shuttle bus services and during the year on year.
Operating profit was $89.1m or year extended our portfolio with new business 55.8m 2011: $89.5m or 57.2m.
During the added for universities including Yale, Southern year we invested in DriveCam technology which Connecticut State and Kennesaw State.
We will allow us to offer customers a system to also continue to pursue further growth in the manage their fleets more efficiently.
transportation call centre market and were pleased to be awarded contracts in Colorado, With typically low capital investment required, Louisiana and Illinois during the year.
this business depends on established credibility and a solid track record.
We have successfully We have been able to successfully utilise our demonstrated our strong credentials in this reputation and strong client relationships in one market which has helped us succeed in area of First Transit to win business for another.
working collaboratively with our customers to For example, we were able to expand our vehicle help improve their transport offering.
We have maintenance work with the Williamsburg Area 2012 2011 a solid core of experienced transport managers Transit Authority in Virginia through cross marketing with an unrivalled reputation for professionalism our fixed route and fleet maintenance expertise.
Similarly in Fort McMurray, Alberta, our expertise 55.8m 57.2m Operating profit First Transit is the leading operator in its field and flexibility were the primary reasons we and we operate a wide and diverse mix of were initially awarded a contract to provide Revenue as percentage of Group different size and types of transport services transportation during the first construction phase across approximately 360 different contracts.
Since then we have In each of the core business segments fixed built on our strong business relationships in the route, paratransit, shuttle, transport call centres area to complement this work as well as add and municipal fleet maintenance services we several other oil industry related are the largest, or near largest, operator and .
consequently are able to bring to bear our scale 11.7% First Transit continues to develop opportunities and expertise to clients looking for transport that enable our clients to become as efficient solutions.
We continue to seek out and stimulate as possible.
We have partnered with DriveCam further conversion opportunities and actively Operating profit as percentage of Group to implement their innovative product across a encourage and promote outsourcing by number of locations.
By combining video data demonstrating the benefits of partnership with real-time driver feedback this gives our and the range of solutions we can offer customers access to information that can help prospectiveclients.
to manage their fleet more effectively, improve During the year we continued to win new fuel efficiency and lower emissions.
12.2% business including contracts to provide fixed route services for Foothill Transit in Arcadia, California: services in Fort Bend County, Texas and the city of Rochester, Minnesota.
We were also awarded contracts to provide paratransit services in Louisville, Kentucky, in Yamhill County, Oregon and in Hunterdon County, New Jersey.
We operate a wide and diverse mix of transport services across approximately 360 different contracts, including paratransit operations.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 25 Operating and financialreview continued Greyhound is an iconic business that is Texas and from May 2012 the network is being Greyhound synonymous with affordable long distance travel.
We are delivering strong growth and improved Since its launch in December 2010, Greyhound performance, as a result of the actions we took Express has grown rapidly and now represents to reform the operating model and transform the more than 20% of Greyhounds business.
business, with operating profit that has more than We have converted some schedules on high doubled over the last two years.
frequency lanes between urban locations Revenue was $1,049.3m or 657.2m 2011: to Greyhound Express services, with other $985.0m or 634.6m, an increase of 6.5% and schedules remaining as the traditional service.
3.6% in US Dollar and Sterling terms respectively.
The strong feeder traffic from Greyhounds Like-for-like revenue growth for the year was national network allows us to create sustainable 4.1%.
Operating profit was $81.0m or 50.6m new services, while minimising the cost of 2011: $62.3m or 40.2m, an increase of 30% operating additional miles across the network, and 25.9% in US Dollar and Sterling terms which also helps Greyhound Express routes respectively.
Encouraging passenger revenue achieve profitability quickly following the launch.
growth, including the successful expansion of Greyhound Express, supported the improvement in operating profit which was partly offset by 2012 2011 The most significant higher fuel costs during the year.
development for Greyhound Revenue 657.2m 634.6m The most significant development for Greyhound in recent times is the launch in recent times is the launch of Greyhound Operating profit 50.6m 40.2m Express.
As well as transforming our customer of Greyhound Express.
proposition, the service is attracting users back As well as transforming our Revenue as percentage of Group to bus travel and encouraging a new passenger demographic.
Customers are able to travel customer proposition, the non-stop on high quality, new or refurbished service is attracting users coaches on high volume routes between major cities and take advantage of yield managed back to bus travel fares and reserve guaranteed seatsonline.
and encouraging a new 9.8% During the year Greyhound Express went from passenger demographic.
In addition to the two original Greyhound Express networks serving Operating profit as percentage of Group the Midwest and north east, we expanded Our traditional Greyhound business is also services to the south east from a hub in seeing the benefits of a transformed operating Atlanta in the autumn, from where the network model.
We introduced ticket kiosks at ten of our now reaches into Florida.
As a result we now locations which gave customers greater choice serve the vast majority of the east coast from from a self-service alternative with additional Massachusetts to Miami.
Heading west, options such as checking luggage, as well as 11.0% Greyhound Express connects the main cities in helping to reduce our cost of sale.
These kiosks We refurbished over 220 coachesin the year, bringing the total to almost 350 so far and significantly improving thepassenger experience.
26 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements proved very popular with more than 60% of sales In November 2011 we launched a national transacted through them.
As a result we will be initiative with another household name, 7-Eleven, rolling out further ticket kiosks to ten additional and PayNearMe which has been highly locations in the coming months.
successful and opened up online fares and discounts to a new market.
Customers, including Our highly successful BoltBus service, serving those without access to credit cards, can now city pairs in the Northeast, is offering customers order their tickets online and pay in cash at one a high quality, viable alternative to rail services.
of 6,400 7-Eleven stores nationwide and we From May 2012 we will be expanding into the are encouraged by the strong volume of daily Pacific Northwest, introducing routes between transactions already achieved through this new Seattle and Portland.
PayNearMe has concluded a deal During the year we added more than 80 with ACE Cash Express, which has 1,650 outlets, new vehicles to our fleet, including 14 for our to start offering the same payment option from operations which serve the Hispanic market summer 2012 and we are in negotiations with domestically and internationally along and several retailers across the US to continue to across the southwest border with Mexico.
increase the breadth of our sales footprint.
Ourrefurbishment programme completed Greyhound in Canada is undergoing a over220 coaches in the year, bringing the total transformation and network modernisation to almost 350 so far, significantly improving the programme, drawing on the positive changes passenger experience.
we have already made in the US.
Part of As we continue to make Greyhound a more our strategy is to work with the provincial modern and efficient network we are delivering governments to reduce uneconomic, improved service quality at the same time.
As a result we were OnTime Performance has increased from pleased that Greyhound Canada returned to 79.8% to 89.1% over the last five years.
New and profitability during the year.
Greyhound Express refurbished coaches along with improvements was also launched in four of the largest cities inmaintenance processes have also contributed in Alberta during November 2011 and we are to this improvement.
developing further opportunities to expand the service in Ontario and Quebec.
Our redesigned We are reviewing our terminals and, where Canadian website provides more options and a appropriate, taking up opportunities to right size better online experience, and consequently we and relocate Greyhounds properties to more have seen Canadian web sales up by more than appropriate, accessible and convenient sites for 40% since its launch in September2011.
So far we have right sized or relocated around 50% of our US locations.
During the year we completed the sale of our Washington DC terminal and will relocate our services to the multi-modal hub at the citys Union Station by early 2013.
We are taking up opportunities to right size and relocate Greyhounds properties to more appropriate, accessible and convenient sites for passengers across the network.
So far we haveright sized or relocated around 50% of our US locations.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 27 Operating and financialreview continued Our UK Bus division delivered a steady However, there is scope to reposition our UK Bus performance during the year.
Revenue was portfolio to concentrate on those areas with 1,157.2m 2011: 1,137.5m, an increase of 1.7%.
Like-for-like passenger revenues grew by 1.6%.
In February we announced the sale of our Operating profit was 134.4m 2011: 148.8m, bus operations in North Devon and at the end adecrease of 9.7% principally due to challenging of March 2012 we completed the sale of our trading conditions in certain major urban areas Northumberland Park depot in North East where we operate, as well as increased London.
This followed the sales of our Kings fuelcosts.
Lynn operations in April 2011 and our German Notwithstanding the stable performance in bus subsidiary in September last year.
We also 2011 12, we recognised the need to reform the announced our withdrawal from depots in Bury operating model in UK Bus in order to achieve St Edmunds and Dalkeith, as well as scaling sustainable growth.
During the year a new backour operations in Musselburgh.
management team was brought in and, following In addition to these small asset and business a root and branch review of our operations, disposals we are now accelerating our plans initiated a detailed plan to deliver a consistent, tosignificantly reposition and rebalance our UK efficient and effective service across all of our Bus operations in the coming year to restore networks and equip the business to generate 2012 2011 operating margins and help to facilitate improved sustainable growth and improved returns.
Revenue 1,157.2m 1,137.5m As a result of a further deterioration in economic A comprehensive plan that will stimulate growth conditions during the year our capacity to in revenue and patronage is being rolled out Operating profit 134.4m 148.8m absorb the reductions in Government funding, across our networks.
Centred on five core which are now expected to be more acute than elements it encompasses service quality and Revenue as percentage of Group originally estimated, through revenue growth delivery: network design: pricing and ticketing: and cost efficiencies is significantly reduced.
tailored local market solutions and building more As a consequence we currently expect UK Bus effective partnerships with stakeholders.
operating margin to be approximately 8% in 2012 13.
In January we launched our new customer brand promise, Better Journeys for Life.
Setting In response we have accelerated our out our plans for greater engagement with 17.3% comprehensive plan to reform the operating customers, employees and stakeholders, it is model and restore performance which is supported by ongoing customer satisfaction focusedaround three main areas: reviews, commissioned internally and also by Operating profit as percentage of Group Repositioning and rebalancing our portfolio PassengerFocus.
ofoperations One of the first visible signs will be a new livery, Driving increased passenger revenue and which establishes greater local identities, and patronage growth is now being rolled out on our buses across the UK.
This is the first stage in a fleet modernisation Improving operating discipline and efficiencies.
29.3% programme including the investment of 160m We have a very strong platform from which inapproximately 1,000 new vehicles together to grow in UK Bus.
The vast majority of our with a 4m refurbishment programme for our bus operations generate good returns with mid-life vehicles.
This will deliver a step change opportunities to improve further.
Setting out our plans for greater engagement with customers, employees and stakeholders, it is supported by ongoing customer satisfaction reviews, commissioned internally and also by Passenger Focus.
28 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements toour profile and incorporates a complete promotions have also been introduced and, wins in west London will see us take over routes refreshof our interior and exterior designs alongside the delivery of highway infrastructure 70, 206 and 266 in early summer 2012.
We are developed from extensive customer feedback.
improvements by our local authority partners, pleased that TfL awarded us funding to purchase we have seen an encouraging increase in 22 hybrid buses for route 23 and the vehicles We are also investing 27m in new ticketing patronage to date.
Similarly, in South Yorkshire came into service in April 2012. technology.
This equipment, which will be rolled we introduced a new service linking Rotherham out further during the year, provides us an We look forward to the London 2012 Games and Barnsley which has seen over one million ITSO smartcard platform.
Looking ahead, the where we will be the main provider of spectator customer journeys in 11 months.
technology will also enable us to offer customers transport.
We are providing the buses for shuttle touch in, touch out contactless payment using services at Games venues and Park & Ride their bank cards.
Helping to reduce the barriers services from sites around the edge of London to bus travel, this next generation ticketing will not The vast majority of our bus to the Olympic Park as well as those for the only reduce both cash transactions and boarding sailing venue in Weymouth, the rowing venue in operations generate good times but will enable us to offer a wide range of Eton Dorney and the football stadia in Glasgow, returns with opportunities ticket products including the ability to cap daily Manchester and Coventry.
We will also be and weekly fares.
The equipment also has the operating a network of express coach services to improve further.
However, capability to accept payment by mobilephone.
from across the country to the Olympic Park and there is scope to reposition Weymouth.
The contract includes a reservation Creating more effective partnerships with our and ticketing system as well as support staff at our portfolio to concentrate stakeholders is a key focus.
It is essential that all bus and coach locations to assist passengers.
we work closely with local authorities and on those areas with stakeholders across our networks to create We were pleased that the Competition thegreatestpotential.
successful relationships that will realise maximum Commissions report on the industry, published efficiencies and greater benefits for customers, in December 2011, recognised that no particularly through reduced journey times.
fundamental change to the structure or regulation There is considerable opportunity to increase of the industry was required.
The Commission Through our joint partnership proposals we were efficiency through the rolling out of best supported many of the innovations that we successful in 12 out of the 24 awards made by practices and standardisation in areas such are already developing across the country, the Department for Transport DfT from the asmaintenance and engineering.
For example, including partnerships with local authorities Better Bus Area Fund.
We also secured support the operational effectiveness of our fleet is being and multi-operator ticketing.
In March 2012 from the DfTs Green Bus Fund for a second reviewed following a successful pilot in Oldham the Government published its response to the round of 40 hybrid vehicles to be deployed to reduce unproductive hours.
This wide-ranging policy in Berkshire, Essex and Bath: in addition to ourengineering teams are introducing lean statement puts emphasis on the importance the original 40 buses being introduced on management practices in workshops as well of greater partnership between operators and services inLeeds, Manchester and Glasgow.
asexamining ways to improve service and transport authorities.
Initial reactions to these vehicles have been repairprocesses.
very positive and we continue to expand We have a core of fundamentally strong In London, where we provide contracted services our knowledge and experience of this type networks.
Our comprehensive recovery plan on behalf of Transport for London TfL, we do oftechnology.
is being executed from an established and not take revenue risk and consequently operating diversified platform with market leadership in During the year in the Bristol area, where margins are lower than in our deregulated bus territories where propensity for bus travel is high.
the level of tendered work has reduced as a business.
We continue to be encouraged by We are confident that the actions we are taking result of reductions in local authority funding, our operational performance which is achieving will equip the business to deliver sustainable we reinvested the mileage saved to enhance better than the network average and, across growth and improved returns from a stronger, frequencies on our key corridors which have a number of measures, is near the top of TfL more robust foundation.
the potential for further strong growth.
Further contract We are investing 160m in around 1,000 new vehicles, together with a 4m refurbishment for our mid-life vehicles.
This incorporates a complete refresh of our interior and exterior designs, including a newlivery that establishes greater local identities.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 29 Operating and financialreview continued Our rail businesses continued to enjoy strong has helped us deliver improvements in customer UK Rail demand during the year with revenue increased satisfaction and employee engagement by 10.4% to 2,506.1m 2011: 2,269.8m.
In both achieving record results.
Our operating a year which saw historic highs in passenger performance also improved with the Public numbers on the UK rail network, like-for-like Performance Measurement PPM of reliability passenger revenue growth across our franchises and punctuality at 90.0% on a moving annual was 8.4%.
Operating profit was 110.5m 2011: average MAA basis.
First TransPennine A significant highlight last year was the Express made a significant contribution during successful delivery of the initial stage of the the year as a result of continued strong trading.
Thameslink Programme providing the first However, as previously indicated, this franchise 12-carriage services on the route in December has now entered the extension period with 2011.
Refurbishment and transformation work margins closer to the industry average.
was ongoing at various stations along the route, The year marked the start of a period of transition as part of the programme of upgrades.
We in the UK Rail market, with eight franchises due worked together with Network Rail and TfL to to be re-let by the Government over the next two successfully reopen Blackfriars station, the first years.
We were pleased to be the only operator ever cross-river hub with a new link to London to pre-qualify for all four of the rail franchises Underground and an exit on the South Bank.
2012 2011 that have been tendered so far InterCity West Transport Minister Theresa Villiers joined us in Coast, Great Western, Thameslink and Essex opening a dedicated ticket hall and longer 12-car Revenue 2,506.1m 2,269.8m Thameside demonstrating the depth of our platforms at Farringdon station in December, strength and expertise in the rail market.
As and we also supported the introduction of a 110.5m 108.7m Operating profit the current operator of two of these franchises new station at West Hampstead.
On the Great First Great Western and First Capital Connect Northern route, where we have significantly Revenue as percentage of Group we have a strong track record of delivery and increased capacity, we added a further 2,200 investment in our rail operations.
We look forward seats on weekdays through our More Seats for to submitting competitive proposals which meet You initiative.
Weintroduced 12-car services the requirements of customers and taxpayers on the route and in March 2012 our customers and provide an economic return for shareholders.
began using the impressive new concourse at London Kings Cross station.
During the year Vernon Barker was appointed 37.5% Managing Director of the UK Rail division.
During the year the DfT announced that the Vernons proven track record in railway end date for the First Capital Connect franchise Operating profit as percentage of Group management, most recently as Managing has been brought forward to September Director of First TransPennine Express, and 2013.
This provides the best opportunity in the strong focus on customer service will be major Thameslink transformation programme invaluable as we develop our existing and to allow an effective transition to a potential newrailinterests.
new franchisee, particularly in relation to the introduction of new rolling stock which will be First Capital Connect completed after the end date of the current 24.1% The focus for First Capital Connect during the franchise.
Our unrivalled knowledge and year has been the preparation for and delivery experience of managing this major project gives ofthe major change programmes by continuing us a strong foundation to continue to help deliver to drive further improvement across the business.
this important programme in the future.
Improved engagement and communication with our employees, customers and stakeholders We continue to offer value for money tickets, such as First ScotRails popular Club 55 tickets providing discount travel for the over 55s, which proved highly successful during the year.
30 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements First Great Western performance at certain points during the year.
Since we commenced operation of the We continue to drive further improvements in Following the introduction of further improvement franchise in 2004 we have worked hard to performance across our network.
Punctuality plans in the autumn and minor timetable deliver consistent improvements for customers, during the year has been improving, with changes made in December 2011, we have seen including the introduction of a 260m new train our PPM MAA at 90.6%, and we continue performance start to exceed planned levels.
fleet, and during that time passenger numbers to challenge Network Rail to reduce have risen from 13m to 24m a year.
First ScotRail signed one of the first alliance .
agreements between a train operating company We will work closely with the DfT and our We are committed to delivering further and Network Rail to better align overall stakeholders on the route over the remaining life improvements for passengers and in December objectives and provide more cost effective of the franchise to progress plans for the future of 2011 we agreed a major 28.9m deal with the ways of delivering rail services.
The agreement rail in the north of England and to further develop DfT for 48 new carriages to be added to our High allows more efficient and effective management our Anglo-Scottish services.
We successfully Speed Train fleet, providing an extra 4,500 seats through a closer working relationship to deliver negotiated for ten new build Class 350 trains to for customers on peak services into and out of improvements in quality for passengers and other be brought into service from December 2013.
As part of this agreement we leased five stakeholders.
Under the agreement a joint Board These will provide an 80% increase in customer Class 180 trains to replace Turbo services on the of First ScotRail and Network Rail members capacity between Manchester and Scotland and Cotswold line between London Paddington and has been established.
We are confident that will allow for a 30% increase in seat availability Hereford providing a more comfortable journey long term cost savings for the industry and across the rest of the network.
on this long distance route.
theScottish Government will be achieved.
We launched a suite of technology solutions We continue to introduce further capacity across Successful marketing and promotions activity during the year, including a mobile website with our network.
In the west of England we worked helped to stimulate further demand for our geo-location technology providing customers with the DfT to secure extra trains and carriages services.
Providing customers great value for with detailed information about station facilities.
which will provide an additional 924 seats on money through initiatives such as our popular We also released a smartphone ticketing app Bristol peak services, while customers in Torbay Club 55 tickets, offering discount travel for the with purchasing and mobile ticket display facilities and between Truro and Falmouth will see almost over 55s, continued to prove successful during and were also the first train operator in the UK to 650 additional seats on peak weekday services the year.
launch a customer service based Twitter account and 1,275 at weekends.
which is operated by front line employees.
Strong partnerships with Passenger Transport There have also been major improvements Executives and local authorities have led to First Hull Trains to stations along the route.
The 10m station improvements across Scotland including During the year work commenced on an overhaul redevelopment of Bath Spa station has continued the installation of innovative solar powered of the fleet which will help to significantly improve and Exeter Central station has received a refresh, customer information screens into Highland reliability and punctuality.
We are working with bringing the original ticket hall back into use and stations in partnership with Highland & Island businesses, councils and planners to help better improving the station as a focal point.
integrate our services with wider transport station has had a complete overhaul costing 1m, operations along the East Coast Main Line, First TransPennine Express as a result of a joint project with Network Rail and aswell as with other train operating companies First TransPennine Express achieved record the local council ahead of this summer when the and Network Rail to improve performance and performance this year with PPM MAA above station will also serve the Olympic rowing venue.
First ScotRail We were delighted that the DfT took the decision Our PPM score rallied strongly towards the end during the year to extend the current franchise.
of the year, to finish at 94.8% after the severe We will operate First TransPennine Express for weather affecting the countrys rail infrastructure a further three years from February 2012 at an impacted First ScotRail and Network Rails operating margin closer to the industry average.
ability to achieve acceptable levels of operating We agreed a major deal with the Department for Transport for 48 new carriages in First Great Western, providing an extra 4,500 seats for customers on peakservices.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 31 Operating and financialreview continued Outlook We have a fundamentally strong and diverse The UK Rail market is in a period of transition portfolio of operations, with four out of five of our with eight franchises due to be let by the divisions performing in line with our expectations, Government over the next two years.
We are the and actions we have taken will lead to improved only operator to have pre-qualified for all four of growth and returns.
the rail franchises that have come to the market so far and believe we are well placed to progress Notwithstanding the steady performance from opportunities from the refranchising programme.
our UK Bus division in 2011 12 we have seen a further deterioration of economic conditions The combined effect of the outlook for trading particularly in our urban operations in Scotland together with the actions to reposition the UK and the north of England.
As a result, we do not Bus portfolio is expected to result in the Groups expect revenue growth and cost efficiencies net cash flow being broadly neutral in 2012 13. in 2012 13 to be sufficient to offset the impact Our market leading positions in a sector that of reduced Government subsidies and funding is a key enabler of economic growth, together to the industry and increased fuel costs.
In with the actions we are taking to strengthen the response we are accelerating a comprehensive business, give the Board confidence that the plan that will deliver sustainable growth in Group has good prospects to deliver long term revenue and patronage and improved returns.
Therefore, reflecting our This includes repositioning our UK Bus portfolio longer term view, the Board remains committed through a programme of business and asset to its current policy of dividend growth of 7.0% disposals to focus on those areas where the through to the end of the financial year 2012 13. greatest potential for growth exists.
Our North American operations continue to progress and we believe that improving We have a fundamentally trends in the US economy will be positive for our businesses.
First Student is now well strong and diverse portfolio set on the path to recovery with our plan to of operations with four reform the business delivering in line with our out of five of our divisions expectations.
First Transit delivers good returns from typically low capital investment which is performing in line with our underpinned by its established credentials and expectations and actions strong track record.
Greyhounds enhanced performance from a transformed operating we have taken will lead to model demonstrates our ability to implement improved growth and returns.
thenecessary actions to deliver strong growth and margin improvement.
32 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Other financial matters Exceptional items and amortisation charges 2012 2011 m m UK Bus Pension Scheme changes 73.3 UK Rail bid costs 10.2 2.7 UK Bus depot sales and closures 10.7 Competition Commission costs 1.9 1.4 UK Rail claim 22.5 UK Rail First Great Western contract provision 59.9 First Student recovery plan 39.5 First Transit goodwill impairment and contract provision 16.6 UK Rail joint venture provision 1.8 UK Bus restructuring costs 1.0 Other exceptional items 1.1 0.4 Total exceptional items 49.4 100.8 Amortisation charges 30.9 42.9 Profit loss on disposal of properties 1.0 4.4 Operating profit credit charge 19.5 148.1 Ineffectiveness on financial derivatives 11.0 0.3 Profit loss before tax credit 8.5 147.8 Tax credit 4.4 43.0 Loss profit on disposal of discontinued operations 9.2 6.7 Net exceptional items for the year 3.7 98.1 UK Bus Pension Scheme changes UK Bus depot sales and closures Amortisation charges During the year we took actions to fide-risk the As part of our programme to rebalance our The charge for the year was 30.9m 2011: UK Bus Pension Scheme, the most significant portfolio in UK Bus operations we have taken 42.9m with the reduction mainly due to ofwhich is that pension increases will be linked thedecision to sell or close certain operations.
thewrite off of the remaining balance of the to consumer price inflation CPI rather than retail Net losses of 8.2m were incurred during the FirstGreat Western franchise intangible asset price inflation RPI.
In addition a pensionable pay year comprising 6.7m of operating losses for 7.6m in the previous year.
cap was introduced along with lower pension the year and 1.5m of closure costs.
In addition Profit loss on disposal of properties accrual rates.
As a result of these changes a loss on the disposal of the Northumberland During the year we realised 40.3m 2011: future pension liabilities have decreased and a Park depot in north east London of 2.5m was 10.1m on the disposal of selected properties one-off exceptional gain of 73.3m 2011: nil recorded in the year representing gross proceeds predominantly in Greyhound operations.
of 14.2m less the carrying value of net assets Theseresulted in a net profit on disposal of including 5.2m of goodwill as well as transaction UK Rail bid costs 1.0m 2011:loss of 4.4m.
The proceeds of the disposal were We are now entering a transition period for received in the first week of 2012 13.
Ineffectiveness on financial derivatives UK Rail with eight franchises expected to be Due to the ineffective element and undesignated retendered in the next two years.
Bid costs Competition Commission costs fair value movements on financial derivatives of 10.2m 2011: 2.7m were incurred during During the year we incurred a further 1.9m there was a 11.0m non-cash charge 2011: the year.
These costs covered the preparation 2011:1.4m of costs responding to and 0.3m credit to the income statement during of the Intercity West Coast bid which was representing our position to the Competition the year.
The principal component of this nonsubmitted on 4 May 2012.
They also include Commission investigation into the UK Bus cash charge relates to fixed interest rate swaps the cost of pre-qualification for three further rail market.
The Competition Commission issued which do not qualify for hedge accounting but franchises Great Western, Thameslink, and theirfinal report in December 2011. do provide a cash flow hedge against variable Essex Thameside.
We are the only operator to Other exceptional items rate debt from 2012 to 2015.
It is anticipated that pre-qualify for all the franchises that are currently Costs of 1.1m were incurred principally on the charge in respect of these swaps will reverse out to bid.
effecting the changes to the UK Bus Pension over their contractual term.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 33 Operating and financialreview continued Tax on exceptional items to amortisation charges and exceptional items.
Dividends and amortisation charges There was also a one-off credit adjustment In line with our stated commitment the Board The tax credit as a result of these exceptional of 4.0m 2011: 1.7m to the UK deferred tax has proposed a final dividend per share, subject items was 0.4m 2011: 41.3m.
In addition liability as a result of the reduction in the UK to approval by shareholders, of 16.05p 2011: there was a one-off deferred tax credit of 4.0m corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% 2011: 15.0p, an increase of 7.0%, making a full year 2011:1.7m as a result of the reduction in 28%to 26% which will apply from April 2012. payment of 23.67p 2011: 22.12p.
It will be the UK corporation tax rate from 26% to 24% This resulted in a total tax charge of 50.1m paid on 17August 2012 to shareholders on the 2011:28% to 26%.
The dividend is covered actual tax paid during the year was 17.7m 2011: 1.7 times 2011: 1.9 times by adjusted basic EPS.
Finance costs and investment income 25.0m.
North American cash tax remains low Net finance costs, before exceptional items, EPS due to tax losses brought forward.
We expect were 157.1m 2011: 182.4m with the The adjusted basic EPS was 40.0p 2011: 41.1p, the North American cash tax rate to remain low reductionprincipally due to lower interest a reduction of 2.7%.
Basic EPS was 42.7p 2011: for the near term.
The UK cash tax for the year rateson USDollar denominated debt.
20.0p, an increase of 113.5% due to a significant was lower than last year principally due to higher reduction in net exceptional items compared to Profit before tax cashpension payments in UK Bus.
Adjusted profit before tax was 271.4m Discontinued operations 2011:274.3m.
An overall credit of 8.5m A loss on disposal of 9.2m arose on the sale 2011: 147.8m charge for exceptional of FirstGroup Deutschland GmbH representing items andamortisation charges resulted in gross consideration of 5.5m less the carrying a substantial increase in profit before tax to value of net assets, including goodwill, and 279.9m 2011:126.5m.
This, as well as the operating Tax loss after tax to the date of disposal of 0.3m The tax charge, on adjusted profit before tax, for 2011: profit of 0.6m, has been classified within the year was 54.5m 2011: 59.7m representing discontinued operations in the consolidated an effective rate of 20.1% 2011: 21.8%.
2 Adjusted operating profit less capital grant amortisation plus depreciation.
3 Restated to exclude discontinued operations and incorporating a revised calculation of EBITDA as explained in note 2 to the consolidated financial statements.
34 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements Cash flow The net cash inflow for the year was 119.2m 2011: 209.8m.
This contributed to a net debt reduction of 111.9m 2011: 332.1m as detailed below: Year to Year to 31 March 31 March 2012 2011 m m EBITDA including discontinued operations 742.6 770.7 Exceptional items 49.4 100.8 Impairment charges 19.5 Other non-cash income statement items 9.8 11.4 Working capital excluding FGW provision movement 20.5 75.2 Working capital FGW provision movement 48.7 11.2 FGW provision movement 48.7 48.7 Movement in other provisions 29.1 48.3 Pension payments in excess of income statement charge 87.1 43.5 Non-cash RPI to CPI pension gain 73.3 Cash generated by operations 632.8 744.1 Capital expenditure and acquisitions 293.6 283.6 Disposal proceeds 57.7 21.8 Interest, tax and other 155.4 183.6 Dividends payable to Group shareholders 108.8 101.4 Dividends payable to non-controlling minority shareholders 19.0 11.8 Proceeds from sale of businesses 5.5 24.3 Net cash inflow 119.2 209.8 Foreign exchange movements 7.7 129.2 Other non-cash movements in relation to financial instruments 0.4 6.9 Movement in net debt in year 111.9 332.1 The principal adverse movements compared Proceeds from sale of business represents Partly offset by: to last year were as follows: Germany at 5.5m this year compared to Lower net exceptional items and impairment 24.3m for GB Railfreight last year Higher pension payments in excess of income charges of 150.2m as set out on page 33 statement charge of 43.6m principally due Working capital excluding FGW provision Lower interest, tax and other payments of to additional deficit cash contributions in movement for last year of 75.2m included 28.2m principally due to lower interest rates Greyhound and UK Bus.
In addition there was the benefit of the timing of certain UK Rail onUS Dollar denominated debt a one-off non-cash benefit of 73.3m in relation payments as well as the First Student recovery to the UK Bus pension scheme changes plan provision and the First Transit contract Favourable movement in other provisions of provision.
This year working capital is still 19.2m mainly due to lower insurance claims The FGW provision put up last year has positive at 20.5m despite the reversal of the payments compared to last year been transferred to creditors due within one UK Rail payment timing and the expected year, resulting in a movement on provisions Disposal proceeds of 57.7m property 40.3m usage of the Student and Transit provisions of97.4m and non-property, mainly buses, 17.4m Higher dividend payments to Group compared to 21.8m property 10.1m and EBITDA of 742.6m was 28.1m lower than shareholders of 7.4m and non-controlling non-property 11.7m last year with the increase lastyear minority shareholders of 7.2m principally due to the Washington DC property No impairment charges in 2011 12. sale in Greyhound.
Higher capital expenditure and acquisitions of10.0m.
2 Stated excluding accrued interest, swapped to US Dollars and adjusted for movements on associated derivatives.
3 Stated excluding accrued interest, partially swapped to US Dollars and adjusted for movements on associated derivatives.
Under the terms of the UK Rail franchise Maintaining our investment grade status is a In addition during the year we entered into agreements, cash can only be distributed by the key priority and we have consistently reduced operating leases for passenger carrying vehicles train operating companies either up to the lower leverage to support this.
The net debt: in UK Bus with a capital value of 43.4m amount of their retained profits or the amount EBITDA ratio has reduced from 3.2 times at 2011:23.6m.
determined by prescribed liquidity ratios.
The 31 March 2009 to 2.5 times at 31 March 2012 Funding and risk management ring-fenced cash represents that which is not 2011:2.5times.
The Group continues to have strong liquidity.
available for distribution or the amount required Capital expenditure and acquisitions At31 March there was 795.8m 2011: to satisfy the liquidity ratio at the balance sheet Cash capital expenditure and acquisitions was 616.1m of committed headroom and free date.
The level of ring-fenced cash at 31 March 293.6m 2011: 283.6m and comprised First cash comprising 631.8m 2011: 526.7m of 2012 is higher than would normally be expected Student 115.6m 2011: 117.2m, First Transit headroom under the committed revolving bank due to the timing of Government receipts at 31.9m 2011: 6.8m, Greyhound 44.1m 2011: facility and free cash balances of 164.0m FSR and the temporary impact of liquidity ratios 45.0m, UK Bus 33.6m 2011: 66.7m, UK Rail 2011:89.4m.
Largely due to seasonality in the at FCC.
Accordingly the balance at 31 March 63.4m 2011: 46.7m and Group items 5.0m North American school bus business, committed 2011 is more indicative of the expected level 2011: 1.2m.
headroom typically reduces during the financial ofring-fenced cash.
year up to October and increases thereafter.
Treasury policy requires a minimum of 250m ofcommitted headroom at all times.
36 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 Overview Performance Governance Financial statements The Groups main revolving bank facility expires Foreign currency risk The US Dollar rate was slightly higher in the in December 2015.
The average debt maturity Group policies on foreign currency risk affecting year to 31 March 2012 compared to last was 5.5 years 2011: 6.1 years.
cash flow, profits and net assets are maintained year.
This resulted in the Sterling equivalent to minimise exposures to the Group by using of North American US Dollar revenues being The Group does not enter into speculative a combination of natural hedge positions and approximately 3% lower than last year.
Similarly financial transactions and uses only authorised derivative instruments where appropriate.
this also resulted in a small reduction in North financial instruments for certain risk management Translation risk relating to US Dollar earnings American operating profit but this was more purposes only.
arising in the US is largely offset by US Dollar than offset by lower US Dollar denominated fuel Interest rate risk denominated costs incurred in the UK, principally costs in the UK and lower US Dollar denominated The Group reduces exposure by using a UK fuel costs, US Dollar interest and tax costs, interest costs.
combination of fixed rate debt and interest so that exposure to EPS on a year to year basis Shares in issue rate derivatives to achieve an overall fixed rate isnot significant.
As at 31 March 2012 there were 481.4m shares in position over the medium term of between 75% With regard to balance sheet translation risk, the issue 2011: 480.8m, excluding treasury shares and 100% of net debt.
At 31 March 2012 100% Group hedges part of its exposure to the impact and own shares held in trust for employees of 2011: 87% of net debt was fixed and in excess of exchange rate movements on translation of 0.7m 2011: 1.3m.
The weighted average number of 85% of net debt is fixed for the next two years.
foreign currency net assets by holding currency of shares in issue for the purpose of basic EPS Fuel price risk swaps and net borrowings in foreign currencies.
calculations excluding treasury shares and own We manage the commodity price risk on fuel At 31 March 2012 foreign currency net assets shares held in trust for employees was 481.4m through a progressive forward hedging policy.
In the UK, 86% of crude oil costs were hedged at Foreign exchange Investment in DSBFirst an average rate of $88 per barrel during the year.
The funding of the joint venture of rail operations The most significant exchange rates to Sterling At the end of the year we have hedged 83% of in Sweden and Denmark was agreed with for the Group are as follows: our at risk UK crude requirements for the year DSB during the year and a further 4.2m was Year to Year to to 31 March 2013 2.5m barrels p. a. at $103 per invested by the Group.
As a result of this the 31 March 2012 31 March 2011 barrel and 46% of our requirements for the year guarantees issued by the Group reduced to to 31 March 2014 at $105 per barrel.
Subsequently the Swedish franchise rate rate rate rate was transferred to another operator in In North America 59% of crude oil costs were December2011.
US Dollar 1.60 1.59 1.60 1.56 hedged at an average rate of $95 per barrel during the year.
At the end of the year we have Balance sheet Canadian hedged 69% of the at risk volume for the year Net assets have decreased by 69.9m since the Dollar 1.60 1.59 1.57 1.56 to 31 March 2013 1.7m barrels p. a. at $94 per start of the year.
The principal reasons for this barrel.
In addition we have hedged 40% of at are actuarial losses on defined benefit pension risk volumes for the year to 31 March 2014 at schemes net of deferred tax of 134.0m, $95 per barrel.
dividend payments of 127.8m, unfavourable hedging reserve movements net of deferred tax of 22.9m, and unfavourable translation reserve movements of 10.9m partly offset by theretained profit for the year of 220.3m.
FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012 37 Operating and financialreview continued Goodwill Seasonality The carrying value net assets including goodwill The First Student business generates lower but excluding intercompany balances of each revenues and profits in the first half of the year cash generating unit CGU was tested for than in the second half of the year as the school impairment during the year and there continues summer holidays fall into the first half.
Greyhound to be sufficient headroom in all of the CGUs.
operating profits are typically higher in the first Headroom on the UK Bus business has half of the year due to demand being strongest reduced to 512m 2011: 796m reflecting the inthe summer months.
reduction in projected operating profits and Going concern margins compared to this time last year.
The The Group has established a strong balanced First Student recovery plan is progressing in line portfolio of businesses with approximately 50% withexpectations and as a result the headroom of Group revenues secured under medium term on this business is in line with last year.
contracts with government agencies and other Pensions large organisations in the UK and North America.
The Group has updated its pension assumptions The Group has a diversified funding structure as at 31 March 2012 for the defined benefit with average debt duration at 31 March 2012 schemes in the UK and North America.
of 5.5 years 2011: 6.1 years and which is The net pension deficit of 243m at the beginning largely represented by committed medium to of the year has increased to 268m at the end of long term unsecured bond debt and finance the year principally due to changes in actuarial leases.
The Group has a $1,250m committed assumptions, in particular lower discount rates revolving banking facility of which $1,011m was than last year, partly offset by the one-off benefit undrawn at the year end.
This facility expires of fide-risking the UK Bus Pension Scheme inDecember2015.
described on page 33 and higher cash payments The Directors have carried out a detailed review into the schemes.
of the Groups budget for the year to 31 March The main factors that influence the balance sheet 2013 and medium term plans, with due regard position for pensions and the sensitivities to their for the risks and uncertainties to which the Group movement at 31 March 2012 are set out below: is exposed, the uncertain economic climate and the impact that this could have on trading Movement Impact performance.
Based on this review, the Directors believe that the Company and the Group have 0.1% Reduce deficit by Discount rate adequate resources to continue in operational 25m existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, 0.1% Increase deficit by Inflation the financial statements have been prepared on 18m a going concern basis and details of the going concern review are shown on page 60 of the Directors report.
Tim OToole Nick Chevis Chief Executive Acting Finance Director 23 May 2012 23 May 2012 38 FirstGroup Annual Report and Accounts 2012
