Financial and Operational Review Financial Review We achieved record results with revenues up 10% to341.8m and adjusted profit before tax up 19% to46.5m.
ADJUSTED PERFORMANCE Constant Actual currency currency 2012 2011 Movement Movement m m % % Adjusted operating profit 45.8 42.2 9 10 Share of JV profits 2.8 3.1 Adjusted operating profit inc JV 48.6 45.3 7 9 Net finance costs 2.1 6.3 Adjusted profit before tax 46.5 39.0 19 22 Excludes net IAS 41 valuation movement in biological assets and taxation.
The results for the year ended 30 June 2012 Operating profits increased in all four regions.
show that Genus has continued to make good profit growth was strongest in Asia, where Adjusted basic progress.
We achieved record results with significant volume growth and a buoyant revenues up 10% to 341.8m and adjusted market in porcine, especially in China, led to earnings per share profit before tax up 19% to 46.5m.
As in a41% increase in profits to 10.4m.
In North rose by 19% to previous years, we continue to use adjusted America, profits increased by 12% to 39.5m, 53.5pence 2011: 44.8 operating profit and adjusted profit before tax driven by increased volumes in porcine and as the prime measures of financial higher margins in both porcine and dairy and pence.
The increase performance, particularly in monitoring AI beef.
Latin American profits also increased was in linewith the underlying performance.
In the more mature improvement in profit European market, profits improved to before tax.
The following non-cash or non-recurring items 18.9m, an increase of 3%.
are excluded from adjusted operating profit: ` JOHN WORBY net IAS 41 valuation movement in biological R & D costs were 13% higher including GROUP FINANCE DIRECTOR assets: increased investment in research activities, ` amortisation of acquired intangible assets: particularly in relation to genomic evaluation ` share-based payment expense: and work.
Central costs were also higher, reecting ` exceptional items.
investment in the establishment of an enhanced Group HR function and a dedicated strategy REVENUE unit in support of the new Genus strategy.
Revenue increased by 10% from 309.9m to 341.8m.
Revenue grew across the Groups A more detailed review of operating profit activities, with porcine revenues up 14% and performance by region is set out on pages dairy and AI beef revenues up 6%.
Growth 28to 30. was particularly strong in developing markets with Latin America revenues up 12% and Asia It is also relevant to look at the Groups up over 30%.
performance by species, particularly in light ofthe change in structure introduced in July ADJUSTED PROFIT BEFORE TAX 2012 to align the organisational structure with Adjusted operating profit, including the new strategy.
jointventures, increased by 7% to 48.6m 2011:45.3m and adjusted profit before tax In this respect, both porcine and dairy and AI increased by 19% to 46.5m 2011: 39.0m.
beef increased revenues and profits.
Porcine The percentage improvement in operating revenues grew by 14%, with royalty income profit and profit before tax, at constant up10% to 57.6m.
Underlying volumes were exchange rates, was 9% and 22% respectively.
Margins improved as a result of initiatives such as the CBVPlus and CBVMax programmes in North America whereby we deliver improved value to our customers through using higher quality boars.
The increased volumes and improved margins ledto a 19% increase in porcine profits.
24 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW PERFORMANCE BY SPECIES Constant Actual currency currency 2012 2011 Movement Movement m m % % REVENUE Dairy & AI beef 165.1 155.1 6 7 Porcine 165.5 145.7 14 15 Research & development 11.2 9.1 341.8 309.9 ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT INC JV Dairy & AI beef 20.8 19.7 6 8 Porcine 43.6 36.6 19 20 Central costs & research 15.8 11.0 48.6 45.3 Dairy and AI beef revenues increased by In the year ended 30 June 2012, the 6%.
Volumes increased by 8%, with growth Groupsadjusted operating profits were strongest in China, India and Russia.
This was due to a modest countries, we saw a benefit from increased strengthening of Sterling against currencies sales of lower priced locally produced semen such as the Brazilian Real and Mexican Peso in aswell as continuing growth in sales of imported the last quarter of the year.
This had the impact semen.
Sales volumes of semen from our global of reducing the growth in adjusted operating studs, which represent over 82% ofsemen profits for the Group from 9% to 7%.
sales, increased by 4% and average selling prices improved by 3%.
The resultant The key average and year-end exchange rates improvement in margins was partly offset by the used to translate the results for the year were: higher costs of the increased bull development Average Closing programme to support future volume growth.
US Dollar 1.59 1.60 1.57 1.61 EXCHANGE RATES Euro 1.19 1.16 1.24 1.11 The Groups products and services are sold Brazilian Real 2.86 2.65 3.17 2.51 Mexican Peso 20.90 19.47 21.06 18.83 tocustomers in 70 countries across six continents.
Consequently, our results are subject to variation based on the translation ofprots at different exchange rates.
As in previous years, we have shown changes in performance on a constant exchange rate basis to illustrate underlying business performance.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 25 Financial and Operational Review Financial Review continued FINANCE COSTS profit before tax showed growth of 19%.
The Net finance costs reduced by 4.2m to 2.1m Board believes these adjusted profit measures 2011: 6.3m.
Approximately 2.0m of this provide a better measure of the Groups reduction arose from the benets of the underlying performance.
ADJUSTED BASIC EPS Groups renancing in March 2011.
The PENCE TAXATION remainder was due to a combination of 60 reduced net borrowings, lower interest on The effective rate of tax for the year, based 50 pension liabilities and a reduced average onadjusted profit before tax, was virtually 40 interest rate: the latter was due to the xed unchanged at 31.0% 2011: 31.5%.
rate swaps entered into at the time of the 30 Sygen acquisition maturing.
The effective rate remains higher than the UK 20 corporate tax rate.
This is due to the mix of 10 Following the increased pension deficit at overseas profits, particularly the proportion of 0 30June 2012, including the additional one-off profits generated in North America, where the 09 10 11 12 pension provision made, the interest cost tax rate is approximately 39%.
onpension liabilities will be higher in the EARNINGS PER SHARE yearahead.
Adjusted basic earnings per share rose by STATUTORY BASIC EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS 19% to 53.5 pence 2011: 44.8 pence.
The EPS PENCE There was a 0.9m 2011: 1.2m net increase was in line with the improvement in 80 exceptional credit this year.
This comprises profit before tax.
A restructuring charge of 2.0m principally Basic earnings per share on a statutory basis 50 relating to refocusing the European porcine were 65.9 pence per share 2011: 49.0 pence.
40 business on larger integrated customers: 30 2.
A provision of 20.1m 2011: nil for potential DIVIDEND 20 additional pension costs in respect of the 10 The Board is recommending to shareholders 0 multi-employer Milk Pension Fund MPF.
a final dividend of 10.1 pence per ordinary 09 10 11 12 The triennial valuation of the MPF at March share.
Taking into account the interim dividend 2012 is expected to show an increased deficit of 4.5 pence per share paid in March 2012, particularly following recent reductions in gilt this will result in a total dividend for the year yields.
In light of this, and the difficulty certain of14.6 pence per ordinary share, representing DIVIDEND PER SHARE other employers may experience in fullling an increase of 10% for the year as a whole.
PENCE their obligations to the scheme, the Group Subject to shareholder approval at Genus 15 concluded that it was necessary to make a forthcoming Annual General Meeting, this provision for its potential joint and several dividend will be paid on 23 November 2012 12 obligations in connection with the MPF toshareholders on the register at the close 9 scheme.
The provision relates to potential ofbusiness on 9 November 2012. future cash payments that may arise over a 6 number of years as a result of the possibility Dividend cover remains strong, with the 3 of certain employers in the MPF being unable dividend covered 3.7 times by adjusted 0 to meet increased deficit repair contributions.
09 10 11 12 These potential costs are additional to the BIOLOGICAL ASSETS pension liabilities in respect of Genus past A feature of the Groups net assets is a and present employees in the now closed substantial investment in biological assets, MPF.
They arise because of Genus joint and which are required by IAS 41 to be held at fair several liability with the other employers for value.
At 30 June 2012, the carrying value of the obligations of the MPF: and biological assets was 282.2m 2011: 3.
An exceptional credit of 23.0m as a result 238.8m as set out in the table below: of a change in the basis of calculating the value of the Groups porcine pure line 2012 2011 breeding animals under IAS 41.
This m m change has increased the carrying value of Non-current assets 223.0 187.0 biological assets under IAS 41 but has no Current assets 36.8 27.3 cash impact.
Further details are given in Inventory 22.4 24.5 note 15 to the Financial Statements.
282.2 238.8 STATUTORY PROFIT BEFORE TAX Represented by: Operating profit on a statutory basis was Porcine 107.6 74.6 54.2m compared with 44.8m last year.
The Dairy & AI beef 174.6 164.2 statutory profit before tax was 54.4m 2011: 40.8m.
These statutory results benefit from 282.2 238.8 the impact of the exceptional items discussed above combined with a higher underlying net fair value credit on biological assets under IAS41 of 15.8m 2011: 9.8m.
As noted above, the performance as measured by adjusted operating profit including joint ventures showed growth of 7%, and adjusted 26 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 11.0 30.4 36.1 12.1 46.3 36.7 13.3 49.0 44.8 14.6 65.9 53.5 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW The Group had a strong cash flow performance with a 14.5m cash inflow despite increased capital investment.
The increase in the overall carrying value of We reduced net debt from 67.9m to 56.4m biological assets includes a 33.0m increase at 30 June 2012. inthe carrying value of porcine biological assets:23.0m of this increase relates to a The Groups financial position and ratios reassessment in the method of calculation of remained strong and there is substantial the value of pure line animals in the Groups two headroom under our 132m borrowing nucleus farms, valuing the herds as entities and facilities.
Interest cover, based on net interest using discounted cash ows from the herds excluding interest on pension liabilities, saleable product.
This better reects the true improved to 17.7 times 2011: 7.9 times and the value of these animals.
The remaining increase ratio of net debt to EBITDA as calculated under is due principally to the higher numberof our nancing facilities reduced from 1.4 to 1.1. animals held in the Groups farms, particularly RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS those in China, to meet customer needs.
The The Groups retirement benefit obligations at carrying value of biological assets related to 30 June 2012, calculated in accordance with dairy and AI beef has increased by 10.4m IAS 39, were 67.3m 2011: 23.6m before mainly due to an increase in the value of the tax and 51.0m 2011: 17.5m net of related bulls in the development programme.
The significant increase in CASH FLOW AND NET DEBT obligations in the year arose from an increase 2012 2011 in the deficit in the MPF, amulti-employer m m dened benefit scheme, together with an Cash generated by additional provision of 20.1m.
The total deficit operations 43.9 39.2 of the MPF scheme, calculated in accordance Interest, tax and dividends 22.0 18.3 with IAS 19 at 30June 2012, increased from Capital investments 9.1 4.8 39m to 102m.
This was due to the impact Other 1.7 0.9 of lower bond yields and only modest Net cash inow before swap investment returns in the year.
Genus settlement 14.5 17.0 estimated share of this deficit increased from US Dollar swap settlement 7.0 14.3m to 57.2m.
This is after taking into 14.5 10.0 account the 20.1m exceptional provision made in connection withthe Groups potential joint and several liabilities under the scheme.
The Group had a strong cash ow We consider this exceptional provision to be performance, with a net cash inow for the necessary in light of the higher underlying year of 14.5m 2011: 10.0m.
This was deficit and the likely difficulty of certain other notwithstanding increased capital investment employers in the MPFbeing able to meet and higher tax payments as a result of the theirobligations.
During the year, annual deficit contributions Capital investment in the year increased to payable in respect of the Groups dened 9.1m 2011: 4.8m.
This includes expenditure benefit scheme amounted to 1.9m.
A triennial in expanding the Groups dairy and AI beef actuarial valuation of the MPF as at 31 March production facilities in Canada and additional 2012 is under way.
We expect this valuation to spend in porcine on product development result in higher deficit contributions in the future.
facilities in North America and a production farm in China.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 27 Financial and Operational Review Review of Operations continued Market conditions provided reasonable protabilityfor Genus customers throughout mostof the year.
Our North American porcine production multiplication network was expanded by 9%.
NORTH AMERICA Constant Actual currency currency 2012 2011 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 121.5 114.5 6 5 Adjusted operating profit 39.5 35.3 12 11 Adjusted operating margin 33% 31% Revenues rose by 6% to 121.5m and necessary supply to continue the expansion operating profit increased by 12%.
The ofour business in North America and provide porcine business performed strongly, with an increased number of animals for export more modest progress in dairy and AI beef.
toGenus customers in other countries.
In particular, this supported our growth in the Market conditions provided reasonable Latin America and Asian regions.
profitability for Genus customers throughout most of the year.
During the last quarter, In May 2012, Genus PIC celebrated its 50th however, market conditions became more anniversary in conjunction with the annual difficult for some customers due to increased PICSymposium.
Over 500 key customers feed costs and declining milk prices.
representing 22 countries were in attendance.
In porcine, we continued to gain market The dairy and AI beef business had a more share, which improved to 36% as volumes difficult year: hot weather at the beginning ofthe grew by 4%.
Sales of animals under royalty year and lower milk prices towards year-end contracts were also higher.
This will lead to had an impact on the demand for dairy semen.
further increases in royalty income in the years This was most notable in the large dairy ahead.
In addition, we continued to implement enterprise sector.
Beef sales were more successfully our CBVPlus and CBVMax encouraging and rose modestly.
Overall, programmes whereby we deliver improved however, volumes were down 2%.
More value to our customers through using boars effective sales management enabled a small ofhigher genetic merit.
This, along with price improvement in average selling prices.
This, increases, has enabled us to improve margins together with continuing tight management of whilst at the same time providing better service costs, resulted in a small improvement in dairy to customers.
Our North American porcine and AI profits.
production multiplication network was expanded by 9%.
This will provide the 28 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW LATIN AMERICA Constant Actual currency currency 2012 2011 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 52.5 47.0 12 23 Adjusted operating profit exc JV 16.2 13.5 20 26 Adjusted operating profit inc JV 18.2 16.3 12 18 Adjusted operating margin exc JV 31% 29% Latin America achieved another year of strong Progresscontinues in converting growth.
Revenue increased 12% to 52.5m and moreBrazilian customers towards the operating profit excluding joint ventures grew royaltymodel.
A disappointing performance in our Brazilian joint venture caused by weak pig In dairy and AI beef, volumes grew by 11% in The performance prices in Brazil held back growth in operating markets that generally remained favourable.
across Latin profit including joint ventures to 12%.
Mexico was the exception, due to weak milk America benefited prices.
Chile and Argentina had a particularly Volumes in porcine grew by 16%.
We good year, with strong volume growth and from improved continued to focus on converting customers improved prices.
The new business in customerservices.
Consequently, royalty Colombia, that opened in February 2011, income grew 34%.
Our business in Chile hasmade good progress.
performed well, benefiting from increased volumes and improved margins due to the The performance across Latin America superior performance of our animals in benefited from improved customer services.
In beef, the xed AI programme continued togrow.
In dairy, customer support services Our joint venture in Brazil had a difficult year, were enhanced through an increased level with lower pig prices caused by the temporary ofdairy technical services support made closure of the export market to Russia.
As a available to our key customers.
result, our share of profits was lower.
EUROPE Constant Actual currency currency 2012 2011 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 117.3 113.3 4 4 Adjusted operating profit 18.9 18.4 3 4 Adjusted operating margin 16% 16% Revenue in Europe increased by 4% and Demand for dairy and beef semen has been operating profits increased by 3%.
reasonable, with European milk prices higher than the comparable prior period for most of Volumes grew by Our porcine business in Europe continued to the year albeit there was a modest fall towards 6%, aided by an improve in a difficult market.
Volumes grew by 6%, aided by an increased emphasis in for European pig farmers remained challenging.
increased emphasis in a number of markets on Short-term profitability for farmers has improved a number of markets our reproductive management services RMS.
as a result of higher pig prices.
However, with on our reproductive the likely need for many producers to invest in In the important UK market, we increased management services.
order to comply with the European welfare market share.
We contained the impact of legislation that becomes effective in 2013, cost increases in fuel and other areas by demand has been weak.
Consequently, replacing a large proportion of the eet with volumes in the porcine business in Europe more fuel efficient and lower CO2 emitting weredown 3%.
Firmer pig prices together with vehicles.
We also implemented the latest fuel cost reductions helped to improve margins.
In Italy, we achieved benets through an improved local During the year, we commenced the bull line up and increased emphasis on RMS.
implementation of a restructuring of the During the year, we acquired our small Polish European porcine business to sharpen the distributor, which will enable us to accelerate focus on larger integrated pork producers expansion of our presence in the large Polish andto reduce our exposure to directly owned dairy market.
Elsewhere in our distributor farming activities.
We implemented cost markets, we saw good volume progress in reductions in Germany, the benets of which Hungary and Saudi Arabia.
However, volumes started to become apparent in business in Turkey were affected by a difficult market.
performance towards the end of the year.
Promar, our agricultural consulting business, Another milestone was the recent appointment continued to perform well, winning new of a new senior executive with considerable contracts in the year.
industry experience to lead our European porcine operations.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 29 Financial and Operational Review Review of Operations continued The Asian region achieved an excellent performance, with strong growth broadly across the region and in both the porcine anddairy and AI beef businesses.
ASIA Constant Actual currency currency 2012 2011 Movement Movement m m % % Revenue 48.9 35.9 36 40 Adjusted operating profit exc JV 10.4 7.4 41 39 Adjusted operating profit inc JV 11.1 7.7 44 43 Adjusted operating margin exc JV 21% 21% The Asian region achieved an excellent of breeding animals.
We announced the first performance, with strong growth broadly such joint venture, involving a large 4,250-sow across the region and in both the porcine nucleus farm with an existing customer, BeSun, anddairy and AI beef businesses.
Revenues shortly after the year-end.
We are also increased by 36% and operating profits progressing discussions regarding potential including joint ventures by over 40% to11.1m.
joint ventures with other integrated producers.
In porcine, volumes grew strongly by 33%.
In During the year, milk prices were stable in China Russia, we strengthened further our position in and steadily increased in most of our other key a number of key accounts with new stockings.
This, combined with This included a number of animals provided growing demand, resulted in the volume of directly from our US operations.
Similarly, semen sold by our dairy and AI beef business volumes grew in the Philippines, despite more increasing by 24%.
Semen produced locally difficult market conditions there for part of the from studs in China, India and Russia which year.
In both countries, we have continued to started production in August 2011 was the convert customers to the royalty model, keydriver of the high level of growth.
Increased whichnow accounts for over 40% and 20% volumes of imported semen from Genus global respectively of volumes in these two countries.
During the In China, where to date we have not operated year, we received approval to open a warehouse the royalty model, direct sales grew.
profitability for imported semen in India.
This will enable us in China also benefited from buoyant market to improve further availability and service to our conditions in the first half of the year.
Our business in Australia performed achieved higher volumes elsewhere, including well, with volumes up 8% and rmer prices as a large multiplication and nucleus farm stocking farms recovered from the drought of the in South Korea.
In China, we are realigning our production Across our business in Asia, and particularly tobemore in line with the new strategy that in China, we have strengthened the focuses on large integrated pork producers.
management and supporting technical This strategy envisages entering into joint service teams.
This will ensure the business ventures with such customers and less reliance iswell placed to achieve our planned growth on direct sales from our own local production in the years ahead.
30 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT Constant Actual currency currency 2012 2011 Movement Movement m m % % Research & development costs 28.7 25.3 13 14 Genus continues to invest ahead of the rate of ination in R & D to ensure that our products meet customer needs and put us ahead of our competitors.
During the year, the costs of our R& D increased by 13% to 28.7m.
Porcine product development costs rose principally as aresult of higher feed costs, net of increased slaughter revenue, as part of running the two nucleus farms in North America.
Dairy and beef product development costs were higher due to the additional costs associated with the increased size of the bull development programme, which is crucial to providing capacity for anticipated growth.
We also We continued to supply differentiated genetics Genus continues to invested more heavily on research activities into Russia, China, and India.
Bulls shipped to targeted on programmes devoted to genomic invest ahead of the our new stud in Russia produced their first evaluation, gender skew and diseaseresistance.
During the rate of inflation in year, we shipped a total of 29 dairy and six R& D to ensure that PORCINE PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT beef bulls to our partners in China, where we During the year, we completed the our products meet now have a population of 64 dairy bulls and implementation of genome wide selection 14 beef bulls.
In India, we shipped embryos customer needs and inour breeding programme using our produced in Canada from elite Holstein put us ahead of our extensiveproprietary database of over 14 pedigrees to our partners stud.
We expect million performance records and genomics competitors.
the first calves from these imported embryos software developed in house.
We now have will be born in the Autumn of 2012. adatabase of over 20,000 animals that have been genotyped for 60,000 genomic regions RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT across all chromosomes of the pig.
In addition, We refocused and enhanced Genus research we have completed the development of activities during the year to place increased imputation programmes that will allow us to emphasis on our three key research use this information to genotype an even larger programmes: genomic evaluation, gender number of animals going forward at a much skew and disease resistance.
We continue to lower cost per animal.
This will allow us to make progress in these areas, although our increase the accuracy of selection based initiative to develop a proprietary sexed semen onestimated breeding values within product is progressing but taking longer than ourprogramme.
We have extended key sexed semen supply contracts to ensure As feed costs continue to rise, feed efficiency continuity of supply in this growing segment remains an important trait.
With programmes ofour dairy and AI beef business.
such as our cross-bred trials and the increased use of specialist feeders to record feed usage, PIC continues to deliver the most feed-efficient animals in the industry.
DAIRY AND AI BEEF PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Throughout the past year, ABS bulls continued to perform well in the national rankings of the countries where we progenytest bulls.
In the US, ABS averaged 30 bulls inthe internationally important top 100 TPI rankings across all three sire summaries in theyear.
The UK had similar results while Italy contributed with some key bulls during the year that drove additional volume and improved prices.
Genus plc Annual Report 2012 31 Principal Risks and Uncertainties Genus operates a structured and embedded risk management system that identies, evaluates and prioritises risks and uncertainties and actively reviews control and mitigation activities.
WHAT WE DID IN 2012 WHAT WE PLAN TO DO IN 2013 ` three times a year review of the During 2012, following consultation corporate risk register in terms of During 2013, we intend to continue to with the Genus Executive Leadership completeness and accuracy at a operate the improved risk management Team and the Audit Committee, we meeting of the Genus Executive system as agreed with the Genus reviewed our risk management Leadership Team: Executive Leadership Team and the ` system.
Key elements now include: Audit Committee discussion of Audit Committee.
Further renements ` oversight by the Head of Internal thelatest corporate risk register will include: ` Audit and Risk: andthe risk management system Group-wide reviews of selected ` regular meetings and workshops to ateach of its regular meetings, with specic risks identied on the identify and discuss key risks and subsequent reports to the Board: corporate risk register: and ` mitigations with senior Group and presentations to the Audit ` management: targeted Board review of selected Committee or Board by senior specic risks contained in the operational and financial corporate risk register.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK THE BOARD ` ` ` ` Has overall responsibility Sets strategic objectives Monitors the nature and Provides direction on for theGroups risk extent of risk exposure theimportance of risk management and internal against risk appetite for management and risk control systems ourprincipal risks management culture GENUS EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP AUDIT COMMITTEE INTERNAL AUDIT TEAM ` ` Supports the Board inmonitoring Oversees the risk management ` Identies, addresses and mitigates risk exposure against riskappetite process and provides guidance onrisk management matters risks Group-wide ` Reviews the effectiveness of our ` ` Monitors risk management process riskmanagement system Engages with senior management to review risks and mitigating actions and internal controls RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTIONS MARKETS ` ` Genus-developed porcine Strict contractual restrictions imposed on counterparties Intellectual property genetic material could tolimit use of genetic material within pure lines protection ` become freely available to Careful selection of multipliers and joint venture partners third parties including in emerging markets to ensure trustworthiness ` Ability to undertake genetic testing of animals to determine genetic origin ` ` Impact of uctuations in Geographic diversity of businesses Agricultural recession ` agricultural markets on Use of the porcine royalty model and commodity ` customer profitability Hedging transactions to x pricing of inputs and outputs pricing anddemand where appropriate ` Increase in operating costs owing to commodity pricing volatility ` ` Fail to appropriately Experienced management team blending local and Emerging markets develop business in expatriate executives ` emerging markets Asia established as a separate business unit reporting directly to CEO ` High level of Board oversight ` Dedicated development, technical services and veterinary staff within emerging markets ` Adoption of joint venture business model in appropriate regions 32 Genus plc Annual Report 2012 COMPANY OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS BUSINESS REVIEW RISK RISK DESCRIPTION MITIGATING ACTIONS DISEASE AND ENVIRONMENT ` ` Loss of key livestock Formal bio-security standards featuring movement controls, Bio-security owing to disease outbreak veterinary inspection, and independent bio-security reviews ` No over-reliance on single production sites with key facilities placed in different countries ` ` Loss of ability to move Formal bio-security standards featuring movement controls, Continuity of supply animals and semen or veterinary inspection, and independent bio-security reviews ` semen freely including Care taken to avoid over-reliance on single production sites across borders owing to, with key facilities placed in different countries for example, disease outbreak, environmental incident, or international trade sanctions ` ` Environmental incident High standards of facility development and operation Environmental ` onporcine development Independent assessment of operational compliance pollution incident facility ` ` Unavailability of key Business Continuity Plans in place for key locations Business continuity ` research, production Testing programme established ` oradministrative site Care taken to avoid over-reliance on single production ` Failure of IT system siteswith key facilities placed in different countries ` Formal IT Disaster Recovery Plans in place with testingprogramme ` Property Damage and Business Interruption insurance cover HR ` ` Fail to attract or retain Executive pay levels recently reviewed by external consultants Human resources ` skills and experience Regular scrutiny of senior management performance and within executive, remuneration at Remuneration Committee ` management and Recent appointment of dedicated experienced Group-wide employee cohorts HR Director ` Development of people and talent plans RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT ` ` Development programme Formal communication process to ensure development is Product development fails to produce best aligned with customer requirements and competitive edge ` genetics for customers Dedicated product development team ` ` Increased competition in Focus on key account management ` developed and emerging Use of porcine royalty model ` markets drives down Offering technical services and support to customers ` market share and margins Benchmarking of performance ` High density of bulls in Top 100 listings ` ` Fail to focus research Regular oversight of research by R & D Portfolio Commercialisation initiatives on commercially Management Team and executive management ofresearch ` important areas Continuing appropriate budget allocated to research ` Fail to lead on future anddevelopment game-changing technology FINANCE ` ` Exposure to costs Agreement of appropriate actuarial valuations and deficit Pensions associated with failure recovery plans with pension fund trustees ` ofthird party member of Review of investment strategy ` joint and several pension Closure of pension funds to future service ` scheme Monitoring of joint and several liability in the Milk ` Exposure to costs as a PensionFund ` result of external factors Third-party review of pension arrangements undertaken impacting size of pension deficit e. g. mortality rates, investment values etc.
