Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 Review of operations and finance FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR 2012 Sales by our French depots of 14.6m Operating profit from continuing were up over 5% on a same depot operations increased by 4.5m The financial performance of the basis in constant currency terms.
Group during 2012 benefited from the Groups competitive position Gross profit rose by 36.0m to The net interest charge rose and actions taken to improve 545.3m.
As a result, the gross profit by 3.4m to 7.7m, due to an performance.
Although there was margin for the year increased to increased finance expense in a modest decline in the volume of 61.5% 2011: 59.7%.
This reected respect of pensions.
The net kitchen cabinets sold, the impact of the continuing focus on price result was profit before tax from this was offset by an improved gross discipline and margin achievement continuing operations rose by profit margin and changes in the mix across all depots, particularly in the of kitchen ranges sold.
Profit before tax m Total Group revenue increased Gross profit m Change by 33.3m to 887.1m.
1.1m Change 36.0m 2012 2011 Revenue m m Group 887.1 853.8 comprising: Howden Joinery UK depots 872.5 838.7 17 Howden Joinery Pensions finance expense will decrease by 4m in 2013 French depots 14.6 15.1 1.1m to 112.1m.
For 2013, the Howden Joinery UK depot revenue rose by 4.0% to 872.5m, increasing second half of the year, supported finance expense in respect of by our focused supply chain, and pensions will decrease by 4m, 1.9% on a same depot basis.
an exchange rate gain on the cost albeit that this is expected to In demanding market conditions, of goods purchased from overseas reverse in 2014, when a revision this growth was achieved through of 5m.
a number of factors and is a testament to the strength of the Selling and distribution costs, and As previously announced, there was administrative and other operating a loss attributable to discontinued business model.
The slowing of the growth rate in the second half of the expenses increased by 31.5m to operations before tax of 4.4m in 425.5m.
The increase reects the respect of the closure of two nonyear, from 6.8% in the first half to around 3%, reected the benefit of costs of new depots, investment core support businesses.
in growth, increased marketing the earlier timing of the price rise in The tax charge on profit before tax 2012 falling away on the anniversary expenditure, and the impact of from continuing operations was ination, particularly on payroll of the June 2011 price increase.
24.1m, an effective rate of tax of It also reected continuing focus costs.
Also reected in the increase 21.5%.
There was a tax credit of are the impacts of around 5m of on price discipline and margin 0.6m in respect of the loss from see below.
We have continued to costs arising from the inclusion of a discontinued operations.
53rd week in 2012 and certain onesee an increase in the number of customer accounts.
off credits of around 5m in 2011.
2011 0 509.3 0 Price 43 V Volume & mix e revenue u -10 V Volume & mix e COGS G 4 Currency n 5 Cost pressur u es, etc.
0 Gr ro oss pr rofit 36 Operating costs pe g -31.5 Inter t est, etc -3.4 20 2 12 112.1 Review of operations and finance continued Basic earnings per share from Reecting the above, there was a net The Board has concluded that the continuing operations were 14.0p cash inow of 39.3m in 2012, the Group now has the balance sheet 2011: 13.5p.
Basic earnings Group having net cash of 96.4m at strength to allow it to move towards per share from continuing and the end of the year 24 December a more normalised dividend policy.
discontinued operations were 2011: 57.1m net cash.
As a result, it intends to move over 13.4p 2011: 12.1p.
the medium term to a dividend cover At 29 December 2012, the pension of between 2.5x and 3.5x, with one We have seen a strong performance deficit shown on the balance sheet third of the previous years dividend in cash ow in 2012, with underlying was 154.5m 24 December 2011: being paid as an interim dividend working capital decreasing slightly.
An increase in the each year.
The performance is in part due schemes assets, arising from the to timing changes in capital Groups contribution to fund the The Board will monitor the cash expenditure, legacy property deficit and better than expected balances in light of the Groups future payments and the resolution of a asset returns, was more than offset investment opportunities, expected tax dispute.
by higher liabilities, arising from a peak working capital requirements decrease in the discount rate.
To the extent There was a net cash inow from the Group has sustainable levels operating activities of 64.9m.
Dividend of capital in excess of expected This was after payments relating to The Board intends to target a capital requirements, the Board expects to legacy properties totalling 16.4m structure that is both prudent and return it to shareholders.
and a cash contribution to the recognises the benets of financial Groups pension schemes, in excess leverage and, after considering For the 2012 financial year, the of the operating charge, of 41.7m.
all other uses of capital, to return Board is proposing a final dividend 18 surplus capital to shareholders, by of 2.7p per share, giving a total Excluding the legacy property way of either ordinary dividends or dividend for the year of 3.0p per payments, underlying working alternative returns of capital.
A small decrease in stock 2.6m was The Group has significant OPERATIONAL REVIEW partly offset by a small increase property leases for the depot The business model of Howden in debtors 0.7m, creditors being network, and currently has a material Joinery is To supply from local virtually unchanged.
deficit in the Group pension fund stock nationwide the small builders and a small number of remaining ever-changing routine integrated Also included within net cash ows legacy liabilities related to the kitchen and joinery requirements, from operating activities was tax Groups former ownership of MFI.
assuring no-call-back quality and paid totalling 16.9m.
Taking into account this underlying best local price.
level of gearing, the Board believes Payments to acquire xed and it is appropriate for the Group to In July 2010, in our Half Yearly intangible assets totalled 24.2m be able to operate throughout Report, we said that the opportunity 2011: 19.6m.
the working capital cycle without to transform the scale of the incurring bank debt.
business was apparent and that, as the performance of the business was improving and legacy issues Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 were diminishing, we were stepping were: eight new kitchen ranges, Manufacturing and up investment in the future growth amongst which we introduced logistics operations of Howden Joinery.
grey options in four of our kitchen Our UK-based manufacturing and families, across all price points, logistics operations play a key Since then, this investment in and we extended gloss options role in ensuring that we are able to growth has not only seen a stepto our lower priced Greenwich supply our small builder customers up in capital expenditure but also family: twenty new worktops and from local stock nationwide.
increased expenditure in a number associated accessories, including We continue to invest in these of other areas, to support the growth 14 new square-edged and five operations so as to ensure that this of the business and its performance contemporary 3mm radius matt key aspect of the Howdens model in demanding market conditions.
laminate worktops: significant is never compromised.
changes to our sinks and taps Depot network and operations The 20m two-year programme of categories: an extension of tall During the course of 2012, 20 new investment in our two manufacturing wall units offered: a range of black depots were opened in the UK, sites is on schedule, with the new appliances: and a range of sliding bringing the total trading at the cabinet production line facilities due wardrobe doors.
In addition, to be fully operational at Howden by 16 depots were extended and one Throughout the year, we again held the end of the first quarter of 2013 depot was relocated.
In France, two a series of roadshows with our and at Runcorn by the end of the new depots were opened.
kitchen designers and other depot first half of 2013. staff to help inform our new product We have introduced a system that A new painted skirting board and development programme.
These allows us to provide our builder architraves production facility 19 roadshows considered how sales customers clients with a video of costing 1.5m has been installed of various product categories could the kitchen that has been designed in our Howden factory, and will be be improved through the sharing of for them.
fully operational in the first quarter ideas and selling tools, learning from of 2013. successful existing products and Our account base continues to identifying gaps in our offering.
grow, having increased by over A new stock planning system was 20,000 net new credit accounts implemented that provides improved Supporting our sales effort, in in 2012.
While there has been a information for our manufacturing addition to updating our extensive significant increase in accounts in scheduling and product purchasing product literature, we introduced a recent years, our debt collection teams.
This has helped improve wider format joinery brochure and a performance continues to improve.
service and stock efficiency through new hardware catalogue.
We have our central warehouses.
also implemented a Howdens You Product and marketing Tube channel, accessible through We continue to enhance our our website www.
com, product offering, having introduced which offers an extensive range of a number of new products during videos showcasing products and a 2012 across all our product number of cookery demonstrations categories.
Notable amongst these using Lamona appliances.
Review of operations and finance continued GROUP DEVELOPMENTS CURRENT TRADING AND Since its inception in 1995, Howden OUTLOOK FOR 2013 Joinery has grown rapidly and has Legacy properties gained a significant share of the The Group continues to reduce its Howden Joinery UK depot sales UK kitchen market.
Even in these legacy property portfolio.
in the first two periods of 2013 to challenging market conditions, we 23 February were up 17% on the During 2012, the leases of five would expect to continue to benefit same periods last year.
This reects properties were terminated, at a from the opening of new depots and the benefit of an additional week of cost of 11.7m, mitigating future from the growth of our depots that trading in the first period of 2013. liabilities that would have totalled have yet to reach maturity.
It also reects the earlier timing of over 27m.
Since the year-end, two a price change, which will shortly properties have been released early, KEY FINANCIAL annualise last years price increase.
with less than one year of each lease PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The pattern and volume of sales in remaining, at a cost of 1.4m, with the first two periods is in line with The Group uses a number of small savings being made.
financial performance indicators to our expectations and, given the one-off nature of these impacts, we measure operational and financial As a result, the number of legacy activity in the business.
Nonexpect the rate of UK depot sales properties now stands at 14, growth to normalise through the financial indicators are discussed compared with 21 at the end of further in the corporate social coming periods.
Included within this are seven responsibility report on pages properties that are fully or part For the rest of 2013, we expect 25 to 30. occupied by tenants.
market conditions to continue to Total sales growth be challenging and we remain The net annual rent and rates of the 20 cautious about the outlook.
As in Growth in sales of the UK remaining properties is less than Howden Joinery depots is key to recent years, we will quickly and 4m.
By the end of 2014, all other appropriately adapt our business enhancing shareholder value.
This things being equal, both the number measure, along with monitoring model to the market and economic of leases remaining and the net annual conditions we encounter.
our programme of depot openings, rent and rates will have approximately tracks the ability of the Group to halved, as leases expire.
The leases The Group remains committed to its grow the business.
remaining thereafter will all have view that the number of depots in the expired by 2025.
UK can be increased from its current Operating profit level of 529 and believes that this The Group targets steady growth in number could be around 700.
During operating profit before exceptional the course of 2013, we are currently items over the medium term.
planning to open around 20 to 30 depots as part of our investment in the next stage of Howdens longer term growth and development.
Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 Earnings per share EPS Market conditions In particular, if the Group fails to We believe that EPS, while not The Groups products are implement its business model in perfect, is an accessible measure of predominantly sold to small local the locally enabled, decentralised the returns we are generating as a builders for installation in public manner envisaged, there may be an Group for our shareholders, and also and private housing, mainly in adverse affect on the Groups future has the merit of being auditable and the repair, maintenance and financial condition and profitability.
The key measure improvement markets.
Led by the actions of the Board and of short-term financial performance The Groups results are Executive Committee, the business is basic earnings per share before consequently dependent on levels model and the Howdens culture are exceptional items.
of activity in these markets, which at the centre of the activities and Depot openings are impacted by many factors the decision-making processes The business model is based on including general economic of the Group, and are continually individual depots providing kitchens conditions, consumer confidence, emphasised.
The Executive and to small builders within a local interest rates and credit availability, senior management regularly visit community.
The continuing drive to unemployment, demographic our depots and factories, and hold open new depots in new localities trends and, in the short-term, regular events during which they is therefore key to the Groups weather.
A severe downturn in reinforce the importance of the growth prospects.
Howden Joinery market conditions could impact on Groups business model and culture.
currently intends to open between our ability to achieve our sales and Throughout the business, successful 20 and 30 depots in 2013: we have profit forecasts.
This could in turn implementation of the Groups the ability to adjust the rhythm of put pressure on our cash availability business model and culture forms 21 the opening programme in line with and banking covenants.
the basis of the incentive structure.
We monitor the market closely Failure to maximise exploiting the and can take swift management growth potential of the business PRINCIPAL RISKS action as necessary in response to The Group considers that there is AND UNCERTAINTIES adverse changes, with the aim that significant potential for growth, and The Board considers that the the business is aligned to market has identied this as a strategic Groups principal risks and conditions and, consequently, that opportunity and aim.
uncertainties, together with an we should have sufficient cash indication of actions taken to If the growth opportunities are facilities for business needs and manage and mitigate them, are not understood and exploited in adequate covenant headroom.
They do not line with our business model, or if comprise all risks associated with Failure to implement the Groups current structures and skills within the Group and are not set out in any business model and culture the Group are not aligned to meet order of priority.
Additional risks not The future success of the business the challenges of growth, there may presently known to management depends on the successful be an adverse affect on the Groups or currently deemed to be less implementation of the Groups ability to obtain maximum benefit material may also have an adverse business model and locally-enabled, from this growth potential.
affect on the Groups business in entrepreneurial culture.
Review of operations and finance continued The Group places continuing focus to match our expected growth as consideration of longer-term on the opportunities, challenges and well as providing further cabinet supply deals, make vs. buy additional requirements related to production capacity which decisions where appropriate and growth.
The potential for growth is will provide additional cover in product pricing decisions.
The incorporated into Group strategic the event of an interruption to Group also has an ongoing review plans and budgets, and existing manufacturing operations.
process to drive efficiency and structures and skills are reviewed in identify opportunities to reduce Loss of key personnel the context of growth, and adjusted costs in the supply base, to protect The skills, experience and where necessary.
performance of key members of Continuity of supply the Groups management team Financial position The Groups business model make a large contribution to the The growth of the business relies requires that every depot can Groups success.
in some part on our ability to open supply product from local stock.
new depots, develop and introduce The loss of a key member of new product, and to invest in Any disruption to the relationship the Groups management team manufacturing capacity.
with key suppliers or interruption could adversely affect the to manufacturing operations could Groups operations.
If the Groups financial position adversely affect the Groups ability was to deteriorate, limiting financial The Group uses the Remuneration to implement the business model.
resources to meet its obligations and Committee to ensure that key to fund the growth and development With suppliers, the Group tries team members are appropriately of the business, this would impact to maintain dual supply wherever compensated for their contributions 22 on future growth.
possible to mitigate the effects if a and incentivised to continue their key supplier was unable to deliver careers with the Group.
The Group regularly forecasts its goods or services.
We also enter cash availability and its compliance Input price pressure into long-term contracts to secure with banking covenants, with the The Groups gross margin supply of our key materials.
Good aim that there is sufficient cash performance drives profitability.
supplier relations are maintained and or available credit under our by prompt settlement of invoices, banking facility to meet planned The Groups financial success regular communication and an future expenditure and investment could be adversely affected by annual supplier conference.
These forecasts are increasing commodity prices, our manufacturing operations, we closely monitored throughout the inflationary pressures and adopt best practice health & safety year and reviewed against actual currency fluctuations.
performance, and actions are Business continuity plans are taken to realign the position The Group adopts a number of in place for key production where necessary.
measures to mitigate input price processes.
As well as conducting to make significant investment regular reviews of the market and in its manufacturing facilities, to of price trends, these measures enable manufacturing capacity include negotiation with suppliers, Howden Joinery Group Plc Annual report & accounts 2012 USE AND MANAGEMENT OF to adjust its capital structure by the Group will operate within the FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS, AND varying the amount of dividends paid terms of its borrowing facility and EXPOSURE TO FINANCIAL RISK to shareholders, returns of capital to covenants for the foreseeable future.
shareholders, issuing new shares or The Group holds financial The cash drawdown against the level of capital expenditure.
instruments for one principal the bank facility at the year-end purpose: to finance its operations.
During 2012, the Group had a 160m was 2.1m and, after taking into The Group does not currently use asset-backed bank facility which is account other utilisation of the derivative financial instruments to due to expire in July 2016. facilities for terminable indemnities, reduce its exposure to interest or the Group was left with 126.0m of exchange rate movements.
The The Groups committed borrowing available funds.
Group nances its operations facility contains certain financial by a mixture of cash ows from covenants which have been met Interest rate risk operations and longer term loans throughout 2012.
The covenants The Groups exposure to interest from banks.
Treasury operations are tested every four weeks and are rate uctuations on its borrowings are managed within policies and based around: i xed charges: ii may be managed when necessary procedures approved by the Board.
tangible net worth: and iii earnings by borrowing on a xed rate basis before interest, tax, depreciation and and entering into rate swaps, rate The main risks arising from the amortisation EBITDA for Howden caps and forward rate agreements.
Groups financial instruments are Joinery Limited.
The Groups policy objective has funding and liquidity risk, interest rate been to undertake transactions risk, counterparty risk and foreign In addition, our pension trustees, of this nature only when net debt currency risk discussed below.
who carry a charge over the share 23 exceeds 150m.
Net debt has not capital of Howden Joinery Limited, exceeded 150m during the year.
No speculative use of derivatives, have a separate covenant test currency or other instruments is around the EBITDA of Howden Counterparty risk permitted.
The Treasury function Joinery Limited.
Group Treasury policy on does not operate as a profit centre investment restricts counterparties and transacts only in relation to the The current economic conditions to those with a minimum Standard underlying business requirements.
create uncertainty around the and Poors Moodys long-term Groups trading position, particularly credit rating of AAand a short-term Funding and liquidity over the level of demand for the credit rating of A-1 P-1.
Investments The Groups objective with respect Groups products and the exchange mainly consist of bank deposits to managing capital is to maintain rate between sterling and both the and certicates of deposit.
The a balance sheet structure that is Euro and the US dollar.
The Groups Group continuously reviews the both efficient in terms of providing latest forecasts and projections have credit quality of counterparties, long-term returns to shareholders been stress-tested for reasonably the limits placed on individual and safeguards the Groups ability possible adverse variations in credit exposures and categories to continue as a going concern.
As trading performance and show that of investments.
appropriate, the Group can choose Review of operations and finance continued Principal exchange rates 2012 2012 2011 2011 versus UK pound Average Year-end Average Year-end United States dollar US$ 1.58 1.61 1.60 1.57 Euro 1.23 1.22 1.15 1.20 Foreign currency risk CAUTIONARY STATEMENT The most significant currencies Certain statements in this Annual for the Group are the US dollar Report are forward-looking.
It is difficult to Although the Group believes that pass the prescribed tests under the expectations reected in IAS 39 Financial Instruments: these forward-looking statements Recognition and Measurement are reasonable, we can give no to ensure the ability to hedge assurance that these expectations account for derivative currency will prove to have been correct.
As the resultant Because these statements contain volatility cannot be avoided in the risks and uncertainties, actual income statement, it is the view of results may differ materially from the Board that routine transactional those expressed or implied by conversion between currencies these forward-looking statements.
is completed at the relevant spot We undertake no obligation to 24 exchange rate.
This policy is update any forward-looking reviewed on a regular basis.
statements whether as a result of new information, future events The net impact of exchange rates or otherwise.
on currency transactions in the year, compared to the previous year, was By order of the Board 5.0m.
The Group does not have many overseas assets liabilities, so Mark Robson the impact of currency translation is Chief Financial officer not material.
27 February 2013 Set out in the table above are the principal exchange rates versus the UK pound affecting the profits of the Group.
NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS No new accounting standards which have an implication for the Group came into effect during the year.
