30 31 UK Property and Our retail property strategy is to have modern, fashionable Stores Review and attractively presented stores located in prime locations with strong footfall.
We maintain our belief that the vibrant presentation of our stores increases the attractiveness and desirability of our product and provides our stores with a real point of difference.
Consequently, we continue to invest heavily in the store portfolio both in terms of new stores and major refurbishments of existing space.
27 new stores opened in the period 19 Sports Fascia stores and 8 Fashion Fascia stores with 12 stores refurbished 11 Sports Fascia stores and 1 Fashion Fascia store.
These refurbishments included 7 locations where we upsized by taking a neighbouring unit.
We have also converted a former JD store in Leicester to the Size?
The 19 new Sports Fascia stores included 15 stores in new locations including 2 Size?
Included within the new stores are stores at Birmingham and Liverpool airports.
We are pleased with the development of our airports business which we expect to see some benefit from the Olympics.
The new stores in the year also included a store in the new Stratford City development which we will use as the focal point for our Olympic product offering.
15 Sports Fascia stores were closed in the period.
These closures included a number of secondary towns where there is simply insufficient footfall.
We are mindful of retail occupancy levels in other locations and the negative impact this can have on footfall.
At the end of the period we had a total of 347 stores which included 21 Size?
The 8 new Fashion Fascias stores were all new Bank stores with 2 of the stores being replacements of existing space.
When we acquired Bank in December 2007, the average store size was 2,150 sqft which we always believed was too small to present a full product offer to both a male and female consumer.
Consequently, we have looked for a larger retail footprint in new stores with 8 stores opened in the year all having in excess of 2,500 sqft of retail space.
The openings in the year included Banks first store in Northern Ireland and we are looking to follow this up in the new financial year with the first store in the Republic of Ireland.
No new Scotts stores were opened in the year although we did refurbish one store.
The results from this have been encouraging to date.
2 Bank stores and 2 Scotts stores closed in the period.
We have approximately 35 stores with lease expiries in the current financial year and any decision to extend an individual lease will need to take into account the prospects for retail occupancy in the town concerned, consumer footfall and the terms on offer.
Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Republic of Ireland Spain Our acquisition of the Champion Sports business provided us Sprinter had 47 stores on acquisition, primarily located in the with an extra 23 stores in the Republic of Ireland.
3 smaller and provinces of Andalucia and Levante with a minimal presence loss making stores have subsequently been closed so at the end elsewhere in Spain.
Sprinter has traditionally been located in of the period we had a total of 28 stores 20 Champion, 7 JD and out of town retail units either in individual units or as part of 1 Size.
We believe the Group now has a satisfactory footprint a larger retail park.
Unlike JD, Sprinter has historically sold an in the market to exploit, particularly when economic element of technical sport equipment including running conditions improve.
Consequently, these stores need a greater amount of space and, on acquisition, the average size of a Sprinter store was c12,700 sqft.
France In many locations, Sprinter has been the exclusive provider of We acquired the Chausport business in France in May 2009 and technical sportswear and equipment.
Sprinters limited presence late last year we opened our first JD stores in France in new outside of its heartland gives us confidence that there are many locations in Evry and Lyon and by the conversion of the former locations in Spain where Sprinter could target store openings.
Chausport store in the centre of Lille.
The performance of this Indeed, of the 3 Sprinter stores that have opened post acquisition, conversion has been pleasing with a sales growth in excess of one was in Galicia and one was in Extremadura and the 50%.
This positive performance has given us the confidence to performance of these stores since opening has reinforced our trial another conversion.
Accordingly, in Autumn 2011 we views on the potential of this business.
converted the Chausport store in Amiens to a JD and, to date, this has seen a similar sales uplift.
In addition, we have also opened a As with France, we have looked to develop strong JD in Frances second city, Marseille, which means that at the end relationships with the key landlords and, indeed, in many cases of the period we had a total of 5 JD stores in France.
these key landlords have centres across much of Europe.
We have therefore identified a number of suitable locations for JD in At this stage, all of the JD stores are learning exercises which Spain with the first store having opened in Granada on 30th help us understand the French market more and assist in March 2012. planning the future store and product strategy for France.
We will continue this learning exercise in the new financial year.
We We anticipate further openings through 2012 and, as are looking to accelerate our openings of new locations for the JD with France, we will target these openings in the key fascia in France during the new financial year with up to 8 stores metropolitan areas.
targeted to open including a number in malls around Paris.
To date we have found it a little difficult finding suitable sites for JD in France as there is not the same availability of retail space as Outdoor there is in the UK.
We have therefore invested time at Board level The Outdoor portfolio has been reduced since acquisition in enhancing our relationships with the key landlords.
We from 296 stores to 215 stores but all leases are in the process of believe this has led to us being offered sites in some of the prime renegotiation and there will be some further reductions in store centres which previously we would not have been able to access.
numbers where more attractive new terms cannot be achieved.
We have sought to avoid having two Outdoor stores in close It is still our belief that the JD fascia is best suited to the major proximity and to eliminate significant loss makers in the metropolitan areas and Chausport is more suited to the smaller closure programme.
Therefore, given Chausports historical concentration in towns in Northern France, then there is a growth opportunity for Chausport in its own right.
We have opened 4 Chausport stores in the period and refurbished a further 7 stores.
As with the Bank fascia in the UK, we believe that Chausport need to increase the size of their stores if they are to present a comprehensive product offer to the consumers.
The average size of the stores opened in the period was c2,000 sqft compared to the Chausport average of c1,000 sqft.
Investment in new stores and refurbishments for Chausport will continue at a similar level in the current year.
2 smaller Chausport stores were closed in the period.
32 33 Store Portfolio The store portfolio for the Group at 28 January 2012 and 29 January 2011 can be analysed as follows: Sports Fascias No.
