Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements 17 Living our V g alues Foreign exchange and constant currency reporting The Groups revenue and EBITA can be impacted by movements in foreign exchange rates, including the effect of retranslating the results of subsidiaries with various functional currencies into US dollars at different exchange rates.
Given there were no significant movements in the average US dollar to other major currencies in which we operate between 2011 and 2012, our results in constant currency terms are materially the same as those presented on the preceding page.
Pensions The majority of the Groups pension arrangements are on a dened contribution basis.
The Group operates one UK dened benefit scheme which had 258 active members People and 933 deferred, pensionable deferred or pensionable members at 31 December 2012.
Kathryn Petrie, At 31 December 2012 the scheme had a deficit Wood Group, UK of $55.0 million 2011: $45.8 million before recognition of a deferred tax asset of $12.7 Kathryn is a corporate communications million 2010: $11.5 million.
In assessing the coordinator and is in her second year potential liabilities, judgement is required to as captain of our Aberdeen Corporate determine the assumptions around future salary Decathlon team.
In this event different and pension increases, ination, investment companies compete in a range of returns and member longevity.
The increase disciplines, fostering teamwork, building in the deficit from 2011 was due primarily to a relationships, celebrating success and reduction in the discount rate used, which is encouraging personal development.
based on corporate bond yields.
The scheme is closed to new members and future benets under the scheme are provided on a Career Average Revalued Earnings CARE basis.
Full details of pension assets and liabilities are provided in note 29 to the Group financial statements.
Acquisitions During the year the Group completed the acquisitions of Mitchells and Duval which are providers of maintenance, installation and fabrication services to the Bakken and Eagle Ford shale regions respectively.
The total initial Footnotes consideration for these acquisitions was $158.3 million, net of cash and borrowings acquired.
EBITA from continuing operations represents operating profit from continuing Both these acquisitions now form part of the operations pre-exceptional items of $375.6 million 2011: $262.9 million before the Wood Group PSN division and will signicantly deduction of amortisation of $85.5 million 2011: $78.7 million and is provided as it is strengthen our position in those regions.
a key unit of measurement used by the Group in the management of its business.
Adjusted diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing earnings before exceptional items and amortisation, net of tax, by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period, excluding shares held by the Groups employee ownership trusts and adjusted to assume conversion of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares.
Number of people includes both employees and contractors at 31 December 2012.
Interest cover is EBITA from continuing operations divided by the net finance charge.
5. Dividend cover is AEPS divided by the total dividend per ordinary share for the period.
Return on Capital Employed ROCE is EBITA divided by average capital employed.
Operating Capital Employed to Revenue OCER is the average operating capital employed property, plant and equipment, intangible assets excluding intangibles recognised on acquisition, inventories and trade and other receivables less trade and other payables divided by revenue.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 18 Principal risks and uncertainties Wood Groups Values provide a sound basis on which to make decisions and assist us in considering the broad spectrum of risks and uncertainties that can impact operational and financial performance across the Group.
The risks below were included in the Board review process carried out in accordance with the guidance on internal controls published by the Turnbull Review Group.
Safety and assurance Operations Financial Environmental Failure to deliver safety Failure to deliver expected An internal or external event An environmental incident could excellence and process operational performance could could cause a breakdown in our lead to legislative or regulatory assurance could harm people, lead to a requirement for financial controls, hampering action, harm to the environment and damage assets and result work to be repeated, loss of managements ability to make and associated reputational in customers no longer selecting work through damage to our effective decisions and to report damage.
the Group as a supplier of reputation, or liability claims.
to obtain funding could impact our ability to pursue commercial opportunities.
Mitigation, monitoring Mitigation, monitoring Mitigation, monitoring Mitigation, monitoring and assurance and assurance and assurance and assurance Safety and assurance continues We have a review and approval We have Group-wide accounting, We seek to deliver high-quality to be our top priority and is process for new work aligned to treasury and tax policies that project execution and operational underpinned by the Group HSE formal delegations of authority.
underpin our approach to performance.
We have start-up and execution A large number of our business We use indicators to monitor and plans for key projects supported We execute a regular budgeting, units have ISO 14001 certied measure personal and process by monitoring and reporting.
forecasting and monitoring or equivalent environmental safety performance.
We seek to deliver highOur internal review process quality project execution and We carry out a review and We drive heightened includes self assessment and operational performance.
approval process in relation environmental awareness certication.
to capital commitments, through HSE alerts and acquisitions and disposals.
Our safety leadership programme has been extensively deployed We have internal audit, quarterly across the Group.
self-certication and annual financial risk self-assessment processes embedded across the Group.
We have longer-term banking facilities, with appropriate headroom.
2012 Update 2012 Update 2012 Update 2012 Update We strengthened our safety We are investing in the In February 2013, the Group Our integrity management focus management team.
We also development of new business renewed and extended its contributes to process integrity, continued to develop integrity management systems and bilateral borrowing facilities from which helps mitigate against management controls.
Over also began to further develop $800 million to $950 million, with spills and pollution.
We also 1,200 senior managers have now business continuity plans.
the maturity date being extended continue to focus on expanding attended our safety leadership to February 2018. our carbon footprint reduction programme.
Our business Operational review Governance Financial statements Further reading 19 p2 Group performance Commitment to business ethics Wood Groups Business Ethics p11-13 Divisional performance Policy recognises and reinforces the p31 Corporate governance Risk management importance of conducting business ethically and legally throughout our worldwide organisation.
aspx Commercial Compliance People Markets and relationships Inappropriate pricing, contract A substantial ethical breach or The availability of appropriately A cyclical downturn or terms, or failure to comply with non-compliance with laws could skilled personnel remains a prolonged recession could contract terms could lead to lead to reputational damage, challenge for our industry.
Failure lead to uncertainty, impacting unacceptable risk, reputational associated regulatory or to attract or retain key personnel customers spending plans, damage, or poor financial legislative action, loss of business could lead to a lack of necessary leading to a decline in demand performance.
Over-exposure to any one customer, geographic market or loss of a significant business partner could impact our performance.
Mitigation, monitoring Mitigation, monitoring Mitigation, monitoring Mitigation, monitoring and assurance and assurance and assurance and assurance We have a rigorous approach We have a business ethics Businesses measure their We seek to diversify risk by to the review and approval of policy with identied responsible performance against established maintaining a broad customer price, scope, subcontractor ofcers, training and a human resources practices.
and geographic spread across management and contract risk certication programme.
the oil & gas and power sectors.
We operate competitive and on contracts with xed price performance based reward We maintain a business ethics We seek a balance of business elements.
committee involving senior between customers capital and Derogation from the Groups operational and functional operating expenditure.
We also We offer appropriate training and contracting policy is subject to a management that meets regularly monitor and report customer development programmes.
and provides updates to the concentration.
We carry out a Board succession Senior management undertake We maintain relationship planning process, led by commercial reviews of We maintain across the Group management programmes the Nomination Committee.
performance on selected the business ethics register, across certain customers and We maintain detailed line contracts and report to the ethics helplines, investigation business partners.
which are monitored by the Groups HR teams.
We monitor the adequacy of our We monitor export controls, insurance cover.
trade compliance and intellectual property risk.
We negotiate appropriate protections in relation to acquisitions, typically including warranties and indemnities.
2012 Update 2012 Update 2012 Update 2012 Update Enhancements to our control In July we appointed a new We recruited over 170 people We are looking at opportunities structure for contracts with Group Chief Compliance officer into our apprenticeship for cross-selling and pull-through xed price elements are being who is further developing and graduate development which should make better use of rolled out across the Group.
our approach to the training, programmes in 2012 and were our resources and deepen and This follows the establishment reporting and communication of recognised by the Corporate improve relationships with key of a Commercial Contract Risk ethical matters.
Research Foundation as one of customers across the Group.
John Wood Group PLC Annual Report 2012 Further reading 20 p26 Governance p28 29 Board of directors and biographies Living our Values Our Core Values are at the heart of our business because they define who we are, how we work, what we believe in and what we stand for.
They set out how we act and how we expect to be treated as part of Wood Group and provide a sound basis on which to make decisions.
Last year we launched the Living our Values Awards programme which recognises Wood Groups people around the world who bring our Core Values to life and actively demonstrate that they are at the very heart of our business.
Bob Keiller, CEO Safety & Assurance TRCF: total recordable case frequency LWCF: lost work case frequency per million man hours per million man hours Safety & Assurance is our top priority because lives depend on it.
We passionately care about the safety of our people and behave as safety leaders.
We are committed to preventing injuries and ill health to our people and everyone we work with.
We provide our people with the training, knowledge and tools to work safely improved and prevent accidents.
We are focused on 2010 2011 2012 12.5% 2010 2011 2012 no change assuring the safety of everything we design, construct, operate and maintain.
As a worldTRCF is the frequency of all reportable injuries, including medical treatment cases.
LWCF is the frequency of all injuries resulting in lost time away from work.
Both frequencies are measured per million man hours worked.
leading services provider to the oil & gas and power industries, safety is vital to our business.
It is not optional: it is absolutely It is essential that we focus on the safety they play in delivering and improving our safety integral to everything that we do.
associated with process design and operation, performance and encouraging requiring them to as well as personal safety due to slips, trips demonstrate their commitment to safety in real For many years we have striven to be leaders and falls and we have developed KPIs in our and tangible ways.
The programme has been in safety performance, and this has been businesses to allow performance in each of led by the Board and has been rolled out to key recognised with awards and recognition from these areas to be tracked.
At the end of 2012 we had clients, regulators and peers around the world.
We are continuing to However, we are not complacent and we know develop it further to extend it much deeper into Initiatives that we need to keep working at this.
Our Safety Leadership programme was for the highest standards and are committed to launched at the end of 2011 with the aim of driving continuous improvement.
raising senior leaders awareness of the role that Safety & Assurance Bass Strait offshore construction team, Wood Group PSN, Australia The Wood Group PSN Bass Strait offshore construction team in Australia has sustained five years and more than 1.5 million man hours without a recordable injury during a period when the workforce increased from 80 to 200 personnel.
The safety programme reduced the risks to new personnel, which contributed to the teams recognition as leaders in their eld.
