172 Johnson Matthey Annual Report & Accounts 2012 Other Information Basis of Reporting Non-Financial Data Johnson Matthey has adopted a framework Data measurement techniques, including Accident Calculation Definitions based upon the GRI G3 sustainability calculations for social, environmental and Johnson Mattheys definition of an accident reporting guidelines and applied them in health and safety performance, have used for the purposes of this report is any acute an appropriate context to the group by internationally recognised protocols such unplanned event that causes harm to examination of the definition, explanation as the greenhouse gas protocol and the individuals, making them unable to attend notes and self diagnosis tests to ensure a GRI indicator protocols as appropriate.
work on days after the date of the event.
comprehensive, accurate and complete Any exceptions are noted.
Accidents are further subdivided into account when assessed against the All non-financial performance data is accidents that result in more than three reporting criteria.
In addition, feedback reported on a financial year basis unless days work lost and those that cause three received on the 2010 11 Sustainability otherwise stated.
Where necessary data or less days to be lost.
Accident incidence Report, recommendations on that report has been restated, for example to reflect rates are calculated based on the rate of arising from the assurance process and a changes in the business e. g. divestments these accidents per 1,000 employees.
well structured management approach and site closures, to take account of changes early in 2012 have shaped the reporting in best practice methodologies for reporting, The following metrics are used in this report: of non-financial content and context.
Due changes in calculating emissions or in consideration has been given to new response to recommendations made by Incidence rate for all lost time accidents international standards such as the our assurance provider.
For employee data, in the year number of greater than three International Organization for percentage calculations are made in relation day accidents in the year number of three Standardizations voluntary standard on to the number of permanent employees in day or less accidents in the year x 1,000 social responsibility, ISO 26000. the group unless otherwise stated.
average number of employees in the year.
This report has been developed to Global warming potential GWP in incorporate the groups significant economic, tonnes of carbon dioxide CO equivalent 2 Incidence rate for greater than three day environmental and social impacts and set includes Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions.
accidents in the year number of greater within the context of the United Nations We report greenhouse gas emissions from than three day accidents in the year x 1,000 Brundtland definition of sustainability 1987 process and energy use and convert the average number of employees in the year.
and our own Sustainability 2017 goals.
total group energy use to tonnes CO 2 Understanding the relevance of local, national, equivalent using national and regional Lost work days per 1,000 employees per regional and global issues, regulation and conversion factors for each emissions year total lost work days in year x 1,000 legislation is taken into account when source as appropriate.
The AA1000AS Certain employee data is included in principles of inclusivity, materiality and the accounts which is subject to external Frequency rate for all lost time accidents responsiveness are central to the structure audit.
The groups other social, health and in the year number of greater than three of the report and in setting priorities for safety and environmental data is collected day accidents in the year number of three reporting.
The data is day or less accidents in the year x 100,000 There are no limitations on the scope collated through five questionnaires based number of hours worked in the year.
or boundary of the non-financial data in this on the requirements of the Global Reporting report.
The non-financial information Initiative third generation GRI G3 guidelines.
presented covers the sustainability activities It is completed by businesses and signed and performance of Johnson Mattheys off by the general manager for each global global operations and includes the parent operation.
The reported site level data is a company and its subsidiaries as listed on combination of actual measurement and page 167.
The processes in place to data covers manufacturing, research and internally verify the reported data are warehousing operations of the parent described in the Verification and Assurance company and its subsidiaries and section on page 173. environmental performance data from new facilities is included from the point at which the facility is fully operational.
The report also explains how we are continuing to build sustainability into our business planning and decision making processes and how through our governance processes, we manage social, environmental and ethical matters across the group.
